3 Interesting science, boring science. Great action, wasted character background (of the soon to be devoured). The most disappointing ridiculous conclusion in a long while. Wait for the B movie. Don't read the sequel.
4 Fragment offers a nice new twist on an old story.  This book felt very much like Jurassic park crossed with The island of Dr. moreau, although it wasn't dry in the way that Crichton's novels could be.  It had the heart-thumping pace and intriguing, edgy science of a James Rollins novel.  I don't know how much of the evolutionary theories were real.  They definitely seemed like they could be.  The characters were straight out of central casting, but that was fine by me.  The main thing was the thrills and chills.  Fragment was cram-packed with shocks, twists, neat ideas and rollicking action.  I'm very much looking forward to the sequel.
5 I am a biologist who loves "what if" stories, and this is one of the best I have ever read.  I am so happy I happened upon it.  Warren gives fabulous descriptions of the life on this island-it is fast-paced and always makes you want to know more.  I hope if a movie is made, it will stay true to the book, because it would be a travesty if it didn't.  The characters are believable and the story itself is plausible.  Looking forward to reading more from this author.
5 This may not be the best book ever written. But it is a great suspenseful summer paperback. An isolated island off the shipping lanes has had no contact with any other species for millions of years. An entire ecosystem has evolved independent of the rest of the Earth.The pacing is great and the creatures are very well portrayed. This is a great book to read on a hot July day by the pool.
4 Haven't you ever wondered if there are still undiscovered islands on earth and what life they contain? What if the ecosystem of an island on earth was isolated from all mankind since the beginning of life? Warren Fahy describes that island, and it's the island of your nightmares. Most of the deadly inhabitants are all the creeping, crawling, stinging, biting creatures we usually shrink from except these islanders are a combination of the worst of insects, crabs, rats, etc., all rolled up into new species. When a TV crew and a group of scientists get sidetracked to the island, there's free lunch for the natives.The scientists throw in plenty of facts and hypotheses to give credence to the creatures. Some of the ideas that play out in the book are:  Why were these creatures isolated only to this island? What would happen if these aggressive species were accidently carried back to civilization? Did any benign, intelligent life evolve on the island, and what would happen if it was brought back and introduced?The book jacket makes a comparison to Jurassic Park and The Ruins, and life on the island could have come right out of Alien.  Yes, there are similarities, but it's still a good wild ride. I also liked the loose ending that left you wondering.
3 Warren Fahy's "Fragment" is a ripping good tale with one pretty big (although not insurmountable) flaw.  It's an exciting and fascinating story, with reasonably interesting characters, a clever premise, and enough science to convince the reader Fahy knows what he's writing about.  Comparisons to Crichton are valid - if you enjoy Crichton's mix of science, technology, and adventure, "Fragment" won't disappoint.  Neither author is big on character development, both tell plot driven stories, and both know how to spin science in such a way that the absurd seems plausible.  That's high praise for a sci-fi thriller.  If it weren't for the ending, it would be fabulous.  But more on that later . . ."Fragment" is about the discovery of Hender's Island, a mysterious island on which life appears to have evolved separately (and differently) from the rest of the known planet.  Nell Duckworth, a botanist hoping to discover previously unknown plant life, has joined the cast of a pseudo-science reality TV show planning to visit and film the strange island.  What they discover, however, challenges everyone's ideas of what life means and what the role of intelligent life can be.  The book's hero is Dr.Geoffrey Binswanger, an enigmatic scientist with a radical bent who believes the island will clarify his theories about the relationship between lift span and birth rate.  The book's villain is Dr. Thatcher Redmond, a pop-scientist whose bestselling book preaches that human intelligence is what will eventually destroy all life on earth. When a sentient life-form is discovered on the island, the two scientists clash, leading to the novel's exciting climax.The most fascinating part of Fahy's novel is his detailed and convincing descriptions (with illustrations by Daren Bader) of the various creatures discovered on Hender's Island.  Some are tiny and crab-like, some appear to be plants (but are really animals), and others are as large and ferocious as jungle cats.  These creatures are violently aggressive, attacking not just the unlucky humans who come to explore the island but each other as well.  They fight, eat, and reproduce with alarming speed, and they behave like nothing we've seen before.  This alone keeps the book interesting.But unfortunately, there is a flaw.  The novel's ending is excruciatingly dreadful.  As much as the reader is drawn into the world Fahy has created, the sentient life form discovered two thirds of the way in seems ridiculously corny, far-fetched, and even laughable.  Fahy seems bent on proving that intelligence doesn't necessarily result in selfish and destructive behavior - the bad guy (Thatcher Redmond) has a lot of negative things to say about humanity, and it's very clear that we readers are not supposed to like him (he doesn't exactly wear a black hat, but he might as well - this is a guy who murders a toddler to avoid child support).  The fact that Thatcher might be right about human intelligence (it's hard to argue that we are NOT self-destructive creatures!) is never given any serious consideration here.  The intelligent "Hender beings" are set up to disprove Thatcher's theory - they are NICE to the point of saccharine sweetness!  In a world of creature-eat-creature horror, these intelligent good guys have survived for millennia without ever destroying anything.  It turns out they can speak English (they picked it up from the junk washed ashore from passing boats over the centuries), they love Coke, and they take to hot showers and clean sheets like ducks to water.  It's all too easy, too pat, too silly.  These guys look like the "Prawns" in "District 9" - just think about how much trouble they had fitting in to human society!"Fragment" is a fun and exciting read with some very interesting things to say about humanity and the fate of the world.  I wish only that Fahy had been more willing to take his own story to its more logical and believable conclusion.  I am interested in what Fahy comes up with for his next novel (due out this year, according to the book jacket).  He's a good writer.  I would suggest, though, that he put aside the rose colored glasses when he's writing the final chapters for the new book.  Somehow, it's not so easy to buy the "I'd like to give the world a Coke" philosophy revealed in "Fragment" (maybe I'm just too cynical to believe that the world will ever "sing in perfect harmony," even if we all give each other one gigantic group hug). Read the book - most of it is fascinating.  Just take the ending with a big grain of salt (to combat the not very convincing sweetness).
5 After reading all of Crichton's books, I was looking for something with action and adventure. This definitely fit the bill. The characters are great. The animals (and there descriptions) were awesome. It never felt like it was moving slow. It was a book I really enjoyed.
4 Scientist Nell Duckworth wants to find mysterious Henders Island, located in the most remote area of the South Pacific, 1400 miles from civilization.  Humans only visited the island once in recorded history and found it such a frightening place, no one has ever been back.  Now a member of the cast of SeaLife, a reality show broadcasting from a ship traveling to remote destinations, a distress call from a seemingly barren island delivers Nell to her lifelong dream...which soon turns into a nightmare.The Henders Island landing party is slaughtered live on the air almost the moment they land, and Nell and a photographer are the only ones to survive.  The US Navy blockades the island and sends in a team of scientists to study the strange flora and fauna of Henders Island, while telling the rest of the world that the SeaLife broadcast was a hoax.  Other nations aren't buying it, so the scientists on Henders Island are on a tight deadline to study the strange creatures there.  It's quite the task, since everything from the biggest monsters to the tiniest bugs on Henders Island are extremely deadly, and even the habitat built by NASA isn't enough to hold them off for long.It's hard to decide how to categorize this novel.  It's a story about an island populated by strange and deadly creatures, so it's a monster book, but it's also a science thriller, expostulating on more than one scientific theory through its characters.  The science is also balanced by the reality show characters and the military, though, so the book is not dull.  One of my favorites is Cynthea, the reality show producer, who had me thoroughly amused by the end of the book with her effusive promises and machinations.  There were a couple small things about the island that didn't quite gel, and everything there rather conveniently supported one scientist's theory quite handily, but these are small complaints that didn't detract from my overall enjoyment of the book.  It's not the new Jurassic Park, but I'm glad it followed a plot of its own.  I will read more books by Warren Fahy.
5 The sci-fi adventure suspense novel, FRAGMENT, by newcomer Warren Fahy, is an outstanding read; a wild ride from start to finish.  In FRAGMENT, Mr. Fahy poses the questions "are we alone?"  Is there "alien" life here on Earth?  The answer may be yes, alien life IS here.  But then the question then becomes "where did it come from?"  Perhaps not from "out there," but, rather, from right here.FRAGMENT begins on the sea-going set of the reality TV series Sealife.  The cast of Sealife is comprised of young scientists living aboard the research ship, the Trident.  The Trident is sailing around the world, taking the scientists to extremely exotic and remote locations.  The TV series is chronicling their year-long adventures of discovery and investigation, and beaming live into living rooms around the globe every week.  Everything is going pretty well...until the team reaches Henders Island.Tiny Henders Island is remoter than remote; it is in a part of the South Pacific Ocean that is very nearly uncharted, and humans have only encountered it less than a handful of times.  There are no recorded landings on Henders.  And, it turns out, with good reason.  What these young scientists discover will shock you, and the millions of viewers watching from the safety of their homes.  And it will keep you firmly on the edge of your seat.FRAGMENT is a fabulous debut novel; one that truly left me wanting more.  This is hard science fiction:  evolution, geology, biology, chemistry, botany, and more, all rolled into one fast-paced, action-packed, tension-filled thriller.  The science is complex, without being too hard to follow.  The plot is fascinating, exciting, and actually plausible (not probable, but definitely plausible).  The characters...from EVERY species...are interesting and fun.  Some are lovable, some are awe-inspiring, some are horrible, some are terrifying.  Your heart will race, and you will turn the pages as fast as you can...and the ending will still surprise you.  It will give you back a little faith in the human race.FRAGMENT is Mr. Fahy's first novel, and I certainly hope, it is not his last.  I loved this book from beginning to end.  I have become an instant fan, and I want more!  FRAGMENT is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
5 Warren Fahy's ecological thriller has everything: believable disasters, incredible monsters, likeable characters, intelligence, brilliant plot devices, treachery, ethical quandaries, human courage and compassion, breathtaking pacing, and an arguably happy ending. Except that the ending is open-ended, leading to the equally fabulous sequel, Pandemonium.The story takes us to a remote speck of land, Henders Island, where a research vessel with the cast and crew of a TV reality show encounters terrifying dangers: an ecosystem that evolved for half a billion years in isolation and is now inhabited by ferociously aggressive lifeforms that reproduce at a frenzied pace, voraciously devouring each other, and that could destroy all life on earth if they ever got off the cliff-surrounded island. (Psst: our one hope is that saltwater is deadly for them.)The scenes where our intrepid heroes enter the island's interior basin to find who had sent an emergency signal becomes a spine-chilling series of events. I kept myself wrapped in a blanket while reading and had to remind myself to keep breathing. Fahy's writing is incomparable, a work of literary art no other author in memory can equal--not Poe, not Crichton, not King. The scientific research is impeccable and fascinating to read. It is totally plausible that such creatures could have existed.My one regret is that one of my favorite characters perishes, though it's understandable. It would be unthinkable to have a horror story with no one dying heroically.Fragment is to be made into a motion picture. I can just hope the film makers will be equal to the task. And yes, this book is even better when read the second time, and just as spellbinding, even when you know the ending. Savor the language, the mental pictures it paints. I recommend it to everyone who appreciates great writing and a great story. I've bought several copies as gifts for friends.
5 This is fast paced page turner that is filled with excitement with every word.  It has a lot of evidence to back up his imaginary world.  Some things are a little suspicious, but that is the case with all sci-fi novels.  You will be interested in every character and every creature!
4 I found Fragment to be a good, suspenseful read - though not one with a lot of depth.  The characters, to me, were a bit on the vague side, and the story was definitely science fiction.  Despite these shortcomings, by the end of the book I felt I wanted to read more, which seems like it may be possible.  If you enjoy a good science fiction novel on the variety of will-they-or-won't-they-wipe-out-the-human-race variety, you may find you enjoy Fragment a lot.
5 Oh my goodness!  Warren Fahy has made weeds and bugs into even bigger nightmares.  On a remote island, a small group of scientists discover an isolated ecosystem where everything is both prey and predator.  It is full on warfare all the time.  And if they escape the island, we are done for.This book made me cringe in it's descriptions of new, foreign creatures.  Rolling disc-ants, Henders rats, Spigers, each and every one is described in vivid detail, and also illustrated in the scientists' field journals.  It's immersion, your mind keeps turning things over and over and you kind of shudder to think about, &#34;I have ants and things in my YARD! What if???&#34;The characters are well-written and intelligent.  I love the discussions that take place both in lecture halls and on board ships.  Some real thought and effort went into this story, it's very evident.  Nell is brave and strong, willing to make the big recommendations and back up her decisions.The end leaves an opening for Pandemonium, the follow up and I bought it before I even finished Fragment.  This book is great, I highly recommend it.
4 Warren Fahy delights summer readers with "Fragment," a story about an isolated island that is discovered first by an unlucky English ship and then later by an even unluckier reality-show group aboard a ship called the Trident.The show, called SeaLife, is beginning to sink in the ratings.  There's just not that much drama on a ship full of scientists and a few lookers.  When the Trident happens upon a distress signal on an unexplored island, the show's producers see a potential ratings hike.  The ship sends a small group onto the island to check out the signal.  What they find is a smorgasbord of unknown and alien creatures that have a very, very big appetite.Naturally the federal government has to get involved, and the US Navy surrounds the island and brings in its own collection of scientists who are primarily from NASA.  They soon find that the creatures that inhabit this island are deadlier than any that have been discovered before.  Should they destroy the island for the sake of humanity, or risk someone smuggling some of these creatures into a port of call and unleashing what could potentially be the cause for extinction of all humans and animals?The primary players in this story are Nell Duckworth and Geoffrey Binswanger.  Nell is one of only two survivors of the Trident's first exploration of the island.  Binswanger is an up-and-coming "maverick" scientist who at first believes the entire island is a hoax but soon finds himself in the thick of things on Hender's Island.  The pair, along with a small group of others, take on the bizarre creatures as well as a corrupt scientist and try to find some sort of life on the island that is worth saving.Fahy's style of writing seesaws between break-neck action and ho-hum scientific jargon.  Many have compared his work to Michael Crichton, but I believe that Steve Alten and the "Meg" series of books are a closer match.  Like Alten, Fahy knows his stuff (or at least comes off that way) and can lose the reader quickly with all of the scientific explanations and theories.  Also like Alten, Fahy is very good at building suspense that ends with a bang.Another author that came to mind while reading this tale is Clive Cussler.  Much like Cussler, I find that Fahy key weakness is developing any type of romantic link between characters.  He deals with it in a pre-teen fashion that leaves the reader rolling his eyes.Fortunately for Fahy, "Fragment" has many more strengths than weaknesses.  It works best when action takes center stage, and I can easily see this book getting the silver screen treatment in the future.  The creatures are wonderfully imagined as well.  Fahy does a great job of giving the reader a description of the bizarre creatures on the island.  Also, Fahy managed to draw a bit of sympathy out of me with many of the characters.  He even manages to scatter a bit of humor into all of the violence on the pages.Overall, "Fragment" will please just about any casual reader this summer.  Fans of Steve Alten, Clive Cussler and, yep, even Michael Crichton will find themselves enjoying "Fragment."  There is a lot of swift and gory violence in this book, and it is littered with a little bit of strong language and a tad bit of sexuality.  Still, I highly recommend "Fragment" for anyone looking for a bit of adventure.Recommended.
5 Let me start off by saying I read for pleasure pure and simple, so plausibility is not a factor for me when reading a novel. I love a good adventure story and two of my favorites are  Amazonia by James Rollins and The Ice Limit by the duo of Preston & Child, so when I picked up Fragment I was not expecting it to give those two a challenge for the top spot but man did it ever.The book is about the reality TV show Sealife based on the ocean adventures of a research vessel named the Trident. SeaLife is on the verge of being canceled by the network,so the crew was out searching for something significant that would ensure the Sealife and its team of scientists another year on the air. When they receive a distress signal coming from mysterious island they believe that they just found their ticket to securring their spot on the air. Henders Island is largely inaccessible being surrounded by a 700 ft vertical wall and it is so far from the normal shipping lanes and sea traffic that very few people have ever laid eyes upon it. When the team of scientists finally approach the island half of the them are attacked and killed in a blink of the eye by an unknown assaliant all while broad casting live on the air. The killings are considered a hoax even by some of the shows own network staff and fellow scientists claiming that the Henders Island catastrophe was an elaborate setup just looking for ratings.Henders Island turns out not to be a hoax. The island has sat unnoticed to all of the world for hundreds of millions of years, no human contact to alter its evolutionary path creating some of the most dangerous creatures to ever walk the planet. Fearing the devastating effects these animals would have on the planet Henders Island is taken over by order of the president, the island and the staff of Sealife are quarantined until a team of scientists and military personnel can arrive to explore it.Fragment is a combination of scientific exploration and adventure sure to please fans of Michael Crichton and James Rollins. For a debut novel Warren Fahy has thrown his name in with some of the best in this genre. Fragment is filled with great action and adventure, great characters and fabulous creatures and I can not wait for Warren Fahy to pen another gem like Fragment.
5 There's no screwing around with this book.  The author pulls the reader right in at the first page!  Before getting this book I read a reviewer that compared the book to a mix between the Island of Dr. Moreau & The Lost World.  After reading the book, I don't think I would choose that comparision.  If I remember correctly, The Lost World was man made & left to evolve & Dr. Moreau too was man made "freaks" of nature.  The theme in this book is an incredibly remote island that is an enviornment all to it's self.  Too far from other land forms to be able to interact with them.  So what you have is this incredible "alien" island filled with life forms that we have never seen.  The author has a vivid imagination creating creatures all mankind should fear.  Once this island is discovered in our time, the question is what to do about it.  I wont say more than that so I don't ruin the story.  I will say that there was an unexpected addition towards the end that I liked a lot!  The ending was great - Unlike many books that start out great but have unsatisfying endings (like the author didn't know how to end it).Highly recommend!
4 I lisented to this book and that made it easier to get through some of the more science heavy parts. I never read Jurassic Park so I can not say if they are a like. This book would make for a cool movie. I say great job for a first time author. The world he creates is very unique. Is heros are very real and his villians are horrible. I don't know who I disliked more, the horror inspirping "monsters" or the vein award winning scientist.
4 Similar toJurassic Park, but with an imaginative spin. Strange creatures that took an alternate evolutionary road are discovered on a remote island and the cavalry is sent in to study them. I would classify this as a guilty pleasure book if not for all of the scientific exposition Fahy crams within its pages. It might be even a bit too much science for some readers, but then the turn of a page brings more monster mayhem. The basic concept has been done to death by countless other books and movies. Fahy, however, is able to craft a novel that while not new, has a enough unique elements and action to set it apart and make it seem timely.I enjoyed reading it this page turner, though was let down a little bit at the end. I also found the numerous characters a bit one dimensional and predictable, and felt that there were way to many creatures. There's enough material in here for a trilogy, yet the author packs it all into one book. This kept me from being truly swept up by the book. It works for the most part if taken as pure entertainment. I could see a video game being spawned by this, and a summer action thriller too.Warren Fahy hits the publishing scene with guns blazing, and there are more hits than misses. I look forward to see what is next from this author.3.5 stars.
5 I am in awe over this book - this is one of the most imaginative books set in a theoretical real-world setting I have ever read.  The ideas promoted are supported to a certain degree by facts - of course, I'm quite certain people will be nit-picking it to death, but if one suspends belief, as one should do when reading this type of novel, one can have a lot of fun with this story.When a reality TV show called SeaLife! stumbles across a remote, unexplored island, it seems like reality TV gold.  Until things go horribly wrong.  Life forms on this island have been isolated from the rest of the world for millions of years and have evolved to a completely different type - a completely unique form of fauna.There is no way I can tell much about the plot of the book without ending up giving spoilers, but what I can say is that this is one majorly exciting book.  While it jumps between various people, it keeps the reader's interest and provides some great thrills and chills.  I read it within a few hours - I just couldn't put it down.  Don't miss this one - pre-order it!!  Just get it, read it.  You WILL love it!
5 It's very rare for me to find a book that, to use the trite phrase, "I just couldn't put down." But this is one of those books. I would stop reading to watch one of my favorite TV shows, and find that I was getting impatient for it to be over so that I could get back to the book.Comparisons of Fahy to Chrichton, and of "Fragment" to "Jurassic Park", are inevitable. The similarities are very obvious. But I have to say that at least from this book, I like Fahy better. This book grabbed me and pulled me along at breakneck speed. And I loved the ride.There's a very solid scientific basis to the book. But it's an adventure/thriller, so you have to be prepared to suspend your disbelief when you open to the first page. I didn't have any problem doing that. I'm always up for a rip-roaring adventure, and "Fragment" provides the thrills.Yes, as other reviews have said, the characters are a bit flat. You can easily pick out the stock characters: the evil scientist, the noble scientist, the plucky heroine, the socially inept geek. But ya know what? I don't read this type of novel for character development. It's nice if the author can give a bit of depth to the characters, but it's not required.The plot unfolds pretty much as you would expect for this type of story. Introduce the characters. Place your bets on which ones will get eaten first. Put the characters in peril. Characters escape (mostly). Develop friction between Noble Scientist and Plucky Heroine. Put characters in peril. Characters escape (mostly). Introduce seeds of romance between Noble Scientist and Plucky Heroine. Introduce major plot twist. You know the rest of the script.There were a couple of pretty silly scenes that made me wince, and quite a few that gave me a good laugh. But for the most part this book is a major adrenaline rush.Is Fahy the "Next Michael Crichton"? I hope not... I hope he's the first Warren Fahy, and I can't wait to see what he comes up with next.
4 Fragment is imaginative and action paced, with lots of actual scientific facts intertwined throughout.  Fahy, in a very entertaining manner, brings attention to a serious and dangerous issue, the damage caused by the introduction of a non-native species to an eco-system, how their introduction can devastate or completely wipe out a native species.The book is for the most part a fun read, the lack of character development did not bother me too much, I read it for the plot and creatures.  The book starts going downhill though when a species of intelligent life is introduced.  The intelligent lifeform detracted from, not added to the story, they were too cutesy and unbelievable (with the exception of their eyes and grins, they can turn invisible, like the Cheshire Cat of Alice in Wonderland).  If it hadn't been for that 'twist' or if they'd been more serious or dangerous, the book would have been more enjoyable.
1 I have to chime in here too because this book sucks. rarely do I ever quit reading a book but the characters in this book act like children. In fact i told my girlfriend that it felt like I was reading a book about adults acted out by little kids. it is ridiculous. The way the producer of the show acts is completely unbelievable and later in the book a sergeant in the military is manipulated by a scientistin one of the dumbest scenes ever.
5 I read this book in 2 days it was so good. Its a good book to read in the dark, if you want to scare yourself, better than most Zombie books.
4 Having lived in South Texas a number of years, I remember seeing bee traps in trees put there to track the invasion of African Honey Bees.  We also got weekly notices about the invasion of Fire Ants. So after reading the prologue I not only understood what he was talking about, I was hooked.This is not a JURASSIC PARK type novel.  It is a scientific horror story. The horror being in the form of man stepping into a natural enviroment where he doesn't belong.  The author makes it clear that this enviroment has the power to destory  all living things if it escapes.  There are scenes of graphic violence that would do any SAW movie proud.  However these scenes are in between some of most confusing scientific jargon I have ever read outside of a text book. The author uses the book to expound on several theories about man and his enviroment.  Some of which are B.S. and others are popular ideas that have been around for years.  Don't get me wrong, this doesn't hurt the book. It reguires the reader to slow down and have a dictionary on hand for translations.The scenes on the island are graphic and the action is quick.  It is never dull on the island. The characters are mostly cardboard and can be found in most 1950's sifi movies.  The nerds are the good guys and the army is the bad guy.  You have your typical beautiful female doctor and the handsome male doctor.  They get to play doctor later in the book. No sex in this book.  There is bad doctor who "knows" all and is out for number one.  The tv people are what you would expect and they provide some of the humor in the book.The "bugs" or rather the shrimp are the true stars here.  The author is very particular in his description of each one of the things.  They are very well thought out in looks and action.  They are what make nightmares scary.  They are blood thirsty and the author goes to some lenghts to pit normal animals against them to show that they are truly dangerous.  The book at the end shows pictures of these things along with a discription of each. This is done in great detail.Now I was really into this book until the last 100 pages or so.  Then, please don't laugh, I thought the last part of the book came from the movie HARRY AND THE HENDERSONS.  I couldn't help myself, but that is what came to mind.  This changed my perspective of the book from horror to Walt Disney.  There was this loveable creature and it was funny.  There is a dog and a goofy human buddy.  The last part of the book was some sort of RETURN TO WITCH MOUNTAIN like plot.Look the book is worth reading and it is quick to read.  It will make a good movie with neat special affects.  Oh by the way sthe scene in the creature's  house with his collection is a hoot. It also tries to solve the Amelia Earhart mystery too.
2 gave this 2 stars due only to the fact that the story idea was interesting. honestly though, i certainly did not want to read about what the characters were wearing in  minute detail. i had a problem getting to the meat of the story , because i had to wade through clothing description after clothing description, and considering i am a speed reader, this is saying something. just wish i had not bought this book. i puzzle over what reason this author felt it necessary to be so descriptive about clothing??? i do not normally bother with book reviews, because so many other reviewers seem to want to take exception to the opinion i express, but this book annoyed me enough to prod me into this review. good luck to anybody who reads it. hope you like it much better than i did.
4 The imagination of Fahy will draw you in, and fast.  He does not waste a lot of time with character development, of which I am grateful, but I was able to totally get every major character's back story in a short amount of time.  This left more time for intricate details once the "crew" got to the island.  The description of the various creatures is spot on, and even without the illustrations it is easy to see in your mind's eye what a creature looks like.  The science behind it all was obviously thoroughly researched, which made me happy; being a somewhat science/zoology geek to the core.  And all goes along perfectly until we get to a certain spot in the book and a line (it's about chili) that tells the reader that what's coming up is going to go from silly, to riciulous, and then to stupid.  For some reason, for me, it felt like a totally different author, and most of the ending was too predictable, but also was a good lead-in for a sequel.  I do look forward to more from Fahy, and hope that what happened toward the end of this book does not occur again.
5 GREAT BOOK.That's all there is to say. At first I was kind of debating whether to purchase the book since it was in the Sci-Fi/Fantasy section of the bookstore and I'm not really that kind of reader. However, once I saw that James ROllins gave this book a thumbs up I decided to buy it.2/4/13- Still waiting for sequel. Gotta have a sequel.
3 While it's a fun read, it sounds like he watched the spider-pit sequence from Kong too many times and decided to expand it to a whole island.
5 Loved this book. After I read it, I couldn't wait to read the sequel. I now have it on order.
4 Very interesting debut novel.  A little heavy on the science but if you wade thru it there is a reason for it to be there.  The concept isn't really new but there are different twists to the formula that makes it difficult to put down the book.  It will be interesting to see what kind of follow-up Fahy creates to continue his momentum as a writer.  It's always good to have a new writer to look forward to future novels.
5 I blazed through this book. It was fun, fast paced, and had very interesting characters. The island is mysterious, but horrifying. The Author has an amazing imagination. I saw everything, and lived through everything, all the way to the last page.I&#8217;m really excited to read his next book, and I can&#8217;t recommend Fragment enough if you love a darn good yarn!!!
4 I recommend this novel with no reservations. Well written, well thought out and the author obviously enjoyed Conan Doyle's "Lost World" once upon a time. I look forward to his next book.
5 For each genre type there are a handful of specimens that define it; Fragment is such a novel for the science thriller genre.  The opening sequence plastered a grin on my face that took minutes to wear off.  After that first reading session I knew I held a work of art.Many times I would literally pause and reread Fahy's prose in awe, many times I'd verbalize "oh no!", and many times I would well up with complex emotions.  Fahy also challenges the reader with different areas of knowledge, such that if you take the time to research, you will come away with more scientific knowledge.  However, research isn't necessarily required to get enjoyment from this riveting science thriller.I flat out loved Fragment; I haven't been this excited since Crichton's 1980's/mid-90's novels.  In many ways I enjoyed Fragment more, if that is possible to you Crichton fans out there.  Fahy's characters connected with me in a deep place that is atypical in the science thriller genre.  I cared so much for the characters that when the local wildlife illicit thrills and chills, my heart beat faster in agony for their plight, and rejoiced with their success.Fragment was a great experience to read.  I looked forward to every session, and savored each one as much as I could.  Masterpieces such as this are a rare item, I can't wait for the sequel Pandemonium.  Fahy is a grandmaster at his craft even though Fragment is billed as a debut.  Get this novel and enjoy one of the best science thrillers ever written!
2 The premise itself is not especially original: far out in the south Pacific, an island is discovered that harbors strange and unique forms of life.  Cut off from virtually all biological contact with the outside world, what evolved was the most lethal ecosystem on the planet, where every living being, plant and animal, is hostile. Drawn to the island by an emergency beacon from an abandoned sailboat, the crew of a research ship has a quick  and lethal encounter with some of the island's inhabitants, prompting a naval quarantine and full-scale scientific expedition that uncovers many of the island's mysteries - and illustrates the threat they could pose to the world.When reading the novel, it soon becomes clear the amount of thought that Warren Fahy has put into developing the inhabitants of his own little lost world.  The environment he envisions is nothing short of terrifying, and the chapters in which the island is explored are easily the best of the book.  Unfortunately, the rest of the novel does not receive the same degree of thought and attention, with two-dimensional characters (including a Bad Guy verging on the cartoonish), predictable plot developments, and an ending with all of the originality of a Hollywood-cloned sequel.  While Fahy does entertain, readers seeking quality plots and writing would do better to pick up another book instead.
4 There is a fabulous and suspensful adventure in this book.  I turned the pages very fast wanting to see what happened next.And that's something of a problem.  I really felt there were too many detailed scientific 'side-trips' in the book.  I have always been an avid reader, and so I think I have a decent vocabulary, but I am not a scientist.  The characters in the book, however, are exactly that and they spend a lot of time analyzing how and why this situation managed to happen.  A detailed autopsy of a newly discovered creature went into eye-glazing detail using a lot of words I've never seen before, and really I don't read a novel with a dictionary open next to me.I just really wanted to grab them and say, 'You are in DANGER, what the HECK are you doing analying DNA and proposing evolution theories??? That can WAIT!'  Since, as I said, I am no scientist, I can't say if the explanation was plausible.  I can say that I think it damaged the pacing of the story.I don't want to suggest that the story here is anything less than WOW, because it is very much WOW.  There are surprises aplenty and if you don't mind scanning past the stuff you won't understand (and frankly don't really care about) the story will keep you engrossed.
5 Fragment is roller coaster ride that delves into the possibility of running across an alien species that is not from outer space but from our own planet.  Fahy goes beyond Jurassic Park to describe an eco system that has, in its isolation, evolved separately from the rest of the world.How would we react? What possible threats might there be to our own environment? What moral obligations do we have to a new species? The story also addresses not only the political problems but also the possible corruption within the scientific community itself. Fahy has his own ideas of how these questions and issues could be responded to and his own vision of what such an eco system might be like.The use of a reality show was interesting since entertainment today is loaded with reality shows. It was an ingenious way for the discovery of the island. The characters are very believable and entertaining.The book was very fast paced and a quick read and grabbed my attention from the very beginning.The character Nell Duckworth was always saying "you have to think outside the box". And Geoffrey Binswanger, even though he didn't say it practiced it with his scientific debates called "Fire Breathing Chats". I'm wondering if that is a reflection of the authors own way of thinking. If so I believe we can expect lots of good things outside the box from Warren Fahy.
3 Warren Fahy re-imagines evolutionary development where conventional wisdom regarding kingdoms is turned upside down.  Creation of a completely alien eco-system was engrossing. Although the scientific investigations can be tedious and confusing for the casual reader, which is where I'm positioned, it is with the action/adventure sequences, often too melodramatic and contrived where the story most noticeably lags.Character development never progressed beyond superficiality with most of the non-scientific dialogue exchanges vapid and perfunctory.  The book becomes an unsettling dichotomy of approaches with challenging science that may require external research to fully appreciate while predominately uninteresting one-dimensional characters act in manners where there is no option but full suspension of disbelief.Additionally, one would be well advised not to make the mistake I made, sneaking a peek at the back of the book to see how many pages were in the text only to find some illustrations that include far more information than the prospective reader really wants to know before completion of the text. Generally speaking, I also understand the economic benefits of product placement in video media but in a book like this one the rampant commercialism was gratuitous and annoying.However, after evaluating all pertinent aspects, it is the conclusion that is most dissatisfying.  The author employs some stereotypical devices that counteract any uniqueness that may have set this book apart from the masses, transforming it from a marginally recommendable creative endeavor with a few repairable flaws into another unrefined screen-play for a sci-fi channel movie of the week.
3 Fahy's novel of a kind of natural Jurassic Park spins out some interesting notions on evolution, ecosystems, and humanity's place on the planet. The characters weren't memorable, and the final third of the book crossed the line of believability, but a twisting plot and well-written action kept me reading to the end.WARNING - THERE's NO WAY TO REVIEW THIS BOOK WITHOUT SPOILERS.Fahy's key notion is that evolution could have taken a totally different path from the early arthropods forward, with the tetrapod vertebrates never emerging. It's great fun to follow the resulting speculation as contestants on a reality series bump into an island that's been noted but never explored. What they find is an "all eat all" ecosytem where everything moves so fast that the rest of nature will never survive if the island creatures are set loose.If you think about this too much, it doesn't entirely work. The island is much too small to sustain the ecosystem, and there are reasons arthropods have never evolved into big, fast animals: the type of respiration employed is inefficient, and copper-based hemoglobin is less effective than its iron-based counterpart. To Fahy's credit, he understands these problems and tries hard to make his creatures plausible. It works well enough for the reader to suspend disbelief and go along with the television people, scientists, and sailors who desperately try to avoid becoming critter chow. I usually think illustrations in a novel are indulgent, but some field-guide-style animal sketches add to the fun here.For me, the last and most intelligent creatures introduced just went too far, but clearly a lot of readers had no problem. So enjoy Fragment and make up your own mind.- Matt Bille, author, Shadows of Existence: Discoveries and Speculations in Zoology (Hancock, 2006)
5 I enjoyed this book thoroughly. However, given the fantastic nature of the story, I understand that some people may find it hard to suspend their disbelief, and end up not liking it. But of the negative reviews I have seen, a big complaint was the lack of believable characters. I just don't see it. To go too deeply into the psyche of all the characters would slow the book down and destroy the pacing, for little added benefit. What are people looking for? This is an action adventure story, suspenseful and scary, and does not require the depth of a "Moby Dick", or "David Copperfield". I found the characters to be fleshed out enough to make them believable, and explain their motivations. There was room for more, but it did not lessen the enjoyment for me. And as for the science, I enjoyed how it was worked into the book to explain the story, yet did not overwhelm the basic tale being told. I don't want to spoil the story, so I will keep from becoming too specific, But the only complaint I could make, would be the "bad guy" character was truly bad, and yet quite educated, and top in his field. I think someone that soulless would have had a hard time maintaining a public profile as well as he did. But it didn't keep me from being engrossed in the whole thing. I look forward to his next novel.
3 Everything!  Pre-prehistoric monsters galore, all eating one another in a mad chaotic chain of predation and reproduction.Fragment begins with an interesting premise:  scientists on board a reality TV ship make an unscheduled stop at a remote and almost inaccessible island where horror awaits.  Soon the U.S. military is involved, helicoptering so-called impenetrable NASA labs  onto the island to do scientific research and specimen gathering among the flora and fauna of the island.  This leads, inevitably, to the threat of being eaten by what one is studying.It's an exciting idea for a novel.  But Fragment suffers from poor writing and includes a lot of information that seems to have been plunked down on the pages straight from scientific journals.  Fahy lacks Crichton's skill of giving us necessary and fascinating scientific facts in layman's terms that we can easily understand; in Fragment, we are often asea (no pun intended) in trying to make sense of what we are reading.  Also, there are altogether too many characters, too many regular-as-clockwork action set pieces, and way, way, too many monsters.  In Jurassic Park Crichton focused our fear by giving us the nightmare of the T-Rex, with the smaller but terrifying raptors as the second wave of horror.  He also gave us a few well chosen, well developed characters that we came to know and care about.  In Fragment we get such shallow sketches of people that even when they die horrible deaths, we don't really feel it.  Too, all the characters are cliches:  Bad scientists, good scientists, geeky scientists, maverick scientists, ambitious producers, heroic cameramen, gung ho Army guys, ascerbic ship captains, and, of course, the foolhardy, which is mandatory in a novel like this.  Fragment could also have used a good editor; awkward semantics and syntax, repeated words, and generally too much information weakens this novel.  There is a whole section on something called the Fire-Breathing Chats, which while fairly interesting doesn't really add to the plot.  I had the feeling that the author included it because he'd done the research and by God wasn't going to waste it!  (Although, the information on mantis shrimp did lure me into doing a little research of my own and I learned some fascinating stuff about this peculiar little animal with the incredible fast ball, er, bat.)  And finally, there is a possibly unintentional reference to Spielberg's Close Encounters of the Third Kind, which also reminded me, for some unfortunate reason, of George Lucas' Jar Jar Binks.  Maybe it's impossible to dream up creatures these days without brushing against those that have gone before.Fragment reads like a video game.  Fast, furious, with no depth but lots of attacks, lots of monsters, lots of shooting, and the usual inane dialogue.  In the right hands it will probably make a hugely successful, CGI, action packed movie, aimed perfectly at the appropriate target audience.
1 This is my first Amazon review as I usually can't be bothered but I really feel I need to warn people here.  This book reads like it was written by a 5th grader.Character development is defined by what the person is wearing and the dialogue is horrible. One guy actually says "I wish you were my girlfriend, Nell".  Keep in mind these are adults talking.  Also annoying is how the author uses exclamation marks in the most mundane conversations.  Like they are constantly shouting at each other.  Does the word "OK" ever need an exclamation mark?  Is that how you say "ok"?  "OK!"  lolIt takes you right out of the story.I'm a big lover of science in my fiction, but here it was just overdone and unnecessary.  I found myself skipping over the boring lectures.I wouldn't even mind if the characters were caricatures because at least then they would have been recognizable as SOMETHING, instead of the nothing which stares up at you from the page.The creatures were cool, but sadly that was not enough.  Avoid this garbage.
3 The "Trident" is a long range search vessel hired by reality TV show, "Sealife."A group of scientists are headed to Pitcairn Island when they receive a distress radio signal and are diverted to this remote island.The scientists see this out of the way island as a chance to explore an area that has been isolated for hundreds of years.They are excited when they travel to shore, accompanied by their cameraman. Their excitement ends quickly when one of the scientists is attacked by a beast with "...hippo sized vertical jaws." The scientist is immediately killed.The attack was caught on screen and people all over saw it on their TVs. It was a sensation. Many couldn't believe that it was true but it turns out that this was only an example of the creatures that live on the island, each one deadlier than the next.The scientists still see this as a challange, a chance to discover something amazing. What they do, eventually discover is something so startling that it changes their view of everything.I enjoyed the book but felt that some of the decisions that were made were doubtful. This would make a good summer read.
5 The similarities to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's groundbreaking science fiction novel, The Lost World, and Michael Crichton's endlessly clever roller coaster ride, Jurassic Park, are nothing more than at the surface. Warren Fahy has created an utterly unique world in which evolution has trod a different path, and the creatures that tiny Henders Island contains are both truly fascinating and terrifyingly dangerous. They are also profoundly important. Do the dangers and risks outweigh the need for understanding and preservation? What role do sentient beings such as ourselves play in the  ongoing evolution of life? Fragment is both thrilling and thought provoking: two qualities that make science fiction such a wonderful literary genre. This is a superb book which you will not be able to put down. In fact, you will find yourself questioning the evolutionary utility of sleep: it is that much fun to read.
5 This was a really great yarn. Had a Jurassic Park vibe to it but alot more entertaining.Starts with a bang and just keeps going.Deserted island with its own evolutionary path, helpless humans and spectacular completely original creatures.This and its sequel Pandemonium would make great movies.Hopefully Hollywood will take a break from vampires and zombies and turn this into a movie.Or two movies.
4 There have been a lot of allusions to Jurassic Park in the reviews/comments/marketing about Fragment.  Thus, it is not inappropriate to ask; is Fragment as good as Jurassic Park?  The answer is an unequivocal "Yes."  Fahy imaginatively creates an alternate world that contains just enough reality to make it plausible.  By throwing in some high science theories, adding some tightly constructed action scenes, and tossing in a bit of comic relief (in the form of an uptight reality TV producer and technician), Fahy completes his thoroughly entertaining novel.Are the book's characters drawn a bit too thinly?  Absolutely.  Is the book's technobabble a bit too overwhelming at times?  Undoubtedly, yes.  But, those same criticisms were leveled at Crichton's works as well (sometimes from me).  The bottom line is that Fahy, like Crichton, has created a book with enough depth and credibility to make the science accessible and engaging.  Consequently, Fragment is a book that owes a debt to Crichton, but is not a Crichton rip-off.  I don't think anyone will ever truly replace Crichton in the "science gone wild" genre. But, with this impressive debut, Fahy makes a strong case toward being a worthy successor to Crichton's legacy.
2 What in the world are publishers thinking.  I keep reading how hard it is for a writer to get published.  "Fragment" sure disproves that myth. After reading this (novel?) I begin to wonder if 1st graders are in the front office approving this stuff.I guess you can tell I was deeply disappointed.  Once again I have wasted precious time reading a "novel" not worth the time.When I first perused the outer flaps of the book it captured my attention.  Here was a story I thought would be worthy of my time.  As flipped through the book the pictures at the end further set the hook, I was looking forward to some evenings of entertainment while sitting in my favorite chair.But, alas, after 50 or 60 pages, during which it was a real page turner, the book begins to bog down with protracted scientific sermons which continued to slow my reading.  I found myself putting aside the book and only finished it by brute force and the last 40 pages were only skim read.The plot was decent, the characters nothing more than cardboard cutouts.  No development therefore no interest in them.  When the creatures were first introduced there was a mystery and excitement which soon turned ludicrous.  We are expected to believe the ecosystem which thrives on aggressiveness remained intact for half a billion years on a two mile wide island.The ending was, well foolish, and without ruining it for those who will still attempt to read this book, the learning curve of some of these creatures speechless.I do not go into more of the story because other reviewers have already have, read their reviews for more of the storyline.  I do not recommend this book.  I would like to give it one star, but based on the first 50 pages I am giving it two stars.
5 Others have already stated that this book is similar to Jurassic Park.  It is modernized to fit into today's world and it definitley worked for me.  The premise of the book is rather simple...island with strange things/creatures on it.  There are some surprises in the book that I don't want to spoil and I was completely shocked so the author did a good job at hiding them.I knew I was going to like this book from the start by just reading the Prologue.  It discusses how the introduction of various species to different environments had devstating effects on the local wildlife.  I remembered seeing a TV show that covered one of the items discussed which was some type of Chinese fish that was let loose in a pond that ended up killing most of the native fish before being eradicated (or what they thought was eradicated).Great story.  Could be made into a movie very easily but my fear is that it would be done by a low budget studio and would end up as movie of the week on Sci Fi Network.  Have a big studio pick it up and you will see a resurgence of "monster" movies that will make kids want to study science again.
3 This novel was so full of scientific data it would overwhelm Stephen Hawking. Absurd descriptions throughout the book bogged the story down. I found myself skipping ahead when these parts happen only to find once I skipped ahead I once again found myself in the middle of another long, exagerated scientific description of the island's biological creatures. Highly dissapointed. Fahy is obviously very intelligent but needs to hold a little back next time to appeal to the masses.
5 In search of fresh water in 1791 Captain Henders and the crew of the H.M.S. Retribution thought they were blessed by God to find an island in the middle of nowhere. As the crew is filling up their barrels with water something attacks the men and they flee. All except for the crewman Frears whose screams can be heard clearly across the water all the way to the ship. Since then no one has visited Henders Island until now.As part of the reality show Sealife, a group of young scientists are exploring exotic locales around the globe aboard the ship Trident. Botanist Nell Duckworth yearns to visit Henders Island in hopes of discovering a new species of flower that she's positive will be found on there but her hopes are dashed when bad weather puts their ship behind schedule. They have to bypass the island in order to make it to their next stop.Just when Nell gives up on her dream Trident picks up the emergency signal of a ship that's been missing for more than a year and the crew is required to investigate. Instead of a rescue mission the cast of Sealife and the crew of Trident become the ones in need of rescue as the horror of the islands true inhabitants is revealed.I have such perfect timing when reading scary/creepy books. Of course I chose the day my husband leaves for business to read Fragment all alone in the house. The descriptions of the creatures on Henders Island and what happened to the crew were so vivid that I imagined something horrible around every corner in my house. It freaked me out so much that I wouldn't even leave my feet hanging over the edge of the couch while I was reading. LOLFahy wrote such an amazing story with a terrific ending. The actions and reactions of the cast and crew are perfect for the story. Even though it is science fiction there is nothing too technical as sci-fi can sometimes be. As I was reading the book I was reminded of the movie Mysterious Island that my brother and I always used to watch as kids. This is a highly recommended read for all science fiction lovers but I do warn you not to read it alone.
5 The story line at first went really slow, but as the book picked up the storyline and characters developed, I found this read to be hard to put down!I really liked the fact that a lot of science was implemented into the story, it really made the whole story more believable.  I would definitely recommend it to anyone who is looking for a fun read, unique plot, and lots of suspense and action...I just wished that the Author would have written more novels!!
5 ..was what I feared this book might be about.WOW, was I ever wrong!Do not let the cover fool you; a small fragment of interesting, real science trivia mixed with exciting sci-fi story makes for a fun read.
5 This book should be a must have for your beach bag this summer!!  If you are looking for a book for summer reading material, this is it. This book has a very unique twist on the idea of a undiscovered island, that has been left to evolve on its own.  The creatures the people discover are scary enough for nightmares.  The author did a wonderful job with his research and it makes the story entirely plausible.  Kind of like Jurassic Park.  This book is hard to put down (even despite the fact that I have finals to study for).  This author is going on my "must read" list.
4 What a wild ride of a book! The action begins on a ship, the Trident, which has been chartered by the producer of a reality show called SeaLife. It features a cast of young twenty-something scientists including Nell Duckworth, who wanted to be on the show in the hope of exploring the ecosystem of a mysterious island known as Henders Island out in the middle of the Pacific. She gets her wish as the ship picks up a distress signal from an EPIRB and the captain is asked to go to try to give assistance. All of this, of course, is being filmed. As they get to the island, the cast and a cameraman make their way up to the top, and, as the cameras are rolling, something awful and incredible happens. The footage that is viewed all around the world sparks an incredible controversy around whether or not the whole thing was a hoax. Our government, however, has to see for itself, and only days later Nell and a team of specially-picked scientists are landed on top of the island in vehicles and a lab specially built for NASA. What they discover could alter the course of our world as we know it. I will not, absolutely not, say anything more, because it will kill the suspense for anyone else who might want to read it.There is a lot of nonstop action in this book, and once I started it, I literally could not put it down. The suspense keeps you going until the end. The characters are a bit stereotypical -- the producer, who doesn't care about anything else but getting the footage, the quirky scientist, the fame-grabbing, pop-culture, vengeful toad of a pseudo-scientist who knows if word gets out about the truth of the island it's all over for his career -- but it's the author's first novel so you can make allowances. Also, some of the dialogue gets a bit clunky at time, but trust me, you'll be so carried away by the action here that you won't mind. Finally, toward the end it gets a bit into the "cutesy" range that normally kills a book for me, but considering the book as a whole, it's awesome. There is a lot of scientific jargon here, but it's easy to understand once you slow down and read carefully. I'm not a scientist, so I don't know if it's accurate, but I was more interested in the action anyway.All in all, this is a fun read that raises some serious environmental issues. As noted, it is the author's first novel, and if he keeps writing like this, he will gain a lot of followers. I'd definitely recommend it to people who like science fiction, or to those who read books like Jurassic Park by Michael Crichton.
4 While the story had it's issues, they were minor.  I loved the pictures that were included with the Kindle version, and I thought the author had a new twist on what might be likened to a Jurassic Park idea.  I originally downloaded the sample, and found it interesting.  The rest of the book kept me hooked and read it with relish.  I can't wait to see what Warren writes next.
5 The ocean exploration reality show, SeaLife, is lacking in ratings. And when a distress call is received from a remote island, they think this might be their break in boosting up their fast-declining ratings. Henders Island is surrounded by a 700 foot cliff wall and its location is so remote that it has remained isolated for hundreds of millions of years. Due its circumstances - Henders Island has its own ecosystem - creating life which to us would seem alien in nature. When the SeaLife cast docks in Henders and are attacked and killed by the resident species - it is believed to be a hoax... but the President, military and scientists have quite a dilemma in their hands.Although a bit reminiscent of Jurassic Park - I got sucked in by this book right from the first chapter. I will forewarn that there is quite a bit of scientific lingo in this book - that I will never fully grasp much less ever pronuunce correctly. But with that said, I loved this story. It was so interesting. I loved the description of the creatures living on this island. The drawings of these critters and the dissection chapters were amazingly descriptive. The characters were witty, clever and, considering their scary circumstances, funny. This was well-written and ,although a bit unrealistic, it was quite the edge of your seat read.Full of adventure, drama and a lot of deadly situations, this is one sci-fi thriller I can definitely be seen made into a movie. You sci-fi, Michael Crichton-esque lovers will find a gem in this one.
3 There's so much for adventure/thriller readers to enjoy in this book that I feel badly giving a three star rating, but (to me, anyway) some of Fahy's decisions as a writer undercut his strengths. Positively, the premise of the story and most of the plot features and characters are really promising. (It's a dire clash of life-forms akin to the situation in the Niven/Pournelle "Mote in God's Eye.") Fahy lays out the story well, and there's plenty of excitement. But these strengths are compromised, for me anyway, by several flat, cliche characters, and by Fahy's love for describing in detail invented life forms that I just didn't find interesting outside of their role in the plot. Perhaps authors think this is an essential means of creating the illusion of reality in science fiction -- Orson Scott Card did it ad nauseum in some of the later Ender books -- but I thought it slowed down the plot, and like any excess explanation, made the writing less, not more, convincing. Perhaps there are some readers who enjoy detailed descriptions of invented creatures, but I thought Fahy went way, way beyond what he needed to do. I'll definitely see where this inventive, promising writer goes from here. Hopefully, his path will include working with a good editor to capitalize on considerable strengths while avoiding clunky features that almost sink the ship.
5 first off i am not a book snob, i like my action actiony, and my science fiction fantastic.  with that said this book held my interest the entire way through.  i found the creatures fascinating and the characters interesting. the authors website has a mock field guide that is really great and i would hope they bring it out as a book too.
5 Fragment is a CRAZY novel.  An island with new undiscovered life that consumes with an unparalleled aggression is an insane place.  This book is very cool.  The writer put a lot of imagination into this book.  I highly recommend it!
5 I really enjoyed this book, more than Jurassic Park I think.  It feels faster paced than some Crichton books. The intelligent dialogue is a breath of fresh air for this type of novel.  Don't start reading late at night because you will be up until dawn! I think this would make a great movie.
5 When I finished reading Fragment, my first thought was, "there's no way this is a debut novel", the writing is just too good. So I toddled off to my computer and googled away. It seems I'm wrong; it most certainly is Warren Fahy's debut novel. Although he has been a bookseller, editor and the lead writer for RockStar Games Red Dead Revolver, as well as the author of a few articles, this is his first novel. I'm not of the video game generation, so the Red Dead bit...okay, means nothin' to me. But I'll say I wasn't surprised. I've watched my kid play some video games and the creatures in the games are fantastical and imaginative. (Okay, and lots of times creepy, gory and weird too!) The imagination of the author in creating the creatures on Henders Island is sort of reminiscent of a video game, but with lots of detail, scientific research and information. Kind of like a video game for literate grown-ups!I was lucky enough to score an Advanced Readers Copy and didn't realize until the end of the book that there was both a map of the island in the back, as well as pencil drawings of a couple of the creatures. This brought me to the authors website, where there are some really beautiful renderings of some scenes from the book, as well as links to drawings of all the creatures. It was interesting to me that the pictures were pretty much as I'd imagined the creatures to look. The descriptive talents of Fahy are so terrific, that the pictures only enhanced the book for me, I was sort of glad I'd envisioned the critters for myself before I looked at the sketches and paintings. But, when you read the book, or if you're curious, you should take a peek at Fahy's website. You can find it HERE.I'd really love to see more books by Fahy, his style, imagination and creativity made the book a compulsive pleasure to read. Another one of those multi-tasking books, where you read while you cook, clean, wait at Starbucks for coffee, at red-lights waiting for green, etc.
2 How very disappointing. The characters are flat, he rushes the story into the conflict with any real build-up, then the story drags on to the predictable and contrived ending that leaves the reader hanging. This is very much a rip-off of Jurassic Park. The science-dumping is gratuitous and detracts from the (already weak) story. Lastly, the premise of the story is so implausible that it's impossible to suspend belief. I know this is science fiction and you've got to let people take certain liberties but, come on: there is no way a 2-mile wide island could support the mega-fauna he presents in this book. It's ridiculous. While not utterly terrible, this book is disappointing on almost every conceivable level.Not recommended.
4 If I graded this book, it would be an A for ideas and a C for execution. Paper-thin characters, abrupt and unsatisfying ending, cliches galore, etc. But the ideas are so good and the science reasonable enough to not bother a scientist reader that this is still a good read. Hopefully the author didn't use up all his ideas on this book and can develop better plot skills for future books. I suppose my main problem with the book is it could have been a classic instead of just pretty good. Maybe someday the author will revise it.
5 I really enjoyed this book.  It was a well-written, action-packed page turner that kept me guessing.  There was a good balance of story line and science. I would not be surprised if this became a movie and if so, I'd be first in line to see it.
5 I was pleasantly surprised by this book. I frankly expected a sillyJurassic Parkrip-off or more unexplained monster plants like inThe Ruins  (Vintage)(both books are mentioned on the back cover). Instead I found an intelligent, thought-provoking thriller with more science than I've found in the last 50 science fiction books I've read. And once I got about halfway through, I absolutely could not put it down.This novel tells the story of Hender's island, an isolated island in the South Pacific that has been on a separate evolutionary track for millions of years. Rumor of it occurred only once in the logbooks of a British ship that landed there briefly in 1791. When a present day ship gets a distress call from the island, scientists from around the world, NASA, and the military have difficulty penetrating its depths. It appears that all the animals and plants that live there are more violent, predatory, and deadly than anything that evolved elsewhere on earth. The hope is to find something worthwhile on the island and the fear is spreading a single specimen from this island to the rest of the world lest the world be completely decimated by the invasion.I was completely impressed with the amount of biology in this novel. Since the author isn't a scientist, I was a little leery of some of his theories. However, it seems as if he consulted with many scientists and did much research for this book. The prologue is especially intriguing as it tells of what has happened when various species have invaded and decimated foreign ecological systems (for example, carnivorous Chinese snakehead fish being let loose in a pond in Maryland). So, of course, the reader wonders if the prologue foreshadows a very bad ending for this book or not. Another intriguing bit of science in this book comes from a lecture one of the characters gives on his theory that a species' mating habits directly relate to its lifespan. Later, we see this in action in the book with the Hender's island animals who mate at young ages (some even in the womb) and live very short lives.The ending of this book is perfect. I want so badly to give it away, but I won't. There are some hints of what is to come throughout the story, and I had my suspicions, but I hadn't put the fragments of the whole picture together just right. I'm definitely looking forward to future story ideas from this writer.
4 If you ever wanted to find out what creatures can come from someone's imagination then you are going to love this book.  People are constantly getting killed in nasty ways from prologue to the very end.  I don't need to describe the plot and scene here as lots of folks already have.  Let's just say that I did enjoy the book in the same way that I enjoyed Jurassic Park.  The outrageous critters (everything eats everything else) are well described and occasional drawings are provided to help.  Critters with eyes going forward and backward at the same time, multiple mouths and brains, moving in unusual ways.  I agreed with some of the others that the romance item was kind of thrown in like an after thought but I think it worked none the less.
5 A "Lost World" (actually island) type premise but with a very, very different biological and evolutionary twist.  It's definitely chocked full of science and you better pay attention.  I found that enjoyable; others may not.  It's a very quick read and each chapter leaves you wanting more.  Some of the character development was pretty much "standard" but I didn't care.  This book is a terrific novel that I enjoyed immensely.  If you're a fan of science fiction, read it - you won't be disappointed.  I'm hooked and on to Mr. Fahy's next book in this "series", Pandemonium.
3 This is a fun romp of a book if you are looking for an effortless beach read.  It's Crichton-esque and reminiscent of Jurassic Park cum Mysterious Island, in that there's an isolated island where vicious critters have taken a different evolutionary path.Overall, the concept is clever and the critters, for which there are even drawings at the back of the book, are fascinating and described in a convincing fashion.  The pacing is exactly right for a beach read and the plot drives forward at a furious pace.Where the book falters is where most first books stumble-- with character development (none) and the use of literary cliches.  I recognized all of the character-types, and found some of the plot surprises not all that surprising, but that in itself shouldn't put you off if your in the mood for a fast paced adventure that doesn't tax the mind.A good first effort.  I'd certainly look at the next Fahy book, if only to see what his imagination has come up with next.  As for this book, you might just as well wait for the movie.  There will be a movie, won't there?ps-- this one ain't for kids. Language, Violence, Adult situations.
5 This "first novel" which reads more like a thriller/horror masterpiece, is sort of a combination of Jurassic Park and Koontz's Watchers. Not genetic engineering, but something totally new. That's not an easy task, either.It's very creative, has really gruesome creatures, lots of violence, yet a terrific ending. I give it 6 stars, rather than 5, and look forward to more from this author.
5 Add another flavor in the world of science adventure writing.Preston/Child do archaeology, but Fahy is a far more mature writer. Rollins does spelunking and exploring, but Fahy doesn't resort to cheesy pulp adventure conventions.Crichton is perhaps Fahy's most direct forebear in the field, but this novel takes us to a place that Crichton hasn't yet gone. And Fahy's novel, while just as solid as Jurassic Park, has even more raw energy and fun than Crichton.The premise is intriguing. What if a small chunk of the Earth had remained isolated for millions of years, developing its own ecology. And what if the first people to stumble across it were the cast of a floating MTV reality show? And what if that island's bioforms were the most hostile, violent, dangerous forms ever discovered?It takes a lot of science content to make all this work, and Fahy has some fun with the politics and power struggles in the scientific community as well. And his island hell is well-realized; I appreciate that he does not appear to have restrained his imagination in order to make this easily converted to film.He has the requisite science thriller cast of dozens, but he's not afraid to kill folks off right and left in a way that actually allows for suspense and surprise right up until the end. This will make a great summer page turner with action, adventure, a little humor, and enough science content to let you feel slightly virtuous about having read it.(If you like this hostile-environment adventure, you might want to search out an old SF novel by Harry Harrison entitled Deathworld.)
3 The premise of this book was what hooked me into buying this book.  It seemed really interesting.  A reality show crew that gets stuck on an island inhabited by ancent species.  I really wanted to enjoy it, but the action-packed novel I was expecting really didn't pan out that way.  It was a lot of standing around talking about things to do and debating the scientific theories behind the story.  The science was very compelling and definitely meticulously researched, but the characters weren't really relatable.  I did not feel anything when the characters were in life-threatening situations.  I never once felt remorse or hope for their survival.  The Hender character was not very compelling either.  The science involved was by far the most enjoyable reading material in it.  It could have been written better, in my opinion.
5 This book was a pleasant surprise. It had science to explain things without going over my head and it had the excitement needed to keep me reading. Only one error I found. The first chapter is set in the year 1791 and it compares a character to Lord Nelson. Nelson didn't become famous until the Napoleonic Wars a dozen years later. Still that's merely technical and doesn't ditract at all from the rest of the story.
5 Did you know that copper based blood is blue? Or that there is also green & violet colored blood? Or that the mantis shrimp has a strike force of a .22 caliber bullet? In just a few chapters into this exceptional novel you'll find that and yourself being emerged into a world of cutting edge biological science, theory, & mystery that the charcters encounter before during and after Henders Island.You'll board an advanced long-range research vessel called the Trident being financed by the new realty television show Sealife. Of course, being Hollywooded means the set has been staged for high drama, romance, and as the producers hope, the inevitable science will also be entertaining.Fortunately, it doesn't take long at all before you venture onto the island. And as the cliche goes, "All hell breaks loose!".The set up is superb with all elements: military/politics/science/ethics/evolution/genetic engineering/media/finance- all coming together so that the author can weave his magic.I especially enjoyed the author's first rate knowledge of the biological sciences involved- with the emphasis on evolution.I just recently read, hot off the press, about an otherworldly colony of bacteria being discovered under an Anartic glacier that evolved into an alien life form over millions of years. Yes! This is cutting edge.Predator and Prey: The Origin of Sex? /Why We Die? - are subjects discussed at one of the scientist's fire-breathing chats - absolutely astounding - worth the price of admission alone!Once in a long great while, along comes an "Andromeda Strain".Totally original.Highly recommended!!!
3 Choose to read this after I heard the author speak about it. His story was interesting. He had been writing for about 40 years, couldn't get published. Decided to "sell out" and write a "blockbluster" book. The story is inspired by Jurassic Park. A tiny island in a remote area of the Pacific is explored by the cast and crew of a reality show composed of scientists. They find crazy danger, exotic flora and fauna that evolved as a result of isolation. I was impressed by the amount of science research that probably went into it. There was a lot of detail about the biology of the creatures and the geology of the island. Interesting for the science oriented, but maybe boring details for others.The story was interesting, and the bulk of the actual plot did not occur until well into the second half. A worthwhile read if you like the sci-fi kind of thing.
4 Ever since the late, great Michael Crichton penned "Jurassic Park" there have been countless imitators claiming to be the "new" JP.  When I saw that Warren Fahy's 1st novel was compared to both "Jurassic Park" and Scott Smith's classic, "The Ruins", I had to pick it up and see for myself.The thing I enjoyed most about this novel was the Prologue that goes into great detail about the history of rare species that have evovled on the earth since the beginning of recorded time.  The fact that our own planet has been less explored than outer space always angers and intrigues me and the Prologue to "Fragment" definitely sparked my interest into what was to come.I was a little dismayed at the beginning of the novel which focused on a 'reality' TV show called Sealife as they approached the unexplored Henders Island for one of their episodes.  I detest Reality TV and think it is the start of civilization's downfall - thankfully, I was rewarded as the majority of the cast of the fictional SeaLife are obliterated by the hordes of unexplained, monstrous creatures that reside on the island.The rest of the novel is written in a way that will make you believe Mr. Crichton lives.  The discussion of eco-systems and the survival of species throughout the ages is constantly at hand.  There is also the typical science vs. military/religion battle, as both scientific explorers and military types engage the species on Henders Island - with wild results.  When a new and ancient species is discovered --- displaying unbelievable intelligence --- the battle to save them is on, even though the President of the U.S. has given the go-ahead for total anihilation of the island and any specimens from it.A true 'summer novel' that is hard to put down and is not dumbed-down like other pseudo-Crichton posers have done.  Bravo, Mr. Fahy!  Looking forward to whatever you do next!!
3 I really enjoyed this book, which has an interesting 'lost world' theme that I think works pretty well as far as set up is concerned. It has some great action scenes, and interesting characters, but I also felt that it was a little too sketchy where the First Contact elements come in. It felt very much like the author was thinking in terms of something like a movie pitch, instead of writing the book. That said, it *IS* a very good adventure story, and I enjoyed it a great deal.
5 I truly did not want to have the story end... it was that good. I hope the island gets revisited real soon, and yes this would be a great film project.
4 Hate to say this - every once in awhile I like a good book with a monster in it - something scarier than the monsters running around that you see running the streets today.  This book fulfills this niche - but the one creature found towards the last of the book - without giving the plot away - throws an odd twist to the book
3 I've never really understood the critic's command to "Show, don't tell" until reading this book. Each character is introduced with a paragraph detailing all their physical characteristics, hobbies, personal quirks, and predispositions, along with a complete description of their wardrobe down to the label-names. "Standing a mere five feet and five inches, the rotund Professor Blowhard had a bare and befreckled cranium, and while his sloppily-worn Banana Republic clothing gave him the appearance of a Happy Buddha on safari, his piercing slate-grey eyes revealed a remarkable intelligence and a snappish temperament." And so on, but even worse. It gets pretty wearisome in the opening pages.The author also seems to labor under the remarkable delusion that major network reality shows are always broadcast live, and that whatever is taking place when their time slot rolls up, that's what goes out on the air. This is quite wrong.If you can get through the annoyances of the opening chapters and into the "good stuff", this is a pretty adequate account of a World of Horrors, where every creature lives in a constant state of warfare against everything else, including its own kind and its own offspring. Plenty of people are willing to do stupid things to allow the native fauna to demonstrate their lethality, but since characterization here is tissue-thin, it's no great loss when one redshirt or another buys the farm. My favorite part is when the EM-50 Urban Assault Vehicle makes its appearance.This is guilt-free trash reading at its finest, and you might also learn a thing or two about marine biology and stuff. I suppose there are worse outcomes.
1 The first 380 pages or so of this novel are pretty much as advertised. Decent, story, cool killer creatures etc etc.  A good summer story.After about page 380, the book takes the stupidest, comically bad twist I have ever read.  Truly, I've never read a book with such a contrast between two parts of the book. I can't explain why without ruining the plot, but let me put it this way:If the first 380 pages are comparable to Jurassic Park, the last 120 are comparable to that ridiculous children's movie "Harry and the Hendersons", were Harry not a primate. Not just childish and nonsensical in the terms of plot, but even within the "world" created in the first part of the novel, there was no precedent for the bad, bad end. The story turned on a dime. Its like I wasn't even reading the same novel.
5 I read this book in one sitting.  It is just too suspensful to put down. I am not going to narrate the story to you, it has already been done by others better than I ever could.  Just understand, this could be true, it has all the elements of a true happening and yet the story is so well written that it just pulls you in until you feel you are in the jungle and fighting for your life.  The depictions and drawings of the animals are fantastic.  This is a well written novel using great ideas and the science that is at our fingertips and a great warning is enclosed for everyone.
4 This book started out with a bang and the momentum kept going from there. Sure, there were some uneven spots like the odd introduction of the characters in terms of what they were wearing, down to color, pattern, brand, etc. There were way too many exclamation! points! for my taste [to me they convey immaturity]. These are supposedly the top scientists in their field and should have a higher level of sang-froid. Having said that, the sheer imaginativeness of the flora and fauna of Henders Island is both fascinating and horrifying at the same time. For that alone the rating is worth four stars. I would definitely read Mr. Fahy's next effort. His challenge will be to create as stunning a world as existed on Henders Island.
5 This is a must read book.  I'm packed and ready to go to HENDERS ISLAND.......and that my friends says it all.Sam A.
4 With sagging ratings, the ocean exploration reality show SeaLife desperately needs a boost before the network cuts their one-year voyage short. A distress beacon is sent from this island and the'reality show ship' is asked to check it out.Surrounded by a 700 ft cliff wall, Henders Island is largely inaccessible and its distance from the shipping lanes means very few seafarers have even seen it.  What happens is a nightmare. A live broadcast of the landing shows the cast of the SeaLife eaten alive by the island's flora and fauna, the show is condemned as a hoax.Since the reality show is at the basis of the book, it makes sense that that 'producers' of the show want some romance, drama, etc...which is where your sexual innuendo comes in. It isn't graphic and  it isn't out of context with the book.I really enjoyed this book and do recommend it.
4 I was expecting something more likeJurassic ParkorThe Lost Worldsans cute kids.  But this book is significantly scarier than any dinosaur/prehistoric creatures book I could have imagined.  Starting to read it killed the better part of a summer weekend day because once I got into it, I could not put it down until I got to the end.The reason it is so scary is partly because the book starts with a very factual recitation of the damage that "alien" plants and animals have done around the world.  The lakes & rivers in my state are being gradually infested with Eurasian milfoil and zebra mollusks and the ash borer is attacking our ash trees.The flora and fauna on Henders Island, the fictional (I hope) setting of the book make those invasive species looks like they are positively benign!  Even thinking about the description of the disk ant from the book gives me the shivers. It isn't a perfect book, but it grabbed my attention so thoroughly, I overlooked any minor flaws.If you enjoy eco-thrillers or "lost world" kind of adventures, you should definitely get this book.  I hope the author has more like this in his imagination.
4 I liked this book but you will have to have an open mind to feel the same. I could nitpick regarding plausibility but I nevertheless enjoyed it. The premise of the book is a very interesting idea. Is the premise possible? Perhaps but I would ignore that question and just enjoy the book as it makes a very good read. I thought it to be well written, easy to read and not too wordy. The suspense leading to the ending was quite good in that it enticed me to read the book rather quickly. I took the book as entertainment exploring an unusual what if premise and on that note I scored the book as 4 stars. Recommended to those that do not take life too seriously and can read a book or watch a movie for the entertainment.
5 This book should have a seat belt warning light on the cover.  Believe me, you'll need to buckle up before starting this thrill ride.Due to its remote South Pacific location, tiny Henders Island has been unexplored ... until now.  Cast members of the reality show "Sea Life" hope to make history.  With cameras broadcasting the event live into millions of homes, the landing party is attacked by savage creatures unlike anything on earth.Fragment has been compared to "Jurassic Park" -- and with good reason.  Both examine evolution and both features creatures who crunch and munch their way through the human cast of characters.Like the late Michael Crichton, Warren Fahy can spin an engrossing yarn that makes the brain ponder some weighty issues while adrenaline keeps the heart pumping at high speed.  But this is no dinosaur clone.  Rather than recreate the prehistoric past, Fahy makes the present unsafe by challenging the nature of life as we know it.Although the storyline takes a bit of a silly turn near the end, this is still great escapist reading -- a true thriller.  The narrative is fast-paced with just enough science talk to make you feel smart, just enough gore to make you feel disturbed and just enough action to make you feel stoked.
4 "Lost World" novels, where the dinosaurs roam and the mammoth & sabre-tooth play (or variations on that theme) have been around since, at least, the days of A. Conan Doyle. Indeed, they've been around long enough to become pretty trite and boring. But they've also lasted as long as they have because, every so often, in the hands of a real pro, they can still be among the most exciting and stimulating of reads. Just when we think we can't be bothered by the old tired cliches, along comes a "King Kong". Then, when we're getting jaded again, up pops a "Jurassic Park" (book and movie) or, as the book jacket states, "The Ruins" (book... NOT movie!). So it is with "Fragment". Not only does author Warren Fahy handle the mandatory... uh... plot points, in a refreshingly tense, exciting, and, yes, fun, way so as to avoid their being called cliches, he has come up with some truly fascinating NEW twists that belie the fact that we think we've seen it all before. Great literature? Hell, no! But fun and exciting story-telling, you betcha!
3 It's tough to give a comprehensive review of a suspenseful novel without spoiling the suspense for the next reader, but I'll do my best.This novel is fast-paced and very exciting.  It's premise is creative - what if a small chunk of land, isolated by miles and miles of oceans, had hosted species whose evolution had been uninterrupted and separated from the rest of earth since before the days of continental drift?  Most sci fi writers have imagined this sort of place as a potential utopia - a dreamworld of peace and harmony.  But what if that world turns out to be a nightmare instead?  And what would humanity do, if they were to find it?  What if human beings were no longer the most dangerous things on this planet?The characters are well drawn and interesting.  They run the gamut from geek to hero to villain.  The action is fast and compelling - there are points of the story that will not let you walk away.  But the pace gets tripped up in the science from time to time.  A dozen scientific examples are drawn out for you where three would have sufficed.  The pace of the book comes to a screeching halt when one of the story's scientists shifts into lecture mode.There is a wonderful release from the overwhelming violence of the early parts of the book when, towards the end, the book's big surprise is unveiled.  Again, I won't spoil it, but where before you wouldn't put the book down for fear of missing a moment's action, suddenly you won't put the book down because you are thoroughly enchanted.  In fact, by the end you'll be sorely disappointed that the story stops.  It may, in fact, beg for a sequel.I'd say give it a read.  Like some other sci fi/high tech suspense writers (think Tom Clancy), when the writer falls overboard proving he has done his scientific homework and spits out the contents of an entire college zoology lecture, you can easily skim and resume reading when the action starts up again.  The book falls short because you have to do this, but it's worth the skimming to get to the rest.
5 Onboard the ship Trident, the newest reality TV show, Sealife, is being filmed.  The Trident sails from island to island with an interesting mix of characters and scientists to explore the ecosystems and have little tiffs with each other for the cameras; until they near Henders Island, uninhabited since first discovery in 1791.  The Trident planned on passing by but a radio beacon calls them to the shores, where eleven crewmembers are immediately slaughtered by the vicious wildlife.  Only Nell Duckworth, the ships Botanist, and Zero Monroe, the show's lead cameraman escape, and the live Sealife show is cut off the air.  But producer Cynthea will do anything to see her show come back to life ... anything.The tragedy caught on film draws the US Military and NASA to the island, to explore and discover what really happened: truth or hoax?  Henders has been isolated for millions of years, and has its own, unique, and utterly violent ecosystem.  Even the plants are alive and deadly; trees with teeth, claws, and heartbeats.  Nothing is sacred, or safe.  A lichen-like growth eats through the portable NASA labs, being outside the lab means being immediately eaten by creatures nick-named Spigers, Henders Rats, disc-ants, shrimpanzees, and flying drill-worms - to name a few.  The entire evolution is invertebrate, resembling grossly mutated sea-life or insect-life; and mostly copper-based blood systems like horseshoe crabs.  There's never been a more vicious or brutal ecosystem found, and it's right here on Earth.  Is it even safe to study this island?  Is it even safe to have the island on Earth, where any one of the rapidly multiplying species could destroy life as we know it?  Add in two amazingly different scientists, intellectual Dr. Geoffrey Binswanger and selfishly motivated Dr. Thatcher Redmond (who believes only un-intelligent life deserves to live), and you've got a great conflict of interest thrown into the mix.The alien terror on isolated Henders Island will send shock waves through your horror center.  I literally could not put the book down.  The pace is fast, the tale changing with each surprise discovery, and an ending that will knock you out of your socks.  Not even 'Jurassic Park' can hold a candle to this tremendously well-written science/horror novel.  The science is just enough to intrigue but not bore, and the horror flits from page to page with breathtaking speed.  The characters are all fully-fleshed individuals, even those who play bit roles come alive inside the pages.  Fahy shows an incredibly vivid imagination combined with a keen knowledge of science and biology in this debut novel.  Warren Fahy is an author to watch for, reminding me a bit of Michael Crichton.  Overall, this book is going to amaze you.  If Jurassic Park or Cretaceous Dawn blew you away, 'Fragment' is going to send you straight to the moon!There are a few pages of black-and-white illustrations of the strange creatures that are extremely interesting.  I wish they'd added more of them.  This is definitely a Ten Star book, I cannot recommend it highly enough.  Enjoy!
4 This book was a nice quick read about an island and some never before seen critters. It reminded me a lot of Jurassic Park (liked Jurassic Park better). I also enjoyed the drawings that were scattered throughout the book. I liked reading the book, but I am glad I checked it out at the local library. Wouldn't have bought this one. This book is a one time read for me.
5 This book was amazing! If you like a little science with your violence this one is for you. The title is terrible and forgetful though, it should have been namedHender's Island or something like that.I agree with other reviewers that this book is great fun, fresh and just feels different from other things you've read. Can't wait for the next one! Would love to see him tackle sci fi time travel or outer space.
4 I've read dozens of books like Fragment. They all have the same basic premise: man discovers a previously extinct or unknown species living among us; said species turns out to be a killer, man fights species until only one of them survives.  Fragment is no different, although it uses the premise of a remote unexplored island that contains hundreds of wild and fantastical creatures much more powerful and deadly than any fauna we're currently aware of.The story starts out fairly fast-paced, and hooks the reader with the first few chapters. There are certainly many similarities to JURASSIC PARK, and the angle Fahy takes by using the crew of a reality show reminds me a lot of PRIMAL WATERS, but many elements of Fragment are very original, unlike a lot of Fahy's contemporaries in this genre. I really liked the sheer ferociousness of the new species that were discovered, and it made me contemplate just how fragile our ecosystem is, and how deadly something like the events in Fragment could be if they actually occurred.  Of course, Fragment has the requisite character who seeks to profit off of the new species, which I think is in every single book of this type that I've read (think Dennis Nedry from Jurassic Park). This character will do anything for their own gain, even if it means the death of the other characters, and provides a good bit of extra conflict in the story. Fragment's version is fairly well designed, but is pretty much more of the same.Overall, I really enjoyed Fragment and look forward to future novels from Mr. Fahy.  It is a very quick read and great for taking on a plane or enjoying at the beach.
5 Very enjoyable read.  Different take on the unknown island theory.Characters and creatures were well developed.
5 Originally I picked this book up at the library because the cover looked interesting.  Little did I know when I began it that I would absolutely end up loving it and reading it in two sittings.  Then, when I saw it offered for the Kindle, I knew I had to have it so I bought it.  Now it's one of my keepers that I can read again and again.  The creatures created by the author make for a truly enjoyable book.  Some are very scary and some are just not what you would expect.  Not everybody will react the way I did to this book, but I bet there are a lot of you out there who will enjoy this book as much as I did.  I will definitely be watching for subsequent novels written by this author.
1 This book is ridiculously bad.  It appears to have been published by a major New York publishing house (Delacorte Press which is part of Random House) and it's by a first-time author.Concept:  What if a new island was discovered which had completely different animals?  What if the animals were more vicious than the others in the world and threatened to take over the planet if they escaped?  The only thing this book has going for it is its high concept.  Unfortunately, Fahy makes it completely unbelievable, which is the danger of a very high concept.  But it can be done, such as with Crichton's Jurassic Park.  Fahy doesn't even come close to making his concept plausible.Theme:  Fahy goes on about protecting the planet from humans or other intelligent beings (typical environmentalist ideas), but the book didn't really demonstrate this theme with the plot.  The plot did demonstrate free will vs. determinism, but that's not really contentious so this theme didn't really add to the book.Structure:  This was terribly done and it shows that Fahy knows nothing about dramatic tension.  The main characters don't have a big choice to make until about 80% of the way through the novel.  But even when this moment comes, Fahy doesn't build the tension or develop the conflict.  About half of the book reads like Wikipedia and appears to have been included so we can all appreciate how smart Fahy is about biology.  Another third is pointless action, most of which involves characters being chased by vicious island creatures with no tension because we don't care about the characters.Character:  Even worse than the structure is the characterization and dialogue.  The characters are worse than stereotypes because they are so juvenile.  Here is perhaps the most laughable dialogue in the book:"I wish you were my girlfriend, Nell," Andy blurted.  Now it was Nell who was blushing.  "Thanks, sweetie."  She tousled his hair.  "But I'm nobody's girlfriend."These aren't fifth graders talking, they are grown adults in their late twenties!  Then there are countless action scenes where characters just say "Wow!," "Look at that!," and "I can't believe what I'm seeing!" to make us think it's exciting.  Needless to say, it doesn't work.Writing Voice:  At least Fahy doesn't try to be fancy with his writing--the writing voice is pedestrian at best.Scene Construction:  Many of the scenes are pointless and don't move the story forward.  But since there's no structure, the scenes can't really have a mission, can they?Once again, this book is ridiculously bad.  Surprisingly, it was published by a major New York publisher in hard cover, then as a paperback.  It has also been optioned as a movie.  Did all this come from an interesting concept that they thought they could market by comparing it to Jurassic Park?  I'd love to know what the publisher was thinking when they bought this inept attempt at a novel.
1 This is a great book if you are majoring in biology or want to write a paper on evolution.  If you are looking for Jurassic Park type action, be patient.  There are a few pages of action, but you have to look for them.  Too much scientific jargon not enough character development or action.  Disclaimer: I only read the first half of the book before I gave up.
4 If you have a bend towards biology and odd life forms, this book was an action feast of what isolated evolution might produce over a few million years. I absolutely loved the flora and fauna the author came up with. The deadly and weird collided with pincers and shells and toxins on Hender&#8217;s Ilse. Watching the fragile humans discover this niche of life, and fall prey to it, was immensely entertaining.The sub plot of the reality TV show threading through the story was also interesting. You have folks who are merely interesting in ratings and staying employed in the entertainment business. These folks often collided with the scientists, leading to various publicity stunts that didn&#8217;t end as planned *cue evil laughter from this reader*.While a little odd, Warren Fahy brought in some characters later in the book, such as the dueling scientists Jeffery Benswanger (careful & precise) and Thatcher Redman (loose & seeking sound bites). Each of these men has a different take on what little has been broadcast by Sea Life concerning Hender&#8217;s Ilse and both are in for surprises. I enjoyed the conflict between these two, which added to the overall tension.While I found Nell a strong, thoughtful, intelligent main female character, I also found her too nice. Yes, that&#8217;s right: too nice. She didn&#8217;t have a negative thought in her head. All the other characters found her nice too. This tended to make her a bit one dimensional. Never once was I concerned she wouldn&#8217;t make it out alive &#8211; because she was the only lead female and because she was simply too nice to kill off.Towards the end, there was a twist that I wasn&#8217;t expecting. It was excellent and definitely upped the stakes for our heroes. There was one little aspect that I found unbelievable concerning the weakness of the island critters, but I was easily able to tell my logic center to shut and enjoy the ride.This book is full of fascinating factoids, most of them concerning marine life. There was a little jaunt into a lab that was collecting blood from horseshoe crabs for medical research. There was also plenty of theoretical discussion about marine evolution. Yes, this book not only satisfied my Action Junkie, but also my Science Nerd.Narration: The narrator, Robin Atkin Downes, did an excellent job, providing clear, distinct voices for both men and women. The narrator was even challenged later to make some sounds unique to the critters of Hender&#8217;s Ilse.
4 Move over Jurassic Park! Make way for the unimaginable beasts running rampant on a totally isolated, heretofore undiscovered island with biological horrors that will keep you up all night and populate your nightmares, too. This is ecological terror at its finest. A young team of scientists, and tv crew have drifted to the ends of the earth in their high tech studio-ship-at-sea while filming a lackluster tv reality show, when they pick up an SOS signal from the most remote spot of land on the planet. The drama is about to pick up speed in ways they can't even imagine, and the reality is about to get out of hand! The question changes from "who will the daily romance involve" to "who will survive and get off of this island alive; or will anyone, or anything survive?" This is a summer blockbuster adventure and I thoroughly enjoyed it. I can hardly wait for the movie this is sure to inspire. I appreciate having been awarded this book through Library Thing's Member giveaway program and would like to extend my thanks to LT, the publishers and the author for this enjoyable experience.
4 Highbrow this is not. However, the book is quite entertaining and engaging. Can be easily finished on a 6-8 hour plane ride.  Would enjoy a sequel about the lifeforms at the end.
5 I read a lot on paleo-biology & speculative exobiology and watch all the related documentaries on Science Channel, History Channel, NatGeo & Discovery.  Fragment is an excellent piece of highly imaginative speculative fiction incorporating many intriguing concepts in biology along with an entertaining plot and believable characters.  Unlike reading most thrillers of this type, I did not experience any serious incredulity and found no major scientific loose ends, contradictions or "deus ex machina" moments.  All of the creatures (except for a 35 foot mantis shrimp in a small lake - not enough food to grow that big, especially if the lake has other predators) are believable.Very entertaining with near perfect 'verisimilitude'.
5 Wow, just WOW! Absolutely loved this book and wanted it to go on longer. Can't imagine how much research it took to write this book. But it was definitely worth it. Even after having finished it, I still can't stop thinking about it. This book has lots of characters, but my favorites are Nell and Hender. I know we have some strange  bugs and such, but whats on Henders Island is beyond me. Hope nothing like them ever shows up. Can hardly wait to read the sequel, but I would recommend this book to everyone who loves science and adventure. Henders Island is an adventure in itself, so read carefully and not before you go to bed.
2 I liked the concept of this book and have had it in my wish list since it was hardcover, I got the paperback today.When/where did a bunch of scientist learn how to use a Cat 5 NASA contamination lab?Sad waste of a good plot.
3 Mr. Fahy writes a good story, but I wish he'd work a little harder at plausibility. He apparently had some technical support, but why didn't any of his sources tell him that toads are not amphibians? Lots of biologic detail, characters not terribly believable. A fair poolside read but not overwhelming.
5 I found this novel a total blast, and a thriller. I couldn't put it down. The island's existence (the fragment) is so highly unlikely, but what if? Fahy does wonders with "what if," and he had me looking up the various origin species for his fascinating and terrifying creatures. It is fast paced, and a lot of action, a real page turner. I started reading this on a long flight, and the darn plane arrived well before I could finish! It was satisfyingly long, but I wanted more. I'll be watching for his future novels.Koban
5 All great fiction starts by tempting the reader with a thrilling &#34;what-if&#34; situation.  Fragment takes that situation in an inspired and amazing direction that kept me on the edge of my seat from cover to cover.  Perhaps even more impressive than the thrilling action was the convincing science that was used to backup the wild experiences throughout the story.  I found myself highlighting parts of the book for later reference.  I found so many of the background and substantiating facts thoroughly fascinating.This book was an amazing thriller and the perfect novel for fans of Michael Crichton style scientific adventures.
5 First, I thought wow, I wouldn't want to be stuck on the island in this book...ever! Talk about dangerous, even with military support. This book was awesome and so much fun to read. The creatures were vivid, not only because of the writing, but because the book had really cool illustrations as well. I also enjoyed the way the characters played off each other as they struggled through there time on Henders Island. And then there's Henders which makes me smile :o) Read the book and you'll understand.
5 It is hard to find the words to express how much I enjoyed this novel.  Arguably it has flaws.  I don't care; I LOVED it!  Here's hoping this inventive debut is the first of many, many best-sellers from Mr. Fahy!After a couple of prologues, Fragment opens with an American research ship coming to remote, unexplored Henders Island.  The Trident, actually the setting for a semi-educational reality television show, had planned to bypass tiny Henders when an emergency beacon coming from the island turned it around.  Botanist Nell Duckworth gets separated from the rest of the landing party when she spies some highly unusual plant life on the beach.  The others move on, inland to the jungle.  Nothing is like anything these scientists and crew members have ever seen before, and they're broadcasting live as they go.  Within steps, all hell breaks lose.  There are screams.  Cameras drop.  There is confusion everywhere.  The network breaks the feed.  Back stateside and around the world the debate begins:  Did you see Sealife?  Was that a hoax?Only one cameraman makes it back to the beach, chased by enormous, eight-legged, red-furred monsters.  To Nell, they look like spiders crossed with tigers--spigers.  She and Zero, the cameraman, barely escape with their lives.  Cut to a few days later...  The United States Navy has warships ringing the island.  There is a complete media blackout.  Agencies ranging from NASA to the U.S. Army have been brought in to get a team of scientists safely onto Henders to study this island ecosystem which diverged from our own evolutionary path more than 250 million years ago.Does that sound far-fetched to you?  If Fahy has a strength, it's taking real science and using it to make the most implausible of plots utterly believable.  That's not fair, actually.  Mr. Fahy has many strengths, the first of which is a wildly inventive imagination.  On Henders he's created an entire world, right here in the midst of our own.  Another of his strengths is pacing.  I read this novel in a day.  From the opening chapter he had me hooked, but as I rapidly approached the d&eacute;nouement, I literally could not turn the pages fast enough.  Fragment started out fast-paced, and just got faster and tenser without ever flagging.  As for plotting, yes, some elements of this novel are derivative.  Already comparisons to Jurassic Park are flying around, and surely Mr. Fahy owes a huge debt to Michael Crichton, mostly, I'm guessing, for inspiration.  He is not retreading the same old territory here.  I could guess where some of the plot elements were going, but I could never guess what would happen when we got there.  He blew me away every single time.What are his weaknesses?  Well, one is the sheer amount of science he's relaying to his readers.  I LIVE for that stuff, but that can't be said of the average lay reader.  I think he does as well as anyone, but it's still a lot of science to exposit.  The greater weakness is character development.  Some of the characters were straight out of central casting, and time and time again, Fahy passed up opportunities to, for instance, make a bad guy more complex and less of a caricature.  Most characters were not terribly fleshed out, and some may have acted inconsistently.  And do you know what?  I don't care.  Sure, that one element could have been stronger, but in no way did it take away from my enjoyment of this novel.If this is fledgling author Fahy's first effort, I can't wait to see his follow-up!  Fragment is a wild ride, but more than anything else it is just so much fun!
1 I won't try to be "helpful" here, I'll just tell you how I felt. This book was written by the numbers, as if it were produced from a template for Crichton wannabes: predictable and tedious. The characters were thinly drawn, to say the least, and the pseudo-science was presented in long, draggy, lecture-styled chapters that were easy to skim -- which was actually a blessing, since it made the whole thing quicker to be over with. I can't imagine why so many folks are so gaga for this piece of tripe.
4 Fragment by Warren Fahy delves into the question of what if evolution took a few different turns?  What would the world be like?  The discovery of an island left undisturbed for millions of years immediately engrosses you in a world that feels like an alien planet where nothing is what it should be. The story is logical and well thought out yet not so fact driven to destroy the feeling of mystical mysteries that must lie ahead.  The characters are a broad mix of scientists, Hollywood types and government men that actually feel like real people instead of stereotypes, there&#8217;s even a cute dog.  This book also has a fair amount of science that you absorb sort of automatically because the story pulls you along so quickly.  The author handles the carnage of the wild world he creates with an amazing amount of skill, informing his readers without grossing them out.  If you are looking for a fast, lively, science driven adventure, this is the one.
5 I was  reading this for a book club discussion with the author and I am so glad I did. This subject of RNA/DNA and biology has always been a favorite of mine and anyone reading  this can follow right along. A must read...5 plus stars for this one...
5 Fragment is one of the most fascinating novels I have ever read.The story basically features a boat from a reality TV show running across a small island in the South Pacific called Henders Island (named after a British captain who ran across it all the way back in 1791). As it turns out , Henders Island is the most unique place in the entire world. Isolated from the rest of the world for about 600 million years, life on the island has evolved to be so completely different from the rest of world that any who saw it could be forgiven for thinking it was not even from Earth. Incidentally, it is the most dangerous life in the whole world, and most of the film crew who land on the shore are killed and eaten, but not before some creature footage is broadcast throughout the world.The US Navy places a blockade around the island and allows teams of American and British scientists to study the local wildlife from within the "safety" of a reinforced research base. The studies will not only learn about the Hendersian wildlife but also find out how much of a threat it would pose to the world if any of it was taken to the mainland.Henders Island creatures have blue blood, are hermaphroditic, and many are born pregnant. Also, at least some of the creatures have two brains. And instead of the predator vs prey relationships found in all other ecosystems in the world, the Henders Island ecosystem is more a case of everything vs everything. Hordes of creatures are constantly killing and eating each other, and rapidly give birth at a massive rate to keep their entire populations from dying out.A major group of lifeform on the island are terrestrial and freshwater relatives of mantis shrimps (a type of crustacean whose claws can strike with the force of a .22 calibre bullet. And considering "normal" mantis shrimps are quite small, imagine how hard the claw strikes of their far larger Hendersian relatives are). Some of these mantis shrimp relatives include the mongoose-sized Henders rats, the tiger-sized to tractor-sized Spigers (so named because they look a bit like a six legged tiger crossed with a jumping spider) and the crocodile-sized to T-rex-sized aquatic Mega-mantises. NOTE: It is implied in the story that "normal" mantis shrimps are the only creatures from Henders Island to ever make it off the island and into other parts of the world.Other creatures include the radially symmetrical Disk-ants (who live in swarms and carry thousands of microscopic offspring on their bodies. The flesh seems to dissolve as the microscopic babies devour it) and Henders wasps (who have bladed arms and will lay their eggs inside other creatures. The eggs then instantly hatch and the babies instantly start devouring their victim's flesh), the flying Drill worms (who can drill through flesh and will attack the eyes first), and many, many other terrors.The main vegetation of Henders Island are not plants but rather animals who resemble plants and can both photosynthesise and kill and eat other creatures.Seeing as all known Hendersian lifeforms pose a definite threat to the world, the military makes a decision to nuke the island. But then another discovery is made. One so incredible and significant that it will change the world forever...A number of themes are dealt with in the novel, including the question of whether or not sentient life is guaranteed to destroy its environment (one of the major characters is actually a zoologist who believes humaity is like a virus to the Earth).Henders Island itself seems to be somewhat of a thought experiment of whether an island ecosystem could evolve contrary to expectations (standard island ecosystems are quite tame, but Henders Island is the exact opposite). Just how likely it is to have any ecosystem like that of Henders Island is questionable, but it makes for an interesting story.Fragment was a truly fascinating novel. I found it hard to put down and was always eager to see what would happen next. The story was very intriguing and the lost island scenario was the most imaginative I had ever seen. I truly enjoyed reading Fragment and hope the sequel (which the author is calling Pandemonium) comes out in the not to distant future.
4 I absolutely enjoyed this book.  It was well written and full of excitment and scares.  Can't wait to read Mr.Fahy's next book.
4 I was surprised how much fun this was to read.  For his first novel, the author almost completely nails the "action-sci-fi" genre.  There are several action scenes and they are a heck of a lot of fun to read.  The science bits are what you would expect in this genre -- in other words, it takes a few things from real science and stretches plausibility to create a very very implausible story.  If you like hardcore real science in your sc-fi, you might not like this novel so much.Faults?  Character development is minimal but it doesnt hold the action back. The author makes the grave mistake of foreshadowing the "twist" so that I completely knew the twist before it happened.  There are literally a dozen "red shirt" characters who die a quick death, which is fine, but the author give these characters names and short character histories, which is pointless for the 5 pages that they exist in the story.  Whenever they make this into a movie (and they should) the screenplay will remove these extraneous characters.The story reminded me of the first hour of Avatar when we first see the planet's creatures and they are savage and unlike anything on Earth.  In Fragment, the creatures are even more deadly and more bizarre.
1 When my daughter was 8 she and I loved the Goosebumps books. They were appropriately juvenile and fun. "Fragment" reads like a 500 page Goosebumps title. Other reviewers have commented on the terrible characterization, high school level writing and awful plot. Like the "Harry and the Hendersons" ending, all of which make the book laughable. Or pathetic. Take your pick.I'll concentrate here on the ridiculous errors in basic science in the book. Now, I know that books of fiction are not to be judged on the same basis as a term paper. But authors have a basic responsibility to get the facts right. So, here we go.Page 74. "clots on contact with dangerous endotoxins, like E. coli. WRONG. E. coli is a bacteria. It's not a toxin.Page 75. Injecting tap water or distilled water would kill someone. Utter nonsense.Page 77. "reddish-green trilobite fossils". The color of the rock one finds fossils in has nothing to do with the color of the original creature.Page 135. The creature has both a cloaca AND an anus? I don't think so. A cloca is defined as a common opening for urine, feces and reproductive processes. So you can't have both.Page 188. Earthworm life span is about a year, not a decade.Page 189. Queen termites don't live 100 years. Maybe several years.Page 191. "Bullfrogs frequently get isolated in ponds..." No they don't. When water levels drop, they just hop away to other ponds.Page 218. "The sophistication of the nervous system is just staggering for an animal of this size." How could Dr. Cato know this? They have no instruments that would allow them to make such a judgment. In fact, such a conclusion would require a sophisticated neuroscience laboratory and months, if not years, of study.Page 218. Jumping spiders do NOT, repeat NOT, have the largest brain to body ratio of any animal. They DO have the largest ratio among spiders.Page 334. A fatal dose of anethesia does NOT cause a build up of magnesium in the blood.These are only the blunders that were most obvious. They show the author's contempt for the facts and thus for his readers.I should mention that there is one really terrifying sentence in the book. On the inside back cover we read that the author is "at work on a sequel to Fragment".  Please, noooooooooooooooooooo
4 I thoroughly enjoyed Fragment by Warren Fahy. The premise, a traveling reality show visiting an uninhabited island, is current and fresh; think Survivor goes to Jurassic Park. Except on this island, Henders Island, there are no survivors due to a left turn the island's inhabitants took eons ago.  As opposed to our world of hunters, gatherers, and lots of benign stuff in between, Henders Island is an "everything eats everything" world -- and we just invited ourselves for dinner.Let's state up front what others have already posted so you read my review in the proper light: the scientific explanations were sometimes belabored and the characters were largely under-developed.  That said, if you like scientific thrillers (think anything James Rollins or Michael Crichton), you should read Fragment.What if....A good science fiction thriller doesn't ask you to suspend belief.  It leads you gently yet convincingly to another reality; one that actually COULD exist -- and probably does exist!  Fahy in Fragment takes you to an entirely flipped out reality -- through the sheer amount of scientific explanation -- picking you up by the collar and manhandling you to a place where things like nine-legged Henders rats and disk ants actually make sense.  (By the way, if you want to know what a real disk ant looks like in motion, check out the bottom of Fahy's website at [...]; that'll creep you out!)I didn't need convincing that Cynthea, the reality show director, was an opportunist; and I figured out pretty quickly that Nell, our heroine, would likely fall in love with another socially awkward scientist.  Of course, the evil Dr. Thatcher would end up getting ....  Hold on!  While you could probably guess what happens to Dr. Thatcher, I don't want to spoil your read because he gets what he deserves in absolutely SPECTACULAR fashion!For a book to be a good read, it needs to grab me and hold me; Fragment did just that from the first page to its last.  I look forward to my next encounter with Warren Fahy.  Hopefully sooner than later!!
5 What a totally fun and rewarding read!  Who would have thought that a book about new species and biology, requiring me to reference a dictionary to understand some of the terms, would be this fun?  Well, it was.  Can't delve into many of the details without spoiling the fun, but I have to say this book was highly entertaining.
3 FRAGMENT is an enjoyable read primarily because it deals with so many interesting ideas.  There is a lot of fascinating material in this novel about biology, the environment, different animal species, and a lot of other scientific issues.Unfortunately, FRAGMENT is not a collection of essays, but a novel of suspense.  And it is not nearly as suspenseful as I would have liked.  This is primarily because author Warren Fahy invests precious little time in breathing life into his characters.  All of them are paper-thin and two dimensional, and speak in annoyingly trite dialogue.  This novel is also not paced particularly well -- things just kind of happen in a rush, and there's very little build-up to the novel's key events.Still, if you're interested in sci-fi thrillers, FRAGMENT is worth a try.  Fahy has obviously done his research, and he explains scientific concepts in a way that make them readily understadable.  This novel also has a very imaginative premise, and I found the plotline interesting enough to finish.  The writing is pedestrian, but serviceable.FRAGMENT isn't nearly as good as Michael Crichton's best work, but it's good enough to make me interested in whatever Fahy writes next.  Hopefully his next effort will have stronger characterization and a better constructed plotline.
5 OK--Right from the top, if you are looking for pure science or cannot suspend your sense of disbelief in order to enjoy a wildly imaginative breathtaking fantasy adventure, this is not the book for you.  But if you enjoy fun, escapist, adventures steeped in a mix of science and imagination, by all means, grab this, sit back, and go for a wild E-ticket ride."Fragment" reads like Michael Crichton's "Jurassic Park" on crack cocaine.  It is the speculative, gonzo imaginings of what a world or ecosystem that had evolved without the intrusion of mankind might look like.  The flora, fauna, and all life forms are creatively rendered by Warren Fahy in a manner designed to make the reader think while also gasping at times at the possibilities presented. There is considerable scientific information and theorizing in an effort to present a plausible backstory.  Fans of this genre are asked only to sit back, open their minds, hold on, and let the story take them on a crazy terror-filled adventure through the imaginative possibilities of one writer.A ship filming a reality TV show answers an emergency beacon near an imposing, apparently impenetrable island long ago recorded but never explored located deep in the Pacific Ocean.  An initial landing party is quickly slaughtered by a plethora of creatures that will tax the reader's ability to imagine and fantasize.  Quickly, Henders Island is surrounded by US Navy warships as scientists search for answers and any sign of "intelligent" life before making the decision as whether to eradicate the island and its ecosystem which could destroy the world as we know it or to preserve scientific advancement.The fact that the scientists who comprise the major characters in "Fragment" are mostly two dimensional and predictable does not necessarily detract from the lightening paced, terror-filled storyline; in fact, the reader can quickly match the predictable characters with images of their favorite actors as they run this "word-movie" through their imaginations.  There is room among the characters for romance, skullduggery, double crosses, and self sacrifices.  "Fragment" is one of those novels that is much more as a whole than as a sum of its parts.  And it does present intriguing questions regarding the morals, ethics, and philosphical differences among the scientific and military worlds as decisions "for the greater good" must be made.  I strongly recommend this book to those seeking fun, adventure, a bit of fantasy, and a big dose of  "what if?"
4 The story's about a group of people and scientists that come across an isolated island in the Pacific... inhabited by a world of lethal creatures that have evolved separately from us. Of course, the rest of the plot evolves around the confrontation of both worlds.The book's a fast turner. Well written, interesting in the theme(s) it tackles and the imaginative world it depicts, it definitely has the stuff of future movies.The book's not without flaws, though, which I'd like to mention not for the sake of criticizing but rather as food for thought for the author. The narrative is not harmonious: entire sections of debates bring interesting ideas and hypothesis... but they don't add a lot to the plot. Also, the end of the book goes through unnecessary lengths as if Warren wanted to keep the action for as long as possible. After a while, though, the reader starts skimming through the text as 1- he knows what's going to happen and 2- he knows that what is going to happen won't be that important anyway. Get my point?Also, the use of established brands, makes, product names... for God's sake! Fiction is about fiction, not about promoting commercial stuff!! These names might convey a sense of known environment to readers -but hey, there are other means to do that! Who cares to know, in a science-fiction novel, that this watch is an Omega? That that shirt is Ralph Lauren's?Other than that, go ahead, readers, it's well worth your time and money. And Warren, keep on the good work! Soon enough, Hollywood producers will start knocking at your door.
5 This is easily the best book that I've gotten to review through the Vine program so far!  It's got enough geeky-science and enough gore (but not too much) to fit neatly within the good Michael Crichton pantheon.  The setup is that a reality TV show about scientists on a submarine comes across an isolated island where life has evolved apart from the rest of the world for a hundred million years, resulting in all kinds of weird and vicious creatures.  Instead of succumbing to ordinary weeds, insects, and predators -- as usually happens -- these creatures lay waste to everything they're exposed to.  And if they got into the real world, they would lay waste to it too.Naturally, despite the presence of the US Navy and top scientists, things go wrong with the scientific studies. . . .This really is a home run of a techno-thriller.  There's enough characterization to make the people more than cardboard cutouts, and who lives and who dies is not predictable.  Finally, the island ecology is well-explained and compelling.
4 SINCE MY ORIGINAL REVIEW WAS EDITED WITHOUT MY KNOWLEDGE, I'll have to try again...A reality TV show stumbles across an island that has evolved quite differently than the rest of the world. For instance, the life on the island has copper-based blood, instead of our iron-based blood. The author does a good job of making the scientific explanations sound real, but not sure if it would stand up to real science. Nevertheless, Fahy obviously did serious research for this book.Needless to say, all hell break loose after the first humans set foot on the island...my absolute most favorite scene is when one of the RVs is driving through a tunnel in the "jungle" and the people witness the vicious killing cycle firsthand.It seemed a little too convenient that the island was found just before earthquakes start to break it down. I'm glad they were able to save "specimens," but the ending was anti-climatic after all the action sequences throughout the book. I could accept it if I knew a sequel was in the works.I don't think it's fair to compare this story withThe Ruins (Unrated Edition)because I'm pretty sure the plant life in the movie wouldn't be a match for what they find on the island in Fragment.If you like the twists in this book, you might likeDemons.*edited to add: I liked it enough to read it more than once already, and I would read anything else the author writes, but this must be his first book.
3 I finally finished Fragment and the beginning of the book was great. I couldn't put it down and when I had to, I kept thinking of the next time I could pick it up.  The fast paced action was interesting and kept me captivated so overall I enjoyed the book. Three things I didn't like about the book, 1) was the fire talks, they were long and boring and I kept wanting to skim over them.  I am a biologist and I normally find those things interesting.  I can tell Mr. Faye put a great deal of effort and research into creating those talks, but they didn't hold my interest.  That alone doesn't completely distract from the book or even take a star away they were just annoying.  The thing that made me cringe is the character animal at the end of the book (2).  Is this character supposed to be something I am supposed to like?  I found them silly and impractical, learning to talk and read from junk and garbage?  They just didn't make sense, they were just too un-believable. (3) The third thing I didn't like about the book was the villain, Mr. Kel..., killing a child so you don't have to pay child support! Why would a mother leave a child with him anyways, she went to answer the door and in that time frame the child miraculously drowned as he was walking out?  It just didn't really add up all that much? As a villain he took the stand of going straight for the money, publishing books that the general public would like, instead of his peers, and scoffing at his peers view points, so that part was quite believable.  In the end the way the miltary guy was killed was dumb, the military guy should of known it was dangerous and being trained should not have just run out of the car. The villain Mr. ...  didn't seems to "manipulate" so well when I was reading it, he convinced the military guy to kill 4 people in 1 sentence?  It just wasn't believable.Overall I liked the book, I just wish it had a different ending.
2 Synopsis:While filming for a reality show, a group of scientists discover an uncharted island. A landing party goes onto the island only to discover that it hosts a wide variety of hostile animals that at first encounter manage to kill all but 2 members of the landing party. "Hender's island" as it now is called then becomes an international phenomena due to the fact that the reality show actors were filming at the time of thier gruesome demise. The island then becomes surrownded by military ships bent on preventing anything on or off the island. A group of scientists is gathered to study the island in an attempt to understand its strange fauna.Review:When i read the synopsis for this book i nearly jumped for joy, for it seemed to be right up my ally. The idea of this book was intruging and could have been something great if not for the poor execution on behalf of the writer. One thing the author did that angered me inparticular, was that he chose favorites with the characters, meaning that these "killing machines" that inhabit Hender's Island were only able to chase down and kill side characters that the reader wasen't ment to care about in the first place. A good Creatue Feature should have the monsters be equel in strenghth, intelligence, and speed despite whatever character they are chasing wheather it be the guy everybody hates, or the feamale main character. In short, this book was killed by poor execution...it had potential. A big let down.Grade:B-Recommendations: People who like creature features or people who are interested in evelution. (I warn you-both parties may become angry while reading this.Cost: a 7.99 paperback is aceptable if one cannot get a used copy.
4 Warren Fahy knows that from page one he's competing with some real classic works in the "Lost Island" sub-genre of fantastic fiction. These competitors include Jules Verne's Mysterious Island (1874), Arthur Conan Doyle's The Lost World (1912) , Edgar Rice Burroughs Land That Time Forgot (1918), Merian Cooper's King Kong (1933) and Michael Crichton's Jurassic Park (1990).Side note: Crichton told me personally in 1994 that he felt bad that the only rationale he could invent for Jurassic Park was to re-use his idea of a "dangerous high-tech amusement park" that he first conceived in 1973 to create Westworld. But he did not feel bad about the $$$.In any case, Fahy fearlessly upstages these earlier works and has the vision to imagine whole ecosystems of life that have never existed. This puts him in fresh territory different from the other books which for the most part exist as ways to get some live dinosaurs into present-day action. It is the intelligence and inventiveness behind the crazy-but-believable biology that Fahy invents that is the strength of the book. He does not invent things without a rational explanation. Even if something is extremely far-fetched, Fahy works hard to make you believe the weird biology could exist. You definitely get the sense of a smart writer here who has worked hard on his biological homework.Does the book have flaws? Yes, of course and big ones. Many of the emotional reactions between characters are predictable and feel like something you've seen before on TV. It's what you expect from writers of Hollywood movies -- certain predictable "stock characters."  But Michael Crichton was similarly criticized for his "shallow" or cartoonish characters. Fahy like Crichton -- is not really offering a book about characters -- it's about ideas. Biological ideas. And some of the scientist characters give very long intelligent lectures about biological theories (that I am sure will be cut or shortened 98% in any upcoming movie version.)A long time ago, some pulp writers figured out that if you have a "stock character" as a hero of heroine, all you had to do to get the reader to care about them was to thrust them into incredible danger and tease the snapping jaws of death at the hands of some horrible fate. Eaten alive by (you fill in the monster here) !!!Fahy uses this old trick and uses it well. Even if our cast of characters do not seem as nuanced as characters in the best literary fiction -- so what? This is a FUN book. You WANT to see people eaten or you would not have started reading it in the first place. Fahy gets you rooting for his diminishing band of scientists and manages a page-turner equal to Jurassic Park. Yes, I said PAGE-TURNER. I really have to give Fahy credit for "going big" and not backing off and fearlessly creating a big, wild, rollicking adventure story with some very interesting biology along for the ride. Crichton -- when he did the Lost Island narrative -- didn't go this "big" -- kudos to Fahy, it would be hard for anybody to top this version for daring. Fahy pulls it off.
4 I was a huge fan of "Jurassic Park" and stories of that ilk, and and was sorry that Michael Criton died too soon.  Now it seems Mr. Fahy is taking his place in leading the "amazing science" genre.  Other reviewers have explained the story line and I too found the scientific explanations fascinating and educational.  My only negative comments is that I wish there had been drawings of the homo-sapien-like creatures found on the island.  Maybe Mr. Fahy is saving them for the next installment?
5 I read all the reviews and thought, "well, okay, this looks like a pretty good summer book".Huh...I couldn't put it down (not to sound too cliche).  I thoroughly enjoyed this and actually laughed out loud once or twice.  It's not a preachy book, most of the characters are likeable, the premise seems possible and is handled with skill.My only question...how long do I have to wait for another book by this man?
5 As it's best stated, this book is a modern version of Jurassic Park.  When deciding to read this book, think of Jurassic Park, but what's modern for us now and what we know now.I will not give away a synopsis of the book or any spoilers (sometimes eyes wander) as I think that's the ultimate way to ruin a story.  Even if it effects my reviews, I won't do that.  Basics yes, but no details or outlines.Fragment is a book that deals with "fringe" science, so when reading it keep in mind it's not a school science based book.This is one book that can easily be made into a movie.  However as us readers know, 99.9% of the time the movies are butchered forms the book.  So I'm not sure how it'll turn out, but I'm sure the rights will be purchased to make a movie.The book is a easy, fast read.  The book is complete with maps and diagrams.As I post this, the book has yet to be released to the general public.  However I'm sure it'll be a best seller this upcoming summer.
3 A reality show is being filmed on a research ship.  One of the participating scientists applied because the ship was going to sail close to an island that she had been interested in for her entire life, an island that had been cut off from all contact with civilization, or even with any other forms of life, for centuries.  To her surprise, she was chosen.  The show's producer, intent on increasing viewers and ratings, is constantly trying to get the scientists to have sex with each other, but most of them aren't interested.As they come close to the island--Henders Island--it unfortunately appears that the ship will have to forgo stopping at the island due to time constraints.  Then the ship receives an emergency signal from the island.  The signal seems to be almost divine intervention, since it gives the ship a reason to deviate from their course and land on the island.  Since it's a reality show, filming continues as the scientists approach the island, and continues as scientists and crew start dropping like flies, attacked by the extremely unusual beasts that have evolved there.The book started off well, and apart from a few very lengthy scientific lectures that I admittedly skimmed, the story was good.  However, although I'm pretty good at suspending disbelief in most cases, this story strained even my credulity.  Not the story, per se, but the creatures and the ecosystem.  I can, to a certain extent--or at least for the duration of a book or movie--believe that it's possible for dinosaurs or vampires to exist alongside humans, but the idea that an island on Earth, no matter how cut off, could produce such alien animals, was hard for me to believe.The characters--the plucky girl scientist, the aw-shucks boy scientist, the award-winning scientist/author who is worried that if the story gets out he'll lose his grants--were all pretty predictable, and I thought a lot of the dialogue was trite, but all in all, not a bad book.  It's worth reading as long as you can read it for entertainment and not expect the premise (or the ending) to be plausible.
5 Cool book with some unbelievable images - like to know where he gets his ideas as this was pretty mind blowing. A whole 'Fragment' of a missing continenet where evolution has taken a new path - great.
3 Fragment makes for an enjoyable summer read ... but it's a bit like literary cotton candy: take a big bite of it and suddenly realize your chewing on mostly air.Don't get me wrong, I loved the ideas that went into the story. Fahy knows his stuff when it comes to creating an mini alien world tucked away within our own familar planet. I only wish he was as good about creating characters and developing a plot that I didn't keep running ahead of by correctly predicting plot turns and who turns out to be bad guys or good guys. I believe that Mr. Fahy will develop those skills as he continues to write and I look forward to his future endeavors.Apart from those points, my major quibbles with the book are twofold. First, why, why, why does Mr. Fahy find it necessary to break chapters down even further by nearly minute-by-minute listings of the time? A little of that goes a long way, but there are literally places where there is a time listed then five or six paragraphs of action, then another notation of the time ... and only a minute has past. Rather than helping to clarify the action or signify a change of scene it became a distraction.Secondly, the character of Cynthea, the reality show producer, and some of the actions she took were just not believeable. For instance, going live on national TV to broadcast the landing on Henders Island. About the only time reality shows are anywhere near 'live' is when networks can have at least some modicum of control over the action ... like American Idol or the finale of Survivor. Way too many variables can go wrong in a live shot like the one of the landing on the island. I think the last time a reality show used a live shot was when Geraldo Rivera opened Al Capone's vault only to find it empty on live, national TV.
4 you will enjoy this book.  I also see some flavors of The Ruins as well, and I believe that both books are mentioned in the editorial review.Someone else mentioned that this book had a lot of gratuitous sexual innuendo, and foul language.  I am not sure if we read the same book.  Yes, there is some foul language, but when you see a good friend of yours being ripped apart by alien creatures, does 'dang' really cut it?  Nope...didn't think so.  The language is entirely appropriate in the context of this book.The premise is simple...a reality show about life at sea, finds an island that has only been mentioned once in written history.  A distress beacon is sent from this island and the 'reality show ship' is asked to check it out.  What happens is a nightmare, and the author Warren Fahy, does a good job of bringing us into that nightmare.  Since the reality show is at the basis of the book, it makes sense that that 'producers' of the show want some romance, some drama, etc...which is where yoru sexual innuendo comes in.  It isn't graphic, it isn't overly long, and again, it isn't out of context with the book.There is a lot of science in here, but if you pay attention it isn't anything someone with a sixth grade education couldn't understand or at least 'get.'  The descriptions are well done, though they can get convoluted at times, so pay attention.One thing I did get a kick out of was the 'excerpts' from the field guide that three of the characters supposedly write.  Complete with illustrations!  When I saw those I was wanting more...they were a fun way to bring the creatures to life.This isn't a book to take seriously, it had a lot of interesting information, but you do need to think outside the box a bit.  This was a great beach book, and I could see this being turned into an awesome action movie.
3 Fahy's debut novel opens with a Michael Crichton-esqueThe Lost World, but one filled with more fantastical creatures than the dinosaur-foot-filled cover art predicts. The book has an intriguing hook, but then backtracks to spend an overly long period of time introducing the two latecomer scientists (even though they are the hero and the villain) which slows down the pacing quite a bit. The pacing also drags with its heaviness on the "science" - some rather cumbersome lectures are included here, further bogging down the long introduction of Dr. Binswanger and Dr. Redmond. The ending, however, is exciting enough to redeem the novel. The characters - both minor and major - are more caricatures than characters, falling rather flat. The scientists feel largely interchangeable without many distinguishing characteristics other than their too-extensive backstories. The romance between the two main characters feels more obligatory than natural. But the interesting creatures makes up for the cheesy romantic banter and staged-timing kisses.Still, it's a fun premise for a summer adventure/thriller and animal-lovers and enthusiasts are sure to enjoy the strange creatures of Fahy's imagination that populate Hender's Island. The book has an overall cinematic appeal and a very modern one at that with the initial draw to the island involving a reality TV show. All in all, this is a fairly impressive, science-ish debut into the adventure genre. I'm looking forward to seeing what Fahy follows this up with!
3 I give this one a solid "Meh".  It'll keep you turning pages, but you wouldn't want your kid to marry it.
2 Why this book continually gets compared to Jurassic Park, I will never know, because, to be quite frank, Fragment isn't even on the same plain (both literary and story wise).I will admit, the actual story of Fragment isn't a bad one. It's not exactly original, but it's not the same cookie-cutter drivel that seems to get published so often. Plus Fahy's detail and imagination in describing the creatures that inhabit Hender's island wasn't bad either.However, that's pretty much where I stop giving compliments to this book. Unlike Jurassic Park (which actually made a lot of sense and was easy to follow) Fragment gets lost many many times along the way. So many times the reader is presented with an intriguing idea, or thought, only to be left hanging and never have that question answered. Then on top of that Fahy tries much too hard to meld both science and adventure into this story. Unlike Chrichton's masterpiece, the science gets far too heavy far too often and that usually leaves the action parts too short or not long enough.And then there is the worst part of the whole novel and that is Fahy's weak, unbelivable, and rather childish characters. Take for example Andy, the shrimp scientist, who's vocab and actions mirror those of a 10 year old. Or Zero, who is so sterotyped that every little thing he does or says throughout the novel leaves the reader rolling his eyes. The attitudes of the characters are surprisingly bogus as well. You would thing after losing some 2 dozen or so of their fellow coworkers, friends, and scientists, they would be a little more heartbroken and down in the dumps. Add that to a weird, happy-go-lucky ending, that I saw coming about 40 pages in, and you're left with a silly, frail novel.
5 This is cassic erotica. I can't think of much erotica that is as good. Well written, well plotted and sexy as hell. It just doesn't get any better. The followup books are good but don't quite measure. If you read erotica this is the book to read.
5 Though the conceit is hokey, one is aroused by the narration of erotic liberation of prim women and their subsequent complicity in the conversion of others.  The prose style is pseudo-Victorian, crafted fairly well -- it doesn't interfere with one's lusty enjoyment of the seduction scenes.  Fem-libbers would abhor it's thesis that women need a man to unlock their sexuality.  .
4 Let's face it we all have wicked imaginations when it comes to sex.So enjoy this tale with the knowledge that no maidens were harmed.Hail Britainia.
4 Ignore the offended fussings of the previous reviewer. Yes, this novel eroticizes rape. But keep the context in mind: Victorian England, where/when "proper ladies" would never admit to liking sex, let alone seek it out. If you're looking for something to affirm your womynhood, there are plenty of other erotic reads out there nowadays.Subtle, the book is not. Then again, some of us like the heavy-breathing, over-the-top, exclamation-mark-laden descriptions that characterize much Victorian erotica. And some of us don't particularly care that much if the plot isn't comparable to that of something on the New York Times best-seller list. Granted, I'd have liked to see the other female characters developed as much as Alice's is. Just take the book as a sequence of vignettes, not a fully integrated novel.I do have two issues with this book. One is that the author seems to be a little unfamiliar with the workings of female anatomy (which might have been more common then among men than it is today): the women do not seem to lubricate until orgasm, when they "gush" in a manner similar to ejaculation. The other is that the final vignette, involving a mother and daughter who are forced into sexual acts with one another, is way beyond my limits and probably many other people's limits as well.
3 This is pretty high quality porn from an earlier age, long before people made a real distinction between seduction and forcible rape. If you're one of those guys who is considering digging a dungeon under the floor of your garage, or if you imagine that raping a woman will cause her to have such grand orgasms that she will become your willing love-slave immediately, this book will be a 5-boner read for you. The rest of us, not so much.On the other hand it is an imaginative piece of archaic porn, and despite a few anatomical impossibilities pretty well written. For me, it scores 3 stars (Or boners if you will.)
4 In 1801, Napoleon Bonaparte ordered the Marquis de Sade imprisoned without trial, in part for his publication of this slender volume of depraved brutality, "JUSTINE - The Misfortunes of Virtue." Sade was eventually banished from a standard prison to a virtual dungeon, after being accused of attempts to seduce young male prisoners. Legend has it that the warped Marquis, while isolated in the harsh fortress of Bictre, recorded on scraps of paper his most vile thoughts and fantasies. These were supposedly found later, stashed behind a loose brick in his cell and were either suppressed or destroyed outright.The man who the word "sadism" was named for tells in "Justine" a blunt and twisted parable of two sisters, one with loose morals, and the other (Justine) who treasures above all else her unsullied maidenhood. The two girls become separated and Justine soon descends into a nightmare spiral of abuse and horrendous victimization that leave her near story's end lying in a gutter, close to death. But then, in a calculatedly mocking irony, Sade reunites the long-separated siblings.Juliette, whose escapades had eventually led to a noble marriage, takes in her emaciated sister, and tenderly nurses Justine's broken body and spirit. Some time later, Justine is seated on a porch, watching a gentle rain fall. She feels stronger, optimistic about the future, and content in the knowledge that through all her travails she'd never abandoned her personal standards. And then suddenly.......It's a denouement you won't soon forget.In his vividly explicit 1200 page opusJULIETTE, Sade expounds on the theory that doing evil and being immoral will surely lead to all things good.
5 Justine, good book, a friend of my recompensed Marquis de Sade and i started with this one and she was right i do like it.I might buy other books done by him
4 Having read this years ago it still was an interesting look into the mind of an obviously disturbed individual. Caused me to again research this author and wonder about the time in history and what constituted pornography from a historical standpoint.
5 Good Read
3 I just felt sorry for the main character. She never gets a break. In the end, the author appears to be on her side- unexpectedly. Just weird.
3 The Marquis de Sade definitely rambles in this book (during which times my eyes glaze over). However, the story is good, albeit sad, and ironic. Not a bad book, but not for the language-challenged, that's for sure, and definitely not for kids (but then, nothing written by the Marquis was ever for kids). Not that kids would understand anyway.
3 I really wish I knew where the Marquis found such eloquent men. The male characters in this novel never stop talking, and if the women expound - it's to say something of a masculine nature. I can see where he wrote his novel strictly for the shock it created in the era it was written, and I can also clearly see where he never understood half the things he felt a woman could be put through. Plus, the thought of the hygiene of the era, and the nature of the activity - I was pretty much grossed out the whole time.
1 Marquis deSade. I suppose most folks who are interested in history and literature are passingly familiar with deSade, the origin of the word "sadism." "Justine" I first saw in a public library in CA many, many years ago. a few days ago I decided to take a look as I had recently read a history of deSade, his imprisonment in France, and was mildly curious.IT took about 30 minutes reading to conclude deSade was seriously mentally ill. Unless you are one sick puppy your reaction will be utter disgust. I have no problem with what we call porn and have seen some of it on the internet. This is not porn, if you consider porn to be sexually stimulating to an average person. "Justine" is morally sick, intellectually sick. I deleted it from my Kindle a day after I bought it.
3 If you can look beyond the horrors of this book, there are interesting facets, I believe. The author's brazen justification of the debauchery by stating repeatedly that nature deemed it so became, although never convincing, almost rational. The gem in the read, however, I think, was the irony between the sisters in the end. Not for the feint-hearted or closed-minded.
1 This reads like an 18th century acid trip. The philosophy, if one can call it that, is puerile derranged blather. Better the author wrote 1/4th the amount but didn't repeat himself endlessly.
3 After 50 Shades of Grey, Story of O, and a lot of Anne Rice , this is pretty pale stuff. I suppose that it was heady for an 18th century writer. De Sade was after all the grandfather of genre, but times change and what was once new and shocking, is now suitable for middle-school summer reading lists.
1 The Look Inside feature shows that this is abridged, and that somebody has broken it up into chapters. Shun this and shell out a few extra bucks for "Justine, Philosophy in the Bedroom, and Other Writings," which is faithful to Sade's originals.
5 Most people who will read this book will feel sorry for the main character " Justine" and then there's me who found her to be rather annoying.The book pretty much centers around the life of this young woman and the pain and suffering she endures through out it. I personally found the main character to be too much of a goody two shoes to really feel sympathetic towards her suffering and found the other characters in the book to be more interesting when it came to background and personality. Each is different and some give lectures to our Justine on their point of view which makes up a considerable amount of dialogue.Speaking of dialogue ( no pun intended ) this book was written before the french revolution and therefor holds a language unique to its time which some readers may find hard to grasp. It is also set in France so it has many french names and places through out the book. I do believe however that there is another version out there that has been grafted into simpler english for those who wish to enjoy the story but don't want to battle the old style of writing.Definitely an interesting book to say the least and I found it a good choice to introduce me to the works of De Sade. However I would not recommend it to those who are heavily religious as it has various scenes of a nature most unkind towards such.I myself enjoyed it.. but it is the type of book which will provoke many different reactions so simply, it is up to you what you make of it!
5 I am amazed that more people haven't discovered Roma Tearne.  Her writing is nothing short of amazing.  This is the third book I've read by her and there isn't a boring moment.  Her prose flows and I seemed to be taken on a ride through her wonderful land of Sri Lanka.  That in spite of the horror of war.  Actually this book deals with not only the horror of the civil war in Sri Lanka but also the horror of the West's misguided assault on the Middle East.Highly recommend.
5 The first half of this book is set in Sri Lanka and is beautiful and evocative, full of colour, laughter and joy. The second half is heart wrenchingly sad. I read the second half with a permanent lump in my throat. It is the vitality of the first half that makes the second half so tragic. But for me none of this is what makes the book so memorable and kept me thinking about it for weeks after I had read it. The greatest achievement of this book is to give a name and a face and a story to what have become just numbers in the news these days. The book starts with a terrorist attack in central London, it then goes back to tell the story of one of the faceless "numbers" caught up in the attack. It is this life story that still haunts me, long after reading this beautiful book.
4 took me a few  pages to get into it but I'm glad i persevered.... alice and her grandfather's relationship is so deep and pure.....very sad about the violence in this beautiful land called  sri lanka....
4 Brixton Beach by Roma Tearne presents a vast project. Its story crosses the globe, beginning in Sri Lanka and ending in Britain. Great events befall its characters, but throughout their lives seem to be writ small against a backdrop of history.The novel opens with an apt quote from Jack Kerouac - All life is a foreign country. This idea forms substantially more than a theme, in the no matter how secure the book's characters might appear - and equally however insecure - they never really seem to be at home with themselves.We meet the Fonsekas in Colombo. They live near the beach in this frenetic city. Alice is a nine-year-old. Her parents, Stanley and Sita are a mixed marriage, Tamil and Sinhalese. Alice's grandparents, Bee and Kamala, are happily married in their own way. Bee is something of an artist. The grandparent show significant wisdom.But things are stirring in Sri Lanka. There is a smell of conflict, a hint or war. A mixed marriage is hard to sustain, and its offspring don't fit into anyone's interests or desires. Alice grows into a rather isolated child. She has friends, but then she doesn't. She does well at school, and then she doesn't. She makes things, shares her grandfather's artistic bent.Lives in paradise grow steadily more complicated, apparently less sustainable. Stanley, Alice's father, decides that his future, and eventually his family's, lies in Britain. He books a sea passage and an unscheduled stop-over in Greece opens his eyes to ancient cincture and provides other activities that always threatened, but until then never materialised.In Britain he ekes out an immigrant's lot, doing whatever he can. When Sita and Alice eventually join him, he has changed and they don't fit in. They can't. Perhaps no-one ever does, anywhere. Sita mourns the child she lost to her own destruction as she works from home on her sewing machine. Alice doesn't get on at school, except with a chain-smoking art teacher. And so life progresses, from one mistake to the next, with an idealised past becoming a new paradise, a place that it perhaps never was. But there is no going back. Conflict has intervened. Lives have been lost and there will be more to follow.Marriages fail. There are short passionate affairs. There is much imagined longing. Roma Tearne's story thus meanders through its themes, but without ever concentrating on any particular one to create a lasting impression. The characters seem more confused than reflecting, more victims of events than their instigators. Wherever they are, they remain foreign.
4 I sort-of stumbled across this book and am so pleased I did. It gave me a tantalising insight into the history of Sri Lanka and the political issues behind the bloodshed in this country. It also made me think about the personal back-stories to major world events. I really enjoyed and recommend it.
5 I love everything Barbara Erskine has written.  Times Legacy is almost as good as 'Lady of Hay'.  I look forward to more of Barbara's work
4 In "Time's Legacy," Barbara Erskine revisits one of her favorite themes, good versus evil, while exploring another of her trademark storylines where the present is irrevocably changed by a dramatic event echoing through a crack in the space-time continuum back to pre-Roman times in Britain.  Although Erskine's almost formulaic technique of presenting a 21st century battle of wills between a man and woman of opposing philosophical stances quickly deteriorates into a chauvinistic exercise in stalking stalls the overall progression towards the story's ultimate resolution, it cannot detract from her ability to depict the Celtic culture of the pre-Christian period, complete with fully fleshed out characters that intent on their specific belief structures create memorable portrayals of ancient times.Indeed, the fusion or dispersion of the traditional Christian church with the more pagan ideologies of goddess worship or druidism as reexamined by New Age advocates titillates Erskine greatly.  She has explored this theme before in many of her other novels, most notably in "Hiding from the Light" and 'The Warrior's Princess.'  In "Time's Legacy," she again employs the idea of anger for some past wrong resonating down through the ages, waiting for a "sensitive" to pick up the vibe and through meditation, historical study and compassion right the injustice while simultaneously teaching the present day participants to veer away from repeating the very human mistakes of the past.In this case, Erskine introduces ordained vicar Abi Rutherford, a hands-on healer who wants nothing more than to be close to the congregation to which she administers. Warm, intelligent and naively beautiful, Abi cannot help but to clash formidably with her clerical superior, the rather old-fashioned fire and brimstone spouting Kieran Scott, whom only a few years her senior is millenniums away from accepting anything other than his interpretation of what he feels should remain a male-dominated profession. To his infernal chagrin, Kier finds himself attracted to Abi yet obsessively concerned with her ability to sense spirits and past events that have imprinted themselves upon the mystical Glastonbury landscape, ripe with the legends of Joseph of Arimathea, the Holy Grail and King Arthur's Avalon.  More than a little frightened, Kier screams "witchcraft" and leaves Abi no choice but to pursue her ghostly messengers without the grounding of her job as a cleric.  Amidst the backdrop of the fabled "Isle of Apples," Abi confusedly views the past events surrounding a Roman family affiliated with the local druids, Mona, a young medicine woman, and her companion, a visitor from across the seas that she is tutoring in the druidic ways.  What she discovers causes her to question and reaffirm her faith in a way she never thought possible.Erskine portrays her druids, past and present, with such a great deal of authenticity this reviewer would like to see her expand on the modern druid scene extensively.  Using recurring characters, her Justin is the student of the enigmatic Meryn fromThe Warrior's PrincessandDaughters of Fire, she builds upon their implacable strength in a way that makes her readers, and especially this one, to want more.  Once they enter the scene, with their quiet fortitude, the reader knows the situation is perhaps not entirely in hand, but under control to the point where the powers of good have aggregated to seal out the darkness and bring in a confident light.In "Time's Legacy," Erskine again explores the beginnings of Christianity--looking at the historical Jesus and his more mystical teachings rather than the actual religion of Jesus as administered by the Church that bears His name.  Some readers may find Erskine's mingling of myth with gospel offensive; others, like myself, will find it refreshing and open-minded even if it is cloaked within a dissention of Church thinking as it enters the 21st century.  More conservative readers expecting Erskine to wax along a Dan Brown vein (The Da Vinci Code) or to be bombarded by other Mary Magdalene theories a la Magdalen Rising: The Beginning (The Maeve Chronicles) [Paperback],The Passion of Mary Magdalen: A Novel (The Maeve Chronicles),Bright Dark Madonna: A Novel (The Maeve Chronicles)orRed-Robed Priestess: A Novel (The Maeve Chronicles)need not be concerned.  Erskine's Jesus does not disappoint--He is the perfect blend of the Divine and humanity.On the other hand, Erskine's villains, unfortunately remain rather too obsessive and two-dimensional. The parlance between the protagonist and these miscreants draws the reader into an almost infinite loop of wishing the story would move past their angry setbacks so that the more ancient story will flow continuously towards Erskine's well-intentioned resolution.Bottom line?  Barbara Erskine's novel "Time's Legacy" melds the paranormal with religious faith in a 400-plus pager that fans of this author will breeze through with pleasure.  Even if diehards are a bit tired of the `anger resounding through the ages' device, they will enjoy Erskine's depiction of Glastonbury, past and present, and her continual comings-to-term with her religious ideas.  Recommended as a fast and fun read.Diana Faillace Von Behren"reneofc"
3 I'm starting to notice a troubling theme with Barbara Erskine. She has a penchant for coming up with intensely interesting and readable plots but the characters who people her worlds behave in ways no normal, sane human being would!I discussed this at length (hoooBOY was it at length, sorry) in a review for Midnight Is A Lonely Place and I'm seeing Barbara tread that same path in Time's Legacy.Abi, our main character, a sensitive, caring Anglican priest who is seriously questioning her calling if not her faith has left her post for an extended rest in the country after her totally bats*** crazy fellow priest first accosts and kisses her and then accuses her of witchcraft (WHAT century is this book set in?) when she doesn't respond positively to his less than pastoral advances.Various supernatural and time-slippy events take place as the lives of an ancient Roman family and their Druid neighbors are revealed to Abi via her ultra sensitivity to the spiritual realm ( a legacy from her many times great...and very great INDEED...possible grandfather perhaps?) and her inheritance of a powerful and unusual rounded crystal known as the Serpent Stone.None of that is a problem at all, as far as I'm concerned. I love Ms Erskine's books that link the past with the present day and find Ancient British history fascinating.I am aware that an author needs to create some sort of conflict in order to set the plot in motion, but I cannot for the LIFE of me understand why conflict has to be created and maintained by inventing a cast of modern day characters who never seem to have heard of restraining orders or who will watch a man behave like a total dangerous nut-case, ranting about like your typical fanatical cleric from a Hammer Horror film and STILL not openly declare that dude is a candidate for the rubber room and should NOT be allowed to hunt down a woman, break into the homes of people and do everything short of froth at the mouth and twitch while screaming that the devil is poking him with pins.Most people would put the police on alert about someone who seemed that obsessed with a woman who obviously wants nothing to do with him..a man who breaks any number of privacy laws and whose only argument is that he believes a woman is a "witch" and this in the 21st century! Is the modern Church of England really so accepting of clerics who stalk women across the country and openly decry their fellow clerics as witches?Really?If it wasn't for that little hiccup on the road to completion of this story I'd have no fault with Time's Legacy.All I can suggest is that in her mad rush to create yet another jerk man for her ever-so-accomplished women to run afoul of, Ms.Erskine should at least keep ONE TINY foot in present day reality.No one would accept this kind of treatment without alerting authorities and if the church sheltered his lunacy they'd be liable!----But then Barbara wrote another story where a rape victim would do anything rather than tell people the man who was smelling around them AND stalking her...had raped her. I guess in Erskine world the "shame" of rape is more pressing than the desire to keep the rapist far-far away from you and your family.
4 I have always enjoyed her books and have most of them in my library. I must however admit that although I am interested in history about the British Isles and enjoy Erskine's style of writing I found this one less successful than her earlier ones like Midnight is a Lonely PlaceJoRSA
5 I loved the way she brought a legend to life and once again she showed what life may have been like in time long forgotten.
5 Great read.  Very much enjoy Barbara Erskine's books.  Recommend to anyone who likes this genre.  Makes you believe it could happen to you, great escape reading at the end of the day.
5 Erskine writes an excellent thriller.  Always keeps reader's interest and creates great characters.  Worth the money and time.  For people who like to read.
5 So good, I didn't want to do anything but read. I want to read everything I can get by Barbara Erskine!!!
2 There must be something wrong with me, am I really this fickle in my book tastes?  I just gave a negative review on another book and eagerly dove (dived?) into this one.  Oy, one word - or two - boring and predictable.  My first and last book by this author, so sorry Ms. Erskine.  My love for historic fiction writers still lies with Auel, Gabaldon, Gregory, Rutherfurd, Follett, Cornwell, and a newer-found author, David Liss.
5 I could not put this book down only took me 10 days to read it.  Even better than the last book.  Cannot wait for Barbara's next book.
4 I love all Barbara Erskine's books and once again I enjoyed this story. This story does not have quite the same ghostly theme to it as some of her earlier books.  However, Barbara Erskine still manages to draw the reader in with an intriguing set of stories over hundreds of years. I would definitely recommend this book to Barbara Erskine fans and readers that have never tried her books.
4 In her novel, "River of Destiny," Barbara Erskine writes a thoroughly engaging story that weaves through three time periods while anchoring in one village and its long ago memories on the banks of a river.  At times, especially if you are listening to this book on audio, this constant switch from one era's group of players to another can be a bit confusing.  However, Erskine's talent for creating universally appealing motivations for her characters and melding them together as her present day generation uncovers secrets and happenings from the past, formulates a reading experience that more than satisfies and reestablishes her along with her newer offering "Times Legacy" as a tour de force for this paranormal genre of literature.Thankfully, the main theme of  "River of Destiny" departs from her two most frequently visited and sometimes overused plot motivators.  Erskine usually will either fuel her characters with a revenge so blind that they reincarnate to cross boundaries of time to reenact past acts of vengeance (On the Edge of Darkness)  or allow them to wax judgmentally on the side of an established Christian institution or that of a New Age or pagan sensibility (Hiding from the Light).Like "House of Echoes," "River" concentrates on the setting of the novel, endowing its relevance with that of a full-fledged main character.  Like the castle in "Echoes," the village on the banks of the River Deben appears benign, a peaceful hamlet in an idyllic setting that serves as a respite for Londoners like Zoe and Ken looking to reconnect with the land with their purchase of a refurbished barn that was once part of a large estate in the 19th century and the remains of a blacksmith's forge in a pre-Roman Anglo-Saxon settlement.  Fortunately for the reader, the area is anything but tranquil; over the years of its existence it has absorbed its inhabitants' memories like a veritable sponge--a Viking ship sails only when a fog stretches over the river, a barnyard of ghostly horses neigh amidst the trappings of a modern kitchen and two wronged men try to voice the injustice of their circumstances to the present day denizens. As in other Erskine novels, the echoes of the past reach into the present and affect the lives of those sensitive to the unresolved angst of those who once lived in the same location.Erskine tells her tale by introducing all three timelines simultaneously.  Each era's troupe of players has its own story to tell, emotions to live through and unresolved issues with which to deal.  All these snippets of energy, positive and negative add to the aggregate field of the actual village, compounding the lives of the present day inhabitants until they are forced to look at their own choices and move into their futures with less identity-deficit-generated ruminations.  The result is a thoroughly engaging back and forth that will not disappoint Erskine fans.As a long-time lover of Erskine's novels, I would have been most pleased if she had included her recurring characters, the modern-day Druid Meryn and his student Justin from "Time's Legacy" in this tale. However, their absence does not diminish the entertainment value of the novel as Erskine crafts a story with good momentum that never bores. Keep in mind that the interplay between eras may seem confusing especially in the beginning of the novel and for those, like myself, who listened to the audio version.Bottom line? In "River of Destiny," author Barbara Erskine departs from her usual themes of revenge and conventional religion versus paganism and concocts a three-pronged storyline where the past definitely effects the present.  Yet, like a Moebus strip, the revelations of the NOW salve and substantiate the dramas of long ago.  Recommended.Diana Faillace Von Behren"reneofc"
3 I read everything I can by Barbara Erskine, and &#34;Lady of Hay: is one of my favorite books.  I don't think this book is one of the better ones.  Maybe I am just growing tired of these &#34;past life&#34; books.  How many times can you write this style before it becomes repetious, and I am afraid that is what is happening with this author.  In this book there really is no connection between the present day characters and the ones from the past.  Also, I would have preferred to do away with the whole Viking thing, and consentrate on the blacksmith, the manor lady and the present day characters.  If you are a fan of Erskine i do recommend reading River of Destiny.  I know I will be faithful and continue to read her books.
3 Another good story from Barbara Erskine - one of my favourite authors. I have read all her books.  This one isn't one of her best, but still a good story.  I always enjoy how Barbara takes us back in time and you feel you are actually there.
3 Another book from Barbara Erskine dealing with issues for the past impacting on the present, Not nearly as good as The Lady go Hay but still worth a read.
5 I loved this book, typical of Barbara's writing, the story twists and turns, surprising us all the way. The sort of book you don't want to put down, yet don't want it to end. I have read all of Barbara's books, and this one did not disappoint in any way.
4 Once again Barbara Erskine has delivered another very enjoyable story.Her characters are alive and exciting and kept me in suspence the whole way through. I would love another Lady of Hay type story as this is,for me, her very best so far.
5 A typical Erskine novel that drags the reader into the story and you can't move until the end of the book. Very riveting. Would recommend this for readers that enjoy mystery novels.
5 I love Barbara Erskine's books - so much so that I pre-order  and don't even read the sample. She is amazing and this book is every bit as good as her previous ones. I am hooked on &#34; how the past impacts events or people in  the present&#34; and she does an amazing job moving the reader from one to the other. Another recommended read for my friends.
4 Barbara Erskine never fails to deliver, I have read all her books and was looking forward to reading this one, she interweaves past and present with the paranormal extremely well and I love it, cant wait for the next one. I wont do any spoilers, just sit back read and enjoy.
5 I love Barbara Erskine's stories. This is a good one; not as great as Lady of Hay, but still worth reading. This was a bit different from her usual since the current characters were not related to or reincarnations of the historical characters. If you are new to Erskine,try Kingdom of Shadows and Whispers in the Sand in addition to Lady of Hay.
5 Eric and Edith live in an Anglo-Saxon settlement which is under threat from invading Vikings.The Victorian blacksmith, Dan, and his wife Sarah are under threat from the lady of the manor.And Zo and Ken's modern rural idyll is under threat by a ghost ship  (a Viking longboat, that makes its way upriver in fog) and a campaigning neighbour, as well as the cracks in their own marriage.I was fully engrossed in all three timelines which were well-balanced, expertly interwoven and convincingly presented.The characters are fully drawn with depth and compassion, and are utterly believable as are their interactions and the relationships between them down to the conniving jealous 11 year old girl, who I absolutely loved.The descriptions of the settings and times, even the atmospheres, are vivid and, as a sailor myself, I also thoroughly enjoyed the sailing and boats - both real and ghostly.Barbara Erskine has once again crafted an impeccable story; building suspense and intrigue until the end to create a book I found extremely difficult to put down and have absolutely no hesitation in recommending
5 Refreshingly original and multi-layered this spinechilling Ghostly thriller has an archaic, gothic feel to it that is disturbingly magnetic. I was drawn into a sinister mystery reminiscent of BBC television drama series `Marchlands' wherein ancient Anglo-Saxon barns conceal shocking secrets that intrigue and enchant. As Zoe and Ken sense the unnerving presence which becomes gradually discernible, you soon become lost within a compelling, hypnotizing saga of substance and complexity. Switching between alternating time-frames and journeying into the heart of Suffolk's indistinct history, whereby gaining several perspectives on the River Deben ultimately intensifies your reading experience to impressive proportions.Interweaving classic contemporary fiction with a delicate supernatural ambiance, this exceptional novel reaches out to a wide readership by beautifully merging together varying genres. Sexual dominance in a non-subversive nineteenth-century world to a time of superstition and ancient magic, this supremely singular and uniquely identifiable novel takes you on an acutely dreamlike journey of the heart. Atmospheric and profoundly evocative, anyone seeking a sensational encounter and gloriously assured narrative will be enlightened.Barbara Erskine, Highly acclaimed author of `Lady of Hay', has triumphed once again with an ambitious literary masterpiece!*I was sent an ARC (Advance Reading Copy) by `Love Reading' to read and review*[...]
4 Barbara Erskine is the master of this type of novel.  She made her name with Lady of Hay which if you have not read you should. This story could in places be a little far fetched but I could not put it down.
4 This is three stories in one tracing the lives of Medieval times, Victorian times and the present day but all living in the same place. Ultimately the three eras tie in together and the book gives a sense of the continuity of our world. We are given characters to hate, to pity and to admire and I enjoyed the sense of timelessness - for the land, and for the people.
4 It was the first book I have read of Barbara Erskine and I look forward to reading more of her books.
4 I love Barbara Erskine and am slowly replacing my paperbacks with kindle versions so that I have them all with me all the time.  I had pre-ordered the Kindle version of this book as I couldn't wait for it to hit bookstores in Australia (and sell out before I managed to drag myself into one).  It took a little time to get into the story as Barbara told her tale from three different centuries - I found it hard to 'connect' with the characters at first as just when I started to feel an affinity with them - woosh, I was off to another century. This isn't a negative comment regarding her writing - it's my downfall, I am always the same with books that jump back and forth.Without giving anything away, the story in itself was a good tale although somewhat predictable.  I just didn't feel the ghostly, supernatural, spine tingle that I normally do when reading her books - and I missed it.  There were so many characters that it took some time to reveal their true personalities and a couple of them came across as quite unbelievable to me.  Daniel seemed to have a 'moral compass' transplant almost immediately which made him come across as shallow, Rosemary made me want to jump into my Kindle and slap some common sense into her and Sharon needed a book on good parenting with sick children.  I loved the setting though and as usual Barbara whisked me away to be immersed in the Suffolk countryside with no effort at all.  I found myself putting off daily chores to read 'just one more chapter' and thought about the book/characters while not reading which is an indication of a good writer to me.Fans of Barbara Erskine will rejoice at this latest addition to their bookshelves.  It was a pleasant read and a breath of fresh air after reading the 'Fifty shades of dribble' trilogy.  I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a romantic mystery spanned across time with a slight supernatural twist.
5 Loved it. I didn't want the story to end, I am very anxious to read more books by Barbara Erskine!
5 i loved it the history was fantastic i love barbara , and would like her latest  vi  i have read all of her books
3 I enjoyed this book and must admit I devoured it rather quickly. The writing and dialogue flowed well. I rather like the juxtaposition of remotely distant timelines in one locale, so "jumping" around within the last 1000 years was not a distraction for me. Erskine does a great job developing her characters - this is probably the most entertaining aspect of the book. I pondered frequently which character in the past might have been a former life of each of the present-day personalities. The spectral Viking ship was an intriguing emblem. I imagine Erskine's local environment whispers to her from the millenia past of love, struggle, tragedy, war, intrigue, and loss. I definitely applaud her connection with nature as the conduit for traveling through the ancient past and recognizing the cairns that lead us there and back.Somewhere before buying it I read a review that likened this book to one of the Outlander series (D. Gabaldon). The writing styles are different, as is the level of detail of daily life. Even so, if you are a Jamie-Claire devotee, I believe you will find River of Destiny worth the read.
5 This is my 2-year-old's favorite book right now.  The illustrations are quite clever with some wonderful expressions and body language on the duck and friends.  The storyline is simple with a lot of rhyming words which contributes to my daughter's enjoyment.  The ending is not quite what one expects, but it can easily be turned into a discussion as to why the duck abandons his friends.
5 This is the all-time favorite book of my three boys. They're 11, 13 and 15 now and they can still recite Duck in the Truck! We have spent many hours throughout their childhood reading this book over and over...to each other. This book taught my boys how to read with inflection. And, whenever we see a duck...or a red truck...somebody will make a reference to this book. It is an absolute f-a-v-o-r-i-t-e!! In fact, this is book we gave to little Liam at his Mommy's baby shower. I can't wait for another couple of months when his Mommy and Daddy will be able to share this book with him too. Yes, it's just that good.
5 I use this book while homeschooling my preschooler. He absolutely adores this book. We use this with a flannel board for story recall, this book really got him excited about story sequencing.
5 My kids and I just LOVE this book.  We have had it for a couple years now, and it's still one of our favorites.  It's a cute story with great rhymes.
1 The ending of this book completely kills it. We received it as a gift. I read it to my daughter and now we are going to get rid of it. The reviewers who say the duck is clearly portrayed as an antihero are mad. You may pick up on this - and help your kids interpret the ducks behavior, but even at 18 months, my daughter is more than capable of pulling books down on her own and looking through them without me standing over her shoulder as interpreter. The message in this book is poor. Trick people into helping you and then leave them in the lurch when you get what you want.The sad part is that they could have fixed it pretty easily at the end. If only a second tragedy befell the duck - kind of as karma come back around. Then the message would be bad things happen to bad people.
5 This has been our 2 yr old grandson's favorite book since he was 9 months old. My daughter and I can recite it in our sleep. Yet, it never grows dull.The illustrations are bright, colorful and engaging. There are several items to point out and look for, which is what our little guy enjoys.The text has rhythm and the story begs for participation via sounds effects and physical support.Our boy shouts every time he sees Duck's vegetables go flying (and we exclaim "Where's the carrot? Look at the watermelon!" etc.) He compares everyone's feet during, "These are the feet, which jump the duck down..."  And he gets red in the face helping sheep, frog and duck push against the back of the truck.I like the introduction to poetic language (again, "the feet that jump the duck down") and the rhyme.Reviewers have commented on Duck's selfishness in leaving his friends stuck in the muck. However, for our family, being in the muck is a pleasurable, sought-after experience and Duck's quirky character provides opportunity for silly comments.This is the easiest of the duck books. The others are slightly more complex and Duck's irascibility is even more pronounced. As our boy grows and understands, we know that Duck's less desirable characteristics will serve as object lessons and also provide opportunities to highlight the patience and friendship of Goat, Frog and Sheep. Good lessons, those.
5 This is a funny book whether you are 2 or 70! The predicament of the duck and his friends is delightful. The illustrations are lovely. I have looked for more books by this author. Great book, in the most frequently requested  pile....
5 Our little boy (a young toddler) loves this book.  We've got hundreds of similar books and have owned and read this one for months now--it doesn't get old and he still loves and laughs at it.  It's got great illustrations, excellent rhymes, lots of opportunity for sound effects and voices.  As for the idea that the duck is treating his friends badly, well...that's part of why it's funny!  You have to explain that the duck is being a jerk, although I think the kid will see that himself.
2 I love Jez Alborough and this book is great to look at and read and rhyme with -- until you get to the end!  Shame on you duck.  I read this to a group of children at a day care center yesterday and they were shocked at Duck's treatment of his helpful friends.
3 When I read to kids, I enjoy it so much when the story has some rhythm and rhyme.  This is a simple little story that is a fun read with very entertaining illustrations. The animal characters are drawn with humor and expression. The book would be a great choice for emerging readers since the illustrations and rhymes support the beginning reader. The storyline is presented in frames on some pages which would help with sequencing and retelling also.
5 I am a volunteer reader for the Denver Public Library and I recently read this book to a group of preschool children. It's a fun book! The rhyming and repetition patterns of the text are characteristic of some of the finest books for young people. As far as the content of the story, yes, Duck is a character of suspect temperament, but I thought the author made that clear (Duck is an antihero). You are not expected to cheer for him. Besides as the reader, you should point out Duck's flaws to your listeners (it's your "moral" obligation). Ask your son/daughter how he/she would feel if someone treated him/her the way Duck treats his "friends". I spent time with my listeners and asked them about whether Duck was being nice to the other characters in the story and emphasized the importance of treating people well....check out the book for yourself at a library.
5 I absolutely love this book. Duck in the Truck has a wonderful cadence, and loads of sound effect opportunities. I do all the voices and sounds for the kids and they absolutely love it. I just bought this book for a friend who is soon to have kiddos of her own because we so enjoy this story.
3 Unfortunately I'm not all that thrilled with how the story ends, but up until the very end it teaches helpfullness, problem-solving, etc. I really think it's a great teaching tool in that respect - I just hate that I have to lecture at the end on duck should've been kinder to his friends. They rhyming is great and really engages my preschooler. Would love the book more if it had a more positive outcome. We are huge Jez Alborough fans and this book will stay in our library.
5 This is a cute and fun book with lots of rhyming words. I think I liked it as much as my 3 year old.
5 Cute story and great illustrations.  The story is quite entertaining especially for toddlers.  This book is worth buying.
5 Everyone should read this. Entertaining, laughing and sad at the same time.  Reminds me of all our dogs that have gone before.
5 Although the story is sad, the whole idea that a single dog can bring happiness back into a man&#34;s life is incredible.
5 A wonderful book of hope and encouragement from a clearly amazing dog. A true story of a family and this wonderful companion.
4 Interesting book about how a very smart dog bought a family back together after a tragic accident. Good read especially if you are a dog lover.
5 This book was spellbinding - I couldn't stop reading it. Allen and Sandra went through very stressful times and I hate to think of where they might be if it hadn't been for Endal. It's amazing what a difference this extraordinary dog made in their lives. And it's amazing all the things this wonderful dog was able to learn, not only through training but seemingly on his own. The book helps you realise what a brain injury can do, not only to the life of the person with the injury, but to the entire family. It also shows the importance of service animals. This book definitely calls for another read.
4 While it's a little slow going at the beginning, this book is well worth reading.  As it alternates between the perspective of husband and wife, it provides excellent insight into the effects of brain injury and its impact on both the person with the brain injury and those who love him.  In addition, it's a wonderful story about the loyalty and amazing understanding that animals possess.
5 This was incredibly interesting.  Being written from two different points of view made it very real.  Also, there was so much info to help anyone else going through brain injury and loss.  Medals story was the icing on the cake.  Sorry, this kindle just won't let me spell his name.  It keeps changing it to medal.  But, it is just so amazing how much dogs help us, even if they aren't trained as he was, or as intelligent.  Just in giving us unconditional love they can change our lives for the better.
5 The only reason I picked up this book was because another reviewer said the dog didn't die.It was disappointing that Endal didn't make it onto the pages until around page 150 (give or take). With the title of the book, one would think the book would be mostly about Endal.  The beginning was not. It was all about Sandra and Allen, taking turns with the chapters.  The symptoms of, and dealing with a traumatic brain injury, was in the forefront, and was an education as there are different kinds of TBI.  In the early days of Allen's TBI, Sandra was either overwhelmed and numb, or a saint.  When I read all she had to deal with, not only as a "newlywed" and then as a mom to two children and being married to a person with a TBI, and how she keeps plugging along, honoring her vows, doing the best she is able to do at the time, I am in awe of her.  Not many people would have the fortitude to do this, especially in light of a spouse's ... "behaviors" that stem from the TBI.When Endal finally enters the book, all that has come before in Allen and Sandra's story falls into place and Endal is the final piece of their puzzle.  Endal, who crossed the Rainbow Bridge in 2009 at age 13, was an awesome, devoted, loyal dog, who was brilliant-smart with awesome intuitive skills!  What an amazing dog, one of a kind certainly, and a perfect companion and helper to Allen.
5 this is the most heart warming book about a wonderful ,smart compassionate dog I have read.  I enjoyed every minute of it. It is great and would be a very good book for children to read. Wonderful. Judy(blondi) Harrison
5 This was a really good book. We had a yellow lab that was our four legged 'son' for 18 years. He learned things very fast, just like Endal, and was always there to help you out or just give you a kiss and put his head on your lap. The change Endal made on the family, especially the husband, is very believable and heart warming. It make me think back to our years with our lab and how he was such a good companion. Everyone should read this.
5 Very well written. Author told about all the hardships this family  endured  without being boring. For all the dog lovers out there this dog is to die for. What a wonderful dog he was. Great story about our servicemen.
5 This book is a wonderful story about how one little puppy was able to help his human companion overcome some pretty tall obstacles. Endal was truly a fearless soul, taking on a person who had shut down and shut out the world. Definitely a &#34;keeper&#34; for anyone who loves a good read.
1 I am over 65% through the book and no dog.  I sympathize with the injuries and trauma of the &#34;wounded warrior&#34; but this book is promoted as a dog story.  Misrepresented in my view.
5 Example of unconditional love that is very powerful.  The incite of what pets add to your life is amazing.  The strength of the human spirit, persistence and love all in this book.
4 The seven years that Allen Parton went through after his accident and brain damage was his personal hell but the other side of the coin was the support that his wife and children gave him and endured during those years.  Then a special dog, Endal, entered their lives.  This book runs the reader through a gambet of emotions as the Partons struggle with what life has handed them. Sandra Parton is  initially  not a strong person but rises to the occasion when her husband needs her love and undertanding.  She and Endal are the heros of this family.  This book will inspire you.
5 I have always admired the owners of therapy dogs. The dogs do such a wonderful job to help people with disabilities.
4 I had no idea this book was a true story until the end. It was so touching and heart warming. the unconditional love of an animal that can change your life is amazing.
5 Allen Patton was seriously injured while serving in the British Navy off the coast of Kuwait. However. Several no boneheaded moves by the military doctors and the British National Health Services, combine to make his bad situation worse. And he ends up seriously memory impaired and paralyzed. He is bitter and angry and takes it out on all around him.One day his wife, Sandra, who has managed to put up with him even though he doesn't remember her, is forced to take him with her with to work when his day care bus doesn't arrive. She works with Canine Companions, dogs for the disabled.  Allen had refused even the  idea of a dog before. So he just sulks in a corner.But, one little, lame, Yellow Lab had other ideas, and sets out to prove it.Told by both Sandra and Allen in alternating chapters, it is well written and well  presented. And it truly the story of how this amazing dog changed and saved their lives. Both figuratively and in Allen's case literally!As a disabled Vet myself, some parts of the story are hard to read, but overall, glad I did. And happy to highly recommend it to others.
5 A difficult relationship most of us could not have endured, saved by a wonderful dog.  Happens more than we know.
5 This was so very good, I cannot say one negative thing about it. I was reading it ad my 12 year old yellow mix breed dog lays nearby, so of course tears ran towards the end.  Great book, great dogs, and great people who Love Dogs as well.
5 A great story about how people and animals can become in tune with each other.  A  story filled with emotion.
4 The story of Endal is heartwarming.  Through the unconditional love and devotion from Endal, Alan was able to put aside all that was lost from his war injuries and look to the future with hope. This is the story of an incredible relationship between man and his best friend!
4 Endal was an amazing dog that brought this family back together.  The story went back and forth between the wife and husband and each detailing their lives during a difficult time.  It felt somewhat like reading their diaries.  When Endal came into their lives, things began to change for the better, and it made me realize how important these dogs are to the handicapped owners.  They not only assist their owner in helping them go about their daily lives, but are also wonderful companions.  I now am giving to charities that train these types of dogs.
5 Wonderful heart warming story. I plan to buy copies for my family. Allen's dog isunbelievable and lovable. The story made me want a dog.
5 This one was hard to read at first; I knew from the beginning that I was probably going to read the WHOLE life story of this dog, so I would get that tough scene at the end of his life. But I wasn't prepared for the middle; Endal brought a family stunned by grief to real, breathing, sparkling life again. They didn't forget their grief, they just let Endal lead them back into society, love, connections with him and each other, so they could bear the grief. I loved the way this author made me laugh far more than I cried!
1 The book was not what I expected.  Endal came too late in it.  Story sad, but it went on too long.
5 A  most moving account of the relationship between a service dog (a natural) and his owner.  I was particularly interested in the details of the dog's attentiveness to his master.
5 I could not put this book down.  A great read.  So glad it ended when it did, before it got too sad.  Would definitely recommend to anyone who has ever loved a soldier or a dog.  Highly recommend!
5 A military man with a terrible brain injury makes a comeback to a decent life through the companionship of a highly trained and intelligent therapy dog. You will find his progress and adventures with Endon inspiring and a very good read.
5 I always enjoy reading books about dogs. Kendal really enriched the lives of the family he was part of. It was even better, because it was real. Definitely recommended this book for dog lovers.
5 Enjoyed this book so much.  Hard to put down .  Story was uplifting despite their problems and great example of overcoming overwhelming odds.
5 A remarkable  story about an  amazing  dog and his relationship with his owner.  Absoluty  touching  how Endai could know what he needed to do - without any  professional  training.  Also interesting how his wheelchair owner learned to accept his disability  and accept all the help that Endai gave him  finally .  The story is also about a disgruntlled,unhappy  disableled man  who  by helping others  he  had  discovered himself to be  worthwhile person.
3 The story is about a man with a war related head injury being saved from a pit of despair by a service dog.  There are many moving moments that brought me chills or tears.  Having said that--I don't normally read memoirs--I found much to skip over as I searched the pages for the story.  I found the personal narrative redundant.
4 The story about Endal's dysfunctional family and the difference a wonderful, lovable dog made in their lives is one worth reading.  Sometimes I get tired of reading all the violent things that happen in our world and this book really made me happy.  If you need a story to uplift your day this is the book for you.  I have never had the pleasure of sharing my life with a dog--I have always had cats--but this book made me want to try a dog companion.  Note I said share my life as I have never thought that having an animal as owning--just the opposite--it is the privilege to have one share my life.
4 An excellent true story of suffering, perseverance, faithful love, and a very intelligent and tender-hearted service dog. There are triumphs and failures, ultimately love wins.You won't regret reading Endal.
5 How can you put into words how this book encourages you. What a education into the capabilities the mind of animals. As a dog family I can identity with the love you have for yourpets. I have a black lab who is not a dog but a friend. Congratulations to this family for not giving up. You are all very special people. And your animal family is exceptional.
5 This is the story of how much a dog can add to your life.  Dog's not only can be companions but very smart and helpful as well, as you will learn in this book.  If you've never had a dog, you might go out and get one when you finish this wonderful story.  Prepare yourself to both laugh and cry as you read.  I would recommend it to anyone.
5 A wounded soldier.....with the worst wound of all....complete and total destruction of his memory of his wife, children, friends and war activity.  Through no fault of his own, this soldier is stripped of these memories and a family is stripped of their father, even though he's a live and thinking.  Enters a yellow Lab called Endal and even though the soldier never regains those memories, he re-learns to love his wife and his family.  This is a must read for anyone who believes in the durability of the family and government's continual propensity to disregard and mistreat their veterans and especially their combat veterans....a disease that has infiltrated both the governments of the UK and the US.
3 I thought the book would be about Endal, but he was just a small part of the book.  But did find the book interesting and read it all.
5 Being a dog lover and lab owner this touched my heart and made me realize the potential dogs have to be more than just a companion. I have new appreciation for the struggles  of people with disabilities and will read more like this and champion the efforts of those who train and love these dogs for such a noble purpose. To hear both sides of the story from husband and wife was so insightful........so happy for the wonderful outcome for this family!
5 This book is incredible.  I normally read more survival type books.  For some reason I bought this book.  It had a slow start but being a true story that is how the story read.  I think it is one of the most inspiring books I have ever read.  I highly suggest this book to everybody and think it should be a best seller.
5 I loved this book and hated to see it end. I hope they have written more. I got lots of insight of our disabled veterans and of service dogs and their training and usefulness.
5 When I started this book did not know what to expect but was pleasantly surprised as I got further into the story. It is a story of trials, heartache, pain,  and lots of different emotions from both sides and the miracle that took place and helped heal a family. I am glad I decided to read this book and if you like animals and how they play a big part in our lives think you will enjoy this story.
5 He sets the scene, lets us struggle thru it .. learn as we go .trial and error .. nobody can guess the path .. it has to be experienced.In a way I'm envious .. they found the path to their new satisfying lifestyle .. what a dogs love can do for us. I had a dog as a kid. Later when the kids came we had another dog.. then more .. they bring a richness to our lives. The kids moved on taking their dogs with them.I remarried after my first wife died at 40. My second wife had grown up with dogs under foot. She was tired of dogs .. I had a job that took care of extra time, long hours. Later in my retired life I wished I could have another .. dog but later .. I could feel their pain and excitement.I'd recommend this to anybody looking for something new!
5 This is a wonderful book. Written with such honesty, integrity and tenderness. I know there were parts of this story that took great courage to put into written words and shared with the world. Thank you for not sharing the last days of E's life. For one I don't think I could stand it; and secondly, it was notNecessary. I  applaud you  both  for your  courage to share your remarkable story with the world. Your strength has been an inspiration to me.
4 Other than the first half of the book being slow, this story truly portrays the relationship between a handicapped person and a remarkably astute working dog. It brought back to me the profound bond I felt with my first service dog.
4 The book moved pretty slowly for the first half, lots of background details.  The star of the story, &#34;Endal&#34; didn't appear until the book was half done.  Good story of a truly incredible dog.  I didn't really care for the style in which the story was told, but the story itself was remarkable. What a fantastic dog!
5 It was wonderful to read an excellent but true book. I would recommend everyone reading it. People don't realize what all t Wounded Warriors endure. Read this book and yo will.
5 I first read the sample and then I just had to buy the whole book. This book is not just about Endal, the dog who helped Allen back to a relatively normal life. It gives an open and honest view into the life of a soldier who suffered a traumatic brain injury and all the struggles he and his family survived. I especially liked the fact that Sandra offered a &#34;second wedding&#34; because Allen could not remember his first one. This is a fantastic book.
5 A gripping account of how a dog can bring joy to a difficult relationship.
5 This book made me laugh, cry and read all of them just like it I could get my hands on. Absolutely wonderful book. Please write more.
5 Such a true life picture of a family dealing with the results of a terrible physical impairment.  The family endured so manyproblems and yet, hung in there till the very end.  Endal was a very brave hero.  This was a lesson to never give up and tocontinue going forward to achieve a goal.  I've never owned a dog, but if anything ever happens to me physically I want one like him.
4 Great story, I could easily identify with each of the family.  Such a sad situation and it took an angel to save this family.  I very much enjoyed the pictures that were posted at the end of the book.  Would have liked to have seen them scattered in the pages of the book but it still was nice to see them.  It even made the story more real and knowing that any one of us could be in the same situation at any time in our lives was very scary. I loved Endal and appreciated the love and devotion that he had for the family and they had for him.  He is a real life Angel!
5 A story set in England dealing with a soldier's injury and return from the Gulf War. He remains sullen and withdrawn and his wife and family struggle to live with his disabilities. Endal, and the canine program saved not only him but his family. Very heartwarming!
4 I enjoyed this book about the way a dog helps someone with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.  I am knocking it back a star because the book is slow at first and the flow of the book was not as smooth as it could be.
5 I've had dogs and cats my whole life. And, its been a very long life so far. Endal is a prime example of how mankind can so easily over look the intelligence of an animal, especially that of a dog picked to be a trained medical companion.I firmly believe that every now and then our gracious Lord sends a companion that is blessed with more than just trained smarts and above average intelligence.  I've more than a sneaking suspicion that there may be an angel lodged within a "special" dog just like Endal.ln any case, this book is a most excellent read.  It had me shedding a tear on a few pages, followed by giggles at some of Endal's unbelievable understandings of just what action was called for by the situation.  It is as if Endal understands way more of the English language than anyone ever thought was possible for a dog.  Not me though, I've seen my pets do some amazing things over the years, for which I've no explanation.This a heart warming true story of a companion service dog that you must read to believe.  When you do, you will come away from this book with far more insight into those animals chosen for service, than you even thought you had, when you began the first page.
5 The book is not just about a fantastic - and wonderfully loving - dog but also a story about a family and how it survived very difficult time in their lives. They manage, in the end, to overcome their difficulties with the help of Endal. The story is told by both the wife and the husband taking turns to describe their life making it very interesting to see both side of the story.
4 DOGS ARE AMAZING IN .ORE WAYS THAN YOU WOULD BELIEVE.WHAT A BLESSING ENDAL WAS FOR ALLEN  AND FOR SANDRA.
1 I was expecting a story that revolved around the dog but there was very little about the dog - and what there was came toward the end
5 I love books about dogs. I love to learn their stories and this book is another book of love, understanding and incredible intelligence by such an amazing and incredible dog. I recommend this book to anyone who has and even has not served in the military. And this a book also touches the lives of families who must learn to cope with injured family members who have to learn a whole new way to live because of their injuries. This wonderful book has really touched my heart and made me appreciate more the love and intelligence of dogs.
3 Heartwarming, inspiring, and amazing how a yellow lab can nurse an injured soldier back into humanity. The power of love provides the strength for a wife to endure her husband's psychological death.
4 I enjoyed reading about Endal the wonder dog.  How could anyone not fall in love with him?  I always say there is a reason why &#34;dog&#34; is &#34;God&#34; spelled backward.  As far as the layout of the book (going from Allen's take on the events and then his wife's take on the same events), it was interesting.  I think, however, for any soldier who has gone through the tragedy that they both faced, it would really hit home.  As an aside, if the treatment they received from the Royal Navy is as described, I think it sheds a negative light on the Royal Navy.
3 This isn't terrible, but it isn't great either. The writing is flat, with little rhythm to interest the reader in reading on. For a dog book it's disappointing because the dog doesn't enter until halfway through.
1 I read books about dogs to read about the dogs. More than half this book was a narrative about Allan's injuries and his wife's struggle to cope. I would have liked to see Endal enter the book much sooner and eliminate some of the drama.
5 Isn't it amazing how animals can melt the heart of people.!! This story I felt showed courage of one injured, after denial  how a marriage can fall apart, the disappointments and that it  only takes the gentleness of an animal, ENDAL, their dog, to guide them to the  happy  side of  life together.  good read
5 ...was the fact (spoiler alert) that the dog does not die at the end.  After having fallen in love with Endal page after page, it would have been far to painful to lose him at the end.  Great presentation of TBI and the repercussions.  Good resolution and good read.
4 This was a wholesome, entertaining book.  It does become repetitive at times but overall a good read.  It was good, just not as outstanding as I had hoped.
5 What a beautiful story about the amazing bond between man and his best friend. Dogs have amazing healing powers. Most important is their ability to help heal the soul and spirit.
3 Was bored by level of detail.  Found myself just skimming large sections. A very long complex life experience  told in.  Simple story telling style.
5 This novel describes the loyalty and unconditional love that a dog can provide for its owner. This therapy assistance dog essentially  regenerated the protagonists and their marriage. The book is well written and engages the reader from the beginning to the end. I highly recommend this novel.
5 Very well written.  I liked the chapters alternated by the husband and the wife's reaction to each situation.  So much honesty, and so much love that needed to be rekindled.Gives a very insightful view of our servicemen and their families once they come home to stay.
5 I think the journey you take with this family is a very special lesson in human nature. How very hard this must have been for everyone . Then this beautiful creature comes into their lives and changes everything.
5 Loved this book. If you are a dog lover or even better a Labrador owner you will enjoy this read. We all know Labrdors are the most intelligent dogs but Endal takes Labs to a whole different level. A family struggles with a father who served in the Gulf War only to return with severe head trama. The whole family suffers as the result of this injury. Endal enters their lives and changes everthing.Sad to see this book is currently out of print. Harper Collins need to get more as word will spread.
3 Endal is the dog that saved the life of Allen Parton, and probably of his wife too. Wounded in the Gulf, Parton came home disabled and with huge memory losses. Most importantly, he couldn't remember his wife or kids, and when he was released from hospital, she got stuck with a guy who treated her as his nurse at the best, and an extremely unpleasant guy into the bargain, instead of the loving, caring, funny guy who went to the Gulf. What saved their marriage was the care dog Allen eventually got, a very intelligent, highly caring Labrador. Endal is a dog to love, but the story is mainly about Allen and his wife, and Allen's new career as a promoter of the importance of such dogs. The book is written by him, and seen his disabilities, it is not badly written, but a professional writer probably would have done a much more better job. It is probably telling that I could read the inevitable part of Endal's death without a tear, while I'm always hesitating to read dog stories because I hate that part. Still, the subject is interesting, and dog lovers will love and admire Endal, and he is an amazing dog.
4 Great story of perseverance and love. Our life has been filled with great dogs who have touched our family's hearts.
4 This was a very good book about a Naval officer who suffered a severe head injury. It is written like a diary with chapters written by the officer and his wife.  It opened my eyes to the horrible life injured military personnel and their families are forced to live through no fault of their own.  I am aware of service animals but Endal seemed to be an outstanding help to Allen.  Good reading.
5 I could hardly put this book down once I started reading it. It is easy to become quite emotionally affected by the absolute devotion and incredible intelligence of the dog. It is impossible to fathom the despair of any "disabled" person, especially when the disability stems from a traumatic incident that removes them from a previously  "normal" life.  This story is very moving and any dog lover would be enthralled by  "ENDAL" .
5 It is a wonderful and insperational book. To go through a very tramatic injury which destroys  your memory and not give up is insperational to read. His wife willing to stick with him and have patiences and not give up. To have found a dog to help you not give up  and come back and want live and be a productive person again was wonderful to read.
5 This is such a wonderful story about a very smart dog who really changes a family's life. It is a great example of how a service dog can truly help.
5 TDog spelled backwards ps God's way  what a wonderful story  a must for read forThose understand the continual love. From our animal  partiners
4 This is an incredibly moving book about true events centering on one amazing woman, her family and one of the most special dog I have ever read about.Allan Parton was in the Royal Navy and while being driven to the home of some Ex Patriots in another country which the Navy required their service men to do when the opportunity arose, the four wheeled vehicle over turned and Allen received some sort of internal head trauma which was not very evident at the time of the accident. He was taken back to the ship and after a good bit of time went by, someone took notice that there was something drastically wrong with him. This was in 1991 so I imagine there wasn't as much about head injuries as there is now. He was passed around quite bit before he was sent home to England. He had completely lost his memories and only could remember what he used to do which was working with  missile development but he had lost so much in the way of words, he couldn't communicate well. He didn't remember his wife, nor his two children.  I have to say, after reading this book, I am thankful I live in the good ole USA.. They certainly didn't do well for him and would send him home to his wife on the weekends who had NO way to cope with a man so badly handicapped. I never saw where the Navy helped out much at all. Sad but&#8230; there are six years here where his wife and kids are trying to do the best they can and Allen is despondent and miserable and takes it out on everyone. That  is the only part I think they should have shortened up a bit. It does however, show one just how bad it could be so when Sandra get's involved with what she calls &#34;dog walking&#34; to help to work with young puppies that are going to be used for the helping of the disabled, the real story begins.This part of the story is very fascinating. How they find and pick the puppies they think will work out. The criteria is large and delicate! When the story starts to revolve around Allen and Endal, it is full bodied and interesting . How Endal gets Allen to finally ,after 7 long years, become more like the man his wife Sandra remembers is extremely moving. One of the things that Allan lost with the brain injury was being able to have much in the way of emotion besides anger and frustration, Endal shows him what love is. Allan leans to understand the concept and his emotions open up a little at a time. The hard part is believing that such a dog exists. Endal does things that make  you think he is a human in a dog body but with none of the human's less loved attributes.  There is an instance when the dog is brought in to help a child that lost her father and has not spoken a word since.  She won't look at him (Endal)  but in order to get her attention, he starts to mimic everything she does. She turns her head left, Endal puts his head left. She lifts her right hand, Endal lifts his right paw. Eventually.. she notices and smiles. He gets through to her but NOBODY taught him that. He did it on his own. How? You say? Me too.. Just to read this book to learn about a dog such as Endal, is worth the time involved  no doubt.
5 It was amazing how smart Endal is and how he chose his master. It makes you think about service dogs in a new way and dogs. I think this book is a must read for everyone.
5 I have read all of Rosie's books and followed her adventures since she first came to prominence sailing around the world.She is an incredible woman who does not understand the meaning of the word "can't". What will she get up to next?She finished this adventure as I was preparing for my own epic walk, at the age of 70, from the French Pyrenees to Northern England (my book is called "Vic's Big Walk"). I walked for 70 days and people called me a hero, especially as I was raising funds and awareness for pancreatic cancer research, but I know my effort was dwarfed by Rosies.Not only that, she writes well, doesn't she?
5 Too bad Rosie doesn't have more professional publicity representation. She wanted her trek to raise awareness and funding of prostate cancer research.  I heard about her only because she appeared on Martha Stewart's TV show when she was passing through NYC in a latter stage of her trek.  By the time she came through Boston, the Red Sox had won the World Series so she was ignored by the media when she came through New England.  I followed her website after that, and eagerly-awaited the memoir.  If her tale were a novel, people would dismiss it as being inconceivable.  Her indefatigable determination and strength are awe-inspiring.
3 It's a great story of overcoming roadblocks in life and a celebration of positivity.  I think this would have been better as a series of articles.  Although she does succeed no matter how miserable the situation.  I got tired of going from one hellish adventure to the next - yes she could do it - but I was starting to get cold feet about what next miserable stiuation she would have to endure.  Is she a hero - no doubt - along with her indominable spirit.
5 Having read almost 100 tales of adventure over the past ten years, this one ranks in my top five for several reasons. First, it is well-written, taking the reader along on every twist and turn of the story without indulging in unnecessary personal drama and whinging. Rosie is not one to feel sorry for herself or treat the people she encounters as alien or odd in the way that some "Westerner on a trek" stories often fall into. Second, the story is inspiring for any person who has been convinced that life is over at 25. We have lost sight of the abilities, talents, and perseverance that help make adventures come true at any age. Third, unlike many adventure tales, Rosie is aware of trying to complete her journey in a certain time frame but this does not become the sole source of interest as it does in some adventure writing. If I am ever half as persistent as this woman I will consider myself blessed. This is a phenomenal read!
4 `Just a Little Run Around the World' is Rosie Swale-Pope's account of her journey around the world on foot in aid of cancer awareness. It is wonderfully written and completely engaging and her descriptive language often transports you to the various points around the globe with her. One main point of this book that stood out is her positivity and ability to see the best in most situations. Despite broken ribs, frostbite, attempted robbery and whole host of other exploits, Rosie manages to put a positive spin on things and keep going. Another thing that stood out is the human kindness she received along her route. People went out of their way to assist her and help her achieve her goals and in a world that seems at times frightening and hostile it is great to read about the goodness that is out there as well. I have to agree with another reviewer that this needed to be better edited and proof read and I too would have loved a map of her route. I had to get my battered atlas down to plot the route as I read and considering most other travel books provide a map of some description, this was sorely missing in this book. That minor point aside, this is till a great book to read about one woman's determination and the amazing things she experiences on her staggering and impressive run around the world. If you enjoy adventure or travel books then this is well worth checking out.Feel free to check out my blog which can be found on my profile page.
4 I loved to see the handwritten notes of the stories I had read. It was great to see how some of them had developed and the process of writing a mystery.Dame Agatha Christie, DBE, (15 September 1890 - 12 January 1976), was a British crime writer of novels, short stories and plays. She also wrote romances under the name Mary Westmacott, but she is best remembered for her 80 detective novels (especially those featuring Hercule Poirot and Miss Jane Marple) and her successful plays.Christie has been the best-selling writer of books of the last century. She has sold more than four billion copies of novels.[ Christie is the most translated individual author, with only the collective corporate works of Walt Disney Productions surpassing her.[ Her books have been translated into 105 languages (so far) !!!The amazing gift that Christie had is a reason why you should read this book. It shows the way a mastermind of a mystery writer worked and thought.
5 Dame Agatha Christie (1890-1976) is the bestselling fictional writer of all time! She has sold the third most books in history surpassed only by the Holy Bible and Shakespeare! Dame Agatha was a brilliant author of the golden age of British mystery writing which occurred from the end of World War I until the beginning of World War II in 1939.John Curran is a Dublin native who is one of the few persons who has been allowed to study in depth the seventy-three notebooks in which Dame Agatha wrote down story ideas;' possible plots;' list of possible characters and such mundane material as shopping lists and what to buy her family members for Christmas. The notebooks reveal, says Curran, that the doyen of crime liked to work in chaotic mode. Some of Christie';s stories and plots would lay dormant for decades before being used or discarded or transformed from short story to novel. (or vice versa!).Curran asserts that Christie had an easy to read style and used everday life settings to mold her masterpieces. She is the only crime author who created two immortal figures of the genre:&#34; Miss Marple and Hercule Poirot. She had an extensive knowledge of poisons due to her nursing work and this was her favorite way to murder her literary victims. Her favorite murderers came from the ranks of medical men and women. Christie was adept at taking readers to exotic sites of which she was acquainted through the many archaeological digs she had been on with her husband.The most valuable part of the book deals with the careful dissection Curran performs on examining many of the major novels and short stories of Christie from &#34;The Labors of Hercules&#34; to &#34;:Sparkling Cyanide&#34;: to &#34;:Sleeping Murder&#34;: and many others. This section can be boring if you are not familiar with the story or novel being studied. However, this part of the book is very valuable if you use it following the reading of the novel or story which is being explained by Curran.John Curran is an amazing expert on Christie who was so prolific and  brilliant in her ability  to spin a tale of murder from the small English village to a dig on an Egyptian digging site. Well done;' essential to Christie fans new and old.
5 Agatha Christie's Secret Diaries is a terrific snapshot view of how she gathered, edited, refined, and finally wrote her ingenious books and plays.  Any fan of Christie will revel in the name changes, plot twists, originally planned suspects, and other details which went into each piece.John Curran is a magician in his ability to decipher and chronicle the diaries.  When they were first discovered, each cover was given a stickered number--purely to keep track of how many diaries there were.  The contents of each diary could cover several years, story plots, and edits-often with no sequential order.One page may begin a new plot but on the reverse were more ideas about a previous story, often from a previous diary.Were do you begin?Well John has done his homework and like Poirot or Marple has puzzled through the scribbles and doodling of the diaries to come up with a comprehensive book devoted to the genius of Agatha Christie.This book will have you returning to favorite books and perhaps finding some that you had forgotten over the years.READER BEWARE:  the beginning of each chapter lists  "Solutions Revealed" to the plots of the novels and plays that are discussed.  I suspect that most of the audience reading this book will be familiar with many of her novels.  And of course if you dont' want to read that particular chapter until you've reread the book....who is to stop you!  Enjoy !
5 The 73 notebooks were written the scrawl of a chicken, very different from the famous autograph signature we all know from countless reproductions.  There must have been many times when Curran might have felt like giving up, but after months of practice, he says he was able to decipher the writing pretty quickly.  Oddly, he says, Christie's handwriting improved with age, rather than the reverse.This is not a variorum or facsimile edition of the notebooks by any means, but rather Curran's selection, with copious comments, of Christie's musings and reworkings over the years.  His transcriptions look letter-perfect (a generous sampling of the handwritten entries allows us to peruse both the way she wrote something, and the way Curran took it down).  I couldn't spot a flaw.Christie lovers will find much to marvel at here.  My own hunger for more and more Christie, good or bad, started when I was a child.  I had a recurring dream--one I still have, years later,--in which I'm in a bookstore, library, friend's house, looking at books, and I see an Agatha Christie novel I've never heard of before.  I sit down and read through it, and even want to copy it down, but lack a pencil (ha ha, Freudian I guess), and think of filching it from the premises, but lack the balls.  Sometimes I wake from the dream with a title and a few words still in my head. but always with a sense of loss and emptiness.  Now Curran's edition has assuaged some of the ache.  We hear of dozens of unrealized projects, and quite a few of them fully realized, but withdrawn from the marketplace for one reason or another.  Two "new" stories are included here, both from the 1930s: one an adumbration of Dumb Witness, the other a bizarre alternate take to "The Capture of Cerberus," the final adventure in "The Labours of Hercules."  But I want more, Mr. Curran!  Please give us the goods.With the approval of the estate, Curran shows that he is not necessarily beholden to some of the fictitious "legends" the estate has engendered.  He pretty much proves, for example, that SLEEPING MURDER was written probably 10 years later than the story given out by the Christie people (and by Christie herself).  Why the deception?  It made for a better story, perhaps.  One would like to see the original version of CURTAIN, too, which in its published state seemed oddly neutered and sort of de-WWII'ed, brought into a timeless sort of past with little or no referent to 1930s/1940s conditions (unlike the other novels she actually published at the time).  In an amusing development, Christie seems to have settled on the title "Cover Her Face" for what we now know as Sleeping Murder, only to be unpleasantly surprised when, in the 1960s, PD James of all people published her first novel using Christie's title, so then it was back to the drawing board.  Wonder if James ever found out.The book is a generous gift, with something pleasing on every page.  I don't think, on the other hand, that much is gained by Curran's insistence on using the original title of "And Then There Were None" at every turn, on the grounds that Christie preferred it.  That's not good enough reason to throw it around as frequently as he does.  Someone might have tried to talk him out of it.Yes, he plunges us right into the thick of things, the moment when she thinks of a plot, and then changes it with a rub of the pen.  Start with a setting--so many to choose from--too bad we never got the one behind the scenes at the department store with the models at the fashion store.  Or the hospital setting (except insofar as it appears in the one act play "The Patient.")  When she had accomplished a task, she crossed out the note for it, as one with a shopping list of grocery items might do when the item in question has been put into the cart.  Curran's most counterintuitive, but ultimately reasonable editorial decision, has been to round up various Christie novels and plays, into various categories, and then discuss the notebook entries for that bunch alone.  Thus there's a chapter on "The Nursery Rhyme Murders," another on "Murder Abroad" (and on "Murder Abroad").  In a way it's reminiscent of the old Dodd, Mead omnibuses like Spies Among Us.  But it works, in general.  It is not a method Curran sticks to with much rigor, happily: there is always room in these pages for a sidebar article about how he finds the solution of, say, Murder in Mesopotamia utterly bogus.  So he brings in his own readings too, he's not just a constant apologist for Christie.I had never heard of John Curran before the announcement that he was editing Agatha Christie's notebooks, but now I can see how and why he got to become the leading authority on Agatha Christie.  I hope he will out his authority and expertise, not to mention his closeness to the Christie Estate, to the best of use, and bring to print the unpublished Christie manuscripts he has seen and evaluated.
3 As one of countless enthusiastic Agatha Christie fans, I was very excited to read a book about her journals. The first thing that struck me was the two &#34;new&#34; stories that have never been published were really just revised copies of other stories that have been published. That was a huge disappointment to me, especially after all the hype the book gave to these &#34;discoveries.&#34; The organization of the book bothered me, too. I thought it was rambling and repeated itself many times. I'm glad I had the opportunity to see some of this material, but it was still only mildly interesting at best even to an avid Christie fan.
5 I have been an Agatha Christie fan for years and have most of her books.  It was interesting to see how the kernels of stories grew into best-selling mysteries.  I kept copies of her books nearby as I read so I could reference them and, in some cases, re-read them.  Was sorry when I reached the end of the book; it was like losing an old friend.  I will be visiting Fifty Years of Mysteries in the Making every time I open a Christie mystery.
5 Agatha Christie's Secret Notebooks is most definitely a scholarly work. But don't be afraid to dive into it, for it is the ultimate insider's look at Dame Agatha's approach to writing her mysteries. In fact, it is a wonderfully personal glimpse of the way Christie's marvelous mind worked.Curran is the longtime literary adviser to Agatha Christie's estate. He organized and numbered Christie's noebooks and shares what he learned about her work and life: plot lines, character formation, research, and even the odd household reminder.To set the stage--imagine you have been invited to Greenway, the family manse, by Matthew Prichard, Christie's grandson. (Greenway was donated to the National Trust while his parents were still living. Now, upon their deaths, National Trust is ready to take over and begin to restore the property. ) Matthew takes you on the grand tour; past mementos of the legacy of stories from Christie, including such wonders as the dinner-gong, a brass-bound chest, and family portraits stretching down the hall, many of them used as fodder for the wondrous imagination that spawned over 50 years of beautifully crafted classic mysteries.Suddenly, in a small, cluttered, inconspicuous room, your eye is taken by a bottom shelf filled with notebooks--over 70 of them. Old-fashioned exercise copybooks, filled with the observations that Agatha Christie used to feed her ever-evolving curiosity and fuel the what-ifs that became her vast body of work. You squat on the floor, unmindful of the dust and busyness elsewhere in the house, for you have found a doorway into Christie's mind and imagination. You are hooked, and thus on the road to four years of exploration and cataloging the notebooks. That is how John Curran felt, and he in turn invites us as the readers to take the journey with him.This book is a recommended read for those who are fans of classic mystery and Dame Agatha Christie. Curran discusses not only the copybooks and their helter-skelter contents, but the end products, and how each story comes to fruition. Photocopies of some of the notebooks' pages are provided; analyses, based on the notebooks; and many of Christie's book notes, explained, are included. The process is great fun to delve into. You will see how Greenway and other personal locales become a piece of a Poirot or Miss Marple tale. And you will learn about the personal skills and quirks that come from Christie's life. For example, did you know that "she used poison more than any other murder method and more than any of her contemporaries, resorting to firearms infrequently"?The notebooks are ongoing conversations that Dame Agatha had with herself. She not only discusses murder methods, names of her characters and plot lines, but she reprimands herself for not covering vital points, or missing a great place to insert a clue. And every once in a while, there is an endearing insertion of a more personal nature--how many are coming to dinner, something that needs to be purchased at the shops, or a reminder of someone's birthday. Be warned though, Curran gives some spoilers as he explains and dissects the notebooks and the creations that came from them. To off-set that tendency to spoilers, the reader is also treated to two never before published Christie stories. What a joy that is!Next to Christie's autobiography, this book will take its place on my bookshelf as a reminder that at the turn of the last century a woman with an original, dynamic and creative mind was born, and the genre of mysteries will never be the same. Thank goodness!Mystery readers and Christie fans will especially enjoy this book; more general readers might look for a Christie biography instead.by Laura Strathman Hulkafor Story Circle Book Reviewsreviewing books by, for, and about women
5 This is an EXCELLENT crime novel. The unfolding story was well written and drew me in so much I couldn't put the book down. Very cringe worthy. Loved it!
4 Hoffman is one of my favorite authors.  This continues the story that began in Redemption, which got me hooked.  I hope she has another one in the works.
4 I have read all of Jilliane Hoffman's books and have never been less than impressed. She has produced two books featuring prosecutor C.J Townsend and two stand alone books. This fifth release is a mixture of the two. We see Assistant State Attorney Daria Bianchi and Detective Manny Alvarez work a case that involves a snuff club. We also see the return of C.J Townsend just before the halfway mark in this book.Daria and Manny make for fantastic reading as they both have such unique personalities. Manny Alvarez is a veteran cop whose nickname is The Bear and Daria is a hot-headed Italian woman trying to make her mark in the world. They make a great team and at the start of the book we see them clash heads as they uncover what looks to be a dangerous game of men watching women be raped and then murdered in the so called snuff-club.The re-introduction of C.J and the serial killer on death row Bill Bantling aka `Cupid' had me reading a lot quicker that I thought. As it has been a while since I read the CJ books I worried I would lose the thread but the plot is re-covered for the benefit of those having not read previous books. As I read on I remembered why Jilliane's books always had me hooked. They are extremely dark reading and I always find myself feeling the fear as much as the characters as we see the chase for the suspects who are cursed with these sick and perverted minds.The story has a lot going on and there are numerous threads that are woven in to the story including past crimes committed and the involvement of Bill Bantling, the serial killer on Death Row. At around the  mark the pace picks up considerably and I continued reading until I was done. I was both shocked and pleased by the time I had finished. Shocked at the outcome of one particular thread in the story and pleased that JH was just as good as I remembered. It was good to have some conclusions in the last part of the CJ trilogy and although this took me longer than usual to get in to, it was no less thrilling than her other books.I have to say overall that her last stand alone book slightly holds the edge for me but this book was clever and thoughtful making for a gripping read that had me checking my windows at night.
5 I liked this book a lot. I wish that I had read her 1st two books with these characters in them first.
4 Good book and I recommend it.  However, too much jumping back and forth and a sad ending.  I am looking forward to the sequel if there is one as the ending left me in the lurch.
3 I liked the two previous C.J. Townsend  books but this one not so much.  If you haven't read the first two you will be lost.  It is not a stand alone novel.  Even though I did read the first two I still don't care for this book.  It jumps around to different scenes without adequate explanation and in my opinion the author is just re-writing the first two books into this one.  And maybe it's just me, but I found it somewhat confusing as to the timelines--when the scenes changed it took me a few pages sometimes to get oriented again.  And I found it a real stretch to think that a public prosecutor could just up and change identities several times and nobody would know---like her employers???  I don't think so.  I guess I wanted something more plausible in this book and it just wasn't there.
4 A thriller is an excellent description for this book.  The book has mystery, horror, suspense, surprises and even love in it.  The law verses the bad guys.  Who will win?  In this book it seems like the bad guys do, BUT ... remember there are more tales to come.  The book is a very good read for anyone who enjoys a thriller.
5 if you like Karen Slaughter books... please read Jilliane Hoffman's books.. I started with Retribution, then had to go to The Last Witness and then onto this book.. I can't wait for her next book.. I read all of her books in a matter of 2 weeks.. that's how good they are
5 I am still reeling from this rollercoaster! I cannot believe the twists and turns that I took while reading this book! I am waiting with bated breath for the next ride...
4 Manny Alvarez is an experienced cop in Miami who is given a case with a body in a dumpster.  Drugged and horribly tortured, the victim was last seen with a spoiled rich kid and the investigation leads to him being found to be the killer.  The case goes to court with Assistant State Attorney Daria di Bianchi  prosecuting.  Then the accused's mother receives a disturbing video of a young women being tortured in the same way as the victim.As Manny and Daria try to uncover who she is and if there's a serial killer out there, they come to the disturbing realisation there's a snuff club operating, sick people who watch the torture broadcast live.  The only lead is from the depraved rapist and serial killer William Bantling, who claimed to be a member of this depraved society.  CJ Templeton was the prosecutor in William Bantling's case.  She was also a victim of his years ago.  Having fled Miami to hide from the memories, she's drawn back to help find the society.This book was very well written - tightly complex plots with multiple viewpoints and chillingly dark.  The good guys were strong characters who fought for the right thing and the bad guys - scary!  Never having read Jilline Hoffman, I quickly picked up the gist of what had happened in previous books.  Enough detail was given without over explaining, and I'm now determined to find the earlier books.  The ending was not happy but I loved the last paragraph, and will be impatiently waiting for the next book.  This author is addictive!
5 I can not wait for the next in the series, it was one of the best!! it had a lot of surprises that you did not expect. A good read I will keep checking Amazon for when her next book is out.
3 Did not finish this third in series but likely due to,reading them back to back.  I just grew tired of the storyline.  The action became too familiar and predictable.  Probably would have read it all if had not just read the first two.  Oh well.
5 I have now read all three of the C.J. Townsend series and all I can say is that each one is better than the last...and the first one was super!  I love this series .. I love the characters and I love the stories.I can't say enough about The Cutting Room but I don't want to give away any spoilers, either.  You could probably read this one as a standalone; there are references to the first 2 books..but I HIGHLY recommend you start with Retribution.If you like strong characters, mysteries that keep you guessing until the very last page, and a book that is extremely well-written, please, if you read nothing else all year, read this series.  You will not regret it.
1 This statement, unfortunately, exactly captures the unfinished storyline presented in this book.  Apparently, if you want to find out the "who, what, why, when & how" behind the "snuff club murders" ( the "crimes de jour" of this book) and whether justice is ever meted out, you have to buy  the author's next book, or more likely books.  I was aware when I bought this book that it was part of a series (3rd " installment" I  think) of books about prosecutor C.J. Townsend and Detective Manny Alvarez.  Not having read any of the earlier books,  I was a little hesitant about "jumping into this one", but actually found that the author did a pretty good job of providing "historical details" about these two characters as well as the other "characters central to the series" - much like Jonathan Kellerman does in his Alex Delaware series.  What I didn't realize, however, and don't know whether it's typical of the author's earlier works, is that (unlike the Kellerman books I've read), the "snuff club" crime wasn't going to be solved by the end of the book.  400+ pages of engaging characters - a complicated, interesting plot weaving events from the past into the present (criminal investigation) - ended for me with a big THUD.  I actually started suspecting when I was somewhere between 85-90% into the book that I was going to be "cheated" of an ending - there were "too many balls still in the air" - and my "investment" in the book quickly turned to disgust (though I did read it to the very end).  It is one thing if an author/book description makes it clear that a book's storyline (and not just its characters) is being presented on a "to be continued basis".  This was not the case here.  I will not be reading anymore works of this author.
4 I am shallow.  Life has enough unhappy endings that when I read for recreation, I want the characters to have a chance for &#34;normal&#34; life.
2 Just when it was getting excited when a book has 20-40 pages left this book sank. It was like she ran out of paper and had 3 pages to finish everything up. 80 % of the book was generally interesting but the last 20% was just lazy and amateurish writing. I don't want to give anything away to future readers but basically I want 20% of my money back!
5 If you can stand the sadism in it,  The Cutting Room is an engrossing read.
5 Edge of your seat!
5 This was a page turner. I didn't want to put it down. The ending was a little far-fetched, but overall very entertaining.
5 Couldn't put this book down.  Great story, suspense, police story a little romance( not too much)  I would definitely read another book by Julliane Hoffman
5 This was a great 3rd book in this series, however it could be a stand alone novel as well. Enough back story was given that you could keep up with the plot.I've really enjoyed reading all 3 books in the CJ Townsend series. I appreciate the authors authenticity and even more, the lack of typos I see a great deal of when reading new authors in the Kindle store. If this author keeps it up, she will be definitely right up there with Patricia Cornwell and Tess Gerritson.Read this book if you enjoy crime thrillers. Better yet, read the first two before this one
5 This is definitely one of the best books I have read in a long time.  To fully appreciate all the characters you need to have read her previous C.J. Townsend books.  I hope the author is writing another soon.  It is way to long between sequels.
3 Too man sub-character stories.  Pretty good plot driven format but choppy.  Scanned a good deal of the book.  Story ended without giving reader true closure.
4 Before I get into the review of this crime fiction novel it is important note that while the author gives background to her significant characters that have appeared previously in other books, I believe to `fully enjoy' this novel, one needs to have read `Retribution' and `Last Witness'. While these books cannot be called a true series, the characters such as CJ Townsend and Bill Bantling, seem to `populate' all three books with their traits, working practice and have their own narrative framed within the text of each story told.That said I found this a pretty high strung thriller set against a frame work of the sick and depraved world of inflicted suffering and snuff clubs. Some of the main ingredients are very good attention to detail by using some sharp dialogue, well researched legal and forensic practice. The narrative is `crisp' and the relationships forged between the lawyer Daria di Bianchi and detective is well managed and convincing.In part the story takes one to the edge-of-the-seat. For me the ending was a genuine surprise.
5 If you haven't yet read Retribution (1) and Last Witness (2) wait on reading Cutting Room.  I recommend this series and finished all three in a matter of days.  I am not going to dissect the plot as other reviewers and the book jacket cover the storyline.  The characters are well developed and the scenes well written but not over exaggerated.  The legalese is accurate and explained so the lay person reader doesn't miss anything due to lack of knowledge of police/courtroom procedure.  I sincerely hope that Hoffman writes at least one more Townsend book as the opportunity was left in the closing of this book and this reader is invested in the characters and needs to know how they moved forward and justice found for Daria and Manny.
5 I started the series at the beginning after I had read one of her other books & was not disappointed! Every book got better. Except for the death of one of the characters, it was probably the best one. I'm eagerly waiting for the next book in the series, which I hope is soon! This author isn't afraid to get descriptive which I like you can actually picture it in your head. I also like that the characters aren't perfect either that they have secrets & flaws like everyone else. Worth every penny, you will not be disappointed!
5 I have read all of her books and have really enjoyed them. My only problem is that what happened to Blanding wasn't descriptive enough. We really wanted him to be cut up in pieces while alive. Another problem with the writer is that she makes us wait too long for another book. I rate this book a five and it deserves it. Jilliane, keep them coming.
5 This is the first book that I have read by Mariani and it was great!! Fast paced and the type of book I didn't want to put down. I have since just purchased a couple more books in the series.
4 I don't know if there is a problem with the Kindle version as I have not read the physical book as the prologue has nothing whatever to do with the rest of the book (It actually comes from "Uprising" by Scott G Mariani) fortunately if you download the sample it starts at chapter 1 so you do not get a false impression of the book.Although this is the 5th in a series it reads well as a standalone book it is the first I have read but I will read the rest. The story is about an ex SAS soldier Ben Hope who is now running a training school for bodyguards and the like through an unfortunate set of circumstances he has to take a contract to protect a billionaire Maximilian Schneider from this the story is fast moving with many twists and turns until all is resolved satisfactorily. This book has everything for lovers of this type of adventure yarn with long lost relatives, kidnapping, with Nazi involvement and even a bit of science fiction thrown in for good measure.
5 I just wasn't captured by the subject but still a fast exciting read! Would like to find more by him!
4 This story was good and the ending was better than some of the others.Let's just say I liked it.Dick
4 Ben Hope is an ex-SAS hero who now runs courses in personal security.  He takes a short assignment to provide protection for Maximilian Steiner, a Swiss billionaire who has been the subject of kidnap attempts.  Hope realizes that the kidnappers are trying to get hold of some secret Nazi documents that Steiner possesses.  As he starts to investigate, he discovers that there is a plot to resurrect a mysterious technology that was first developed under the Nazis.  The group have been targeting and eliminating a select number of scientists who are experts in this technology.  Hope also realizes that the stakes are intensely personal for him.This is an enjoyable, fast moving thriller.  It has no literary pretensions: it's just written to entertain, and entertain it does.  Yes, the plot is silly, yes the characters are one dimensional, the villains remain shadowy and the storyline is highly derivative.  None of these things detracted from my enjoyment of it.  It's relentlessly paced, with short chapters designed to keep you reading and it's very hard to put down.  I probably won't remember much about it in a month's time, but I thoroughly enjoyed it.This is the first Scott Mariani book that I have read.  I gather that there are others featuring the hero, Ben Hope, but it didn't seem necessary to have read them.  It reminded me in several ways ofThe Day After Tomorrow, which I think is one of the best thrillers in the genre.  A perfect airplane read.
4 A good read if you like Scott Mariani's earlier production. At some stage the plot got a little &#34;too&#34; twisted making it difficult to follow, but once you get carried away it doesn't matter.
1 The packaging for this book, from the jacket artwork to the blurb, is first rate. That, along with the boast that it's a "Sunday Times Bestseller" gives you the impression that it's a terrific read.It isn't. To my disappointment, I had found by page 50 that the main character was unlikable and unrealistic, and that the  writing itself was unimpressive. I found myself having to skip pages in order to find the desire to keep reading. By page 100, I realised that the story itself is implausible. I won't reveal any spoilers, but a few of the major plot features were just laugh-out-loud, ridiculously implausible.The story COULD have been great. The general theme had promise. But the actual fleshing out of the idea was really two-dimensional. Not happy at all.
5 #5 in the Ben Hope series and excellent. One reviewer got her knickers in a twist over the occasional use of the F word ( not that often actually) but could it seems stomach murder and mayhem.Thank goodness "Du Scheisse " on p.300 wasn't translated or she might have wet herself.Highly recommended reading for adults.
4 This story has so many twist n turns it keeps u guessing where n how it will all end. I highly recommend this book n recommend you take ur time!
3 After the trip to Cairo, Ben's back at La Val still being somewhat stupid about the feeling Brooke has for him. Trouble is, this time, she turns up with her new arrogant boyfriend, a wannabe kidnap foil team leader by the name of Captain Shannon who allow his "rutting stag" mentality to get the better of him resulting in one broken arm, a damaged back, a few months recuperation and, more importantly for Ben, a 1.2million contract that can't be fulfilled protecting one Maximilian Steiner. The latter is a super-billionaire: chateau in the Alps, top notch cars, multi-corporation empire builder, owner of the infamous Kammler papers.It's hard to give a summary of the story without dropping some major spoilers. Suffice it to say Ben's more ruthless than usual as he prevents a helicopter kidnap of his employer and finds himself drawn into a case of missing or murdered scientists who are hot on the trail of proving that a pseudo-science of the Nazis was based in reality deep in the Hungarian part of the Carpathian mountains.  In a separate thread, smart home physicist Adam O'Connor is forced to try and get an old machine working at both gunpoint and the trauma of knowing his son, Rory, is being threatened with a gruesome ending. The entire plot revolves around the work of one SS General Hans Kammler, a man who draws the attention of both the Kammler Krew (a group of scientists pursuing the pure science that is meant to lie in his experiments), a group of shadowy men, headed by the (as ever) psychotic Pelham, and the Steiner corporation. It's a bit of a mess that has Ben chasing down eco-kidnappers and east European hit squads as they try to find "the lost Grail of super-esoteric science."Mariani helpfully gives us a summary of what's going on: "Missing scientists, An SS general with a strange secret. A snatch attempt against a wealthy industrialist. And now some kind of bohemian commune that sold ceramics out of a semi-derelict farm shop in the Black Forest countryside." No gateau, though. But that sums it up nicely. There's something else major going on, but it's a massive plot spoiler as I said so...It all culminates in Ben and his new sidekick Jeff abseiling down a fetid 200m chimney stack into an old Nazi cremation chamber, then shooting their way towards a rescue of everyone concerned. By the end, the author has opened Ben up to new possibilities, new long term characters, new options.  It's all rather good, but I'll be honest and say it wasn't as good as numbers one, two, and four. Same standard as number three. Roll onto number six....
4 When I read Noah Boyd's first book the Bricklayer I really enjoyed it. However, the one thing I mentioned was that Steve Vail needed a bit more development as a character. In this second instalment, Noah Boyd has developed Steve Vail fully and we get to see a lot more of his personality and strangely a dark humour to him which I think made him 100% better!The story itself goes to show that Noah Boyd is really the man who has been there, done it and worn the T-Shirt. The story starts at a breakneck speed and doesn't let up until the final chapter. The one thing that made this book so authentic was the sheer complexity of the plot and the numerous threads that link together the story line. It is a real eye opener and to be honest, I think reading this book is equivalent to doing a week of work experience at the FBI!I thoroughly enjoyed this book and thought it was a vast improvement on the characters from the last book. My only criticism is that it sometimes became a little too confusing and a couple of times I found myself going back and checking things. Having said that the book itself is sheer genius and is so obviously written from a man that realises it takes a lot of work to unravel and find the bad guys.This book was a joy to read and I can only cross my fingers and hope the next one is just as good, if not better. Maybe next time we may get to see Vail back just as he was in this book, with a storyline that is a little easier for me to follow! Highly recommended.PLEASE NOTE: This book was also released with the tile 'Agent X' (US Version)
5 This is the second book by Noah Boyd and sadly the last as he died not long after the book came out The book is all so call Agent X , the first book is called the BricklayerSteve Vail was a FBI agent but he got fired twice is now a bricklayer and does sculptures that no one sees. he has gone to Washington to meet Assistant Director Kate Bannon for New year Eve party but before there get there the police ask for help finding a missing boy.Steve is than ask to help with a Russian agent that can identify traitors leaking government intelligence, it now a race to see who can get to the moles before the Russians do,  plus he has left clues to who is next there is lots of twist and turns with this book and it a shame that we wont get to read any more
4 This is a review of the Kindle edition, called "Last Chance to Die". It is quite well edited, with almost none of the awful grammar and construction I have noted in some other Kindle ebooks.The book is a sequel to "The Bricklayer" featuring Steve Vail and Kate Bannon, who this time are dismantling a fiendish and clever spy ring run by a gang of Lithuanians who market their services to Russia. The plot is complex and multi-layered, almost too much so I felt. One or two less hard-to-catch spies may have made the book more accessible to the average reader.Still, there are plenty of readers who will enjoy trying to figure things out at the same pace as Vail does, as he makes one leap of logic after another. In this respect I though Vail somewhat resembles Lee Child's Jack Reacher, who also is a blend of tough action man and cleverly logical thinker. There is just as much action with Steve Vail, mainly gunplay though, rather than the physical stuff favoured by Jack Reacher. In one scene reminiscent of Arnie Schwarzenegger's "Predator" character, Vail plunges into a half frozen lake to reduce his body heat so he cannot be seen on a spy's thermal vision goggles.The FBI comes out not looking very competent, as usual, and by the final chapters there is really only one choice left for the elusive Agent X, the master spy. See if you can guess who he is.
5 The kindle edition is the same book as Agent X, only with a different title. This also happened with Wilbur Smith's The Delta Decision, which was re-titled to Wild Justice.
5 Read the first book, Bricklayer, and loved it.  Have been looking for another of his ever since.  This second on I could not put down.  It was excellent.  I hope he is working on another.
4 Loved "the Bricklayer" which is currently slated for a major motion picture.  This book, while not as good, is still worth the read.  It continues the story of Steve Vail and his romantic entanglement.  Strong suit is here is the banter between characters.  Looking forward to more from Boyd.
4 This book continues the adventures of the Bricklayer as he comes to Washington for a New Year's Eve party and gets involved in three cases within hours.  In his own unique style, he works the cases, ignores the bosses, and tries to work on his own relationships.
1 I was asked to review this book, so evidently I have read it. I honestly cannot remember. I believe I checked it out of the local library, read a few pages and gave up. I do remember reading &#34;The Bricklayer&#34; by this author and enjoyed it. As often happens a good book followed by a not so good book.
3 The television series is better.The book's artwork is great, but a little bit dark. Wished it were more colorful. The kids love the series, so this book makes a nice gift for Christmas or birthdays.Nice gift for kids who are a fan of the television series
5 This is my 2-year old daughter's favorite book.  We read it 2-3 times a day.  And then my 6-year old son loves it, too.  So at bedtime, my husband and I have to swap this book back and forth.
4 The Octonauts and the Sea of Shade: fun read, different than disney episodes (good for something new, especially since my kids watch the reruns endlessly, initially confusing because of different name for Dashi Dog)
5 I don't know if anyone has looked for octonauts toys, but they are expensive. So when I saw these books, I was excited. My kids love watching Octonauts on tv and they love reading books. I am so happy with these books. They are a little lengthy, but definitly worth it.
5 Our twins are now four, this was the last of the four book series we got, I will say that Frown Fish is the girls' favorite though.  There are nights when they choose all the Octonauts books for that nights reading selections, an Octonauts marathon of sorts :)  The artwork is gorgeous, makes me want to take classes in the program they used to illustrate this series.  This book seemed a little more involved in the story, the girls spend much time asking us why the shadows have band-aids on them and such.  But they just love Octonauts, period.  The whole series of books a must own for girls or boys, really top notch.  We got this by ordering it in at our local Barnes and Noble and using a 30% off coupon we had.  When I ordered it in the kids book section, I got the lady in charge of that section, after seeing it she commented on how cute it looked and seemed interested in maybe getting in it stock, that would be great if they did so that a wider audience could be introduced to these wonderful books!  I guess now The Octonauts is a cartoon across the pond, can't wait till this program is available on region 1 DVD :)
5 My three grandchildren love this show. The book was just like the show which is fun and very educational.  Loved it.
4 Purchased for 6 y.o. grandson.. his mom said it might be a little advanced for him.
5 These books by Meomi were the inspiration for the TV show.  They are NOT factual like the show about actual sea creatures.  Rather, the Octonauts go on fanciful adventures that happen to be underwater themed.But, my 4 year old son and daughter love the Octonauts, and love these books.  I entertain myself by trying to mimic the accents from the show when reading it aloud to them.
5 This is the second book by Meomi, and a real great book at that.The artistic style un unusual but very fun.There are many details on each page, and my two sons love finding new little things each time we read it.I found that all the contant was appropriate for my kids, and they easily understood the concepts from the story.I would recommend it.
5 Buy! The book may help the timid child appreciate shade. It encourages politeness, bravery, and team work.th Octonauts are go!
5 as stated above, its a beautiful book both physically and also graphically speaking. The colors and quality of the book makes it a real keeper. The understated humor and lots of positive examples really delights the reader, both adult and child.
5 I love this book!  The illustrations are soooo cute and the plot is clever.  My kids like it, too.  My husband thinks that the &#34;magic user level 20&#34; is especially funny.
5 Our twins are now four, this was one of the first of the four book series we got and now that we have all four it still seems to be their favorite of the four.  The artwork is gorgeous, makes me want to take classes in the program they used to illustrate this series.  The reason this seems to be their favorite is the whole upside down thing, they love that twist at the end, and they recently saw a real fish somewhere that looked like the fish in this book and made the correlation, that was really neat.  A top notch series of books, a must own.  I guess now it is a cartoon across the pond, can't wait till this program is available on region 1 DVD :)
5 This book is just like the TV series. My three grandchildren love the show and fully enjoyed the book version.
5 We found this book at the local library, and my lads, two and four, insisted we borrow it. I was expecting it to be like far too many of the other children's books I've read to them: so simple as to be completely uninteresting to those of us who have to read it. I was wrong. The illustrations are gorgeous, the story interesting, and included some delightful little "easter eggs" for us parents. My husband and I love to read it to our children, especially for the "dress up" page. We love the "magic user level 20," the Devo "rock star," and, best of all, the frown fish dressed as Tom Baker, the Fourth Doctor! This book meets with the approval of both parents and children. A must-have!
5 I'm so happy for these books!  My daughter is addicted.  This book was in pristine condition and arrived as promised.  The stories are fun and have a lot of great facts.  My kids love them!
5 We bought The Octonauts and the Only Lonely Monster and the baby and us fell in love with the book, so we ended up buying the whole collection. We love these books! The drawings are beautiful and colorful, the stories are fun and the little octonauts are just adorable.
5 The illustrations are gorgeous, I love reading these to our son, very cute books, with a very cute storyline and characters! :)
5 After reading this book I bought the others in the series. Great illustrations and fun stories with unique characters and story-telling technique.
5 Very colorful and enjoyed by my 2 year old grand daughter as well as her three 4 year old  brothers.
5 I bought this book for my kindergarten ESOL classes. My students are Korean and the author of this book is Korean. There are some Korean phrases in the book. The children loved the book and I have read it with them many times. The book also contained a website that we accessed. There were learning games for students. This book is a great classroom book.
4 My kids LOVE the show Octonauts, so when I saw these were books, I bought 4 of them.This book followed my expectation from the Octonauts TV show...a real creature to report on! Loved the surprise ending and learned something too.
4 I hesitated before buying this book as Sidney Sheldon's Master of the Game is one of my favourite books. And somebody else writing a sequel - well it didn't seem right. BUT - I was pleasantly surprised. The characters fit, the plot was excellent and the book was well written. A page-turner with twists and turns at many corners. A good, simple and enjoyable kind of escapism and a fitting conclusion to the excellent Master of the Game.
5 I would recommend this book to all and sundry.  Full of drama and suspense and lots of interesting characters in it. A great follow up from Master of the game.
5 What can I say simply brilliant. I will be eagerly waiting for more from Tillly. It was a real page turner couldnt put it down.
4 It was good to see what happened to the characters after reading Master of the Game.  It left room for more.
5 LOVED the book. I read Master of the Game first, then bought Mistress of the Game. So sad that the story of the Blackwells are over now, I sure do hope that there's a follow-up on this one? Feel like I know the whole family now, and they are a part of me.Liked Tully Bagshawe's writing style, very similar to Sidney Sheldon's . Sometimes I forgot I wasn't reading Sidney!!!Would recommend this book to any Sidney Sheldon fans. I'm gonna go look  for more of her books right now!!!!
5 This is an excellent book, and it is a follow on to a previous book whose title I cant remember but that was excellent too.  Elsewhere I have criticised Tilly Bagshaw as being too much in Sidney Sheldon's shadow and not as good but that definitely does not apply to this book.  It is a must-read!  Maureen Rowland-Aitken  South Africa
5 Another good one .... I have read all the Sydney Sheldon books and not one has disappointed yet.....always waiting for the next one to come along.....
3 I was an avid fan of Sidney Sheldon, Mistress Of The Game was very good and well worth reading, but it wasn't Sidney Sheldon.  I purchased this book at Amazon.Erica Hutchinson
3 First of all, I have never read Sidney Sheldon. I have read and loved Tilly Bagshawe's previous books Adored and Showdown. Her writing is what Jackie Collins used to be, before Jackie lost her edge. When I saw Baghshawe had written the continuation of Sheldon's series Master Of The Game, I decided why not. You do not have to read his book to read this sequel. Bagshawe recaps everything.This book is a very light read. The character developments were good, even though none of them were likeable. You have Eve, the demented Mother, who was turned into a monster, under the knife, from her blackmailing husband. Then you have the cousins, Max, the ever twisted son who was only born to do his Mother Eve's revenge. Then there is Lexi, who was kidnapped and sexually abused as a child. She is so demented you can't even root for her. Then there is Gabe (who shares Max and Lexi's great grandfather) a loser turned hero. Honestly, I could have done without Gabe's story. The plot consists of cousins Max and Lexi who fight for control of the family business Kruger-Brent, Ltd. Everyone is so messed up, you can't wait to see who kills who. Lexi sleeps with everyone and falls in love with both Max and Gabe (CREEPY!) Her and Max have x-rated sex, with zero boundaries. Did I mention they are cousins? Yuck! Then Gabe comes into the picture. The fact no one found it disturbing in the family that they were related and getting it on, but actually encouraged it. I think even the author thought I should be rooting for her and Gabe. Then add all the sick Thailand underage sex and sexual innuendos. Why did I finish? Just to see if any of them were killed off. If you are Jackie Collins fan and want to step it up a demented notch this one is for you.
1 This is not a good book to read.  It just isn't interesting and doesn't keep you going on to read more.
5 Agatha Christie serves up mayhem in six well-plotted stories.  Originally released in 1960 at a time when an annual "Christie for Christmas" had become an anticipated tradition for the reading public, the famous author broke with tradition and gave readers a novella length new Poirot tale which was used for the title and combined it with four older Poirot stories and one older Miss Marple story."The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding," according to the author's own foreword, recalls the pleasurable Christmases of her own at her brother-in-law's home (Abney Hall) in the north of England.  Christie was enchanted by huge country house Christmases that included stockings at the bed in the morning, the Church service with all the Christmas hymns, a dinner of gargantuan proportions, presents, and the final Lighting of the Tree.  Even in her older years, this was still a wonderful memory to her so she dedicated this book to the hostess who gave her such fond memories.  In this tale Poirot experiences these same treats as he pursues a red ruby stolen by a young woman who has stolen it and the affections of a prince betrothed to a woman in his own country.  In a secondary plot, the master sleuth also manages to intervene in the romance of his host's granddaughter and avert a practical joke in the form of a mock murder."The Mystery of the Spanish Chest," is a longer version of "The Mystery of the Baghdad Chest," originally published in 1939. In this Poirot and his erstwhile companion Hastings become involved in the murder of a man whose stabbed body is found stuffed inside the elaborate chest of a man rumored to be the lover of the dead man's wife."The Under Dog," originally published in 1951, concerns Lily Margrave, paid companion to Lady Astwell.  She seeks Poirot's help in solving the murder of her employer's husband who has been killed in the tower of his estate.  Though all circumstances point to a nephew who has argued with the deceased, the widow is sure someone else killed her husband."Four and Twenty Blackbirds," originally published in 1950, is the tale of a murder concerning eating habits.  While dining one evening, Poirot notices a lone man whom he discovers has been eating at this restaurant every Tuesday and Thursday night for a decade.  When he learns the diner came in on Monday night the week before, his little gray cells are activated and he is soon on the trail of a murder."The Dream," originally published in 1939, features a reclusive and eccentric millionaire who summons Poirot to his home to interpret his recurring nightmare of committing suicide.  An usual request for the dapper detective, but one which he handles with aplomb."Greenshaw's Folly" had appeared previously in a magazine in 1957 but this is its first publication in book form.  It is also the lone Miss Marple story in this collection.  Raymond West, Miss Marple's novelist nephew, is travelling with a literary critic whose hobby is collecting architectural monstrosities on film.  The two visit Greenshaw's Folly, a hideous Victorian mansion now occupied by Miss Greenshaw, a spinster who is the last of the Greenshaw family. West arranges for his wife's niece to help Miss Greenshaw edit her grandfather's diaries and while doing so, the niece witnesses the brutal murder-by-arrow of Miss Greenshaw.  The gardener, an avid archery buff, is accused, but it will take Miss Marple's acute perceptions of people to solve this murder.
5 This is one of those books that evoke warm, cozy images of a proper English Christmas.  I have owned the hardcover of this book for over a decade and it's a private little Christmas tradition for me.  I read it every year, sometimes several times, and this warm story in the typical Hercule style gets me into the holiday spirit.
5 I can't say enough about how Agatha Christie is the queen of mystery writing.  No matter if you are into the hard-core P.I.'s, the bumbling amateur detectives, the Police dramas or cold hard forensic stories, you still can't touch Agatha Christie for classic mysteries!  This is such a joy to read---especially if you love Hercule Poirot!  I loved this book.
5 another excellent Christie mystery. Her plots are unique and  I have many pleasant moments trying to work out the clues myself but not very successfully. Being a writer myself Christie makes one feel rather amaturish. Her books will be read over and over in the future so I say to all readers Christie will not be beaten.Its a pleasure to read a author who doesn't have to use bad language like so many so called top authors of today.
3 After reading several of Agatha Christie's detective novels, I was somewhat disappointed by this collection of short stories.  While a few of them are clever, the short length of each story is insufficient for the character development that is Christie's hallmark.  The plot tends to be too simple and predictable.
4 Like all Agatha Christie novels, a enjoyable read. I like them as they are easy to follow and keep track of the characters.
3 Disappointed that these were short stories, and not  Agatha's  best. I love her work, but these were a bit too pat.
3 This book came to my Kindle with no problems.  The reason for only three stars is the mere fact that I was expecting a complete book, not short stories.  I suppose it is my fault for not evaluating my purchase in-depthly enough.  However, I did enjoy reading the stories.  And they suit a person well who is not wanting to get involved with a book but still wants to read a good mystery.
4 As usual very high standard of short stories, though not the best in my view (I would rank labour or Hercules as better). The most memorable of these stories is the one about the pudding, which is very fun, though with an overconvoluted plot which would not really occur in real life (.. but again this is fiction right, and the character of Poirot is hardly realistic, which is also what makes him likeable). Note that the last story isn't with Poirot but with Ms Marple: to be honest not my cup of tea, as I much prefer Poirot, but in comparison with almost any crime writers out there, still head and shoulders above today's standards.
5 Old Time Favorite, now on Kindle.Classic Mystery, easy to listen to on kindle.Agatha Christie writes a great story.
4 I enjoyed doing this codeword.  It is an excellent one for both beginners and experts.  I am glad I bought it.
5 I am on number 75 of the 100+ puzzles. It has been great for building memory and reviewing spelling of words. I bought it for myself for Christmas. It is a great alternative to traditional crossword puzzles. Linda Husvar
4 Code Words is a wonderful alternative to crosswork puzzles and sudoku!  I love this book as do the friends and family I have given copies to.  My only comment is that the print is a bit small so for me I had to make sure to wear my reading glasses when working on a puzzle.
5 I am a BIG fan of code words. These can't be found in stores every where. Not quite crossword, not quite sudoku. A game in it's own league! match each letter to the corresponding number from 1-26. Each puzzle has a different number.
5 I love it!!  I play sudoku a lot.  The Codewords mixes it up a little. I's definitely recommend for puzzle lovers!
5 I really enjoy these puzzles.  I wish the book were spiral bound.  It would be easier to keep open.  The puzzles are challenging but not impossible.  These are probably not for a beginning codewords solver.
4 I enjoyed reading Florence and Giles, as much for the atmospheric setting as for the unique voice of the child protagonist. But in the end, I was left a bit unsatisfied due to so many unanswered questions. Also, I felt that the character of Giles&#8212;upon whom the whole narrative revolves&#8212;was underwritten. When he&#8217;d pop in with his wild questions, I found him irritably charming; yet for much of the story he&#8217;s sadly in the background.
5 I'm a little bit obsessed with this book, I will freely admit. It is just such a successfully realised story - so perfectly atmospheric, so filled with mystery, narrated in such a compelling voice - that it was an unparalleled joy to read. The story is inspired by The Turn of The Screw, and reading that first will enhance your appreciation of Florence and Giles but it is not a prerequisite. Florence's idiosyncratic way of speaking may be a little jarring to some people at first, but you quickly become accustomed to it and it really adds to the tone of the story in ways that become clearer as it progresses. It puts you firmly inside Florence's head, and that is a fascinating place to be. I wish the author John Harding would write a sequel to this book because that's a story just aching to be told (at the very least, I'm aching to read it)! All I can say is if you're a fan of gothic mystery and you like fascinating characters and atmosphere, then Florence and Giles is the book for you.
5 I was recommended this book by a friend, and having read the sample I was hooked immediately by the oddly discordant atmosphere evoked by a very particular use of language.The intricate and clever way that Florence uses her words is always understandable but throws a nicely off-key tone into the narrative. We see everything through the lens of her language and it distorts people's actions and events just enough to make them seem strangely unnatural and stilted though the prose itself flows smoothly, having been put together with a beautifully Victorian eye for detail.I won't go into the plot as there are plenty of reviews here that will tell you a bit about it; but this is a superbly uncanny piece with dark Gothic overtones and a finely-judged twist in the end. You might know that something is awry but the nature of the twist still comes as a surprise....I really enjoyed this very unusual jaunt into Victorianesque unease. Fans of "The Yellow Wallpaper" by Charlotte Perkins Gilman should love this - and if you haven't read either, I recommend you do so!JAC
5 I won't go into plot, because I'm afraid I'll give something away, and you can read about it in the publisher's summary.What I loved about this book was the narrative voice. Florence is the narrator and tells the story in her own made-up language, mixing parts of speech -- nouns for verbs, or adjectives, for example. It was just a delight. One of my favorite lines was: I will wasp her picnic!The reader is left wondering who is the 'good' guy and who is the 'bad.' I figured it out fairly quickly, but I was still taken aback by the ending. In a good way, of course.All rather deliciously creepy.
5 A big thank you to Roland Orzabal, for mentioning this book.  It turned out to be one of the most delightful things I've read in a long time.  Florence and Giles is a gothic novel written from the view of an 11 year old girl who cooped up in an old estate finds her escape in the unused library.  There she spends hours reading and educating herself as well as developing her own vernacular, while minding her younger brother of whom she is very fond of.  The first half of the story is really quite charming, until the arrival of the governess, then things get creepy.  The ending really surprised me and I found myself wishing that Mr. Harding would write a part II to this story.  It would be interesting to see how Florence matures and how the events in this story shape her as she grows into adulthood.  If you're looking for something a little different, your search ends with this book!
4 I really enjoyed this one.  Couldn't put it down.  Characters were interesting.  Would like a sequel involving the uncle and his secrets.
5 I can't say enough wonderful things about this novel.  I have a short list of books that have really drawn me "down the rabbit hole" and I was sucked deep into this one.  Every time I picked it up (and I never wanted to put it down, not even to sleep), I was instantly transported to Florence's haunted and chilling world. Descriptive without being overly so, an intriguing and sympathetic main character, a story that grabs from the first page, suspenseful and atmospheric to the max, this novel is everything a true gothic should be. I'm afraid to say more for I don't want to give even one thing away. Trust me, if you love gothics, you don't want to miss this one.
3 Henry James' novella,THE TURN OF THE SCREW(which is included as a freebie in the Kindle edition of this book), is one of those short works whose legacy far exceeds its actual length. The locus classicus of the Unreliable Narrator, this apparently simple ghost story has spawned more divergent interpretations than one would think possible; the essays in theNorton Critical Editionhave close on a dozen of them, and more continue to be written. Only recently, for instance, I read a brilliant short story, "The Governess," in Ron Hansen's collectionSHE LOVES ME NOTthat turns the James novella yet once more on its head. John Harding's FLORENCE AND GILES is less an interpretation than an hommage to James, but it is an explicit one. Alas, while an interesting enough Gothic story in its own right, it has the effect of reducing the James rather than expanding upon it. And it is told in an extraordinary narrative voice that you will either love or hate.Harding keeps many details of the original. The 1890s setting. Two children, looked after by an old housekeeper in a country house, with strict instructions not to bother the children's guardian, their uncle. A governess who mysteriously drowns, and another who comes to take her place. The suspicion that the house may be haunted and that the ghosts have malicious intent towards the children. Overtones of precocious or deviant sexuality. Many of the names are only slightly altered: Bly becomes Blithe House; the housekeeper Mrs. Grose resurfaces as Mrs. Grouse; Flora and Miles, the children, become the Florence and Giles of the title. But Florence is now the older of the two (twelve); it is she who narrates the story, taking on the role that James assigns to his Governess, that of single-handedly battling what she sees as an encroaching evil. Or not quite single-handedly: Harding expands the claustrophobic nature of James' world, giving Florence a patrician tweenage admirer from the house next door, gangling asthmatic Theo Van Hoosier, and several contacts with sharp-eyed Captain Harding from the local police. For by about halfway through the book, most of the spooky ambiguity of the James original has disappeared, and this turns into something more like a conventional Gothic, or even perhaps a crime story, the genres jostling a little uncomfortably. There are times when one wonders whether Florence might be an unreliable narrator also, a crazed pubescent version of the protagonist inTHE YELLOW WALLPAPER(another seminal turn-of-the-century novella), but Harding lacks James' skill in maintaining the necessary balance.And then there is Florence's voice. Here is a sample: "Blithe House is a great barn [...] a house uncomfortabled and shabbied by prudence, a neglect of a place, tightly pursed (my absent uncle having lost interest in it), leaked and rotted and mothed and rusted, coldly draughted, dim lit and crawled with dark corners, so that, even though I have lived here all of my life that I can remember, sometimes, especially on a winter's eve in the fadery of twilight, it shivers me quite." Florence, you see, is an autodidact. Her uncle, believing that women should be pretty but silent, has forbidden her education, so she has betaken herself to the library in secret and taught herself to read. She has been struck by Shakespeare's fondness for coining words, and resolved to imitate him -- which she does, to a degree that starts out stimulating but rapidly becomes annoying. I suspect that Harding intended her oddness in language to reflect oddness in other respects also, and thus to suggest that the ghostly elements may be the hallucinations of Florence's mind. But he is too crude about it; for me, the frisson never took hold. I had hoped to title this review "Another Turn of the Screw," but I'm afraid I shall have to settle for half a turn.
5 Lots of love for this book in our house. My teenage daughter also loved this so much. She cottoned on to solving the mystery at the centre of this story long before I did and actually rang me from where she was reading to talk about it! A complete classic. Why wasn't it in the Booker list?
3 This is a wonderful gothic novel, with all the requisite atmosphere and mystery, and with a protagonist who is wholly original.I adore gothic novels and unreliable narrators and, in this book, we get both. The mood takes over the reader from the very beginning, weaving its spell until we are right there in the 1890s. Florence, our protagonist is a fabulous creation, with a vocabulary all her own and a way of narrating that makes for really fun reading. At first, her sentence structure was a bit jarring, but as the pages passed, and we get used to her voice, we feel like she is speaking just for us, in a highly confidential manner.The story itself is fascinating, with lots of mystery, but I do have to say the ending was disappointing. There were so many plot points left dangling, so many situations that were built up throughout the whole book and then not solved. It was very disappointing. I'm not sure why the author thought the story would be better off without some answers. I realize Florence is an unreliable narrator, but even knowing that, there could have been ways to let the readers know a bit more about what really happened.I did enjoy the book right up to the very end, so it is hard to say it's not worth reading. I don't know. Give it a chance, I suppose, and see what you think.
5 Darwin guessed that descent with modification drove evolution. He was right, even though he was looking through a very dark glass. This picture is not wrong, but seriously incomplete. Darwin would be delighted in finding mechanisms complementing and supplementing his conjecture.This book sums up available evidence for evolutionary change - what the author calls "genomic creativity". They are (a) mutation (the Darwinian conjecture); (b) genetic symbiogenesis (which includes a large contribution from viruses); (c) hybridogenesis; (d) epigenetics. In this view evolution has many causes. Far from occasional and slow, it is relentless. The various sources of creativity may interact, co-evolve, whatever. Nothing is simple, and nothing is mono-causal any more. The balance between change and selection shifts drastically towards change.I only have a regret - the author did not bring into his synthesis exaptation as well. This fundamental mechanism to me fits perfectly into his overall scheme of genomic creativity.The portrait is impressive. Of course, it is work in progress, so we'll see erasures, additions, pentimentoes, and what else. The foremost thing is to see the scope of evolutionary change. This book is a landmark not so much for the novelty, but for having brought so much knowledge together.This book also heralds a novel way of doing science: the meta-researcher has entered the scene. Scientists that plumb the complexity of life seldom have the time, and the ability to bring disparate areas of research together into a coherent mind-map. Preoccupation with the all-important details eats away at the capacity for synthesis. We'll need people who only look at the "big picture". Dr. Ryan is a fore-runner.The most intriguing and arresting part of the book, of course, is the likely role of viruses in evolution. The author's summing up of the state of the art is mind-boggling even if one discounts some of the claims, or puts question marks behind this or that conjecture. To understand the true role of viruses one has to shift from a "Virus-as-parasite" to a "Virus-as-symbiont" worldview. This is far from easy, and I suspect it will take time for many to become comfortable with this alternative way of looking at the vira.Yes, I could have done without the interviews he describes - one wants to learn; for entertainment I'll go elsewhere. Yes, the first couple of chapters are hesitant. Persevere, and you will soon be captivated.One criticism: The subtitle may have been chosen for marketing purposes, but it does the book disservice. Dawkins' "selfish gene" was a non-starter from the beginning. Its success owes more to the prevalent egotistically inclined Zeitgeist than to science. With 20'000 genes altogether in one phenotype, and exposed to an ever changing environment, it takes a lot of abstraction to imagine that one gene will impose its will systematically (the alpha-bully usually ends up on the dust-heap of evolution following the coalition of betas). Of course, this "selection by one gene alone" harks back to Darwin, who was looking at the selection process through the eyes of the pigeon breeder. He could select for just one gene (though he probably did not, for he was aware of the trade-offs between characteristics). In nature the selection game is played as an ever changing team.Alas, Dawkins' "meme" called "selfish gene" has moved into the social sciences, where it is creating havoc worse than smallpox. After "physics envy" we have "gene envy." As for "meme" it is a false analogy. Genes are particulate, and ideas blend. It is ironic, is it not, that Darwin's error in explaining descent is repeated, symmetrically, with regard to the evolution of culture.
5 ...well, you should really read more than one, but if you only read one, let it be this one. For starters, it's a great survey of some of the more complex, and less-discussed avenues of evolution, the genome, and viruses. It focuses on the subtle ways in which DNA mutations come about, with a particular emphasis on symbiosis and the 9 percent of our genome that comes from endogenous retroviruses and also goes into the more mysterious 34 percent of the genome consisting of LINEs and SINEs, some of which are virus-associated. It's very eye-opening and really needs to be read.
5 Virolution is a fascinating read and relative to the world we live in today. With cancer and autoimmune diseases affecting 1 in 20 people in our society I found Virolution to be a viable resource of understanding.Author Frank Ryan is a physician and evolutionary biologist. He pioneered the evolutionary concepts of "viral symbiosis" and "genomic creativity." In Virolution Dr. Ryan explores the evolution of viruses as it relates to the human genome. This is a new concept deriving from the biological discoveries of Darwin.I am not a scientist so I found it interesting to learn that we have just recently discovered the code of the entire human genome. This discovery was released on Sunday February 12, 2001 and scientists were surprised to learn that the human genome is unbelievably simple, only ten times more complex then bacteria. They also discovered large fragments of viruses embedded in the human DNA. This discovery triggered a passion in Dr. Ryan that led him on a ten-year journey of research. Virolution is the product of this research.Virolution is complex yet readable. Frank Ryan truly writes for both the scientific and the non-scientific reader. He makes decoding and understanding the intertwined biological relationships between plants, animals, humans and viruses digestible and interesting. He gives thorough examples of every concept to explain his discoveries and theories. Virolution explores viruses, how they have adapted and mutated to co-exist in the human genome and how this discovery relates to cancer, autoimmune diseases and other incurable conditions that affect the human body.I personally have friends and family living with MS, AIDS, lupus, Alzheimer's, and cancer and two family members lost their battle with cancer this past year. I think it's safe to generalize that the non-scientific population typically looks at these conditions through emotional eyes, with anger and helplessness. I walked away from reading Virolution with knowledge and a sense of reassurance that scientific understanding too is evolving, new discoveries are continually being made and cures to autoimmune diseases and cancer are possible.Jackie MillerCo-Founder AuthorsDen
5 A major thesis of this amazing book is that plants and animals including most significantly humans co-evolve with viruses.  The term "virolution," presumably coined by Dr. Ryan, who is both a physician and an evolutionary biologist, comes from the words "virus" and "evolution" but also suggests the word "revolution."  The idea is that instead of being merely agents of pathology, viruses can also work together with their host to help it survive.  Ryan gives the example of grey squirrels imported from America invading the territory of red squirrels in Britain.  He writes:"At first naturalists assumed that the grey squirrel was winning the survival battle because it was larger and more aggressive than the native counterpart, but now we know that the grey squirrel is carrying a squirrel pox virus that causes no disease symptoms in its symbiotic partner but appears to be lethal to the red squirrel." (p. 96)In other words what we have here is war by an organism's own viral pathogens!  Survival of the fittest may include carrying around lethal viruses that can wipe out your ecological competition.  Ryan notes "We believe that HIV-1, the main virus of AIDS, was transferred to people from a specific group of chimpanzees.  We also know that, in chimpanzees, HIV-1 grows freely and reproduces in their internal organs and tissues, but it causes no evidence of disease." (p. 86)So what apparently happened is some bush meat eaters shot some chimps, ate and/or sold the meat and humans got the virus.  Revenge of the dead chimp!  Well, perhaps.  But look at it this way.  Imagine humans in prehistory or even humans a few centuries ago in the Congo jungle looking to take over some chimp territory.  After some close contact, the virus jumps from the chimps to humans and the humans die.  Survival of the fittest!Ryan refers to this as an example of "aggressive symbiosis," and this is how it works in general: two similar species occupying similar ecological niches come into contact.  Which is to prevail?  One carries a virus like a loaded gun in its tissues.  The virus jumps to the other species and typically is extraordinarily virulent and kills them.  Or perhaps there is a dueling of viruses, one from each species.  At some point the only survivors are those with immunity to the viruses.Ryan makes a further point with this example (quoting Max Essex on the deliberate use of a myxomatosis virus to kill rabbits in Australia): "The...virus killed...some 99.8% of the rabbits.  But then two things happened.  Number one - within four years, the resistant minority grew so you had a different population of disease-resistant rabbits...  And number two - the myxomatosis virus that remained [as a persistent infection in the rabbits] was less virulent, so I think there is crystal-clear evidence that both the host and the virus attenuated themselves for optimal survival in that situation."  Furthermore (and this brings us back to the previous point), any new rabbits brought in would be at a disadvantage because they would have no immunity to the virus and the surviving rabbits would. (pp. 87-88)In other words looked at from an evolutionary perspective, host and virus worked together in a mutualistic symbiosis.  In my mind this raises the question, what really did happen to the Neanderthal?  We do know what happened to the natives of the Americas when they came into contact with the smallpox virus carried by the Europeans.  Could a virus from homo sapiens have wiped out the Neanderthal, or at least helped humans become the sole hominid survivors?In the largest sense, this idea of host and virus working together would seem to be more powerful than any kind of sharp tooth and massive claw in the struggle for survival.  The old idea of survival of the fittest must now be seen in a different light.  I have said for many years that "everything works toward an ecology" and "everything works toward a symbiosis," meaning that in a typical environment, if one species is able to work together with another, they may enjoy an advantage over rivals.  Consequently, those species that are able to form symbiotic relationships are the ones more likely to survive.  What this means for evolutionary theory, as Dr. Ryan has pointed out, is that symbiosis is a much more important part of evolutionary biology than has previously been thought.  My guess is that the revolution begun by Lynn Margulis, who first saw the eukaryotic cell as a mutualistic development from parasitic relationships, will be accelerated by the work of Ryan and others to the point where the prevailing view from evolutionists will be that it is cooperation rather than competition that most characterizes fitness.And that is what makes this book so important.  It signals a great shift in our understanding of how evolution works.But that is not all.  Ryan shows that the so-called "junk DNA" in genomes is anything but.  Much of it is viral ("endogenous retroviruses") and it is there as evidence that humans and pre-humans went through many periods of aggressive symbiosis including the horrid plague stage.  We now see that plagues, from an evolutionary perspective, are common and part of how the evolutionary process formed us.  Furthermore Ryan writes about how viral genes can help with the development of the embryo in the womb.  In other words, viral DNA in part directs the protein building that makes for human beings, and indeed for many forms of life.In the latter parts of the book Ryan explores the role of viruses in autoimmune diseases and cancer.  He also considers the role of hybridization in evolutionary change and that of epigenetics.  Particularly interesting is the work of Eva Jablonka and Marion J. Lamb that suggests that "new species might arise through the inheritance of acquired epigenetic changes," causing Ryan to remark, "they were resurrecting the long-discredited spectre of Lamarckian evolution." (p. 312)The book is dense, difficult and perhaps revolutionary in scope.(Note: this review and many others can be found in my book, "Understanding Evolution and Ourselves," reviews by Dennis Littrell now available on Amazon.)Understanding Evolution and Ourselves
5 This is the second Frank Ryan book I have read and I plan to read all of his writings.  For me, a retired Ph.D. in Agronomy with botany and organic chemistry background, he writes in a very informative manner.  This book is an accumulation of Dr. Ryan's thoughts on the influence of symbiosis, viruses, and epigenetics on evolution.  In many ways it is cutting edge biological science for those with a science background but whose education is a little out of date. Dr. Ryan will point out in this book that mutations and natural selection are not enough to account for the dramatic changes in evolution.  His attempts to show how scientist are showing what has caused these dramatic changes is further covered in his book Metamorphosis.His review of the latest work on viruses makes for very enlightning reading.  Viruses are by many not considered living things.  But, one is hard pressed not to call them living when they are inside their proper host making the host reproduce them in very great numbers.  He will teach you to think of viruses as living things with just a slightly different life cycle than some of the other plants and animals you have been taught about in biology.
2 While  I am very interested in evolution in general and everything that has recently been investigated on the subject, I found this book way too technical. It is not for the general public. Very few scientists are able to popularize their work. Too bad on this one. I haven't even finished it and I am going to pass it on to a friend of mine who is a physician and might be able to undrestand it.
5 This book adds a startling and insightful tool to evolution's bag of tricks. It's very well written and Ryan tells a great story.The "20th century" conception of evolution is (was): It's driven by random mutations and natural selection, and natural selection has the effect of making genes *appear* to be selfish. The last 50 years of research have shown that far from being random, these mutations are systematic, driven by processes like transposition, symbiogenesis and horizontal gene transfer.Virolution adds the systematic behavior of viruses to the mix, showing how they then become symbiotic: That rather than a "host/parasite" relationship, and rather than being purely destructive, organisms use the viruses just as much as the viruses use the organisms. Ryan explains how major organelles (such as a component of the mammalian placenta) evolved in similar fashion - but separately, all of them co-opting code from viruses.He shows how the assumption that endogenous retroviruses were so much evolutionary garbage, i.e. "Junk DNA", caused us to overlook major insights that have critical importance to the study of disease.Virolution adds considerable heft to the theory of symbiogenesis, extending it to a whole new realm. I've read over 100 books on evolution and this one's on my top 10 list. My other faves include Shapiro's "Evolution: a View from the 21st Century," "Acquiring Genomes" by Margulis, "In the Beginning was Information" by Gitt, "The Great Evolution Mystery" by Taylor, "Information Theory, Evolution and the Origin of Life" by Yockey, "A Feeling for the Organism" by Keller, and "Altenberg 16" by Mazur.This book is a major contribution and despite the cover, it doesn't even be deserved to be compared to Dawkins' selfish gene because frankly Dawkins is overrated, being neither as good of a scientist nor as intellectually honest as Ryan. This book illustrates the fact that unabashed, real-world biology is like the TV Series "24": You can never quite imagine what strange twist is coming around the next corner.
5 Frank Ryan skillfully presents complex material in an engaging way. The science is up-to-date, and every chapter presents so many new ideas that the mind reels, in a good way.Here is a brief taste of some of the key ideas presented. There are four creative forces in evolution, creative in that they cause changes to genes or their expression:1) Mutation (this is the only source of variability in what is currently called neo-Darwinism)2) Genetic Symbiogenesis (symbiotic organisms co-evolve, including the transfer of pre-evolved genes from one genome to another)3) Hybridogenesis (hybrids merge their genetic material)4) Epigenetic (changes in gene expression not arising from the genome)The latter three are new ideas that have only been accepted as plausible by the scientific community in the last two decades. We may be seeing a paradigm shift (see KuhnThe Structure of Scientific Revolutions) in progress. Epigenetics is not only a promising field for the treatment of diseases like cancer or MS, it raises the ghost of Lamarck in that it proposes that, sometimes, environmentally acquired changes can be inherited (seeEvolution in Four Dimensions: Genetic, Epigenetic, Behavioral, and Symbolic Variation in the History of Life (Life and Mind: Philosophical Issues in Biology and Psychology)).We can only hope that Dr. Ryan provides us with another such book every few years.
2 The opening chapters were interesting, if somewhat old news, about endogenous retroviruses and their possible roles in directing human evolution. There was interesting background into Darwin and Wallace, DNA discovery, virus epidemics. There were a number of passages that I underlined as interesting. The problems began when large screeds of padding were encountered in the shape of tedious, often seemingly irrelevant, verbatim conversations the author has had with scientists, conference presentations, numerous (irrelevant) references to his previous books, facts about mitochondria and chloroplasts that were revealed decades ago, three chapters on human disease that may be linked to human endogenous retroviruses (HERV), and gene expression mechanisms (with an emphasis on epigenetic means) that appear unrelated to the presence of HERVs.An entire chapter is devoted to epigenetics, which is referred to as the 'Genie'. The author struggles unsuccessfully to find a link between epigenetic gene expression and HERVs. One of the epigenetic mechanisms described, RNA interference, RNAi, is a significant means by which plants destroy invading viruses, yet the author appears not to be familiar with this phenomenon. Is it because it is unrelated to retroviruses?There is very little mention made of the vast majority of non-retroviral viruses that inflict organisms and their contribution to evolution. Sure, many ancient retroviruses reside in our genomes, but the vast majority are inactive and do not appear to be actively expressed. Frank Ryan was not the first person to point this out. The impression I got was the author considers himself as a lone crusader convincing the scientific world that HERVs matter.  The frequently made claim that most biologists are unaware of HERVs and their potential and actual roles is patently incorrect. A quick search on google scholar using the words "human endogenous retrovirus" gave ~15,000 hits on this subject published in 2010 and 2011 alone.The author is not a virologist. He describes himself as a consultant physician. His research specialty is nutrition and gastroenterology, which might explain some of the obvious omissions in the book. The main message of the book, that HERVs played a role in human evolution could have been eloquently explained in one chapter. But one chapter a book does not make! The rest is padding, most irrelevant to the title, but nevertheless of possible interest to the lay reader. Virolution's main contribution is to cobble together some of the information on this topic and to present it quite lucidly. It's failing is what is missing. It is certainly not in the ballpark of the most important book since Dawkin's Selfish Gene!
5 I've read this book three times already and have found out something new everytime. It was more than I expected from some one who wasnt the artist. Best bio about britney so far... My advice would be to go to your nearest book store and buy it.
4 If your a Britney fan, this is a good read.  I've not read anything about her before, so it provided a good background on all she went through to get to were she is today.  Makes me want to cheer her on all the more.
3 I enjoyed this book because I love Britney, so I was really interested in this book from start to finish. The author gives interesting insight on Britney's mental health issues with the help of a psychologist. He also shed some light on Britney's home life and I appreciated a glimpse into the difficult home situation she grew up in. One thing that bugged me is the author made some basic mistakes such as confusing which songs were in which albums; they were just basic mistakes that any Britney fan would notice. After reading the book, I watched some of Britney's interviews/performances through the years on youtube and realized much of his information was simply regurgitated information you could easily find doing a youtube search. I think I was hoping for more of a personal touch - I understand he was unable to name most of his sources, but being unable to do so caused information to sound like heresay and less reliable. This book will give you an appreciation for the work Britney has done. Her behavior at times made me lose all respect for her and other times, feel sorry for her. In the end, I just wanted her to be safe and find healing... and obviously keep making music!!
5 It&#8217;s fitting, in some respects, that one of Britney Spears&#8217; hits is called &#8220;Piece of Me&#8221;. Everyone, it seems, wants a piece of Britney, whether it&#8217;s in the form of a news story to accompany their morning coffee, or a familiar tune on the radio during their drive to work. It&#8217;s a sad comment, perhaps, on the modern obsession with celebrity, and on what happens when a person is sold as a product. Most of Britney&#8217;s life, she has been at the centre of a &#8220;circus&#8221; (another eerily appropriate name for one of her records). And I suppose that, in buying and reading this book, I became part of that circus. (I read it for research purposes, if that makes it any better. Yes, research. That&#8217;s my story, and I&#8217;m sticking with it...)Behind that circus, though &#8211; behind the miles of column inches, the photographs, the performances, the constant stream of stories that set the internet alight &#8211; is a real person. What do we know of that person? The obvious answer is, &#8220;Not much.&#8221; Steve Dennis&#8217;s biography is probably as good a place to look as any for those in search of answers, though of course one can always question how close a biographer gets to capturing his subject. The closer the scrutiny applied to an iconic figure, the more nebulous they become. Britney is no exception in this respect.Dennis tells a rather sad (and sympathetic) story of a good-natured girl from America&#8217;s Deep South, who dreamed of and &#8211; almost incredibly &#8211; achieved stardom. There was nothing in Britney&#8217;s past to suggest that she was destined to become a star. Yes, she was talented; but so are many others, most of whom are bound only for anonymity. The odds were certainly against Britney. She was born into obscurity. Her family circumstances were far from ideal, her childhood blighted by those banal misfortunes of warring parents, poverty, and drink. But, thanks to her own inner drive &#8211; that, and a mother who was either supportive or pushy, depending on your interpretation &#8211; Britney found the fame she craved, first as a &#8220;Mouseketeer&#8221; and then as a pop icon. But what did she lose in the process?It&#8217;s impossible to read this biography and not feel at least a smidgeon of sympathy for Britney. She might have been the architect of many of her own misfortunes, but you have to wonder how much better anyone could realistically have handled her situation. Not many people are thrust into the middle of a media firestorm at the age of sixteen; Britney was, perhaps, spectacularly ill-suited to the experience in many ways. Sceptics are probably partly right in considering the young Britney &#8211; the sweet-natured, doe-eyed, God-fearing Baptist girl &#8211; as being a cynical commercial creation. Partly, but not entirely: as Dennis convincingly argues, that was to some extent the reality. And how Britney was betrayed &#8211; it&#8217;s unlikely that any of the moguls, executives, managers, or media types who surrounded her ever had her best interests at heart. An intriguing, if sad, story.
5 Fantastic write-up on the always intriguing Britney Spears. Dennis really gives us both sides of the story, never making anybody, including Britney the victim or even the villain. You can tell he truly did his research because he left no stone unturned - from her childhood to pop stardom. I've been a fan of Ms. Spears since I was a little girl when her career took off in 1999 with "Baby One More Time," so for me, this was a compelling read. I was lost in her world and have a new appreciation for what she went through and is still struggling with today. After this read, I'm rooting for Britney and wish her nothing but happiness in life.
3 As with Ms Parris' first Giordano Bruno novel, Heresy, I very much enjoyed the journey of discovery in which we join our hero.  The techniques Ms Parris uses to unravel Prophecy's plot - taking the reader into dead ends and wrong turns as the story progresses - is fantastic.That said, I found Prophecy to be a little less rich than Heresy in terms of losing myself in the 16th Century setting.  The angst of our Italian protagonist is very much on display in the midst of Londoners suspicious of any foreigner, but this one just didn't hold my attention the same way as the first book did.  Also, we see Ms Parris struggle to keep "Hollywood" silliness out of the ending of the book.  She didn't completely succeed, but the implausible escapes and chases were a small part of the overall work.A solid mystery: enjoyable characters, nicely written and paced...  I'll read her 3rd book - whatever it is.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed S J Parris' first novel, Heresy, likening it to a Tudor Inspector Morse tale, and was delighted to be offered the chance to review a pre-publication copy of this second story starring the same protagonists.In this story the heretical monk, Giordano Bruno, is back at the French Embassy in Elizabethan London, where he is drawn rapidly into both a catholic conspiracy to invade England, and a related murder mystery when two of the queen's ladies in waiting meet very sticky ends.The style is very similar to the first book, with Bruno trying to both uncover the truths about the murders, and navigate complex relationships with the other characters. The tale is again told in the first person, but here it makes a bit more sense as you get to understand Bruno's concerns, guilt and frustrations, and the motivation for some of his deeds.I loved the period detail, particularly the descriptions of Elizabethan versions of well-known London locations. In this book Parris also makes much more use of actual events and personalities, such as Francis Walsingham, William Cecil and John Dee. I could almost hear some of the dialogue being spoken by Geoffrey Rush and Richard Attenborough.The story is a real page-turner with a steady pace which kept my attention right to the end. However, if I have a slight criticism, it's that some plot twists, such as the murderer's identity, seemed to be signalled very early, while at other times key actions were taken by characters who had not been introduced.These are minor failings, and overall this is a very enjoyable romp. I look forwards to Bruno's next outing.
3 Set in 1583 in Queen Elizabeth's middle years on the throne, "Prophecy" deals with the continuing plots to replace her with Mary Queen of Scots and restore Catholicism as the state religion of England.  Author S.J. Parris comes up with some original storyline and characters to breathe new life into this otherwise well-plowed historical ground.Her protagonist, Bruno Giordano, is an Italian philosopher, excommunicated Catholic and sometime sleuth who has become an employee of Frances Waslingham, the Queen's Secretary and chief spy/national security enforcer.  Giordano finds himself in the middle of a set of killings that appear linked to the ongoing efforts to bring Mary Queen of Scots to the English throne.  The storyline is heavily endowed with the trappings of 16th Century astrology and mysticism that gets a little much at times, but lends some interest to the otherwise fairly standard story.If you are a fan of the genre, you will probably find this novel fairly decent.  I liked it better than the third book in the series, "Sacrilege".
3 In a previous life, even before my nursing career, I majored in history.  I still love a novel that immerses me in the past, and Elizabethan England remains a favorite time period, so it was with great to dive right in, thanks to the Early Review program at Library Thing and the generosity of the publisher.There were so many unexpected things that delighted me about this book.  I'm not even going to include good plot and good writing, even though it had both.  Firstly, Giordano Bruno is a real historical character, who was a Italian Dominican friar, philosopher, mathematician, astronomer and was excommunicated for a couple of those things.  But historically, he is fascinating.  Normally, I cringe at books that incorporate real people into novels, but the author was tactful and skillful, keeping her story believable.  Elizabeth Regina appears only in the periphery, but other historical greats do show up, within context.Astronomy a topic oft discussed in our household, and while we only give so much credence to Saturn in Retrograde, the idea of the conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn in alignment, playing a significant part in the book, was of interest, as was the looming collision of those those two other stars, Elizabeth I and Mary, Queen of Scots.The mention of William Byrd and his music was also coincidental.  I'm in a choir which just performed his astonishingly beautiful Mass for four voices.  The mention of Byrd, who was Catholic in a time when people lost their heads for such things, and the interplay of the conflict between the two churches added another element to the mix.Though this was the second book in a series, I didn't feel out of my depth jumping in.  Enough back story was alluded to so that I wasn't lost, but neither was the earlier book spoiled should I decide to read it.  It was not fast-paced, like a modern thriller, but the details were exquisite.
3 I'm not usually one to pick up a historical novel, even if there's a good murder mystery involved, but this book description peaked my interest with the words "black magic" and "sinister". Unfortunately, the author didn't delve into the black magic aspect very often, but when she did, it was fantastic. She really has a way of capturing the dark side of this story, but the passages are very sporadic. The author mostly loaded Prophecy with historical figures that I didn't understand the significance of - you really must know your history to comprehend this book, otherwise it doesn't make much sense at all. I did thoroughly enjoy the author's establishment of the setting and the intricate detail used to pull the reader into the novel, though. The darker portions were definitely more engrossing, but the entire novel was very well written.Overall, I got what I asked for with this novel. It was interesting, but too historical for me. I don't like having to Google every name I come across because the author expects the reader to know what she's talking about. This would be a great book for a history buff.Reviewed by Brittany for Book Sake.
5 Interesting, in depth view of 16th Century England and its Court intrigues and religious struggles between Protestant, Catholic, spiritual factions, as well as a view of some notable historical characters and events..
5 The central character, Giordano Bruno is a well crafted as are the subsidiary characters . The plot captures the feel of the times, double crosses galore. The historical characters match my expectations of them. Loved it!
4 Picking up a few months after Heresy left off, Prophecy is another great murder mystery/thriller starring Giordano Bruno as our unlikely detective and spy all rolled up into one.  Rather than being set in a more remote location like Heresy, this one takes place primarily in London and is more directly involved with the court of Elizabeth I.Unlike a lot of historical fiction, this one has nearly no romance and is primarily about finding the murderer of Cecily Ashe, as well as trying to uncover the latest plot to overthrow Elizabeth and restore Mary Stuart to the throne.  Are the two things related?  Is it mere coincidence that they happened at the same time?I really liked that although Elizabeth is in this book, and there are some discussions surrounding her unwillingness to marry and the men involved in that stuff, this book isn't really about her.  Not in the typical sense anyway.  Which makes for an interesting story - things are all about saving the Queen and her throne.  I like anything that brings up Sir Francis Walsingham as well, so it was all around enjoyable for me.This book also does a great job of making you think your main characters are in some actual danger, even though you can take a step back and realize that because these are all genuine historical figures, they have their own fates not included in this particular story.  There were several occasions when I thought, "How on earth is Bruno going to get out of this one?"  It's quite the ride to see how that actually pans out.There are some references to the previous book, but really, you don't have to have read it to understand what is going on in this one, which I also liked.  A series where the individual books can stand on their own is always good fun!  I would say that this is a better book than Heresy was, so you may want to read that one first just for the context in terms of this particular author.Overall, it's a fun read and I think nearly everyone will enjoy it!
3 the main character is not any kind of detective. He runs around aimlessly through most of the book with no clue.
5 In 1583 Giordano Bruno, excommunicated monk, esoteric scholar, and reluctant detective, finds himself deep in a mystery involving two queens and their two factions who will stop at nothing to bring one of them to power and keep the other in power. Queen Elizabeth I sits on the throne of England, but for how long? There are those who are ready to murder anyone who stands in their way to make Mary, Queen of Scots, the next Queen and bring Catholicism back to the monarchy.Up in the sky the planets Jupiter and Saturn are on course for a once in a millennium alignment that portends great changes. In London, Bruno finds himself, once again, following the orders of Sir Francis Walsingham who has unwittingly placed in him in a precarious, and deadly, situation. Ostensibly in London as a spy in the household of the French ambassador, it's not long before he is called upon to investigate the death of one of the Queen's maids of honor. The machinations behind the murder lead Bruno in one direction and back again as he uncovers clues and secrets to who is behind the murder. Soon, however, he finds himself faced with the death of another young girl and the opposition ratchets up their efforts to keep Bruno from discovering who killed the young girls. There is more to keep him busy - as he listens to the odd ramblings of John Dee, astrologer to the Queen, he finds himself defending Dee's prophecies from those loyal to Mary and looking over his shoulder as those that deem astrology and prophecy as heresies plot to make Bruno the next victim.He has not forgotten his quest to find the one book that holds the secrets to becoming 'god' that began in the first book of the series, "Heresy" and he feels as though his search may be closer than ever. Now he must determine who he can trust and who will see him dead before his search ends. Secret societies and the misguided faithful are both determined to keep those secrets away from Bruno and anyone who seeks them."Prophecy" is well-written with engaging characters and a steady plot. The mystery unwinds in such a way that the person behind the murders may be the last person you suspect. The historical aspects of the novel are intriguing and provide a fascinating look at 16th century England and the political and religious schemes in place to disrupt the monarchy. As with the first novel, Giordano Bruno is a resourceful, clever, and unafraid to seek the truth, even if it puts him in mortal danger. Highly recommended for anyone who loves historical mysteries.
4 Set in 1583, "Prophecy," by S. J. Parris, explores the conflict between the followers of Elizabeth I and those who favor her cousin, Mary Stuart.  Elizabeth, a Protestant, and Mary, a fervent Catholic, each claims to be the rightful heir to the Tudor throne.  Various courtiers take sides and devise schemes to settle the dispute by whatever means necessary.The novel's protagonist and first-person narrator is former monk, cosmologist, philosopher, and writer, Giordano Bruno, whose patron is King Henry III of France.  Bruno is staying in Salisbury Court under the protection of the French ambassador to England, Michel de Castelnau.  Secretly, however, Bruno's loyalties lie with Elizabeth Tudor.  In fact,he is employed by the queen's spymaster, Sir Francis Walsingham, to dig up information that would be useful to Her Majesty.Parris effectively capturs the huge divide between the warring factions.  The situation is made even more volatile by the threatened intervention of French and Spanish Catholics.  Ms. Parris also touches on the obsession of certain learned men with portents and arcane lore.  Bruno, as well as Elizabeth's astrologer, John Dee ("the most learned man in England"), are eager to get their hands on a much sought-after book that could impart vast knowledge and power to its owner.Unlike "Heresy," which had a juicy and engaging plot, "Prophecy" generates few sparks.  It is sluggishly paced, the byzantine plot is cumbersome, and the cast of characters, rather unwieldy.  Bruno behaves like a bull in a china shop; he lacks the subtlety and shrewdness of an effective spy.  He meets people in taverns (not the best way to avoid being noticed), and is generally clueless about what is going on under his nose.  It is not surprising that he is targeted by a killer who has already claimed several victims.  Although "Prophecy" is not particularly suspenseful, the author deserves high marks for her splendid period detail, vivid descriptive writing, and realistic evocation of a time when civil war between Catholics and Protestants seemed inevitable.
4 I was began reading this book because of the references to Hermes teachings and the Kyballion which I found fascinating.Also, The story itself kept my interest and intriguing and I will read any follow-on books about the the main character.
5 S.J. PARRIS' "PROPHECY" (A REVIEW)This is a great 'who-done-it' book that employs vast elements of history as well as the dark side of the occult. When young women of the court begin to turn up dead in deplorable ways and marked with the symbols of an ancient prophecy it is up to Giordano Bruno, a renegade monk, to try and figure out who the culprit is.I thoroughly enjoyed this book being a lover of history as well as the fact that Queen Elizabeth is one of my utmost favorite historical figures. S.J. Parris is a wonderful novelist who seems to have a knack for drawing the reader in and keeping them secured firmly in place until the very end. Definitely pick up this book!-Kitty Bullard / Great Minds Think Aloud Book ClubRead more:
4 Giordano Bruno is an excommunicated Catholic monk now living with the French ambassador to Queen Elizabeth's court.  When one of Elizabeth's maids is found murdered, Giordano becomes involved in the investigation, although he'd much rather be working on his writing and philosophy.The time of Elizabeth was a time of portents, omens, predictions, and astrological signs that some people appear to be using to their own ends - that end being the ouster of Elizabeth to be replaced by Mary Stuart.  Giordano is an utterly likeable character as well, very smart and moral.  I like the fact that he feels a bit of remorse for not being able to tell some of the people he considers friends the truth about his alliances, since quite a few of them would like to see Mary Stuart put on the throne and the return of Catholicism as THE religion of the English.I have a soft spot for historical fiction, but an even softer one for well-researched historical fiction, and Prophecy definitely qualifies.  The fact that it is a mystery as well makes it even better.  Although it is the second in a series (the first is Heresy), I think that this sequel does a wonderful job as a stand-alone (but it still really makes me want to get Heresy on my shelf as well).  There are some references to events that happened in the first novel, but they work well as background filler without making the reader feel as though they don't have a good understanding of what is going on.I've seen a couple of reviews where the reader says they knew who the "bad guy" was almost as soon as they "met" him/her in the pages - well, I didn't.  I had some suspicions .. and I was totally surprised by a turn near the end - and in the meantime, I enjoyed the twists, turns, intrigue and suspense.  This was a very enjoyable read for me, and if you like good historical fiction combined with intrigue and mystery, it will be a very enjoyable read for you too!QUOTES"You had better take care, Bruno," he says eventually, when it becomes clear that I am not going to respond.  "The reputation you enjoyed in Paris as a black magician already begins to spread in whispers through the English court." He gestures at the people around us.For a moment I consider the path set out for a young woman of noble birth:  how briefly she is allowed to shine, to be publicly paraded and admired among her own kind, for precisely as long as it takes to find her a suitable husband.  Her wedding day is the zenith of her short flowering; after that she is expected to fade again into the background, to cover her hair and content herself with the reflected glory of her husband and children.Writing:  4 out of 5 starsPlot:  4 out of 5 starsCharacters:  3.5 out of 5 starsReading Immersion:  4 out 5 starsBOOK RATING:  3.8 out of 5 stars
4 The second book in the Giordano Bruno series is set in 1583 and finds the Italian heretic and former monk, Bruno, ensconced in the French Ambassador's residence in London, where plots against Queen Elizabeth's throne fly thick and fast. Still working for the spymaster and queen's secretary, Sir Francis Walsingham, Bruno keeps his ear to the ground, discovering unlawful correspondence and Catholic conspirators everywhere he turns... Or are they? Told to rely on another of Walsingham's men, Fowler, for help, Bruno finds himself reluctant to share information. On the one hand, he is uncertain just who is inciting treason and who isn't and wants to be sure before he accuses, on the other, he wants to deliver the culprit to justice himself. At the same time, celestial events are attracting a great deal of attention and Bruno is drawn into Her Majesty's conjurer, Dr John Dee's, strange practices, and the notion that a prophecy that predicts the downfall of the queen draws nigh.As the book opens, however, Bruno's position as both spy for Walsingham and member of the Ambassador&#8217;s household, becomes even more complicated when a young woman and one of the queen's lady's is found ritualistically murdered in the palace. The way her body has been displayed indicates not only occult involvement, but connections to the French Ambassador's home and Dee's predictions. As the body count grows and the signs point more overtly towards the French and the fulfillment of a prophecy, Bruno knows he has to act. But just as Bruno watches those who he suspects of terrible intentions, there are those who watch him and will stop at nothing to make sure their plans succeed.Parris has really done her homework here, using known events and a documented conspiracy as a backdrop for this exciting, fast-paced novel. Just as Bruno is a real historical figure, so too are most of the characters, the plots and the correspondence that&#8217;s used in the tale. That a mole working for Walsingham dwelled in the French Ambassador's residence throughout this period is also known. Going by the name Henry Fagot, he did indeed alert Walsingham and thus Cecil to the dire goings on and plans between the French, Scots and even the Spainards, providing invaluable information. While Fagot's real identity is unknown, Parris clearly inserts Bruno in this role (and some historians believe it could well have been him) and it works wonderfully well.A highly superstitious era that both loved and feared all things prophecy and magic (both were illegal as well), Parris weaves the precarious position of Dr Dee and the gruesome murders into her tale to create a tense and forbidding atmosphere where shadows, double-speak, ciphers, codes and mists rule. Nothing and no one is as they seem and it's against this backdrop that Bruno must solve the murders and uncover the truth of the plots against the crown.The French Ambassador had a reputation as a fine host whose table not only provided fine food but scintillating conversation, something Bruno particularly was expected to provide. It's no surprise then that Parris dedicates quite a bit of the story to table conversations, recreating the dangerous and witty repartee with flair, and recreating the religious schisms, strange beliefs and fears and cunning of desperate men and women. Not only that, Parris breathes life, ghostly, smelly, exciting, deadly, into Elizabethan London as well, making it is as much a character in the novel as Bruno.A terrific novel that any lover of mysteries, crime, and historical fiction will appreciate.
5 Prophecy by S.J. Parris is positive proof that the author's earlier novel, Heresy was no fluke.  As in her first work, Parris takes an intriguing premise, this time the 1583 Conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn (which occur only once every 1,000 years or so) and lets it be the springboard for mayhem and intrigue.  To fervid Catholics the Great Conjunction heralds the dawn of a new era, one without Elizabeth and one they will go to almost any length to realize.Giordano Bruno the monk, turned philosopher, turned spy,  is once again enormously appealing and sympathetic.  Some have complained that emotion and personal dislikes affect his opinion.  For me this only makes him more believable and intriguing. Who doesn't let their personal opinions impact their judgment?  And what man doesn't sometimes think with his nether regions?  In addition to an intricate but thoroughly plausible plot, Parris has fashioned a hero that is a humanist, humane and very very human.In addition to the complex plotting and twists galore, the depiction of Bruno is most effective--even touching.  His escape from the Inquisition and the necessity of making his mark in a Protestant country have not diminished his ethics and the twinges of shame for his betrayal of his sponsors Henri of France and his ambassador to England.  Admirably he recognizes these flaws, but realistically his ambition and desire to make his mark will trump  all compunctions.With both Heresy and Prophecy I have managed to be half right guessing Parris' villain(s).  Perhaps her third will be my charm, but whether I do or not it will not diminish the tremendous appeal of this terrific series.
3 1583 is the year of the Great Conjunction of Jupiter and Venus, prophesied to be the moment of Queen Elizabeth&#8217;s downfall. Now in London following his perilous adventure in Oxford (Heresy), Giordano Bruno is residing in the household of the French ambassador, planted there by Walsingham to learn information about attempts to restore Mary Stuart to the throne, and Catholicism to England, via intervention from the Duke de Guise of France. There is much apocalyptic angst among the populace, stirred up by the many pamphleteers hawking mystical versions of what is to come. When two Maids of Honor are viciously murdered, with strange signs carved into their flesh, the court is thrown into great consternation and dread. Bruno is charged with discovering who might be behind these crimes, which are considered treasonous. Soon he is himself in great danger, knowing not how to distinguish friend from foe, and he fears that Elizabeth herself is indeed the target.Prophecy unfolds at a very stately pace, with Bruno spending much time contemplating and concocting theories. During this too-lengthy sequence, Parris does a creditable job of evoking the spirit and conflicts of the times and the maze that was London. It is not until the final quarter of the novel that the real action begins, and when it finally arrives, the conclusion is rapid, almost forced. The true culprits emerge as something of a surprise, and there are enough ends left untied to merit a sequel. Heresy, book 1 in this series, served as a fine intro to the engaging, down to earth, sometimes hapless character, Bruno, and his exploits; let&#8217;s hope the third one moves along at as brisk a pace as the first.
3 I am struggling to finish it . I do not know if I will. The story is good, the historical ambientation also good but the wording....it is not attractive to me.Regards.
4 This is a beautifully written, historical fiction thriller that takes place during the rule of Queen Elizabeth and in her court.  If you are a fan of this era and know a bit about the whispers of occult and astrology that occurred during her reign, you are really going to enjoy this story of conspiracy and mystery.  This is probably one of my favorite time periods to read about since it truly was an age of discovery and that these ideas were often described as heresy and treason.  Yet, in the world of the ruling class, they were quietly relied upon.  When there is a murder of the queen's ladies, Elizabeth calls in her astrologer and a former monk named Bruno to help solve the murders. Bruno first appears as an investigator and spy for the French King Henri in Parris' first book, Heresy.  The story also touches upon the rivalry and conspiracy of Queens Mary and Elizabeth.The second half of the book really moves the plot forward and will have you guessing about who is behind the murderous plot and the loyalty of Queen Elizabeth to her trusted companions which may prove to not be in her best interest.  I think my favorite part of the whole story is the word play and dialogue of Bruno which is so much fun to read.  There is at times an overwhelming amount of historical detail which I find fascinating, but might bog down other readers.  The ending caught me completely by surprise and I will now have to go back and read Heresy since I enjoyed this one so much.
5 As I am new to the amazing yet flawed character of Bruno, I have to say that I was so impressed with this book that I of course will be buying the first story in the series and will move on to the third straight after. This really is a good book.Giordano Bruno, an intellectual, wit, one of those jack-of-all-sciences philosophers, and of course disgraced and de-frocked former cleric is a refreshingly realistic character. He finds solace in the court of King Henri in France and then through that finds himself living and working in England in the French Ambassador's offices and residence, the trouble is, his work is mainly for Queen Elizabeth's infamous yet brilliant chief spy-catcher / head of security, Sir Francis Walsingham.It is through his double agent status of sorts, we find that (and it is a good history lesson) the Scottish camps, along with the French and (to a lesser degree) the Spanish, are, during the Elizabethan era, tolerated far more than many books and films would have us believe. The Queen, Burleigh, Walsingham, Leicester and others, want to prolong peace, and are not chomping at the bit to run the cannons out and charge with Pikes. Bruno, although reporting to Walsingham regularly with reports, especially if plots and treason are afoot, rumoured or actual, finds himself in attendance, officially and cordially, in all camps, both at the same time on several occasions and as long as peace is achieved, no matter how strained, then all, including Bruno, are happy. However, factions within factions within factions complicate this and brings renewed tension and suspicions within the English court. Murders of court ladies, with veiled symobolic threats etched onto their bodies while still warm; a secret meeting at the French Embassy where Bruno is so trusted that he hears straight out plans to whip up rebellion aided by the French and perhaps Spanish forces, rings a warning bell, and Bruno has to pitch himself straight in at the deep end, not only to aid the investigation into the murders, but to walk that thin line between continuing to feign loyalty to his unwitting diplomatic hosts, and his true employers and protectors, Queen Elizabeth, Walsingham, and England.What really makes this book so great is, Bruno, despite his secret position and the duties and actions that may well be demanded of him, is no medieval James Bond, and is not an Elizabethan equivalent of a member of the SAS. He has no special gifts in armed combat, does not know how to prevent being tailed effectively, and nor is he all-seeing all-knowing, and frequently is wrong in his beliefs, assumptions or guesses, but he is only ever outwitted for so long and the pennies do eventually drop. So he is at least tenacious, and despite his erroneous conclusions, is still far far more brighter than most. What further complicates things is, he is proud, mildly arrogant, too-willing to please superiors with advancement in mind, but, and I know you wouldn't think so, he still comes across in modern terms as 'a good bloke'.There is also humour, mainly bawdy humour but never over done. I really laughed out loud when Bruno and Marie are disturbed, you will too.One odd thing I noticed in another review : apparently, SJ Parris has captured Elizabethan dialect / vernacular, idioms to great effect - odd this, as she has done no such thing. SJ has not tried to recreate this aspect at all, and the book is totally the better for it. The characters talk, shout, yell and swear, as we do now, not a thee thy thou in sight, no one says verily forsooth or any such thing; again, the modern approach to this aids not mars.All in all, one of the best books I have ever read. Well done SJ Parris.
3 I enjoyed this second historical mystery with Doctor Giordano Bruno, heretic-in-exile, scholar, former monk and now agent in the service of Walsingham, spymaster to Queen Elizabeth. It was well-researched, exciting (for the most part, more on that in a moment), and brought the Elizabethan Age to life as promised in the promo blurbs above; I could smell the Thames, see the extravagant finery of the courtiers, etc., etc. As I noted in my review of "Heresy", the author's first mystery featuring Bruno, Parris has made a brilliant, funny, passionate, very human and likable character out of her hero, a real historical figure; you sense his isolation in an England very suspicious of foreigners. Bruno longs for home and friends he can trust and the chance to pursue his studies without fear of charges of sorcery, heresy or treason; he also longs for female companionship, a desire that often seems to lead this former monk into danger.I find Bruno an appealing character for all of those reasons, but I still have the same problem with the author's pacing as in the first book - by the last quarter of the book my interest was flagging and I found myself skimming. As others have noted here it was partly trying to keep up with the Byzantine machinations of the conspirators for and against the queen, but as a fan of C.J. Sansom's outstanding Matthew Shardlake series set in the viper pit of Henry the VIIII's court, I know that such intricate details can be handled flawlessly in the right hands and actually ratchet up the conflict and intrigue. I also became irritated with Bruno's rather blind charging around, missing some rather obvious red herrings (no spoilers, I promise!), and leading with his heart (and other parts of his anatomy) rather than his supposedly brilliant head - inconsistent, I felt. So despite a promising start and keeping my interest longer than the first book of the series did, still an "okay plus" book for me, hence the 3.5 stars.
3 If you're a fan of Parris' Heresy with Doctor Giordano Bruno in the lead, then I don't think you're going to be disappointed one little bit.  It's 1583 and the "Great Conjunction" of the two most powerful planets aligning is about to take place and as if that wasn't enough to rattle the people of England,  the Catholics and the Protestants are at war over the throne of England.It's into that world of upheaval that Parris places Bruno this second time.  I think Parris writes a fine and well researched historical mystery. While a maid is found murdered, I thought is was more the story of Elizabeth and her cousin Mary Stuart, as each of them claimed to be the heir to the Tudor throne. History tells us the fates of these women and their courtiers, but Parris tells a remarkable, enjoyable and very readable story.My only concern or gripe, if you will, is that I found the third act a bit slow. I found myself skimming ahead to get to the ending. In retrospect, I'm not sure if it was because I wanted to see how Parris wrapped up Prophecy or if I thought the book to be a bit long. Maybe a little of both.BUT since these are pretty much my only issues, then this is good mystery, a good story and a good piece of historical fiction. I do recommend S.J. Parris' Prophecy, and hope you enjoy it too!I give Prophecy 3 stars out of 5.This ARC was sent to me by the publisher and in no way affected my review or thoughts about this book.
4 Parris develops a good mystery.  Her characters are well rounded.  I like the way she constructs the historical period, making it blend into the plot without becoming a character in its own right.  I am happy to recommend it.
4 Threats to Queen Elizabeth's reign continue to preoccupy 16th-century philosopher Giordano Bruno in "Prophecy," S. J. Parris' followup to series opener "Heresy," which introduced Parris' eminently likable protagonist, an ex-monk who fled Italy, settled in England and found himself working for Elizabeth's spymaster.But this time, plots against the queen take on added urgency, moving into the royal household, and thus very close to Elizabeth herself.Fresh from his investigation in "Heresy" of rumors that Oxford University's Catholics were scheming against the Protestant monarch, Bruno now finds himself probing the murder of Cecily Ashe, one of the queen's ladies.Ashe is found dead at court while dressed in a man's clothing, clutching a Catholic rosary in one hand and an effigy of the queen in the other, complete with a pin stuck into the doll's heart.Rumors abound that Ashe was killed, not by an intruder, but by someone within the queen's circle, raising fears that the queen herself is in danger if the killer, presumed to be part of a Catholic conspiracy, strikes again.Clues seem to link Ashe's death to a dark prophecy tied to a rare alignment of the planets Saturn and Jupiter, which is widely interpreted throughout the land as a sign that Elizabeth will be deposed - or even murdered - and Catholicism restored in the realm.The subsequent murder of a second maid to the queen sends her top advisers into a frenzy, placing added pressure on Bruno to solve the crimes while maintaining his increasingly awkward cover as a visiting scholar living with the French ambassador and his family in London, as a guest of the king of France.Bruno's status becomes increasingly tenuous as talk of a joint French-Spanish invasion of England intensifies. France's King Henri III, whom Bruno befriended while living in Paris, does not seem to support an invasion, but some powerful French nobles do. So do the scheming wife of the French ambassador and influential English Catholic noblemen who view Elizabeth as a heretic and a usurper.Even as Bruno rubs elbows with the conspirators at the French embassy, he secretly maintains his newfound allegiance to the Virgin Queen, whom he views as being more tolerant than the repressive regimes of Catholic Europe.Coupling his investigation of the murders with his work as an English spy in the French embassy, Bruno tries to ferret out details of the ties between Elizabeth's French and Spanish foes and Mary, Queen of Scots, whom at least some of the conspirators want to place on the English throne.But even in this world of hidden alliances and treasonous activities, all is not as it seems, and readers share Bruno's confusion as he tries to finger the right suspect in the murders. He - and we - stumble down one blind alley after another, all while Bruno fends off would-be assassins in the foggy streets, elaborate mansions and tawdry taverns of London."Prophecy" is a taut, well-paced historical thriller that captures the glory, the danger, the superstitions and the xenophobia of Elizabethan England, where the ever-suspicious locals view visitors, Bruno included, as potential spies who may well be in thrall to England's enemies."They regard all foreigners - especially those of us with dark eyes and beards - as Spanish papists come to murder them in their beds," Bruno says. Little do they know that this excommunicated renegade intellectual may well hold the key to saving the life of their beloved queen.
4 A well written story with a compelling premise and an interesting lead character.  You don't want to put it down for fear of missing something.
4 I skipped to the second in a series of historical thrillers set in the Renaissance featuring Giordano Bruno, an Italian monk excommunicated for heresy. You do not need to have read the first, Heresy, to enjoy Prophecy by S.J. Parris.By the time Prophecy starts, Bruno has already been excommunicated and is now in Elizabethan England working as a spy in the midst of the secret enclaves of Papists. Rumors of a plot to overthrow, even murder, Queen Elizabeth and install the Catholic Mary Stuart are brewing. Who are these plotters? The French, the Spanish, the Scots, even dissatisfied Englishmen all have their separate schemes. No one in court is to be trusted, especially since one the Queen's own ladies-in-waiting is found murdered, her death staged to look like a blatant threat to the Queen's life.It is clear from the first page on that Parris's research into Elizabethan life and political intrigues is impeccable. Every character is tainted with suspicion, their motivations revealed in a labyrinth of allegiances and ambition. Who I thought might have been responsible for the murder changed as I journeyed deeper and deeper into Bruno's world - and ultimately did not turn out to be the killer(s) when unmasked in the end.Bruno's character, as the outsider in Court, is the most compelling and mysterious of all, despite the fact that the narrative is told in first person. His story - how he got to be an ex-monk, what drove him from the church, and the dubious past that may or may not involve murder - was told in the first book, Heresy. In Prophecy, he is more an observer, his personality muted and kept in the background. Reading Prophecy has driven me to pick up Heresy just to find out in more detail the tantalizing bits of back story I gleaned.Besides knowing more about Bruno, I also felt that the black magic and supernatural elements so provocative in the first chapter (excerpt below) could have been more pronounced and central to the plot, instead of being merely suggestive. And there seems to be a thin thread from the first book, Heresy, regarding Bruno's search for a very rare and ancient manuscript by Egyptian sage Hermes Trismegistus, which stoked my curiosity (as elusive, mythical books often do). Ms. Parris - I would love it if you wrote more about this in the next installment!"Without warning, all the candles in the room's corners flicker and feint, as if a sudden gust has entered, but the air remains still. At the same moment, the hairs on my arms prickle and stand erect and I shudder; a cold breath descends on us, though outside the day is close. I chance a sideways glance at Doctor Dee; he stands unmoving as marble, his hands clasped as if in prayer, the knuckles of both thumbs pressed anxiously to his lips-or what can be seen of them through his ash-grey beard, which he wears in a point down to his chest in imitation of Merlin, whose heir Dee secretly considers himself. The cunning man, Ned Kelley, kneels on the floor in front of the table of practice with his back to us, eyes fixed on the pale, transclucent crystal about the size of a goose egg mounted in fixings of brass and standing upon a square of red silk. The wooden shutters of the study windows have been closed; this business must be conducted in the shadow and candlelight."
3 I liked this book, although I had a hard time getting into it at first. It had a good plot, but it seemed to move very slowly in the first half of the book, then at breakneck speed during the second half. The prologue is a bit confusing; I am not really into astrology: this book gets very technical about astrology- signs and symbols that I do not have prior knowledge of- so it makes it difficult to follow at times. I have a feeling that this is the second book in a series, because some of the narrative seems to speak of Bruno's past that the reader should be aware of. I felt lost at times, not knowing what Bruno's actual position is with Walsingham- I didn't realize that Walsingham had recruited Bruno to officially `spy' for him and the Queen until the last part of the book.With that said, however, I did enjoy the story as a whole. I liked the intrigue and suspense; I always enjoy a good murder mystery as long as it isn't too gory. The history is accurate, from what I can tell; I studied the Renaissance era in college quite extensively and the writer uses terms from the period. I did notice that she uses some terms of speech that may not have been a part of the era, like when Bruno gets jumped, he later replies, "You should have seen the other guy." I think that is modern. Maybe she was attempting to modernize it a bit, and if so, that's okay. It just seemed a bit jarring to me.If the opportunity presented itself, I would read more of S.J. Parris, but I would probably wait until I had time on my hands- it took me a month to read this, because it was so detailed, and I normally read much faster.
3 It has interviews with some of the stars, directors, and writers. There are 2 problems: The book size is small, so typing space is limited. Also, there is a lot of wasted space due to the "skipped lines" between sentences, and way-to-large empty spaces at the tops and bottoms of most pages... Much much more would have fit on each page if the formatting had been smarter. It was interesting, but left me wanting more...
5 I listen to the show every week night on PBS t.v. and then I read from the book which gives me a greater understanding of some of the people who do not appear on the series.
5 Funny as only the British can do it. The town where they filmed it is just like where my great great grandparents lived(Halifax, England) in the late 19th century. Every time I watch it and see that scenery I'm reminded of my roots.The cast is wonderful and the writing is great. Throughly enjoyable.
5 All of the Last of the Summer Wine videos are great.  I wish it could have lasted longer, but there were so many losses of wonderful characters.
1 I was disappointed in this book because it was mostly just a printed version of the television documentary made to celebrate the 30-year anniversary.I wish some American writer would publish a synopsis of this absolutely phenomenal series that will continue to benefit viewers. fortunate enough to find it, for years to come.  Details needed especially for the American viewer would include: (1) Explanations for many of the jokes meaningful to only local people. (2)Printing the text for those incidents where audience laughter (and cultural dialect) obliterated what the actors were saying. (3)A lot more speculation could (and should) be done on what was in Compo's matchbox...going back to the first time it was used, seeming to be connected to something relative to one of Compo's dead relatives.Never before has any entertainment provided such an abundance of healthy "escape" for the aged and the aging.  I believe that a comprehensive book about it would have a huge market.  I don't understand why Roy Clarke hasn't already written it.Mary W. Bentley
5 Love the way he weaves a story hrough a history lesson. His hero is the 1800's version of Jack Reacher
5 First Sentence:  He heard the rattle of musket fire and ducked instinctively.Matthew Hawkwood, former military officer now a Bow Street Runner, as been sent to France by the Home Office.  Napoleon and his Grand Army are in Moscow, and the country nearly bankrupt. He has been given no information as to his assignment but knows, if he fails, all help for, and knowledge of him will be withheld.  When he learns of his assignment it is audacious, dangerous and may result either in Hawkwood helping change the course of history or, quite possibly, in his death.Although not really a mystery, this was one incredible book.  Strongly rooted in historical facts, it is fascinating to see the events of history at the personal level and how the events rival anything pure fiction could ever invent.  One learns so much from this story, including about the beginnings of the Brigade de la Sret&eacute;, organized by a man, Eug&egrave;ne Franois Vidocq, who had been a criminal.  In fact, most of the characters here were real.Hawkwood is a dynamic character.  He is smart, clever, brave and skilled yet also described as neither being a rake nor a celibate.  He is a trained soldier.  We actually know little of his background yet he's as far from being a one-dimensional protagonist as one can imagine.While sense of place, in terms of descriptions of locales, may be lacking, there is more a sense of atmosphere and tension created by weather, time of day, conditions and the tension of the story.  This is not Paris at its most lovely, but Paris and other locations, as a surrounding in which the characters are trying to fight and survive.  It absolutely worked.There is absolutely nothing dry or boring about this book.  Any brief disappointment that Hawkwood was not operating in England as a Bow Street Runner is quickly overcome.  The one small criticism is that it did, at times, become difficult to keep track of who was whom and on which side they were so a character list would have been very helpful.  Even so, even for one who is not particularly a soldiers and war fan, the 516 pages flew by in two days with nary a pause and only a bit of sleep.  However, if you are a Patrick O'Brian and/or Bernard Cornwell fan, here's another author to add to your list."Rebellion" is exciting, tense, suspenseful, at times a bit brutal, dramatic, and completely absorbing.REBELLION (Hist Susp-Matthew Hawkwood-France-1812) - VG+McGee, James - 4th book in seriesHarper Collins, 2011, UK Hardcover - ISBN:  9780007320240
4 Hawkwood is at it again in France, but the best part is that the author uses actual people and events in history as part of this fiction. As another reviewer wrote, this story is not a mystery at all but a precursor to modern-day espionage and it's very engaging. My only negative in this is that when the plot finally was launched the author kept introducing more and more names of characters to the point where I was getting confused as to who was who and what their role was. This book could almost be a standalone outside of the Hawkwood series as at times he was a periphery character to the real-life Frenchmen involved in this plot.I look forward to the next book to see what kind of intrigue he gets up to in early America.
5 The very best in the series so far, the characters fitted well within the story.  I could not put it down once I downloaded the book, have to want for the next in the series next year.
5 So I bought these from Amazon.uk.  Wonderful historical mysteries set during the Napoleonic Wars.  Beware, the first book in the series in Hawkwood in the USA, the British edition is called Ratcatcher.
5 I put these in each of our hiking / hunting / bug out bags for emergency reference.  I can't say enough about them, great book.
5 This is a pretty good book.  It's not always grammatically correct, and it definitely needs some updating.  However, this is a true basic survival book with a lot of good information.  I like the size too.  It took a while to get here, but it had to cross the Atlantic Ocean and half of the United States to do so.  The deliver time didn't bother me, and I think it's kind of cool having an envelope with &#34;Royal Mail&#34; printed on it.  Buy this.  You won't regret it.
5 I am Retired Green Beret and this is what I give my kids to put in their go bags.  Best all around survival book out there and it fits in your pocket.
5 This compact book is THE ONE TO HAVE to put in your emergency Bug Out Bag!  It's small and full of accurate, diverse and critical survival information that could save the lives of you and your loved ones when emergency strikes.
5 This little guide contains everything you need to know in the event of an emergency.  It has information for every type of weather and terrain. Very useful.
5 Have the pocket guide! It is just the right size. Although, now I have to uh hum...take out my glasses to read it. The information is to the point and covers almost everything one would need to survive for quite awhile. Wish I had the time to try all of the techniques shown in this little gem, I'd have my own cable series in no time...LOL.
5 Outstanding compact book that is the best I have ever read. It is idea for preppers and survivalists. It will fit nicely in your backpack without taking up to much room.
4 I enjoy having this book as an excellent reference guide.  I rated is down a bit because I don't need the info regarding some of the various parts of the world, even though I have been to almost all of them.  I would recommend this to anyone needing a great concise survival manual or guide.
5 I purchased one of these based on reviews and recommendations.  After reading it .... well wow it's the perfect camping, hiking, etc... companion.  I've since purchased more for my children to put in their packs.  Small, readable, a potential life saver.
5 This is a very good book (the smaller pocket version) to keep in you BOB. The knowledge gained by just reading it and practicing the described techniques are a must know by individuals if forced to bug out with nothing more than their BOB bag. Knowledge is power! Be prepared!
3 The author puts his philosophy into a parable that takes you across the planet as one individuals re-discovers what is really important in life. A good read.
3 This book uses a format which is hardly unique.  That is it tells a story, almost a little morality tale, and blends in various universal truths or lessons.  There is nothing which is new or unique in these 'revelations', but it is fair to say that it does not do any harm to remind ourselves of them once in a while.The story revolves around a salesman who has clearly lost his way in life and has lost his sense of what should be his priorities.  He is sent on a mission around the globe to pick up nine different talismans from diverse places, each of which has a message attached to it.  As a story, it is not the most riveting, but I have read worse.  As a travelogue it is actually quite interesting in parts and the few places which I have visited are described in a way that I would consider authentic.As previously mentioned there are no great revelations here and most of the message is common sense along the lines of relentless pursuit of material wealth does not bring happiness, confront your fears, make progress one step at a time etc.  This is the fourth `monk who sold his ferrari' book by the author and I imagine that whilst the first may have had an impact, the subsequent offerings have been a restatement, with slightly different presentation, of the same core material.  Not having read the other volumes, this may be somewhat judgmental and rather cynical and I stand to be corrected by someone who has read them all.This is not the first of this sort of book which I have read, and all in all I was a lot more enthusiastic aboutThe Celestine Prophecy.  However, clearly there is a demand for the Monk since, apparently over five million of them have been sold and I imagine that for certain people, if they read it at a particular stage in their lives, it could be quite pivotal in refocusing them.
5 This must surely be one of the great books of our age. Well written and a compelling read. One to add to your collection.
5 A very inspiring story, one that every parent should pass on to their children for generations to come.Highly, highly recommended.
5 This book is incredible. I have enjoyed all of robin sharma's books. I have particularly liked the monk who sold his Ferrari. It was great to see Julian in another adventure. This book contains great insights into life and happiness and should be required reading by everyone.
3 I became a die-hard fan of Robin Sharma after reading his book "The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari". I pre-ordered this book and was very excited to read his latest book. This book follows the same pattern as his earlier books (i.e) blend the life teachings in an interesting story. I could see a big difference. This book is more of a story which explains the teachings than the teachings explicitly. Each portion of the story comes with a summary. The story goes like this...Jonathan Laundry is a hardworking automobile designer who struggles to find a balance between his work life and personal life. He is separated from his wife Annisha and his son Adam. His life is in turmoil. Suddenly, his mom forces him to meet Julian Mantle, his cousin and the hero of the previous book. Julian makes him travel around the world to the sensual tango halls of Buenos Aires, the haunting catacombs of Paris, the gleaming towers of Shanghai and the staggeringly beautiful Taj Mahal in India and meet his friends to collect the talismans. Each talisman and the encounter with Julian's friends teach him the life lessons that is very much needed for him to save his family and become successful in his life. Here is a gist of the teachings...The Power of AuthenticityThe most important gift we can give ourselves is the commitment to living our authentic life.We must break free of the seductions of society and live life on our own terms, under our own values and aligned with our original dreams.We must explore the deep-seated, unseen hopes, desires, strengths and weaknesses that make us who we are. Every decision we make, every step we take, must be informed by our commitment to living a life that is true and honest and authentic to ourselves and ourselves alone. As we proceed, we are certain to experience fortune well beyond our highest imagination.Embrace Your FearsThe greatest risk in life is taking no risks. But every time we do that which we fear, we take back the power that fear has stolen from us - for on the other side of our fears lives our strength. Every time we step into the discomfort of growth and progress, we become more free. The more fears we walk through, the more powers we reclaim. In this way, we grow both fearless and powerful, and thus are able to live the lives of our dreams.Live with KindnessNo action, no matter how small, is insignificant - how we treat someone defines, how we treat everyone, including ourselves. If we cant appreciate those around us, we cant appreciate ourselves. With every person we engage, in everything we do, we must be kinder than expected, more generous than anticipated, more positive than we thought possible. Every moment in front of another human being is a chance to express our highest value and to influence someone with our humanity. We can make the world better, one person at a time.Make Small Daily ProgressThe way we do small things determine the way we do everything. If we execute our minor tasks well, we will excel at our larger efforts as well. Each tiny effort builds on the next, so that brick by brick, magnificent things can be created, great confidence grows and uncommon dreams are realized.To Lead Your Best Life, Do Your Best WorkThere is no insignificant work in this world. All labor is a chance to express our personal talents, to create our art and to realize the genius we are meant to be. We must work like Picasso painted: with devotion, passion, energy and excellence. In this way, our productivity will not only become a source of inspiration to others, but it will have an impact - making a difference in the lives around us. One of the greatest secrets to a life beautifully lived is to do work that matters.Choose Your Influences WellWe must always be aware of the things and people we allow in to our lives. Its a mark of wisdom to choose to spend time in the places that inspire an energize you and to associate with those people who elevate you and uplift you. Weather in our work or within our personal lives, these most positive friends and peers will inspire us to be our greatest self and lead our largest lives.Life's Simplest Pleasures are Life's Greatest JoysMost people don't discovers whats more important in their lives until they are too old to do anything about it. They spend many of their best years pursuing things that matter little in the end. While society invites us to fill our lives with material objects, the best part of us knows that the most basic pleasures are the one that enrich us. We all have a wealth of simple blessings around us - waiting to be counted.  As we do, our happiness grows. Our gratitude expands. And each day becomes a breath taking gift.The Purpose of Life is to LoveHow well you live come down to how much you love. The heart is wiser than your head. Honor it. Trust it. Follow it.Stand for Something Bigger than YourselfThere are no extra people alive today. Every single one of us are here for a reason, a special purpose - a mission. Yes, build a beautiful life for yourself and those you love.Yes, be happy and have a lot of fun. And yes, become successful on your own terms than on those suggested to you by society. But, above all else - Be Significant. Make your life matter - be of use. And be of service to as many people as possible. This is how each of us can shift from the realm of the ordinary to the heights of the extraordinary. And walk among the best who have ever lived.I just wrote down the key messages from the book in Robin Sharma's words. I would suggest you to read the book. These message will go into your subconscious mind directly. Jesus understood the importance of stories, so does Robin. Thank you Robin, for this book and all the books that you are going to write in future.
3 This was inspirational in a way.  It wasn't really to my tastes but I can see why people do get something out of his books.I thought that the actual storyline was very basic and that at times it almost seemed like a travel article.  The writing style was quite poor as well.  I think that Paulo Coelho does better job with this type of thing.I think that it might have worked better if it focussed on just a normal working man rather than a hugely successful executive. Also it might have been good to show him struggling in his daily life rather than jetting off all round the world and then suddenly finding inspiration and living happily ever after.It is quite inspiring in places and there were moments where it was motivating.
1 This is a did not finish (DNF) book and while I got over well over 100 pages in, I'm still not sure I could explain what was happening. Here is what I think is happening: Stevie had a near death experience where she saw people in a room. She had a weird childhood that has made her a weird adult. Her father died and her mother had a rotating round of boyfriends. After her mother passes away, she inherits the home she grew up in. When she starts digging up the backyard and finding bones she just piles them up. I don't think I can figure out what else was happening in this book.So why didn't I finish it? Well, to be upfront, the writing from the start didn't thrill me. I don't think it was bad I just didn't find it engaging. The other problems come from the fact that I didn't feel the book was going anywhere. I struggled just to find a storyline within the 100+ pages that I read. I found it didn't have a linear storyline, which in and of itself, isn't a bad thing. What I didn't like is that what little pieces you did get, I didn't find as coherent pieces. It made reading this frustrating.I didn't like the main character, Stevie. She didn't make any sense to me, which may have been what the author was shooting for me. I didn't want to know anything more about her. I found in a bit deranged and obsessed with death. To say the least I couldn't connect with this Stevie at all.I tried to be interested in this book and at some points I could read 20 or more pages at a time but the moment I put this book down, I had no interest picking it back up. This book had potential and clearly someone else saw something awesome in this book because it got published. I just didn't see that story and so couldn't finish this book.
5 This book is disjointed, and you may struggle at first to understand why we're being presented with these vignettes and backstories. But stick with it; it will really, really pay off in the end. An absolutely chilling portrait of a tortured soul.
4 Saying that I "liked" the book would make me uncomfortable because it is seriously twisted and dark, but I will certainly say i couldn't put it down. It is written from the perspective of Stevie, the main character, and the author does a great job of almost making you empathize with Stevie. I really liked the style of the prose. Very short objective type sentences if that makes sense. It was easy to read and very interesting but not for the weak of heart or stomach, because it is certainly gory in detail and demented in plot.
4 I'll start with this: for a book narrated from the serial killer's point of view, the creepiness factor of Slights still manages to find its way far over the top. The unsettling starts as a niggle, like an ache mildly growling somewhere behind your eyes;  page by page the suspense-tease grows into a full-strength migraine. What's interesting is that the nature of narrator Stevie (aka Stephanie Searle) is never in question: she's a lying, self-absorbed sociopath dedicated to casting herself in the best possible light, and her descent into serial murder and self-harm are unsurprising.And yet while Stevie's grotesque behaviour - manipulations, deceptions and sometimes vicious retaliations for offences both real and imagined - is the central narrative device, the story expands outwards in unexpected directions. During several near-death experiences, Stevie has a brush with an especially horrifying afterlife, haunted by the victims of her casual dissociative cruelty. But even this strange supernatural element ultimately becomes less disturbing than the corruption and secrets that Stevie unwittingly unearths about her past, her family and her neighbours. It all adds up to a chilling portrait of a social fabric almost as shredded and tainted as Stevie herself.On occasions Stevie is almost a sympathetic protagonist, thanks in the most part to a well-observed narrative voice that highlights her childish wonder, an intense curiosity and her great capacity for wilful self-deception, while never letting you forget how dangerous she is. You can feel for her, sometimes, when you're not actively repulsed by her grotesque impulses.As a novel, Slights is a bit like that too; thoughtful and reflective, layered with metaphor but also with lies and sleight of hand. The horror is grounded in disturbing revelations more than overt violence, though there are a handful of hard-to-stomach scenes. At times it defies all expectation by being sad instead of nasty - I could never quite distance myself from some of Stevie's woes. Slights is also funny - once or twice I found it laugh out loud hilarious. What I can't quite be certain of is whether that wasn't an overreaction to the relief of getting through some gruelling scene. It's an intense story, disguised as a breezy tale of surburban life, albeit one set in a suburb with a suspiciously high rate of disappearances.I liked it a lot. For fans of psychological horror and dark fantasy, I'd call it a must-read.
1 (Contains spoilers, this whole book is a spoiler)Wow, I am either incredibly stupid, stubborn or both because it took sheer iron will to finish this book. Chapter after chapter of this girl Steve (Stephanie) droning on and on about freaking nothing. It was an endless cycle. She lives like a pig, she goes out of her way to offend others, she describes someone she hates, she digs in her yard, she wonders about the room she saw when she had her near death experiences, she attempts suicide, she talks about her dead father and she tries to keep a relationship with her brother. This is the same formula for almost every effing boring chapter. The book's jacket calls Steve a killer, but she does not kill anyone until 3/4 the way through! All she does through out the book is "slight" as many people as she can. The author seems to have tried and failed miserably to combine parts of Chuck Palahnuik's Fight Club with what she thought would have been in Kevin Spacey's diaries in Se7en. The one twist in the book is telegraphed a mile away. Let me save you some time and aggravation, her father was a killer too! There, I saved you many hours of unentertaining reading. This book is filed under horror and suspense; it should be filed under cat litter box liner. I know I am going to tick off this book/author's fans, but so be it. I think there is a reason no one is reviewing it or her new book, because they stink, no one likes them and is buying them. I recommend this book to absolutely no one, unless you are avoiding it or using it to start your grill.
2 While Slights started off interesting, I found that it took far too long to get anywhere, and by the time it did, I was already pretty disenchanted with a protagonist who is, to be frank, pretty all-around repulsive. You can have a book with a killer for a "hero", but the thing to remember is that to do so, you need to make him or her likable or relatable to a certain degree, and Stevie is neither. Not only that, she fails to be interesting or entertaining.The novel drags on for far too long, with pages after pages devoted to how Stevie dislikes this person or that person for this arbitrary reason. And, honestly, I didn't care about them either because there's a disappointing lack of characterization going on. There's nothing particularly scary or unsettling going on, and even the vaguely otherworldly bits come across as flat and unengaging because the book is told from Stevie's perspective and she reacts to everything with all the emotion and personality of a rock. The first scene, describing Stevie's near-death experience and a trip to the other realm, should have been terrifying, but it was just related in far too bland and matter-of-fact a way. It was like reading a power point presentation on someone's vacation.Warren's narrative has an odd, slippery cadence to it that means it was far too easy for my mind to wander, and after about 150 pages I realised I was still waiting for the book to "start getting good" and had to give up on it. Maybe the rest of the book dispenses live kittens and delicious candy every time you turn a page. I wouldn't know, because for me, I don't care to waste time reading a book I'm not enjoying NOW just on the promise that it might get better eventually.Definitely not for everyone, though I had high hopes. Definitely try a sample before you commit to buying the whole thing.
4 Reading the other reviews here it seems they were written by  people who like books that go straight for the jugular from the first page and keep a fast pace throughout the book. Slights is not like that, it starts off slow and builds up the mystery and wierdness and gets progressivly darker as you read on. The main character is a woman named Stevie who had a wierd childhood raised by a father who had secrets in a house her family have owned for generations built on land that may have been significant to the aborigines before white settlement. Her father dies when she is young, her mother dies in a car crash that Stevie herself was partly responsible for and Stevie has several near death experiances where she comes to in a room full of people who hate her. You need to be patient with this book and let it build up but when it does it is very rewarding. I would recommend it to anyone who loves good psychological horror and is prepared to put in a little effort and patience in their reading.
5 Kaaron Warren's SLIGHTS will appeal to horror readers interested in touches of the supernatural. Stevie is a killer who brings her victims back to life for insights on the afterlife: her quest for the truth will lead to a personal knowledge of other realms in this thrilling horror read, packed with satisfyingly unexpected twists and turns.
3 After a car accident (which leaves her mother dead), Stephanie has an unusual near-death experience.  There's no tunnel, no lights, nothing that's been heard of before.  Stevie (the name she's referred to more often throughout the story) finds herself in a small dark room, surrounded by people she has slighted throughout her life...people who apparently want revenge, and as they begin to scratch and poke her, she comes back to the land of the living.  But despite the creepiness of the place, Stevie finds herself longing to return, wondering what this strange afterlife is all about.  Hence, in order to investigate, Stevie commites suicide on numerous occassions, each time finding out a bit more about the dark room and its inhabitants . . . and each time (save for the ending) she's brought back to life either by luck or from someone finding her hanged or overdosed or wrist-slit just in the nick of time (and this aspect of the novel is quite difficult to swallow).To make matters more interesting, Stevie also happens to be a serial killer (who eventually takes a job at a hospice center) who looks into the eyes of her victims and demands they tell her what they're seeing as they enter their own dark rooms.  The manner and attitude in which Stevie murders is so matter-of-fact it acts as the novel's main chill factor, even among the author's depressing view of the afterlife.While SLIGHTS features an amazing premise, is wonderfully written in a literary, memoir style, I found some of this a chore to get through.  Warren spends a bit too much time establishing many scenarios, only to have the protagonist reveal that this is what she wished was the case, then we have to go through what has "really" happened.  This works once or twice, but for as many times as it occurrs, the reader will be challenged to stay focused.  Much of the novel deals with mementos Stevie takes from her victims, which didn't add up to a whole lot by the ending.I liked SLIGHTS even though I found stretches of it frustrating.  The horror element is worth your time, Stevie's a truly different-type of serial killer, and much of Warren's prose is finely executed.  But at the same time several stretches drag on and a few questions remain unanswered or have unsatisfying conclusions.  This being Warren's debut novel (released in europe in 2009, set for U.S. release this June), I'm actually looking forward to what she comes up with next (there's a preview of it in this Angry Robot edition).  Her style is already her own, and once tightened-up I'm betting she has a real gem or two waiting to come out.
5 Slights is the story of Stevie Searle and begins when she is eighteen.  At first blush, this book appears to be a coming of age novel, but it isn't long before the reader, with a sickening feeling in the pit of the stomach, realizes that this is a memoir of madness; a tale of living and love replaced by an obsession about what happens after we die, and a deftly written one at that.  Stevie is a serial killer, but unlike Bundy and Gacy, she's more of a "mad scientist" type.  She seeks information she is not meant to have, and will do whatever is necessary to get it with no regard for the consequences.Her first unsuccessful suicide attempt provided a glimpse into her own afterlife--a small gray room crammed with all the people in her life that she'd slighted up to that point--and she's slighted many, and goes out of her way to do so.  Subsequent "controlled" suicide attempts allow her to revisit her "gray room" several more times just to see who's there--to see the new people whom she slighted between visits.  Her theory is that every time she slights someone she takes a little piece of their soul--and that's what ends up in her gray room... her personal hell.Once she has this information about her own afterlife, she sets out to see if everyone else's is similar to hers, and the killing begins.  She tries to kill her victims softly so that she can revive them in order to find out what they saw, not often successfully.  Luckily, she has a large back yard...Stevie is a hard character to like.  She's even hard to feel sorry for.  She's so disconnected from the rest of humanity that it's alarming how she goes out of her way to be rude and nasty to everyone she meets.  She makes plain her desire to be distanced from humanity, then is illogical enough to believe that someone will remember her birthday.  In many situations, she will tell you "Here's what should have happened" and detail that; only to follow it with, "Here's what happened" and describe that.  Both descriptions are equally dispassionate.  It is her creeping, relentless, and gradually worsening disturbed mind and distorted life that glued the book to my hands, even though it caused me more than a moment or two of queasiness.Aside from Stevie, there are few likeable characters in this grim debut novel.  That being said, it's also a brilliantly written book that will not allow you to walk away from it.  This is psychological horror at its very best.If you're a fan of horror that's so well written and flows like a symphony, you'll want to pick up a copy of this book.And I dare you to put it down!Reviewed by Shroud's Carson Buckingham
2 I'm surprised I managed to get through this book.  It's slowly paced and tedious, and the characters are all bland.  I actually spent the whole book WISHING something horrible would happen to the main character, she was that unlikeable.  While the prose was actually very good, the book rambled and didn't seem to have a clear direction until after the middle, and the ending was very dissatisfying. There are some really elegant bits of writing in the book, but as a whole it is slow, boring, and decidedly NOT scary at all. I would not recommend this book.
4 The main problem with this book are the blurb/synopsis on back covers. The blurb should be a teaser, not spoil the plot of the novel. As a result, I expected the novel to start off with Stevie as a serial killer and visiting the room. Not so--that stuff doesn't happen until mid-story, and are, in fact, plot developments. I would've enjoyed the story more had I not known she was going to become a killer and been surprised by the plot twist. Also, it sets the reader up for a slasher novel, which this isn't. It's a portrait of a serial killer.To be fair, I'm evaluating this book independent of the cover. Slights is a year-by-year chronicle of a disturbed young woman. 18-year-old Stevie is haunted by the visions she had after barely surviving the car crash which killed her mother. She found herself in a dark room, surrounded by the people she'd slighted in life, clawing and tearing at her. Each chapter represents another year in her life, in which she becomes more and more obsessed with that room, going to greater and greater lengths to return to it and learn more. She also makes some gruesome discoveries in her parents' backyard which causes her to question her family history.While it's hard to like Stevie, she's interesting and funny at times. The story lines about the room and her family history engaged me enough to keep the book going. The depth of detail about Stevie's family and personal life made her very realistic. I didn't feel the book was frightening at all, probably because the scary elements were intensely personal for the main character (and therefore, unlikely to show up under my bed at 3:30 a.m.).I recommend this book to readers who enjoy macabre, character-driven fiction.
5 This is a great collection of opinion pieces about the meaning of Christmas from an atheists point of view. Essentially starting from the point of - What really is the meaning of christmas. They are divided into categories such as science and philosophy and while some of the pieces are patchy I think there is a lot in here for everyone.Some of the more famous - such as Richard Dawkins, are along side less than well known (well form most people anyway) the novelist Kapka Kabossova (sp). What I really appreciated was the variety of perspectives on a subject which is, of course, pertinent. Why do atheists celebrate Christmas?The first section on science I found the most interesting. The Jewish astronomer (I've forgotten his name off hand) was wonderful. His early years discussing the lack of Christmas celebrations in his family, and his own fascination with the sky and the supposed phenomena of a super-star at the time of Christ's birth was beautiful.The rise of the pagan and pre-christian celebrations of a mid-winter festival and the forms it took - including all the mythical links to Christian and Christmas celebrations offer a much deeper perspective into the human psyche.After about 30 of these peices I started to lose interest, I found that they were a lot of the same kind of thing. One man who was a bit of a christmas hater, who went to the Middle east one year for teh festive season to escape it.The essential message is that the Christmas spirit is there, and it is not about the birth of Christ and 3 wise men. The humanity of the midwinter festivals is about hope, eating, giving gifts, sharing time together, laughter, revelry, and new dawns. Pretty much what our festival is about these days. And if anyone complains that it is called Christmas so has to be about Christ, tell 'em that Easter is about the Scandanavian Goddess Oester and is a fertility festival, not about Christ's resurrection at all.Merry Christmas!
5 I've read the first dozen stories or so, and am enjoying most of them.  I wanted to shoot a quick warning, though.  Although this is technically the American edition of this book, many of the essays are (I believe) the same as in the British edition released last year.  So if you don't know much about British Christmas traditions, couldn't define lurgy, or identify when an author is parodying Wodehouse, be aware that you will enjoy some stories, and others may just confuse you.(If you can do the above, have no fear, it's all good!)
1 Seriously, I was half looking forward to reading this when I ran across it in the discount bin at the bookstore, but the book as a whole is incredibly dull. This reads like a compilation of the weakest writing samples of the collected writers. Most of the people represented here have written far more interesting books and essays, and why someone felt the need to collect weak writing from prominent atheists escapes me. Currently selling for about $8 on Amazon...I'd wait until it hits $4 if you want your money's worth.
4 I've only read 6 chapters thus far (out of order...I love that feature about this book).  One chapter was one of the most hilarious things I've ever read, and a couple others were pretty darn funny.  Some aren't so much funny as cute stories.  For a $10.00 book, I'd say you more than get your money's worth in this one - definitely a good read for any agnostic or athiest.
3 It was hard to rate, though - some entries are stellar, some I just skipped because I was falling asleep. As one would expect of any semi-random group, the comedians/philosophers/scientists/authors/etc who wrote the chapters are split about half and half between those who enjoy Christmas and those who don't.My favorite chapter is "How To Escape From Christmas" by Andrew Mueller. People who try to opt out of Christmas dinners are usually either dismissed as Scrooges or immediately invited to the house of everyone with an extra chair, which means instead of guiltlessly staying at home by the fire with your feet up, a good book, and a cup of cocoa, you now have to delicately explain that you don't WANT to spend Christmas with your generous-but-misguided friend (in case it requires explanation, "misguided" here means they've just been told you want to spend Christmas by yourself, and assume you're angling for a dinner invitation).I LOVE Mueller's suggestion for dealing with this - get on a plane late on December 24th that will be refueling in some conveniently non-Christian spot, and arrive in Australia on December 26th for beaches and sunshine. I think I'll try this next year.
4 I enjoyed the book but really was hoping for a few more laughs and less sentamentality. I read the book after hearing about in on either the Savage Lovecast or NPR (how can I mix those up?). While I like it, I couldn't help being a little disappointed due to my preconceived (and admittedly unjustified) idea of it's humor quotient.
4 This volume is a compilation of essays by those who may label themselves atheist, or at least agnostic. So what do they have to say about Christmas? Actually, there are a number of entries which are very relevant to the spirit of Christmas (atheist or not) and the historical significance of the date itself. Even Christian scholars are likely to agree that Jesus was not born on December 25th. In fact, he probably was born two to four years BC. Anyhow, those subjects are broached, but others too. Many of the chapters are very good reads, but I would warn you that most are very "British." Some of the humor may be tough to get by an American. There are times when I really had to think about what was being said and then I realized the writer was being funny. There are times when some of the writers refer to things that I was completely ignorant of because I don't watch BBC 1,2,3 or 4 (or whatever). One chapter of particular interest to astronomers was contributed by American astronomer Phil Plait. He addresses the issue of the star of Christmas, if indeed that is what it was. He also reveals much about his own history, which may be of interest to his thousands of bloggers. Many of the contributions are thought provoking, whether you agree with them or not. There are a few chapters which I think, had they been left out, would have made this volume better, and shorter.
5 (The following also appears on my blog, An Eclectic Mind.)A month or more ago, someone on Twitter tweeted a link to the Kindle version of The Atheist's Guide to Christmas for just $1. Like a lot of people, I consider a buck "why not?" money for anything that interests me. I followed the link and downloaded the book. It sat on my iPad for a while, half forgotten.Sometime later, while I was eating alone in a restaurant in Phoenix, I cracked the cover (so to speak) and began reading it. It wasn't at all as I expected. It was so much better.You see, I expected some sort of anti-religious rant against Christmas and everything concerned with it. Not sure why I expected this -- perhaps it's got something to do with the conservative media's perceived "war against Christmas" that crops up every year here in the U.S. If you believe the conservatives on FoxNews, etc., anyone who is not Christian hates Christmas and wants to destroy it. Following that line of reason, the folks who should hate it most are atheists, since they don't believe in any religious doctrines at all.But that's not what this book was all about.The Atheist's Guide to Christmas is a collection of 42 stories and essays from a variety of atheist scientists, comedians, philosophers, and writers. They include reminiscences (eg., Phil Plait's "Starry, Starry Night"), celebration suggestions (eg., Josie Long's "Things to Make and Do at Christmas"), scientific information (eg., Brian Cox's The Large Hadron Collider: A scientific Creation Story"), historical information (eg., Claire Rayner's "How to Have a Peaceful Pagan Christmas"), and tall tales (eg., Nick Doody's "How to Understand Christmas: A Scientific Overview").Sure, there was the takeoff on Jeeves and Wooster by Richard Dawkins in which Woofter and Jarvis engage in a conversation about the existence of God, Jesus's part in the Holy Trinity, and bible inconsistencies. But that was just one small chapter in a very large book. Most of the book is very positive and uplifting, encouraging non-believers to enjoy the Christmas season the way most believers do: with decorations, big meals, gift giving, and gatherings of friends and family members.The book makes it clear that you don't need to believe in God or religious doctrines to enjoy a holiday that just happens to coincide with the winter solstice. (Not exactly a coincidence, but try to explain that to a believer.) It also offers plenty of helpful tips and advice for getting along with believers during a holiday that may have some serious religious significance to them.I'm about halfway through the book -- although I do admit that I began reading by using the interactive table of contents to pick and choose among the essays I wanted to read first. While some chapters are better than others as far as their relevance to my personal thoughts about Christmas, I'm certain that any atheist would find something of value in its pages. Likewise, I don't think any believers would be offended by its contents. As the book's introduction states, The Atheist's Guide to Christmas is an "atheist book it's safe to leave around your granny." Indeed, I'm certain that even believers would find a lot of content in this book to help make their Christmas celebrations more enjoyable -- without threatening their beliefs.
4 What I Can Tell You:As someone who holds onto the belief of God with all my might and who celebrates Christmas and all that goes along with it, I found this book to be quite interesting.  I have never met an Atheist but if I did would never judge them as I would hope they wouldn't judge me.The stories range from Neil Pollack's Revenge of the Christmas Spirit where his son receives for Christmas a Sponge Bob, Square Pants Connect Four and he decides to play Santa and give the "already have" gift away to a shelter. To Nick Doody's How To Understand Christmas: A Scientific Overview. I was very interested in the scientific history of Christmasology.Best section of the book, the How To sections which include titles like:How to Have the Perfect Jewish ChristmasHow to Have A Peaceful Pagan ChristmasHow to Decorate the Outside of Your House with Lights and Not Have Your Neighbors Hate You: A guide to turning your home into a festive something that is so bright it can be seen from Space.Favorite quote by Allison Kilkenny:"It was no longer a holiday meant to worship the birth of a now dead Palestinian who once claimed to be the Son of God but who is now used as a marketing ploy by huge Corporations to sell more Xbox consoles."While I understand the skepticism, appreciate the scientific evidence of evolution, wonder in the history of the earth, marvel at the educated, scientists knowledge in the book, I long for the magic Christmas brings. Fake, real, I don't care! While this Christmas didn't feel Chistmassy for me, (health problems and unable to move), it was still the best day of the year. Life is hard, days turn into other days, but for a short time, everyone loves each other, decorated trees are featured and movies on TV pull the family together as we enjoy our time with each other. Life is short! Whether there is something else or whether there is nothing, we need to appreciate our time here and get the most out of life we can.
3 I thought there would be some pretty deep thinking in here, but so far the stories all tend to be along the same theme - adult atheists describe their relationship to the Christmas holiday, beginning with childhood memories. The stories are a little bit humorous, or interesting, or memorable, but not too much. So far, anyway.  I've read about a half-dozen stories so far. I may be holding this book against too-high standards, since I just finished reading David Sedaris' christmas book, which is literarily stunning, laugh-out-loud, smack-you-in-the-face FUNNY.In short, there's nothing really wrong with this book, and I'm sure I'll end up reading all the stories sooner or later, but it's also not as engaging as I had thought it would be.
4 Lots of different perspectives here.  I'm really enjoying it.  I'm usually a fan of Richard Dawkins, but his chapter left me scratching my head.  Perhaps I'm just not British enough (or at all) to get it.  Celebrating the holidays is new to me, and it's great to get some ideas on what to do to get the most out of the holiday without it being tainted by any religious nonsense.  We're making our own traditions, and it's great!
3 I was disappointed by this book.  Most of the essays are boring.  I know a lot of atheists and have to say the editor selected a very boring cross-section of them.
5 Ariane Sherine writes in her "Welcome" to this 2009 book, "What you will find are forty-two brilliant contributions from the world's most entertaining atheist scientists, comedians, philosophers and writers, who have all donated their time, thought and jokes for free to help you enjoy Christmas." Here are some examples:"One of the great joys of having your own children, of course, is sharing Christmas with them... how to do that without fundamentally accusing their teachers of lying---or, in fact, lying? And it is, after all, one of the greatest stories ever told---the little boy born in a manger, far from home. It has intrigue, small children... stars, angels, various animals and getting to sleep outdoors---all catnip to littles." (Pg. 10-11)"Christmas has done well, to its credit. It's beaten off the competition and is the reigning champion." (Pg. 24)"Even as an atheist, it's cool to celebrate Christmas. I like Jesus and think that there's a lot of sense in the stuff that he might have said or that has at least been ascribed to him." (Pg. 39)"Now, after many years of celebrating this holiday, I've come to really enjoy it... So here I sit. An atheist, a skeptic, a guy raised Jewish who hated Christmas has found the meaning of the holiday, and he wasn't even searching for it." (Pg. 66)"It may seem odd for a Jewish-born atheist to tell you how to enjoy your Christian festival, but why not? It now seems almost trite to point out that most of the trappings of Christmas have little to do with the birth of Christ... Christmas is a festival built on the very nature of picking and choosing the parts that are convenient." (Pg. 116)"But shouldn't we, if we're going to ignore the 'Christ' part of Christmas, find something else to call it? ... all of this is pointless divisive nonsense and entirely unnecessary because ... It's just a name. That's all... 'Christmas' is the name most of the English-speaking world currently gives the winter solstice festival, and it's as good a name for it as any other it's ever had." (Pg. 139)"To talk secularly of Christmas being a time to remember others, then, does rather anemically miss the point, but it is certainly as good a time as any other to rise to the challenge of leading a kinder, lovelier life; one that stretches far beyond the encouraged sentimentality of the holiday period." (Pg. 165-166)"I decided I would prove to Green that atheists could enjoy a Christmas celebration as much as the devout. Rather than celebrating mythical wise men, angels, and the mythical messiah, we could celebrate rational thought and scientific thinking." (Pg. 289)
2 I picked this up quite cheap and find myself flummoxed buy it.I could use a rigorous examination of how Christmas was hijacked from Saturnalia. Instead this is an apologists permission slip to enjoy Xmas. The authors try to align their guilt over wanting to participate in the holiday. That's almost as bad as Christians (and others) bringing a God into existence because they really want there to be one.All the essays start the same, and proceed to some deeply personal reason the author asoociates Christmas with family, pleasant memories etc. That kind of thinking is just obvious and hackneyed. I didn't need a book tearing Christmas down, but I also didn't need one staying studiously neutral. A fact (in this "lie" and/or "feeling" driven culture) is nice now and then.
4 This book has different essays from other writers and a few comedians that tell what they do at Christmas.  It was interesting to see how differently and similarly people that don't have a religious affiliation spend their time during the "holidays".
2 An albino army invades the kingdom of Falanor, and the first to fall to their merciless onslaught is its most northern city, Jaldar. As it happens, this is where the famous warrior hero Kell has retired. As the invaders begin the slaughter, Kell hurries to rescue his grand-daughter, Nieanna. The dire circumstances call for an uneasy alliance between Kell and a dapper, swashbuckling thief named Saark. After a daring rescue of Nieanna and her friend Kat, the four become refugees, and they may be Falanor's only hope against the clockwork vampire horde.Knowing the premise of this book, I had my misgivings. However, I also knew that this story was supposed to pay homage to the late David Gemmell, so Kell's Legend gnawed at me until I finally decided to give it a go. Vampires, in my opinion, are being done to undeath nowadays. Unfortunately, the steampunk series title, The Clockwork Vampire Chronicles, and the badass barbarian that graces the cover couldn't bring Kell's Legend back to life. Instead there are too many elements to carry, and I wasn't far into the novel before the flaws became obvious. All due respect to Andy Remic, but my initial perception was right.For the first few chapters, Kell's Legend is entertaining in a sick kind of way -- so bad it's almost good. It's a little like how a cheesy, low-budget movie can be so much fun that you can't stop watching it over and over. However, that guilty pleasure story is a lot harder to pull off in a book. Plus, I don't believe it was Remic's intention to write a cheesy, low-budget novel.So I did not finish this novel.Ultimately, the clockwork vampires, called "vachines," were just too much to swallow. The vachines are a warrior race made from a combination of dark sorcery and clockwork engineering, and they sustain their near immortality by consuming a mixture of blood and oil. Their culture is confusing, like it was being made-up as the story went along.Still, Mr. Remic has an unorthodox writing style that I can appreciate, and his prose has an edge that reminds me of the lyrics of a hard-rock band like Soundgarden. I'm a fan of descriptive writing and at times I liked Remic's visual imagery, but it soon became repetitive.Mostly Remic just needs someone to rein him in. I could handle the borderline pornographic sexual interludes until reading of a "great erection" complete with clockwork testicles. That one almost gave me an attack of acid-reflux. I held on for a few more chapters, but could no longer justify continuing, especially with so many other books on my TBR list.Despite, not liking Kell's Legend, Andy Remic has potential. There is something in his style that appeals to my somewhat twisted taste. I may just have to check out his other books.
4 As I've been a fan of Andy Remic'sWar Machine (Combat-K Novels)andSpiralbook series, I thought it an interesting twist to see the hardcore sci-fi writer take on a new fantasy series. No doubt inspired by David Gemmell'sLegend (Drenai Tales, Book 1), Kell's Legend makes for a great introduction to a new fantasy world that'll impress both new and old fans alike with its intense action, blood-filled battles, and awesome characters.Remic's homage to Gemmell in the creation of Kell, an aged, axe-wielding warrior with a history of battle and bloodshed looking for redemption wherever it's found, seems an appropriate protagonist for the setting of this new series, a land that's now been invaded by steampunk-ish vampires and the Army of Iron. Now, lead by Kell, a seemingly rag-tag band of former heroes must save the day. While some might find Kell to be too much of a blatant rip-off of Gemmell's Druss and no doubt Saark seems slightly reminiscent of other Gemmell characters, one in the know would ask "who better to imitate than arguably the greatest heroic fantasy writer of all time?"The story sets the stage for the series well and, thanks to solid world building and great main characters, the all-around development of the The Clockwork Vampires series seems off to a great start. Fans who pick this up can look forward to two new additions to the books series in 2011, Vampire Warlords and Soul Stealers.Personally, I still prefer Remic's Combat K sci-fi series to this new fantasy jaunt, but that's just me. Fans of Gemmell and other heroic fantasy authors will appreciate the action and excitement available in Kell's Legend as it's no doubt top-tier. With great characters, plenty of action and battles, and some of the coolest description of action around, Andy Remic's Kell's Legend is not to be missed...
1 Kell's Legend is the first in the Clockwork Vampire Chronicles, a new fantasy series from author Andy Remic and fledgling publisher Angry Robot. (Well, what with being owned by HarperCollins, this is a fledgling from a feathered nest...)Any lack of character development in this book is more than overshadowed offset by the ultra-violence and gore that runs rampant through the every page of Kell's Legend.This is a book that goes past normal violence into MEGAVIOLENCE(tm).We know we're reading violence like we've never seen before BECAUSE IT TELLS US SO. MEGAVIOLENCE(tm) has hacking, crushing, hammering blades LIKE YOU'VE NEVER SEEN BEFORE. MEGAVIOLENCE(tm) hits THROUGH people (sometimes in ITALICS) and then hits the person BEHIND THEM. IN THE FACE.MEGAVIOLENCE(tm) has a sentence that is TWENTY-SIX LINES LONG (page 389-390, if you care), because MEGAVIOLENCE(tm) DOES NOT CARE ABOUT YOUR RULES OF GRAMMAR. MEGAVIOLENCE(tm) HIT YOUR GRAMMAR WITH AN AXE. AND THEN THE PUNCTUATION BEHIND IT.[MEGASEX is also mind-blowing. Amazon, unfortunately, won't let me reprint some of the choicer sex scenes.]Somewhere buried beneath the morons, the ultraviolence and the terrifying sex, there's a plot.Kell is a retired warrior-of-legend. He's happily puttering around, making stew and conversing with his pet rock of a granddaughter, when the clockwork vampires invade. The name of the series is not misleading - Kell's Legend is packed full of the vaguely-robotic undead ('vachines'). The 'vachines' are out of blood, so they've build themselves a little army, and now they're taking over the world. Unfortunately for them, they've rubbed off Kell, who has a... magic axe and a bad temper. Also some idiot companions who all have their dialogue written by a 12 year old gamer in the 'role play' forums.There's not really that much to worry about from a plot perspective. Every chapter ends on a cliff-hanger, which is invariably resolved by:a) a magic power in Kell's axe that we didn't know aboutb) special knowledge that Kell had that we didn't know aboutc) something even more heavy-handed than the aboveIt is a wild avalanche of random revelations, each sillier than the one before it.  Presumably,  Angry Robot's super-efficient marketing department realized they were about to launch without a single MEGAVIOLENT(tm) steampunk/vampire/sexist fantasy and handed that brief (presumably scrawled in ketchup) to Andy Remic. Remic, who seems like a pretty cool guy in the book's culminating interview, had a half hour to spare, and KA-POW, a series is born.In all seriousness, this book is a MEGAVIOLENT(tm) assault on fantasy, and an atrocious first encounter with a new publisher.
4 While I was reading Mister Remic's book, Kell's Legend, I noticed the poor guy was having issues with some rather vitriolic hate mail he received for this book. The basic argument by his flaming fan was:HOW DO YOU GET PULBISHED? IS THE EDITOR OF YOUR PUBLISHING HOUSE RETARDED? DOES THE EDITOR KNOW HOW TO READ? I HAVE READ FORTUNE COOKIES WITH MORE WIT, CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT, AND PLOT THAN YOUR NOVEL war machine.This rather took me back. He was referring to one of Andy Remic's other novels (which I haven't as yet read), called War Machine, so I couldn't comment on any editing positive or otherwise, but I'm a little astounded someone actually took their time to write such nonsense to an author.Writing is, in my opinion, a gift. It doesn't matter to me if I do or do not enjoy a novel. The fact that someone was actually able to string together words long enough to compile a novel in the first place is a respectable undertaking. A book is neither good nor bad. Even the books I know I love so much have sometimes caused my friends who have been subjected to them to kind of shrug their shoulders and say "meh" at me. They are subjective things, more so than most media outlets, because they don't rely as much on the author's skill as they reader's own level of creativity to actually visualise what they're reading. Whether they enjoy it is often a case of whether they relate to, or can see the characters. To me, if they can't relate, then that just means the book wasn't targetting them.Why did I put that rant into this review?Because, intriguingly, I feel Andy Remic's target audience isn't necessarily the hardcore fantasy reader, but possibly those who have just thought of moving on from R.A. Salvatore and into higher fantasy, but still want the action and basic flow. And the person writing that vitriolic nonsense seems, to me, to have a rather low level of creativity, flair, and intelligence so I would have thought Mister Remic's books would have suited him or been too hard for him. It was, for me, a moment of weirdness as I read this book.I hope, of course, Mister Remic takes no offense at being put so close to R.A. Salvatore on my bookshelf, but if it makes him feel better, I also put David Gemmell there, too and whilst I'm not a big Salvatore fan, I am a big Gemmell fan. In fact, I'm so big a fan that I was very chuffed to see a dedication in the front of Kell's Legend from Mister Remic to the late great master of a genre of fantasy which I had thought lost - Heroic Fantasy. It's been so long since we had Robin Hood, or Conan the Barbarian floating around, and Gemmell - he updated them with class. For me, Gemmell revived my favourite heroes and gave them a good kick in the pants.Mister Remic looks like he could do this, too.Druss, he was always my favourite, and it looks like Mister Remic feels this way, too. It has to be said that Kell is an obvious homage to the greatest axeman ever written. Mister Remic has written Kell in such a way that it's like reading a lost episode of Druss. Perhaps he wouldn't like me to say that, but I mean it in a cheerful and nostalgic way.Plotwise, it's fairly simple going - badguys invade, our guy Kell escapes with innocent granddaughter and amusing new sidekick before battling his way to warn the king of the kingdom's impending doom. Now, I don't care if Mister Remic's flamer thinks he's too simple, or not very good at some things, but I do think that what Andy Remic does well is keep his story flowing. He keeps the action coming, and when he pauses, it's only for the characters to catch a breath. There's no endless trudging through the paths of this or that forest. When he gets his characters to enter a haunted wood, then they barely get foot into the wood before BAM! they're in the thick of fighting once more. Also, there's a lot more here than you might be thinking.Firstly, I was mostly impressed by the vachine, Andy Remic's badguys. They're like steampunk vampires, and that's just so ubercool it borders on the very icy edges of slick. Without doubt, one of the more interesting characters in the story is Anu, the heroic female vachine who's been engineered just a little too well by her steampunk father who turned her into something truly uber. I felt there was a whole story here alone, and would love to see her kicking some more vachine butt in the next book. In fact, I'm looking forward more to her than I am for Kell. She's the one with the really interesting story and the potential to be something truly awesome.The cankers, too, were a fine addition, as are the hideous Harvesters. The whole general feel of the vachine are ultimately what gives this novel its power. Without their cloak of well-oiled clockwork bits, I really think this novel may not have worked as well. With them, it adds a fresh flavour.Kell, also, while you might feel at the beginning that you're getting little more than a Druss clone, soon developed into his own. He's a little edgier, a little less polished as such, and a little more homicidal. Perhaps a bit insane. Combine that with an elegant talking axe (almost pulling a Stormbringer on me!), and you have the potential for something which breaks free of the obvious homage and into the realms of real fun. By the end, I was much more liking Kell than I did at the beginning. He's more interesting by then.The action scenes are tight, brutal, and made more interesting by Kell's axe. I love the axe.Really.In fact, I want one.I think what made Kell's Legend a problem for Mister Remic is that after beginning on the basis of homage, he's having to wrestle it back under control, and I can see him doing it rather well. The steampunk vampire addition was one way of taking it right out of Mister Gemmell's shadow, and I think that's why the novel manages to, albeit a little slower than I thought it would, take it back to being Mister Remic's story. It's a terribly hard call to make from me - to assume so much was homage, but once you're thinking about it, it's hard to let that thought go. It is, unfortunately for me, extremely hard to stop thinking of the homage element and see it as a single novel standing alone. It is so far seeped in Mister Gemmell's shadow that it is almost like Mister Remic and Mister Gemmell are related. They certainly share a love of the same thing.And, by the way, I don't think it's a bad thing. The character of Druss, wasn't itself any new thing either. It's not a polite, nor accurate, thing to say that Mister Remic has simply cut and pasted a favourite character. He has, rather, adapted a popular feeling and contorted it sufficiently enough to finally claim it as his own. Kell is not as Druss as you would think, by the end. He's actually a lot more cantankerous (a good thing!) and much more prone to moments of evil himself. He's got a nasty reputation - and with good cause. And, dammit, that's why I liked him.It's also worth pointing out that there's many books on the market which are obviously drawn from the same well, so to speak. It's very common. More common now that younger writers, living in the shadows of Feist, Jordan, and indeed Gemmell, are stretching their wings. They can't help but be so influenced by their idols they carry the stamp of them with them. It happens in the music industry, and god knows how many actors and actresses all look the same to me. Being similar isn't quite the same as being a copy. It just shows there's an influence. And that, really, is the most important thing I learned after reading this book. I have to say, I was influenced when I picked it up by some negative comments regarding just this, but in the end they didn't matter to me at all.I am, after all, immune to the opinions of others. How? Because most of these others like Terry Goodkind, that's why.In any case, it's true to say Mister Remic didn't write a book which grabbed me from the opening pages. He didn't write a book which satisfied my thirst for heroic fantasy. He wrote instead a book which grew on me, which dropped, ever so slowly, like a penny in a gumball machine. It took its time, but by the end you can kind of feel it's going in the right direction, and that he's got a firm hold of the reigns and you feel sorry you doubted him in the first place. Reading Andy Remic is like driving a formula one racing car with your earplugs in. You don't realise just how fast you were going, or how much fun you were having, until you take them out.I am, therefore, greatly looking forward to the next book, if just to read more about these wonderful vachine! They're just brilliant!So, to the crazy little goblin who wrote silly things to Mister Remic, I do have to say - being constructive about something is a lot more interesting than being destructive. It shows you were awake enough to pay attention, creative enough to make a decision, and respectful enough to express an opinion - without resorting to judgements regarding biology, gender, or sexual preference. I'd say I would very much like to read something the goblin wrote (as he obviously thinks he can do better), but I'm pretty sure judging by his style and lack of wit, that I wouldn't like it half as much as I liked Kell's Legend, which, for all its experiments and glamorous homage, is still a wonderfully alive and thrilling read.
4 When it comes to the sub-genre of heroic fantasy, many would see its birth coinciding with Robert E. Howard's forays into fiction (the literary father of quite a number of sub-genres, as well as the innovator of dozens of others). Heroic fantasy then went through changes, particularly in the post-Lord of the Rings world, but it didn't truly hit what it is known for today until David Gemmell's Legend (which will be reviewed on Luke Reviews in the not too distant future) burst onto the scene. The David Gemmell Legend Award was created particularly for this sub-genre, in honor of the late Gemmell's impact on it. Andy Remic is a proud member of the post-Gemmell school of heroic fantasy, taking tropes Gemmell popularized and adding the modern touch, including more violence. Interested in Andy Remic's latest work, Kell's Legend, I jumped at the chance to grab a copy before it is released stateside.Kell's Legend, subtitled "Book I of the Clockwork Vampire Chronicles," follows Kell, a former soldier who is now trying to enjoy his retirement in peace. However, invaders tear into his town, and he takes up arms again to protect that which he values most: his granddaughter, Nienna. The duo acquires two more comrades, Kat, Nienna's friend, and Saark, self-proclaimed dandy and former soldier for the king. The group leaves to warn the king of the impending invasion, but run into a bunch of trouble, be it invading armies, haunted woods, evil trappers, or even grotesque former-human monsters sent to track them down and kill them.Remic creates four very well-fleshed out characters, each one playing an important role. His tale is interesting, as it wanders around his created world, introducing the characters' history and the society they live in without bogging down the action. At times, when the tale follows other, more minor characters, such as the king's wife, or a disgraced clockwork vampire (the bad guys!), the tale does seem to slow down, but for the most part Remic keeps things tight and fast. At one time, with the disgraced vampire (Anu), I just couldn't seem to find motivation for a key part in her story, and it became confused, and the change in her antagonist (who at one point wanted her help, but then somehow didn't need it anymore) was off-putting when it seemed to arise for no reason except to further the plot.One thing to be warned of ahead of time: this book does not have an ending, so to speak. While I went in expecting a full novel, where there is a wrap up and closure, that leads to the next book, this novel ends on a cliffhanger climax, with one of our heroes diving back into the fray. This can be frustrating, as you wonder how Remic will tie things back together and then come to realize he doesn't have enough pages to do so, but it is a substantial teaser to draw readers back into this series. Kell's Legend feels less like the first novel in a series, and more like the first part of a long novel. That is neither good nor bad, but just worth noting.All in all, the tale is fun, definitely for those who like their fantasy fast and action-packed. As a more-or-less first foray into this sub-genre, it will certainly be enough to get me to check out more books in this vein.7/10REVIEWED AT LUKE REVIEWS [...]
4 The book title and cover will make all David Gemmell fans nostalgic as well as curious. My interest was also piqued when Andy Remic's book was announced by Angry Robot & I jumped at the opportunity to be able to read it. Andy has dedicated this book to David Gemmell whom he considers one of the finest fantasy writers [an assumption which I heartily agree with].Most David Gemmell fans will instantaneously draw similarities in Andy Remic's fantasy debut & with David Gemmell's Drenai books. The 1st similarity would be with the title, next the titular character as depicted on the cover & in the book is rather cut close to the character of Druss. However if one can look past these connections Kell's Legend turns out to be an enjoyable, fast paced & visceral read.The primary characters that are featured as POVs are:Kell, grizzled war veteran & fabled hero, who is forced to reexamine his past as he deals with the invasion of his homeland & other events in the book.Nienna, Kell's granddaughter who along with her friend Katarina flees her college in rather unfortunate circumstancesSaark, fabled sword master, disgraced hero & who is currently living out life as a thief & gigolo. He then meets Kell & agrees to his plan for his own purpose.Anukis, a Vachine who is deemed impure by her peers due to her ability to drink pure blood & not the blood oil which sustains all other vachines.Kat, Nienna's friend who escapes along with her & is forced to re-evaluate the past, as concerning Kell.There are other POVs as well which are present in the novel however to reveal their names would be a bit too spoilerish. These characters however are few in between the major characters mentioned above.Andy Remic has to be credited for creating a steampunk-like world within a fantasy setting. His concept of the race of Vachines is a combination of Vampire & clockwork machines, while their nourishment is via a substance called "blood oil". This brings a new twist on familiar tropes. The Vachines are shown to be of a higher technological setting than the other races appearing here.The main character of Kell is a rather darker shade of Druss, with roughly the same amount of strength & formidable will but with a murkier past. He even has a butterfly bladed axe (which is homage to Druss's axe Snaga) however with the difference that this axe is black to Snaga's polished steel & also has a voice which speaks rather too clearly for Kell's comfort. The author has not clarified much about his origins and this rather heightens the intrigue in the tale as you read snippets of information about him and his past deeds which will leave you wanting more.The character of Saark is somewhat secondary as we are given a slice of his past but nothing concrete can be processed from it. He might feature prominently in future books as his past comes back to haunt him. Anukis is from a rather prestigious lineage but faces a lot of abuse & humiliation due to her nature & heritage. Nienna & Katarina are forced to go alongwith Kell as they escape the invasion and they have to face a lot of tests in order to survive and along the way they also become acquainted with the unspoken part of the epic poem about Kell.This novel if approached as substitute for David Gemmell's book will lead to great disappointment. Instead of this approach readers might like to look upon this book as, Remic building his own tale using a template created by David Gemmell. He has even peppered it with several of David's trademarks like the words "Laddie, old horse" etc. & with nicknames like "Black Axeman of Draanach" to get a Gemmellian flavor; however this tale is entirely his own.There are a few negatives in this book. The dialogue seemed clunky in lots of places & the prose could have been better. The world-building is done to benefit the story & is not deep enough to satisfy world-building junkies, however works within the premise of the story. Alas no map is provided & this can be distracting in course of the story as the characters move from place to place & with a map being provided, the travels of the characters & of various situations which are geographically linked would have been clearer.The novel is extremely fast paced & will keep the readers on their toes with constant action & mini-cliffhanger chapters. The action sequences & chapter endings reminded me a lot of Matthew Reilly & his books so if you are a fan, you are definitely going to enjoy this book as well. The body count is high as Remic often brutalizes his characters, even the primary ones. The action & gore is also very visceral and stakes in this tale are often kept high & bloody [Joe Abercrombie, you have a competitor now & a British one to boot!].In the end I would like to reiterate, though this tale will remind you a lot about DG & his books, keep in mind it is Andy Remic who is writing it & based on this foundation he's extrapolating his own story. To compare it, would rob you of the vivid pleasure found in this story. This is an epic tale with lots of violence & Gemmellian characters. It remains to be seen how Mr. Remic develops this saga forward as the last few chapters do leave the readers with trepidation for almost all the POV characters. However it will be fun to read about Kell, his past & his family in the future. Andy Remic you got me hooked old horse! I'm eagerly awaiting the 2nd chronicle of the Clockwork Vampire series.
4 Violent is really not the right word for this spare-no-detail fantasy monstrosity. Insane? Maybe. Really, the only way to describe Remic's Kell's Legend is with a phrase: a bloody, violent, fantastic journey through carnage, terror, and a downright epic tale that makes Underworld and every zombie movie look bad. That sounds about right.Kell's Legend is the first is Remic's Clockwork Vampire Chronicles. It follows Kell, a legendary warrior who has grown old, and a number of other characters, from his granddaughter Nienna to Anukis, a clockwork vampire-turned-exile in her own homeland. When strange, twisted albino soldiers descend upon the city of Jalder, Kell must take up his axe once again to defend his family. But with that action comes a flood of memories hinting at his dark past, at the Kell nobody remembers or everyone chooses to forget...Remic certainly managed a tour de force with Kell's Legend. I've never read anything quite so unapologetic about its violence, but also brilliant in its brute force. Kell's Legend is rough, for sure; at the same time, however, it's entertaining and powerful, taking all that is wonderful about truly epic, adventurous fantasy and twisting it like Quentin Tarantino twists the movies. Remic is the Tarantino of fantasy (and science fiction, I presume), and if that isn't a compliment, then I don't know what is.Kell's Legend isn't just about action and brilliantly detailed fights. It's packed full of amazing dialogue (and some clever witty banter to boot), and the characters are three-dimensional, something I think many fantasy writers of the more action-packed vein (including myself) have issue with. Remic has managed to put together a tale that pushes the boundaries while maintaining the necessary elements of a good fantasy novel (interesting characters, gripping conflicts, etc.).There were only two problems I had with Kell's Legend:1) Sometimes the action can be a bit much. For the most part it's entertaining and propels the plot, but sometimes it feels overbearing; there aren't a lot of breaks.2) The language is outside of my comfort zone in one scene (and only one, as far as I can recall). If his language had kept in that vein for more than one chapter, then I would have tossed the book at the wall, but, thankfully, that is not what happened. However, if you cannot stand foul language in any form, this is not the book for you.Both of these problems are personal preferences and not indicative of any significant fault of the novel or Remic. If you aren't bothered by these things, then this is definitely a book for you. If you're already a Remic fan, then you'll love Kell's Legend.I look forward to the second book in the series. I'd love to know what happens with the Clockwork Vampires, Kell, his granddaughter, and some of the other characters.
5 This is the saddest and most diturbing of all the books about abuse that I have read yet. People like this should not be allowed to have children......period!!
3 A captivating read.  Broke me heart to know that some mothers just don't care about their children or worse, wish them harm.
2 Somewhat contrary and monotone. It's almost hard to believe a mother could allow her child to suffer such atrocity, as well as her sinking disbelief of her story.
5 This is one of the most painful books you will ever read in your life.  However, if you turn your back on Lisa's story, you are also colluding in Society's failure to protect all of our children.  It is also a story of hope and justice.  Not only is this Lisa's story, but also the story of 1 in 4 girls & 1 in 9 boys in the USA.  IT IS ALSO MY STORY.  JudiSocialWorker. A must read for every teacher, counselor, doctor,social worker and parent.
4 This book made me so mad, I wanted to find that mother and teach her a thing or two..I don't even have the words for this it is beyond words. One of the worst cases of physical and sexual abuse that I have ever come across. I was a good book in that the victim does come out strong but what it took to get her to that point is just so very, very bad. Shame on the family that let this take place and shame on the schools that never took notice. I am not even sure why I bought this book. it was that shocking..I would actually cry in some parts but like I said it was a "good" book just a very bad subject..God bless her
5 This was a very well written book it was a heavy read. Some chapters I had a hard time getting thru because this book is very emotional however I loved everything about this book
5 Such a sad story ..a journey through extreme mental and physical abuse .Well written ,I felt as though I knew the author it truly moved me. God bless you Lisa!
5 It's unbelievably detailed and doesn't skip a beat. Not everyone can relate to her story but everyone can feel for little Lisa. I give her major props for writing a novel about what she has been through, I'm actually speechless.
5 What an excellent book! It is well written and tells the story of a child who was mentally, physically and sexually abused. This book should be a manual for how not to raise your children the way that Lisa's mother looked the other way, making her to feel as if she was completely alone. I am sorry that your family seemed to drop u like that Lisa but thank God that u met Neil and you hv your 6 babies. This is your story and you and I feel for u for the way that u had absolutely no one to turn too. I am surprised that they prosecuted that monster after so much time had passed. I am happy that u got to see some form of justice. All you can do is live for u and your little family now.
3 What thus young girl went through is just so heartbreaking and unbelievable. Having a mother that would just stand by and do nothing made me so mad and I would at most times wish I could jump through the book and beat the life out of her for her little girl that had no one. Then to top it all off her siblings all turned their backs on her at a time which she needed them the most. I found my jaw dropping a lot throughout this book. I would recommend this book for all of the little Lisa`s out there that have no one to stand up for them.
5 I don't know what lead me to read this book, but it was the saddest book I had ever read.  You could really feel this poor girls pain and torment.  I got so caught up that I found myself holding my breath while turning the page and hoping she would run so far away that it hurt my chest.  I pray this is a rare story and I pray for this girl and wonder about her family.I could not put this down and never skipped a word.  It was such a good book and I felt so sorry for this girl and the pain she went through.  I'm glad she was able to find an end to the torment.
5 What this girl went through and how she survived is amazing.  Well written and I couldn't put it down.
5 This has been one book that stuck in my mind. I read the general description and some of the reviews and I went back and bought this one. This is a very sad, heart breaking story of mental, physical and sexual abuse. Starting when she was 4 years old. The worst part for me was her mother's betrayal over and over. The first time she was able to break free from her abuser, her mother called her and told her that he had left town and since it was Christmas she should come home and see her sister. When she came home with gifts for her sister and mother, her abuser was there waiting for her. She was able to leave again. After she married and had children of her own it became very important to her to bring her abuser to justice. None of her siblings would help her because they were scared her mother would have charges brought against her. The woman should have been charged and went to prison as an abuser. The investigator tried to get the charges dropped several times, but she went to different people until she found someone to help her. The abuser was found guilty, and she did it all by herself. She was very lucky to have found a wonderful husband and had 6 children.
3 The story is horrific, but the writing is rather juvenile. I do think there are a lot of prurient details in the book that could've been worded a bit differently. Getting the point across is one thing, but simply being crude is another. I think audiences are smart enough to realize if you tell them something like &#34;of course he said it using profanity&#34; or &#34;he said it more crudely&#34; etc., they will understand.My biggest problem with this is the fact that I cannot substantiate any of it. I have searched records of the Queen's court for details matching the case. Obviously I am in the US, not the UK, and as such, it is probable that I am searching incomplete records. Still, I found no news coverage of a trial, no news articles about the stepfather's arrest...nothing. It is suspicious to me that there is nothing out there on the net that backs up her story. I am certainly not saying it is all untrue - I believe the details in the book could only have come from someone intimately associated with abusive behavior. I just feel that too many things were changed for this to be advertised as a true memoir.
3 Thanks for writing this book. My dad was finally charged with several counts of child molestation at. 75 years old and died from cancer about 2 1/2years . This book has made me realize that I was a victim in my sexual molestation but I truly regret that I didn't turn him in years ago!!!!! The book is a masterpiece and should be read by every parent in the world!!!!!!!
5 I was gripped by Lisa's story.  My heart bled for her, and I was furious with her mother who stood by and watched what was happening to her child, even pusing her child into the hands of a disgusting individual.  With each chapter I read, I kept thinking "well the abuse can't get any worse", but it did, and with each new chapter the horror just kept unfolding.  I cannot comprehend that any mother would do such a thing.  How Lisa survived her years of abuse and torment are beyond me.  I found the book really well written and easy to read.  Bless you Lisa, and thank you for sharing your story so frankly.  I pray that in putting pen to paper, you found some inner peace.
4 To have come out on the other side of this horrible nightmare sane, is remarkable.  The detail in her book, while hard to read at times, put us in her world as it was; as she had to live it. Lisa is a very very strong woman, and should be proud of herself that she is a survivor and that she was able to put her "Dad" away.I only wish she would have told us what happened to her Mom, and the rest of her family.  It is very sad that this horrible 'man' destroyed a family.
5 This book made me want to jump in and beat the hell outta  both the moma and "Dad". I'm just happy that Lisa finally found the courage to get out.
5 If there is domestic violence in your past, this may prove a difficult read to stomach. The author of this book faced a horrible, unimaginable and beyond painful existence for far too many of her young years. With that said, there is a positive outcome for Lisa. Even though it took years to come about, she was able to escape and end the abuse. Lisa is to be commended for the strength it took to document this story of her earlier years. Going back is not easy but putting pen to paper is excellent therapy. I pray this book finds it's way to those who need to know there is a way out. I pray that this helps all of us to spot the signs of children and adolescents in danger and the courage to act...
4 It's was very good just not the best I have read, it was too much like another book that I have already read.  Had I read  this first I probably would have loved it.
5 I came across you book while looking up memoirs of mental illness. I bought it around six this morning and finished it around eleven tonight. This ws the most heartbreaking story I have ever heard or read. I had to wipe tears away through several different times.I cannot even begin to imagine the hell and torment you actually went through. I do want to say I am so sorry your family turned out to be such traders. And as for your mother, I believe God will hand her a sentence in Hell. As for "Dad", I hope he ravaged in some back alley, beaten to a pulp, and left for dead.Thank you for sharing your story. Thank you for being so brave. When I go to bed tonight, you and your family WILL be in my prayers. God bless.
5 Mummy Knew is truly a wake up call of a book for people of the UK and the United States, and beyond. Lisa James tells her true life story of the abuse she suffered, and the journey to freedom that was just so heroic of her, yet utterly heart wrenching to read about.As a mother, what breaks my heart the most is the prologue. In the start of this book, Lisa explains her life with her grandmother, "Nanny", and how loved and treasured she was. Up to the age of four, Lisa lived a relatively good life, knowing she was loved and well cared for. This only makes it all the more heart breaking when her life suddenly takes a turn for the worst, as she is thrust into her mother's home--a place where neglect and any affection whatsoever are completely gone, and unfortunately, a new predator has just moved in.Lisa's mother has a new boyfriend, and he is terribly sick and corrupt of the mind. His abuse of the family starts quite early, but throughout the 20 some chapters of Lisa's book we see how her stepfather, aka "dad", continually ups the ante of abuse and sexual perversion toward his step children.Very sadly, Lisa is the youngest of her siblings for a while, and is left behind after all the others grow up and move out of the house. Lisa is left to bear the brunt of the abuse from "dad". Everyone is Lisa's life who should have stuck up for her, failed her grossly. Her own mother is a sick woman, and sadly it's a story I've heard before: she is so broken and in need of any affection and any "love, (no matter how sick and twisted of a form it comes in) that she allows a monster into their home and knowingly allows him to abuse her own children--both physically and sexually.SPOILER ALERT! Spoilers follow, so please don't read any further if you wish to be unspoiled by this tragic book...We watch as Lisa grows from an innocent, and well loved (by "Nanny") 4-year-old child and into a young adult. She is abused one way or another the entire time. Her "dad", actually her stepfather, is a sick, twisted person. He obviously must have had an incredibly corrupt childhood himself. I say this not to gain him any sympathy, but to point out the lesson we learn from this book: that child abuse MUST be stopped. Because the abused will either become very broken adults, or at the very worst, go onto abuse themselves. As functioning adults in this world, we OWE it to the children to keep watch and report any abuse we see. Not only for the children involved, but on behalf of the adults they will someday become, and the children they will someday raise.Her "dad" is, in my opinion after reading this book, a sex addict. I would call him a pig, but I actually don't think that pigs deserve to be categorized in the same way as this person. He is a monster, the most selfish person you could possibly imagine. Under his abuse, Lisa endured the most disgusting, horrific abuse I have ever read of. (And this is not my first "misery lit", though I hate when it is labeled as such. I've read "A Child Called It" and many others, but Lisa's story hit a nerve in me that no other book as ever struck.)So, this disgusting, perverted sex addict had little Lisa in his grips for many years. Sadly, so many people around her failed Lisa. Her own mother, the person who should protect her the very most, failed her so severely that it was heartbreaking to read about. Her mother not only witnessed the abuse, she seemed to blame Lisa for what happened to her. A sort of sick, disgusting jealousy formed in her mother, upset that her husband would prefer her daughter over herself, as if her daughter wanted that sort of attention! Sadly, her mother had the power the entire time to put an end to the abuse of her children, but she was too broken and too sick of a person to ever stand up for her children. She should be ashamed, whoever she is, and where ever she is, that she did not protect Lisa and her siblings--though Lisa clearly bore the worst of the abuse.He is vile, and twisted, and sick, and pathetic. Everything Lisa's stepfather does to her is grotesque, and I found myself in tears just wanting (especially as a mother of two daughters) to just scoop her up in my arms and rock her and tell her how loved she is. Lisa is heroically strong, however, though she never seems to tout this or brag about herself in the book (which lends to her believability in my opinion). Lisa is a survivor, but not a bragger. This book makes her raw and vulnerable, and yet she tells her own heartbreaking story anyway. She is a hero in my eyes.Everyone in Lisa's life fails her, her mother, her siblings, even her beloved "Nanny" and aunt Jenny. Nanny clearly loved Lisa, and Lisa adored Nanny, but there was a part of me even disgusted with Nanny and her lack of action in this case. Instead of reporting what she knew, even in an err of caution, to the child protective services or the equivalent in the UK, Nanny withheld action. I was angry at her because I worried she had avoided speaking out in fear that if authorities got involved that she might not have had any more contact with Lisa. But even then, Lisa would have been far better off with a horrible, angry foster home than she was with her own stepdad and sick mother. Nanny, in this way, was selfish, I think. She should, and could have, alerted authorities much earlier.Also her teachers, for as much as Lisa missed school---WHY WHY WHY did no one question what was going on? I've read many child abuse books, many "misery lit" stories, as they are called, never before have I been so appalled at the lack of involvement by the authorities.Then, there are Lisa's siblings, who at times tried to help, but really also turned a blind eye to the abuse that went on right below their noses the entire time. On one hand I feel badly for them that they were so messed up, on the other hand, I wonder why no one cared enough to make sure Lisa was okay.The end of this story, however, is a happy enough one. Lisa, I'm so happy to report, went on with her life to find happiness in motherhood. It sounds as if she gives her children the world, and what she never had. God bless her for that! She is strong, she rises above in the end, she seeks justice for herself, and you cannot help but cheer her on for her bravery and determination.While her "dad" never got the punishment he truly deserved (I believe he will someday), she took a stand against him in court anyway. The last few chapters of this book are heartbreaking, yet so satisfying and wonderful at the same time.Finally, a few reviewers here have questioned the validity of Lisa's story. I will say, I found this book to be very believable. I also find myself interested in Lisa James, though when I search to find out more about her, there is very little to be found. Not only is this a common name, I think the fact that his author has not craved or shown up in the spotlight, proves to an extent that she did not write this for attention. Her website is shut down, her blog is gone. There are no interviews or blogs to follow any more. Lisa, clearly, values her and her family's privacy. These are not the actions of someone who makes up stories for attention, nor do I think such a detailed story could have simply been made up.Lisa's story is complex and difficult to work through, she does not portray it as if she is proud of it, instead, I think the best thing we can take from Lisa's story is to protect our children!Lisa's book is a humbling, heartbreaking reminder that children need us adults to be their voices. We need to pay attention to their hurt and the things they are too young to understand. We need to be strong, brave, and heroes of those who are too young to know what is happening and what to do with it. For the USA, there are organizations such as CASA where anyone can volunteer to be an advocate for a child who cannot typically defend themselves. Foster families are always needed. But also, if you suspect strange things, an abundance of fights and domestic disturbances from neighbors, or children who seem neglected in any way--be their hero! Stand up for them! Report what you see. Lisa's story should not be in vain, it is a reminder to us to speak for the children who cannot speak for themselves. I'd rather be embarrassed by a false alarm than to miss out on an opportunity to speak up for a child who is enduring the horrible things that Lisa (didn't have to) did. Read this book, be strong, and love the children.
5 One of the best stories I've read in this genre. Easy to read with few spelling and grammar mistakes. Lisa takes us into a very deep and twisted world that sadly happened to her starting from her prepubescent years in great detail. This story won't be forgotten and I'm glad I've read it. I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in child abuse stories
5 This book is an eye-opener to anyone that looks the other way when abuse is happening to her child. The lives of so many children are ruined and distorted because of avoiding a matter such as abuse.
5 It was a good book....Unfortunately, child abuse is a problem in this country. If the laws were a lot more stern, maybe adults would think about it before abusing an innocent child
5 I was so upset as I read this book and the way she found out that her mother knew was just unreal. It had a wonderful ending. This is a very powerful book. Sad that anyone should have to go through what this child went through, but she was very blessed in the end.
5 This book rings so true to what girls who have been sexually abused. It also tells of how the mother's to these children cover it up. I was one of those children and my mother was one of those mother's. I am glad someone got justice.
5 The things that Lisa had to endure is unimaginable. The details are very descriptive. I'm saddened to hear about abuse this great, and to have a mother who stands by and allows it to happen.
4 This is a heart breaking story about truly dysfunctional people who had no business having children - the author does a great job of telling her story without having a pity party -
5 She took me into her world. I felt her pain and her shame. I give her credit for finally getting her terrible experiences out.
5 I don't know how this little girl lived threw this horrible man's sickness.. God bless the woman who lived to right this, you are in my prayers always.. Hard to think/read of the things this man did.. He's sure lucky it wasn't me!
5 This stuff happens so much in our messed up world but with people coming forward and telling the truth, it's better than being afraid!
5 Kudos to Lisa for being brave enough to stand up and tell her story-what an incredible act of bravery in the face of unspeakable depravity.
4 This book is riveting and heartbreaking. The fact that Lisa was molested by her father is bad enough, but since the mother (WHO KNEW) responded by scolding the girl, and by agreeing to set her up as the man's &#34;lover&#34; is sickening. Yet, we need to know these stories; we need to recognize when a child is unhappy, when a family is messed up, whether we look on as a school teacher, counselor, neighbor, or simply interested bystander.,
1 I have read a lot of books like this one about abused children.  This is the only one that I do not believe.  It goes on and on, page after page of lurid, obscene details boarding on the pornographic. Unbelievable detail that is stomach turning.  Halfway through I started to think, "No way.  This does not have the slightest ring of truth."  I went back and read previous reviews and I am not the only Doubting Thomas.  To top it off the website listed in the book leads you directly to a pornographic website that will warn you before entering that it contains graphic adult content.  I believe that this book makes a sham out of those who truly do suffer at the hands of abusers. From the very beginning of the book I had a feeling this just didn't ring true.  Here's a mother who sacrifices her daughter to her sick, demented husband who does unspeakable things to her in front of her own mother. Yes, those type of things do happen, however the way this book describes the events seems to be false and written for sensationalism.  I am not naive and I do realize there are horrible, sick, demented people in the world.  And I would never wish to belittle anyone's pain or horror.  However, I just don't believe this book.  Two thirds of the way through I became so angry that the reader was being manipulated and lied to that I just started flipping through because I didn't even want to read anymore.  And let's hear from the author regarding that porno website.  I searched and searched to find another website that might be close to the one in the book that perhaps it was a coincidence that there were two. One that contained pornographic material and one that was about abused children. To no avail.  Could only locate one and that contained the adult content.  Tried to give her the benefit of the doubt.  Who would want to believe that anyone could write something so disgusting to manipulate the reader for money?  I have yet to find anything that was redeeming.
5 I could not put the book down - I was right there with Lisa - I was so happy that she found love and strength to tell her story
5 I am so happy he was finally stopped however., her mother should have been right there beside him.  Tragic for the whole family....
5 Difficult  to imagine a child going through this horror, but it is too real to be made up. Wish the author had found help sooner.
5 This was a good read I felt so bad for little Lisa and he feeling like it was her fault her mother Will have to live with that for the rest of her life and I glad you were a leading to tell your story...
5 Lisa James had a wonderful childhood living with two aunts, an uncle, and her grandma. Then one day when she was four-years-old her grandma didn't come to pick her up from nursery school. Lisa's life went from one of warm cuddles, and soothing bedtime stories to a real life horror story.The things that Lisa went through are so horrible it would be easier to believe it were fiction rather than reality. Lisa's life reminded me of that part in the movie NATURAL BORN KILLERS when the main female character's family life is portrayed as some kind of sick and twisted sitcom.Lisa said she felt as if she were living in some kind of nightmare, and I don't disagree with her one bit. It's a sad and frightening world when mothers and fathers are the real monsters.
5 Very brave of Lisa to tell her story. Amazing that some people are so depraved and lack remorse and a sense of morality to guide their actions... How can a dad do this? Proud of Lisa for sharing her story of survival.
5 I went though this same pain, shame, guilt that it was my fault dome how. Now 50 years old you think my 5 year old to 13 pain,shame would go away. I have even prayed yo God to take away all the things done to me, do can live in please. He won't. My mother died this Feb. 10 and my bastard step father still lives why? Glad I read your book my mom knew to and I felt hated by the world. Thank you bless your heart
5 I read this book as it was recommended by Amazon.  Great choice. Although not nearly as wretched and violent a story, I could relate to the hopelessness. READ THIS BOOK IF  you dare
5 I don't even know where to began . This story is amazing but very raw truthful . Lisa holds nothing back  when telling her heartbreaking nightmare of a childhood story. I really enjoy when a writer catches my attention  like. Lisa did . Normally it takes me a few days to get threw a book of  this size however I started this book Friday night . Did not put it down until I was done Saturday night . The things this child had to go threw is horrific. Yet in the end she comes out on top  . I to am a survivor but this book made me thankful I did not have to endure the violence she did as well as the sexual abuse. Sexual abuse is devastating to a child and takes years for some children to overcome it as adults. Lisa endured so much more for years. Thank you Lisa for having the courage to tell the truth This is a must read.
5 This book is very hard to read due to its content but it is a very well written and gut-wrenching account of a child who grew up horribly abused and neglected who has grown into a wonderful mature woman, wife and mother. I was a little shocked that the website listed in the book is not a real site but I don't think that is her fault. The memories she shares are too awful to be imagined.
3 I have mixed feelings about this story and am not quite sure what posessed me to pick this up other than it was recommended at the end of the Jaycee Dugard story and I am always looking for a good book. To give a full perspective:What I liked about this book: It is well written and I love how the author focuses on her internalization of not only the abuse but the relationship with her mother. I appreciated how insightful as a young girl experiencing these acts of violence against her that she understood conceptually that it wasn't her fault and that her mother should have been doing something to protect her. She understood this whole situation was wrong on so many levels. I am always amazed by people who take horrible circumstances and find a way to turn their life in a positive direction, learn to love themselves and find happiness when they had a foundation built on the most horrible circumstances. This book was very thought provoking, for me as a mother to understand how a mother could cast aside one of her children in such an act of blatant disregard. I can't even fathom how there was no motherly instinct present at all. I found myself angrier at the mother through the story than I was at the man who spent his life abusing this girl. In fact, I would come home after reading this on my commute home and wnat to embrace my children and tell them repeatedly how important they were. Kudos to Lisa James for having the courage to not only turn her life around but to write about what she experienced in an attempt to help others. This is commendable.What I didn't like about this book: Although I understand why the author did this, I found much of the book to be repetitive. From the aspect of creating an understanding of the repeitive nature of the abuse but from a literary perspective I found it ia bit daunting to read a similar situation over and over. This will change depending on your reason for reading the book. I think abuse survivors would find this very validating.In the end I think if you are reading this book is because you are a survivor of abuse or know someone who has experienced this it is a great book and a wonderful resource providing a clear glimpse into this horrific experience. If you are reading this book just to read (as I did) it is a challenging subject matter and at times difficult to read (there were several times I was tempted to stop reading).I have nothing but admiration for Lisa James and others who have shared her experience. To me, these are the strongest people there are. I am glad there are books like these, I am just not sure if I want to read any more of them.
5 Most people find this type of behavior nearly impossible to believe....I am one of those.  No child should have to endure what was told in this book.  Glad to have read it, and at the same time feel heartsick to know it happens.
5 I am astonished at how much courage and strength Lisa had. My rating is a five because I too was abused and no one cared and blamed me. I would recommend this book to all to read. Her family is the one she and her husband have made. I liked the book but I didn't care for her abuse or her parents and siblings. Bravo Lisa for having strength I wish I could have had.
5 This story was so shocking. It left me hanging in suspense during the few times I had to put the book down. I read it start to finish in 24 hours (I have two small children which makes things difficult). Great book, awful story. Lisa is a very special person, truly inspiring!
3 Makes one wonder, just how some women become mothers. This one sure wasn't mother of the year for sure.  It was hard to read what this child went through and survived it.
4 It is hArd to believe that a mother could stand by and let this happen .  I felt sad and disgusted while reading this.  It was well written although I did feel a bit of repetitiveness at times.
2 I gave the first three books five stars, but the fourth book did not seem to have the same amount of hilarious dialogue and action and I was concerned that the author was running out of new ideas; I gave it four stars.  In this book, Stephanie is 16 years old, and she is dealing with problems appropriate to her age but the snarky dialogue and humour are missing from most of the book.  However, Scapegrace and Thrasher's efforts to find a way to preserve their bodies is almost worth the purchase price of Mortal Coil, as their quest for a cure is very funny. It made me think of Monty Python's Dead Parrot skit and I am sure that we will play that part of the book time and time again in our household.I purchased the audio book as a download and it came in 2 six-hour parts.  After listening to the first part, I was going to give the book four stars.  Not five stars because I felt that some of the violence was inappropriate for the recommended lowest reading age.  Unfortunately, the second part was largely taken up with violence that was gruesome and graphic, with very little humour or interesting dialogue.  The fighting scenes in the second half of this story will probably appeal to readers who like horror and zombie stories, but I do not fit into that category, and I found the protracted violence to be brutal and of little interest. The previous books are 8 hours or less and they do not contain this level of violence.  It would be nice if the publishers could release an abridged (eight hour) version of this story that did not contain the  brutality found in this book.I was very excited to find a series of books that I could listen to with the nieces and nephews, and purchased the first three books in soft cover to give as gifts. I will not purchase the last three books to give as gifts due to the increased level of violence.  The next book (Death Bringer) is in the mail from Amazon and I am looking forward to reading it, but if the level of violence continues to escalate, I will not purchase book number seven.
5 perfect for all skulduggery fans,this book really starts 2 show the stress valkyrie is under as she starts 2 have trouble with her relationship with fletcher.meanwhile skulduggery is chasing the killer tesseract and ghastly is struggling with his love for tanith low.a new grand mage needs to be chosen and thousands of remnants have escaped and wreaked havoc all over ireland.skulduggery fans,youre in for a ride!
3 I loved the audio books narrated by Rupert Degas, so was very shocked when these audio CDs arrived narrated by Brian Bowles. I LOVE the snark and adventure in this series--REALLY wish the remaining 4 titles would come to the US as eBooks--but Brian is not Rupert. I noticed that yet another person narrates the next two or three audio CDs. Keep this in mind if you are attached to Rupert. At this point, I want to switch to the eBooks because I love the stories but not the new narrators.
5 My 13 year old son is still reading this series, which he started when he was 9 or 10. The story line is silly but intriguing, and I can hear him chuckle at the British sense of humor (sarcastic and dry), which he just loves. He's read &#34;everything,&#34; but says this series is by far the best.
5 now that Val knows he darkest secret she has to do something about it but Skulduggery cant know. also witht the Remnant outbreak they both have their hands full. they have dont it before ut this time the world might not be saveable. a thriling and capturing book you wont put down.
5 I love this series! It cracks me up and keeps me on edge. I can't stop reading! Definitely a keeper.
4 I also am feeding my habit long distance!!  I got the very first book as a readers copy through Harper Collins now defunct advance reader program.  It hooked me right away!!  In turn, I brought it to work and we ordered several copies for the library I work in (5/6 grade).  Not only did our students love it but I have a couple teachers who can't wait to get their hands on the next book when it comes in!!  PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE publish these in the US!!  I recently had to reorder some of the earlier books because our copies had become so dog-eared.  In other news, the book . . .I had been anticipating this book since late last year.  The evolution of the story and characters is so well done.  Love the whole good new, bad news.  Good news is the Necromancers don't need Valkrie to be the Deathbringer anymore . . . bad news is they've got someone else.  There's some great twists and turns.  One that I just didn't see coming BUT LOVED!  It's so fun watching Valkryie grow into herselves.  Skulduggery's sharp wit just has me chuckling to myself referring to Valkryie as a "battle accesory" instead of a partner.  As usual, lots of irreverant banter.  This books appeals to such a broad audience.  My 5th graders just love the action and the adults enjoy the interaction of the characters (and the action).Only problem is, even at 602 pages, it goes way to fast.  It's a long wait until the next one!!
5 This book was amazing I find that most authors depend on description to make their books interesting but Derek Landy interests the reader with this mix of sarcasm and full on actionThis is truly a great piece of literature for boys and girls and the fact that he is an Irish author really shows that our country can produce varied arts.IrishBookworm
5 This is a great book it goes into more background as to some of the character . My son really enjoys these books
5 This is a book you must read after Harry PotterI cant wait for The End of the WorldYours TrulyDJ
4 It's such a shame that the Skulduggery Pleasant series is no longer published in the US, because it's fantastic.  In our family there are four of us (mom, dad, teenage boy & girl) fighting over each volume as it comes out, and I have a line of kids at our middle school library waiting for turns.  These books are worth the money to have them shipped to you!  Death Bringer is the 6th, the final installment in the middle trilogy of nine planned volumes.  It's on a level with the best ones in the series so far, with return appearances by some favorite villains and side characters, and some intriguing new characters and plot developments.  Landy writes fantastic dialogue, and the characters are memorable and appealing.  We can't wait for #7!
5 i thought it was hard back but it wasnt daughter was still happy weve been trying for awhile to get it
5 Derek Landy knows how to grab a teen's attention.  My daughter loves this series and has all of the books.
5 If you have just finished the book before this one, you have to get this now! I am a huge fan of these series mostly because of the action, suspense, and humor. I love the beginning of all the Skulduggery Pleasant books, especially this one. The beginning was funny and I loved it. I think this book in the series has some of the most action and fighting, especially at the end when Darquesse comes to fight Lord Vile. I'm not going to say anymore because that might spoil the book. Anyways, I also love the plot of this book. I'll just say a little bit. So, basically, the necromancers have found the Death Bringer. I'm not going to tell you who the Death Bringer is because that would reveal the whole thing. Anyways, the necromancers have found the Death Bringer and she/he ( I don't want to say if the Death Bringer is a she or a he ) is planning to open up a passage so that the dead and the alive can live together.Valkyrie and Skulduggery are trying to stop the Death Bringer from opening up that passage. Because in order to open up that passage, the Death Bringer will have to do something horrible that will kill many people.So... yeah. That's basically about the plot. I can't wait to read the next book in the series! :-D
5 the plot thickens... just like the last books this one is crammed full of action, humour, drama and just the right amount of violence. if u have read all the previous books in the searies then i recomend it highly. derek landy is an amazing writer who never ceases to shock and thrill me with his works
5 My daughter got the very first book and after reading it gave it to me to read, while sitting there watching me as I was reading it. I truly enjoy the book and could not put it down and could not stop laughing. The Skulduggery books appeals to such a broad audience and is really good clean fun. We learn more about Darquesse in the Death Bringer and there are a few important surprises about other characters too. It absolutely still contains Landy's trademark humour.
5 I have to say there were a lot of gasps as I read this book, earning me funny looks from my partner along the way.The book still contains Landy's trademark humour but the book is quite dark in a lot of ways. We learn more about Darquesse and there are a few important revelations about other characters too.I really can't wait for the next one. This book has really whetted my appetite for the next instalment.Note: I also posted this review on Goodreads.
5 Odd thomas is once again on the road, he seeks the Rhinestone cowboy trucker... with the help of Alfred Hitchcock as a ghost side kick. Plenty of humor, and fun... sometimes Odd gets too caught up in his inner dialogue to leave you thinking "what is going on??" but I love Odd Thomas.You need to read Odd in the order they were written though to understand about Pico Mundo and Stormie.I do hope the next book, Oddie gets to finally be at peace with his love and goes back to helping the dead cross over and make his wonderful pancakes and his simple life. I miss his helping the dead move at peace.The first book was so amazing to me I think it needs to be a movie.This one was good, but Anne Marie is a situation I am not sure I like and understand.. but then again, it is Odd Thomas!
5 love all of the Odd Thomas booksDean Koontz keeps Odd fresh and entertaining!cant wait for the next Odd book
5 The entire Odd Thomas series is entertaining and enjoyable. I like Koontz and his Odd Thomas character is refreshing and easy to read.As long as he keeps writing about Odd I will keep reading--although I thought the very first Odd Thomas was by far the very best!!
4 In this manuscript, Odd details his adventure involving some kidnapped children and a satanic cult, among other dark entities. Annamaria and Hitchcock, along with a few new acquaintances help Odd along the way, but largely, once again, Odd is on his own to sort things out for much of the story. I confess I'm more than a little disappointed in the direction this series has taken, seeming to value sensationalism over being true to the simple things that made the first couple books great. I love Odd's character so much, that I feel compelled to continue reading the books, just to see what he's been made to suffer this time, but Odd seems increasingly ill-prepared for the horror contained in each new book, and yet has no option other than to deal with it. If only he could return to his simple life as a fry cook in Pico Mundo and help the everyday lingering spirits of his small town, instead of being forced to solve the problems of the world at large. I look forward to reading  the next and last book in the Odd series, Saint Odd, hoping it sees Odd returned home and reunited with Stormy at last.
4 Our same Odd plus some new friends thatI suspect we will see again in future novels.I liked it - not one of the best, but I think itis moving the series forward.
5 I have followed the various adventures of Odd Thomas since book one and heartily glad that Dean Koontz keeps on writing them. One can always count on the nuanced characters and oblique situations that Oddy encounters. I often found myself thinking, &#34;How will Odd get out of this?!&#34; only to discover that Koontz has deftly written a way that involves the reader deeper and deeper into Odd's strange life.  Keep up the great work, Dean! And thanks for the first Odd Thomas movie, too.
5 Odd Thomas is a moral soul in what appears to be an increasingly amoral world. Mr. Koontz is able to use Odd Thomas to provide a glimpse of hope and beauty that shines brightly in the darkness around us. The characters are well portrayed and engaging, without appearing as cardboard cut outs and cliches. Highly recommended!
4 I have found the last couple of Odd books to an OK read; however not as good as the first three books.  That stated an &#34;OK&#34; Dean Koontz book is more entertaining then most on the market.  I hope that he can soon get the series back on track.  I really like Odd Thomas.
5 Dean Koontz hit directly on the head with Deeply Odd, as he has done with each book in this series.
5 Mr. Koontz is a fine writer, as well as a wonderful story teller. I have read many of his books, my fave being watchers.
4 Another Odd story that leaves you wanting more.  Looking forward to next book...gotta know if Odd gets to be smooth and blue...
5 I am a big fan of Dean Koontz!! I love all of the Odd Thomas books and to me this one was the best one yet!!
5 Koontz never fails to satisfy that need for getting into the story through the intricate development of characters, and there may be no better character to explore the human condition than through Odd Thomas and his adventures!
5 Another spell-binding installment in Dean Koontz's Odd Thomas series. As an avid Kontz fan, I would highly recommend this book even if you have not read the series.
5 A wonderfully enchanting tale that  speeds Odd Thomas further along and into his destiny. I especially enjoyed the growing picture of tension between the forces of good and evil and that  this conflict cannot be ignored except to bring down all collapsing us into suffocating chaos.  Very much looking forward for th next story,  leading us back full circle to Pico Munda
5 Dean at his best.  The book story line is picking up, if you Love ODD you willlove the book.
5 Definately a different read and lots of surprises. Not your standard plot by any means. I really like this series.
5 If you're an Odd Thomas fan, this book does not disappoint.  Still the same old Oddie, but with intriguing new characters.  Triumph of good over evil is not guaranteed, and Oddie is ever doubtful of his abilities, making the reader always rooting for him to save the day, if he can.  I hope this series never ends!
5 I Have been reading the series since the original Odd Thomas by Dean Koontz. The first thing I found about Deeply Odd was that the story picks up quickly, without a lot of back story or build up. Second, it was very similar in style and tone to the first, third, and fourth books in the series. As in it is fun and keeps your attention without going too overboard on descriptions or way out there in sci-fi elements. While the story isnt very believable (it is fiction and about a guy that sees ghosts, so not a big stretch), it is the usual fun character that we know and wish we could be in some way.For those of you that aren't familiar with Odd Thomas, this is not the book to learn about him and I would suggest starting at the beginning. There are many references to his other "memoires" that help you understand or relate as you go, plus many nuances that a fan would appreciate vs. a new comer finding weird.Over all  loved it anc hope Koontz continues the series sooner rather than later, I didnt want the book to end. I hope the movie finally comes out and is worthy of the character!!
5 I have enjoyed every one of these novels.  Odd Thomas is an interesting and engaging character.  The character allows Koontz to keep to his tradition in a non-traditional way.  the philosophical aspect of the character will make you wish you could put your thinking into such eloquent words and phases.
5 I keep wondering how Mr. Koontz is going to keep Odd's story going, but he hits it out of the park every time!  Loved the new characters and hope he pulls some of them into future Odd adventures.  Seeing the world through Odd's eyes is always enlightening.
4 I know a book is entertaining when I look forward to reading it every evening! Now that I finished it, I'm ready for the next Odd Thomas novel!!
5 I really enjoy the Odd Thomas novels. Good plotting and you can see the character development of Odd Thomas as you go through the series.
4 I usually don't peruse other people's reviews before I write my own, but this time I did.  I've been getting to know Oddie for several years, eagerly awaiting to see what his future holds.  A few novels back, Annamaria happens on the scene.  Interesting complication.  (Personally my theory is that she's actually the Virgin Mary foreshadowing the 2nd coming, but I digress...)With this book comes more character development, almost like the previous books were the slow windup to a fast pitch.  I note that the Good vs. Evil battle is really kicking it into high gear by the time Oddie decides to go shopping for clothes, but ends up meeting up with the Rhinestone Cowboy from hell, whereupon he does his damndest to do all he can.  Sure, a little old lady ends up being his chauffeur for this adventure, which might seem like a divert into left field, but really by now you should realize that Odd's life is ebb and flow... he goes where he is led and seems to have a good sense that he doesn't have much say in the matter anyway.What I took from this book is, perhaps, the author's social commentary.  Namely, that the world is going to hell in a handbasket. Just turn on the TV news and you'll find plenty of evil in the world.I particularly liked Odd's observation (after being wrecked by the malevolent aforementioned Rhinestone Cowboy) when he noticed that no one stopped to render aid to him.  He said, "The world howls for social justice, but when it comes to social responsibility, you sometimes can't even hear crickets chirruping."I'll also note that the author mentions specific government snooping/surveillance capabilities that Odd Thomas particularly fears that turn out to be true.  Remember, this book published in late May and the NSA's snooping didn't come out until after this book was published.  Something else to think about.While other reviewers may lament that Odd is losing his luster and direction and they hope he gets killed soon (remember, he has stated in probably every book that no one will read his memoirs until he's dead, so I've assumed he was dead from the start) or feel like the series will run full throttle into crazy plots that make you feel like you've just watched the last two seasons of "Lost" and wondered if any of it was truly real (or did I imagine a dinosaur?), I'm a die hard fan and I have faith that Odd's journey here isn't quite finished yet --- and the best is yet to come.
3 I've been following Odd Thomas, but this one goes into the paranormal much more than the others. It's a little scarier.
5 Mr. Koontz always bests himself. If you enjoy this authors weaving of tales this book lives up to his legacy. Enjoy!!
4 Oddie is deeper and deeper into his mystery. This one keeps a great pace and i loved the great characters he meets along the way.
4 the introduction says it all. I love this series.  sometimes it does get a bit &#34;wordy&#34; in the way he  describes  Oddies prospective on things. it feels like he's stretching to describe it in some obscure way.  most of the time it adds to the stories, some times it's a little too obscure.  but i see this in most of books by Dean Koontzs and it hasn't stopped me from picking up the next one.
5 The Odd Thomas novel series is some of Dean Koont's best work to date. Odd is a deep, loving caring character, with a unusual ability. If you read the first, you will be sad when its over, but there are more. Ive read them all. Can't wait for the next one!
5 This is a strange, but very entertaining book. You have to be into Odd, and I recommend reading the other books before this one.
4 Very good start but then it dragged a little. The ending was great cause you know there is going to be another  book wrapping everything up.
5 What a wonderful cast characters. Odd is at his best in Deeply Odd. It saddens me to think the series is coming to an end. I would never tire of Odd and his journey.
5 With plenty of sweet little old ladies to offset evil, Odd proceeds on his quest for good.  Odd himself is developing slowly, but perhaps by the end he has another clue where he's headed: greatness.  Along the way he grinds his heels on the head of snakes, saving children and giving us hope.  A must read for Odd fans.
4 Yes again and again Dean Koontz lays down the words to keep your mind engrossed in his tales,especially the Odd Thomas novels. And this one seems to have out done them all.
5 These books are outrageous! I love reading outrageous.  I never want to quit untilthe last page.  What will happennext?  I can hardly wait!,
3 I love Koontz and I really have enjoyed the Odd series overall but this one's a dud. Slow start, long middle but good ending. Thus the three star rating.
3 From the first Odd book I've been intrigued by the story,but I'm sorry one page and a half to describe a puddle followed by 2 paragraphs to describe the light shining off the puddle, I'm going to be crucified for not seeing his literary genius for painting a picture but paint more storyline, more dialogue to fill pages not verbose descriptions. I know that's his style but less style more meat would be more enjoyable. Lucky I speed read and skim his books.
4 We hear too much these days of "healthy self-image"; and it ignores a need to build that ourselves. Everyone hopes others will help us, affirm us, enable us to understand what we believe, and make us feel good about who we are.Family therapists have said the most adjusted, least fearful, and most adaptable people are the ones who have worked to understand who they are (self-differentiated) and to decide what they believe (self-defined).  It is usually those who will have the courage take a stand and act based on that knowledge.Odd Thomas is a clear example of a self-defined and differentiated person.  Though he has empathy for others, he is still able to act against them if necessary because he knows what he believes.Moral certitude is unwelcome these days.  We resent those who live with a degree of clarity and certainty as opposed to inhabiting the gray areas.  Since he began his journey in Pico Mundo Odd has been aware he'll need to respond quickly to what he perceives as evil.  He wends his way through ambiguity thoughtfully and determinedly, with a strength of will not only to act but to actually decide--even when paths aren't clear or easy.Odd seems to know life will happen whether he's prepared for it or not.  His magnetic north remains firm, he decides as best he can what should be done . . . so he acts.Unlike others who assessed (and dismissed) Odd's inner dialog as Mr. Koontz indulging his pedantic impulses, I enjoyed and appreciated how Odd's careful self-analysis, how defining what he believes helps him adjust to what he sometimes is called upon to do.If only our leaders did better work in this area of self-differentiation and self-definition.  We might see less procrastination, less vacillating, less inaction.  Odd knows (if no one else seems to) that situations will not always allow us to remain stuck.  An informed self-definition will require us to act and deal with the consequences.In a world populated with fearful minds aroused only to the level of indecision and inaction, the fictional Mr. Thomas is definitely Odd man out. His posthumous diary explains how he thought his way to knowing when and how he will take a stand and act on it.I found Deeply Odd particularly enjoyable because Odd's ramblings demonstrate how his thinking leads him to act, and how he is able to do so with a minimum of wheel-spinning indecision.  He tells us how he is becoming a person who can act when conditions aren't clearly defined.  People may die unnecessarily while those who could help are trembling over whether to do something.Odd acts because he's already expecting he'll have to, and will have to do it alone without knowing every option.For all you who grouse about Odd's views being those of DK himself:  I have enjoyed reading of a character whose views are formed by thinking them through, basing those views on life and its lessons rather than merely what someone taught in Poly Sci, or Soc. 101.  Some of us who sat in those have learned the real world may compel us to rethink things.Odd is odd because he already has.
5 As always, James Patterson came through again. Odd Thomas is always an exciting read and hard to put down. I always look forward to the next adventure, the wait is worth it!
5 The odd series is one of my favorites and Dean Koontz did not disappoint in this installment. Just as sinister, creepy and scary with the right amount of Odd Thomas humor. Fans of the series and of the author will definitely enjoy.
4 I liked this book - I loved some of the previous ones. The original Odd Thomas was great. Brother Odd is fantastic too.  It's a good read.
5 I can never get enough of this character. I was so happy to have discovered this series by Dean Koontz years ago, and have appreciated his dedicated approach to continuing these stories over the years.
5 It seems that the network that surrounds Odds life becomes larger and more complex. The introduction of the latest ghost holds some surprises for Odd. An all together entertaining read.
4 I dont know anyone who read a Koontz book and didnt like it. I find this stage of the series to be quite sad. We know there is only one book left. I see Odd changing. There is a bit less humor in him, the story is darker, and this will all come to a close in the next book. Koontz never disapoints.
5 Man I love the Odd Thomas books! I have read them all and so has my daughter!
5 Love the characters, love the storyline!  There is excitement, adventure, mystery, and love. Everything is not always alright but there is always hope.
4 This series is heavy on unexplained metaphysical kick ass solutions to Life As We Know It problems.  It's always good vs. evil with the common man being a good guy.  Evil is large, dark and always around.  I love this  group of books and have been following it for awhile.  Our hero, a fry cook who can see dead people, has saved the world more than once. Odd, the hero, shares a habit with the hero of a landmark series by another author, John D. McDonald.  Both Travis McGee and Odd Thomas have a philosophy of life and death that they share regularly.  This is a fine book that is entertaining, somewhat philosophical and doesn't take itself too seriously.  Can't wait for the next one.
5 I have read them all so far and one or two were not quite what I expected but this one held my interest from cover to cover.
5 Sometimes Odd can be hard to track.  The story has twists and turns that can't be easily guessed.  But if you love Odd you will love this story.  I'm off to get the next book!
5 Reading this book with the references to the past couple of installments was very refreshing. Again odd saved the day with his "gift". It was interesting having Mr. Hitchcock and Boo along for the ride. Can't wait to see what Odd will be up to next.
4 Odd Thomas is one of the best characters in fiction today.  It helps to read the series from the beginning, but this story can more or less stand alone.  I found the story to be quite thought provoking because of the philosphical tangents  were well crafted and the story itself was quite interesting.
3 I LOVE Odd Thomas and there was a time when I was an avid Dean Koontz reader, being there when the store opened to buy his new releases.Then over the past few years, something in the writing changed and I stopped reading him. I still feel as though the best book was "The Taking" and after that, "The Husband" lost me as a reader due to it's lack of the mystifying and Godly undertones. ... But when I heard that the Odd series was continuing, I returned for the Odd novels, it being one of my favorite books.I almost gave up on this novel several times. The language was too ornate and too elaborate to maintain my attention. HOWEVER, because I love Odd so much ... I carried on and I'm glad I did.The last 25% of the book was amazing and I was left amazed at the end, filled with a profound sense of peace, albeit a little confused just like Odd.I am so happy that the religious overtones have been put back in, of course, they may be others more recently that I haven't read. This book makes me want to take another look at Koontz.
2 I am a huge fan Dean Koontz books.  However, this one was tough to read.  It's all narrated by Odd Thomas from his uber-self-conscious first person point of view.  The story is simple: he has set out for the day and comes across a bad guy, a rhinestone cowboy trucker who is able to travel between dimensions as Odd Thomas can.  Odd Thomas meets other well-drawn, quirky characters in his pursuit of this evil trucker who plans to do very bad things.  The constant switching between the reality that others can see and the reality of the dimensions particular to Odd Thomas confused me.  I couldn't connect with him, so I did not really care what happened to him.  Although the scenes were vividly detailed, I still could not mentally picture them.  This book did not draw me in.
3 This book was good, but not as good as the other Odd Thomas books.  It was a good storyline, but too much description and philosophy, and short on action.  Odd Thomas is still funny.
5 Odd Thomas books are a great collection of fiction of this genre.  I make it a habit of buying as many as possible.
4 Follows the Odd Thomas storyline. Had some new twists and new characters added. Not for everyone, should start from the first book.
3 I guess I am finally getting tired of Koontz using Thomas to put his own philosophy of life in print. The story involves Thomas, children and dogs. A winning combination. Read it for the story and not the philosophy.
5 Once again, Odd Thomas has some very bizarre adventures. I am sad because I don't know when another one of his books will be written.
5 It's true that I wasn't breathlessly waiting for this next Odd novel to come out, the way I was for the second or third one...but then, I've been busy.  There's no way I would have passed it up, though, and I was not disappointed.  I do not read much from this genre so I have not much to compare to it, but I suspect that Koontz is in a league by himself here.  Not even Stephen King's The Stand gripped me like this series has gripped me.  I'm not sure Koontz can live up to the conclusion that he has us headed for in this series.  I have faith in him, but the book has been promising something big, right?  You know, bigger than all of us.  Nevertheless, what has been written can stand on its own.  The characters have all come to life for me, and that is not an easy task for a writer.  In spite of Koontz' little moral interludes that he sticks in here and there, popping out like Alfred Hitchcock's big stomach in said movies, there's plenty of real esoteric meat to chew on till purported doomsday.  I just hope the real world is not more linked to this series than I suspect, because then we're all in big trouble.
4 I really enjoyed this book. I can't wait for the last Odd Thomas book to be released. The series is a hit..
5 This is what I like!  Getting what you ask for in a reasonable amount if time... no complications and no hassles!
5 Wow this is a great book.  I love his work. This is no exception. He is a master at weaving interesting stories. I could not put this down.
5 I've followed Odd Thomas from his first book and have always enjoyed his adventures. His books always leave me with a sense of calm as evil is defeated and goodness prevails.
5 Dean Koontz has never written a bad book as far as I'm concered. This book is as good as it can be. Love the Book.
5 Prior to Deeply Odd, I have read one Koontz novel, Hideaway, which was chilling in the way thrillers are supposed to grip you to the end. I also read Odd is on Our Side, which interestingly isn't listed in the bibliography at the front of Deeply Odd, but introduced me to Odd Thomas, a whimsical world of good vs. evil with a wry sense of humor. It was enough to interest me into the Odd series. However, it hardly prepared me for the surprising world between the Odd covers.Odd Thomas sees dead people, often helping them make what turns they need to move past the limbo between death and their next destination. Odd, himself, seems to be between way stations, guided by an inner sense of trouble to where his peculiar talents are needed. When he sees a rhinestone-studded cowboy who drives a foreboding 18-wheel rig, he has a flash-forward and knows the trucker will incinerate three innocent children as an entertainment on some demonic stage. Guided by a magnetic pull to danger, and with the assistance of his departed dog, Boo, and the late director, Hitchcock, Odd must track down the trucker to top his diabolical plan. But first, Odd has to figure out the undercurrents that threaten to tear a rift between the physical world and the forces of hell bent to destroy life.Completely engrossing. Surprisingly insightful, and oddly uplifting. Koontz keeps surprising on every level. I'm astonished at his craft to write beautifully, in the midst of gripping terror, while illuminating good and evil, even bringing a sense of beauty suggestive of angels surrounding the mortal sphere, ready to help where and when they are most needed.
5 As usual, Deeply Odd continues entertain as all other Odd Thomas books have done.  I've read the entire series so far and each has been a wonderful story in itself.
5 I love to read about the adventures of Oddie. He renews my faith in good. Even if it is fictional.
5 I haven't even started this one yet, I'm still enjoying &#34; joyland&#34;  by Steven King.., yes, I'm behind in my reading but am sure that this book will be just as great as the rest of the ODD THOMAS series..I'm behind a few of these.
5 This was really fun summer reading!  DK sets up the plot in such a chilling but enchanting manner, I was hooked in the first few pages.  It really helps if you've been following along with all the other Odd Thomas novels (I have been), as many references are made to the &#34;saga&#34; so far.  What was really enjoyable was that I'd be reading along so enthralled in the story and suddenly there would be this hilarious commentary (or thought-bubble) from Oddie that would have me belly-laughing out loud!  Talk about comic-relief!!Also, Dean Koontz's prose is just stunningly beautiful at times.  I would find myself reading some descriptions and passages over and over, savoring the mastery of language and imagery DK displays in this novel.Okay, so I loved everything about the book.  I have no negative criticism.  Read it!  You'll love it!  Recommended beach reading!!
3 good
5 More magic from a wonderful Author Dean Koontz, this is one of my favourite series of books by this author
5 In Dean Koontz' latest Odd Thomas novel, DEEPLY ODD, Odd faces his most sinister villain yet, acquires some newfound supernatural abilities, and acquires a new long-dead celebrity companion. Living with the mysterious AnnaMarie and the young boy, Tim, from the last novel, Odd has a vision of an evil truck driver who has plans of killing three young children. Odd is used to seeing the lingering dead; people who have died but not yet crossed over. This is different. His vision is one of pure evil, and he knows he's the only one who can stop it.With AnnaMarie's urging, Thomas follows the mysterious truck driver around the west coast. He's joined in the journey by Mrs. Fischer, and elderly woman in need of a chauffeur for her stretch limo. Mrs. Fischer isn't just an elderly woman. She talks in riddles and has mysterious and powerful friends that help Odd in his journey.If you strip away the wit and commentary of Odd Thomas, not much really happens in the novel. Some may complain, but I think the greatness of the Odd Thomas series is Odd himself and his commentary and life and the nature of good and evil. Regardless of what Koontz's theology is in real life, I appreciate that he gets what true evil is, and isn't afraid to present the evil in his novels. While Odd faces horrendous evil in this novel, Odd, Mrs. Fischer and others prevail because, in the end, evil will not win.This novel took us a step closer to the end of the Odd Thomas journey. I've loved the ride so far, and can't wait for the next novel. (I received a copy of this novel through the Amazon Vine program)
4 Missing are the &#34;bodachs&#34; and the multiple mischievous ghosts, but ever-present is the introspective and downright fascinating Odd Thomas.  This book takes us deeper into the trial and tribulations of Odd than ever before.  I seems as if Mr. K is trying to answer some of the long-unanswered questions....or perhaps tease us with new unanswered questions.  Regardless, it is a good read, a good story line, and a worthwhile addition to the collection.  The only reason it isn't 5 stars is because it wasn't deeply &#34;moving&#34;.  It's simply a decent novel.
5 Another awesome Odd Thomas story by one of my favorite authors, Dean Koontz.  Mr Koontz has not let me down in his latest episodes in the continuing saga of Odd Thomas.  Not I have to wait for the next one. Hurry Dean!
4 Koontz brings forth another adventure from Odd Thomas. I love the voice of the narrator in the Odd Thomas series, the self deprecating fry cook always makes me smile. This memoir is vaguely reminiscent of Joe Hills recent NOS4R2. Torture of children, limo, invisible destinations...etc. These guys must all eat at the same diner. Koontz never fails to raise the hairs on my neck and this story didn&#8217;t disappoint. There is something very chilling about the unseen world around us that always has me looking very closely at what just might be there...B.L. Hewitt author of the Mac & CiCi Thriller series
3 As with the last couple of Odd Thomas books, this one is loaded with irrelevant descriptions, repetitive, boring introspections, and unbelievable characters (even for a fantasy novel).  I loved the first few books and am very disappointed to see what is becoming of this remarkable character.  Koontz seems to have run out of ideas, and is instead using Odd to promote an ultra-right wing agenda.  I have read that the next novel will be the last in the series.  I truly hope Koontz brings back the Odd Thomas that readers love and does away with the political proselytizing.
3 I normally enjoy the Odd Thomas series, but this book was difficult to get through.  It kept going over old material over and over again.
4 I found the latest installment of the odd thomas series to be enjoyable overall, but I was disappointed with what seemed like a rushed conclusion. I have read over 40 Dean Koontz novels; I love his writing. However, one of my biggest issues with him is the endings to his novels: far too often they seemed rushed, not well thought out, and oftentimes completely dull and abrupt. What makes this frustrating is how everything leading up to these endings is usually anything but. I found this book fast-paced with good doses of humor and insight into the thinking of Odd Thomas, but I did find the book a little too spiritually-driven for my tastes. It seems like Dean is really wanting to spread his worldview and beliefs through the opinions and thoughts of Odd Thomas and sometimes it can come off a little too confident and preachy. I would have liked to get to know the antagonist, the "rhinestone cowboy" a bit more; I felt he wasn't well-developed compared to other antagonists in the books. Definitely worth reading. I'm looking forward to the final book in the series.
3 This is not a stand alone novel! This is the latest book in the Odd series, please do not read this without reading the previous novels, you will just be confused.I was a tad disappointed with Odd Apocalypse and so hesitant to pick this one up. Honestly if it hadn't been offered to me through Vine, I might not have read this one. This book was a bit of an improvement but not by much.My major problem with this novel is that Koontz has said that he will end this series with seven books, this is the sixth book. Yet instead of answering some questions, wrapping up a few things, he just keeps piling on more and more mysteries and unanswered questions. There are things that happen that get no explanation that the book pretty much says straight out are things that will never be explained. So that's a little disappointing. I get the beautiful mysteries of life angle, but come on, not everything can be a beautiful mystery of life. A little satisfaction by way of answers or explanations wouldn't hurt anything, there are more than enough mysteries in the story to make up for the explanation of one or two. As for the stuff that will be explained (hopefully) there is just so much of it that I fear the last book will be more of an info dump than a story. But since that book isn't out yet, let me steer this review back to "Deeply Odd".Overall, this book had the same "Odd" tone, dark but some of the commentary was rather judgmental social commentary. I don't know, maybe the other books were like this too, but while I remember Odd making commentary that addresses some of the issues that are happening today, I don't remember it being this bitter. There is are several rants in here about how values have no meaning anymore and how people are growing more evil by the day. I didn't read this to get a lecture on morality. This is just my personal opinion, but humans' capacity for evil has not increased. People are just as evil now as they ever were and just as violent. The only real difference is that the media has made us more aware of it by broadcasting it 24/7. The news focuses only on the bad because that's what sells, they spread fear deliberately because it sells. That's merely my opinion though, other readers may disagree.I am an not religious, but I have always loved Dean Koontz's writing, he has never written in such a way that I felt excluded, but I am starting to get that impression with this series. It feels more and more like it has an overall religious "message". Which is fine on its own, but some readers may feel like me, a little disconnected from what Koontz is trying to impart.The dramatic scenes all ended rather anti-climatically, which was a bit of a let down. The new characters especially the villain all seemed very interesting, and while they were given very detailed physical descriptions, not a lot of time (with one notable exception) was spent on the characters' personalities. You didn't really get to know anyone in this book, even the other character that was focused on remained largely a mystery. Characters introduced in previous books are rather literally left behind.Overall, honestly, this book, and the last for that matter, seemed like filler to me. I wish Koontz would just get to the point.Odd Thomas is an interesting character as always, the book was generally amusing, and Koontz's writing style is always a pleasure to read, which is why I gave this book three stars. I hope Vine offers the next book in the series as well so I can satisfy my curiosity without buying it."For Editor" Notes:These are just a few specific errors I noticed, I have edited them a bit to prevent spoilers but be warned that their maybe spoilers ahead, and if I'm wrong about any of these, please feel free to correct me in the comments:Page 73: "He doesn't have the children yet." "He's going after three children?" Odd never said three, where did she get three?Page 205, Thomas is talking to Mazie and Harmoney, but then "Justine put one hand on my shoulder." Who is Justine?
5 Bestselling author Dean Koontz is internationally known for his horror and suspense novels. Most of his books are stand-alone titles, but there are some exceptions. Among them are his Odd Thomas thrillers, of which DEEPLY ODD is the sixth and latest installment.Odd Thomas is, well, odd. He works as a grill cook at the Pico Mundo Grille when he can, but spends a great deal of time doing more important things, like solving crimes and chasing down bad guys. He has an unusual ability to see spirits of dead people who have not passed on to the Other Side. They are harmless creatures, unless they turn "poltergeist" and start throwing things at him. Usually they come to him because they want justice or are afraid and need help crossing over to the Other Side.In previous books, each of the spirits Odd encountered were anxious and wanted him to assist them in some way. But in DEEPLY ODD, he encounters the spirit of someone who wants to help him. Odd also has what he calls "Psychic Magnetism," which allows him to find a person even if he doesn't know where he or she is at the moment. Occasionally, this power works the opposite way by bringing people to him, which is what happens here.This time, he has drawn the attention of a truck driver who owns a big rig and wears fancy cowboy-like clothes. Odd knows there is something wrong about this man, something evil. Upon discovering that the trucker and others intend to kill some innocent children, Odd must take action. But he knows he can't do it alone. So he gets help from a friendly spirit who doesn't want or need anything from him, and a sweet-looking old lady who isn't quite as sweet as she appears. Can Odd and his "odd" companions save the kids?Although I have read several of Koontz's previous novels, oddly enough I had not delved into the Odd Thomas series until now. And I'm very happy I did! Koontz does a fine job of providing back story so I could figure out exactly who his protagonist is. In fact, I was so impressed with DEEPLY ODD that I may have to go back and read all the previous volumes in the series.Reviewed by Christine M. Irvin
5 Rescuing kids from evil-doers, doesn't get any better. Being a Dad it hit home for me. One of the best out of this series.
3 Odd Thomas, gifted fry cook and part time psychic, returns to head off a psychotic cowboy when he receives a vision of the man immolating a group of children.The Odd Thomas books have taken a noticeable turn from Brother Odd, the book that initially made me enjoy the novel series as a whole. Odd was a detective, a bad one to be sure, but a detective none the less. The plot of Deeply Odd however, reads more like a rail shooter. Odd doesn't really seem to make any logical deductions or reach a conclusion, but stumbles from one deus ex machina to another, starting with the initial encounter with the rhinestone cowboy to bumbling into a Mercedes owned by a senile woman who's more than happy to jump aboard in the pursuit of a murderer on the word of a twenty something hitchhiker. His psychic magnetism, once a source of clues in desperate times, is now the driving force of the plot.The psychic phenomena also has radically altered, and injected with scary tesnse scenes that fail to hold up, as they are just filler, and add nothing to the plot, and have no real flavor to the story. The scenes are well written, to be sure, but they don't seem to accomplish what the author intended. And the initial vision, where the cowboy turns a flamethrower on a group of children, is literally 8 sentences long, and is such a flash in the pan I had to go back and rerad it, as I was positive I'd missed a paragraph somewhere.Overall, this book is a solid 'meh' The feeling of fighting an overpowering elemental evil is replaced by a hot and cold pursuit of a single suspect. Even the injection of Alfred Hitchcock, the latest celebrity spirit to tag along with Odd, is nothing more than a bizarre sidebar, as it occurs at the most inopportune times. Along the drive in the Mercedes Odd wandered into he spied a woman walking across the street carrying her own decapitated head. I was more interested in that side character than I was in the entire plot. Koontz still writes Odd well, it just doesn't carry the same weight as his previous plots filled with apocalyptic birds and monsters made of psychotic tinker toy bones.
4 I love the Odd Thomas books. When Dean originally announced this character's adventures, he said it would be a closed-ending series of books--probably ending at book seven. This is book six in the series, and while I love the Odd Thomas character I am also looking forward to the series ending in the next book if he follows through with his promise.This novel, "Deeply Odd", is a great story for the most part. Odd Thomas is here using his psychic magnetism to track down the "rhinestone cowboy trucker" who has powers of his own. That was a nice twist, as we saw that Odd wasn't the only person in the world with a touch of the supernatural on their lives. Unfortunately, the things that made the first book so interesting have slowly begun to fade away in the last two or three novels in the series. I am all for character growth, but it seems as if Dean has almost lost his original idea of what made Odd so special and has been moving him into a new character. For one thing, in this novel the inner monologues become incredibly chatty, sometimes meandering so long you forget what Odd was doing at that point. Annamarie is another problem. I can fully appreciate the enigmatic angle Dean is going for with her, but she is so otherworldly now (appearing out of nowhere in a thrift store hundreds of miles away from where Odd left her, only to find she isn't really there but is still at home but WAS there hours ago...with no transportation of any kind) she's almost ridiculous.But the thing I miss most in the Odd stories is the loss of the spirits of the lingering dead he used to encounter and help often. Alfred Hitchcock is along for the ride now and he's definitely the most fun companion Odd has had in the series because he genuinely seems to love being a ghost. But for the most part any other spirit is missing. He sees one as he is driving early in the book but doesn't stop to help them move on...which is what made him interesting in the first book. Even his ghost dog is no longer hanging out with him, relegated in the last two books to just hanging out with Annamarie while Odd is off fighting for his life.Is Dean going to end the series with the next novel? I hope so. I hope Odd returns to Pico Mundo for one final adventure and then is reunited with his lost love forever, as he has been seeking since the first book. I hope the enigma of Annamarie is wrapped up as best as possible (since no possible explanation could work now satisfactorily). I hope Odd goes out as a hero and we get to enjoy the memory of a guest who left us at just the right time or maybe even a little too soon, so we'll miss him, rather than the guest who stays on well past their welcome and rattles on incessantly about being a fry cook who can make fluffy pancakes.
5 I love Dean Koontz and Odd Thomas is one of the best characters. Deeply Odd is a very good read even though it don't top the first book, it is still a good read and any fan of Mr.Koontz should love it.
5 Now, I'm a dude (read as guy) and I got no &#34;thing&#34; for men, even very talented fry cooks who happen to be men. Who also happen to see dead people. Usually dead people who have problems. And need help. So this &#34;love&#34; thing is like brotherly love, get it? Ain't no shame in that. Seriously, I enjoy most of Koontz's books, but Oddie holds a special place in my heart. I have a little Dean Koontz dream that some time he'll meet up with the &#34;Snow man&#34; and his soul brother Orson. I guess only Dean knows if that'll ever happen...
5 Please, Mr Koontz, don't make us wait so long for the next Odd adventure. Thank you for giving us hope. Write on, my friend!
5 As always, Dean Koontz keeps ya hooked. Whens the next book? I'm ready to preorder and hang in there patiently. Not!
3 I LOVED the first two Odd books and decided to jump back into the series with this one. The leap was less than satisfying for several reasons. I think Koontz has written himself into a corner with this character and series. Odd's powers and abilities have grown to where there is too much a new reader needs to know about him and Koontz shows no patience in telling them. He has Odd rattle off a list of his abilities rather than SLOWLY working those explanations into the storyline using action. So the book quickly becomes more chatty than interactive. Interludes that used to be interesting, like running into strange dead people, are treated more like roadside attractions. At one point he says..Oh there is a lady in an evening dress holding her head..sorry I don't have time to get her to the other side I have this evil Cowboy who is going to burn children to catch! He literally says that. The Odd I remember could talk to us about his feelings without sounding like he was preaching a sermon on his goodness.The abilities themselves have also become a problem. Some of those powers, like the ability to attract help and/or negativity mean that help magically shows up when needed and the "Evil Cowboy" can also show up out of nowhere. A good example is in the beginning when the black limo magically shows up to help when he needs a car. He needs one because his has just been trashed by the Cowboy who also showed up out of nowhere. Magical solutions and complications can take a lot away from a story and they certainly do here.The next problem I had with the book was again related to Koontz not taking the time to fully develop his scenes. I really liked the character of Odd and wanted to spend some time with him again. I was looking forward to his humor, humanitarian outlook and empathic acceptance of life's twists and turns. I wanted to feel these things play out, not be TOLD about them as I rushed to the next major event. In the beginning I wanted to settle into the story and see how he was doing with his new friend Annamaria. I wanted her to wake up, let us see her belly and tell us the baby was due in a month. I wanted to be drawn into the book's plot. Instead I was booted into it three pages into the book with a life or death struggle with the Rhinestone Cowboy character. I was shown a "vision" of what the plot would be and the story was literally "off and running." Perhaps the problem is that Koontz has gotten bored with Odd. I hope he renews the friendship when the last book in the series comes out.
5 Lots of action and lots of humorous observations like all the other Odd Thomas novels.  And of course, always ends with yet another mystery or unanswered questions.  I love all the Odd Thomas stories
5 This book is the best Odd Thomas yet - and all of the previous ones were outstanding.  Can't wait for the next one!
4 Odd Thomas does see dead people, has his whole life.But other than that, he is a pretty normal young man.A fry cook by profession, but it has been awhile since he has been able to practice his chosen occupation, one at which he excels. He is called to greater things, things he doesn't always understand, things he and we, the readers, have learned about to some degrees in the previous Odd Thomas books. Odd can feel evil, he can sense when bad people are about to do bad things and he knows he must act to stop them, that he is the only one in a position to act. Well...sort of, because as we start to see in this book, Odd is not nearly as alone as he might think. There are other involved in this battle, including a very little old woman with a very big car and a group of very useful friends, and even others who might share his gift. Very interesting...and no doubts we will find out more about them in future."However you disguise it, this thing does not change/The perpetual struggle of Good and Evil."Odd is, of course, on the side of Good and representing Evil in this book will be...well, I will let you find that out on your own. But let's say it does not get much more evil, in who is involved and in what their plan is for a group of abducted children.The world Koontz paints in this series is a very dark one at times.."the appearance of ordinariness is an illusion, and just below the placid surface, the world is seething." But it is also a world of good people, like Odd and the many people he has run into, trying to fight the good fight. Odd is our hero, if a slightly reluctant one. He has lost the love of his life, Stormy Llewellyn, in a previous episode, but he believes without question that they will be together forever again in the future.But still, these books, and this one is no exception, are not all dark and grim.Odd is a smart young man, and at time a very amusing, witty young man, who is not blind to the absurdity of the situation he finds himself in. And this time we have the addition of his partner in the phase of the journey, 86 year old Edie Fischer.Edie is a pistol...both figuratively and literally...a great addition to Odd's mission in this book.And in this book we also have Alfred Hitchcock. Usually these dead people are looking for Odd's help, but this time around, Odd's otherworldly visitor is a source of great help, and the cause of some amusing incidents.Followers of this series will want to grab this one up. I think it gets off to a bit of a slow start but once it gets going and as it races toward the end...wow!But honestly, if you are not familiar with it, don't start here. You will be confused. Yes, you could, and a fair bit of the back story is explained, but really you have to go back to book one and experience how this journey started.This is the sixth book in the series and at one point I remember reading that Koontz planned for seven Odd Thomas books. I am not sure if that is still the plan but in a way I hope it is. I like the books but we learn a good deal in this book and I can almost see the big wrap up coming.And as Odd knows, his soul mate Stormy is waiting for him.
5 This book is a thoroughly enjoyable read.  It has the right combination of fright, wit, originality and quirkyness!  I look forward to my next Odd adventure!
5 As with all of the Odd Thomas books, I just can't put it down! So imaginative, thrilling, and sweet! Need more!
4 I am a big fan of Dean Koontz including his Odd Thomas stories. Deeply Odd picks up where the last story ended. It is full of old friends and familiar locations. Koontz's stories are always terrifying but good always wins over evil in the end.  This story was a page turner. I got a bit confused about the &#34;other dimension&#34; that the characters pass in and out of. Still, I would recommend it. If you haven't read the stories of Odd Thomas before, it would be best to get the books in chronological order.
5 Joints at his best.  He fully understands the world of today yet remains optimistic.  This series has room to grow and I am looking forward to the next volume.
5 I chose  to give this book a 5 star rating because I adore Oddie. The story its self was very good it kept me up late reading cause I just couldn't put it down. I will recommend this book to my friends and family.  :-)
3 The first and second &#34;Odd Thomas&#34; books were great, and I keep trying to find that emotional connection again.  just haven't felt it.
5 I absolutely love the Odd series. The writing, the story, kept me wanting more. I can't wait for the next installment!
5 Another Odd Thomas book. It was so good I read most of it in one day. I can hardly wait for the next one!
5 I am not sure I like the direction Oddie is going he seems to be driven to kill more and more. I do love the new people they seem to be trying to tell him what his life has been about, which is something that will surprise all of us!
4 Perhaps not the best of the Odd Thomas series.  Story had some very interesting twists.Can see the ending of the series in sight :-(
5 If you are like me, and you have been enjoying the Odd Thomas series but have felt all of the subsequent books have been lacking a little since the first, you will not be disappointed with this one.  It was GREAT!  If by chance you have stumbled across this book without having first read the others, I recommend you put this one down and at the very least go and read the first one, if not all of them.  You will be totally lost and not understand Odd in the least bit if you don't.I have been a Dean Koontz fan for many years, have read everything he's ever written, and Odd Thomas is by far my most favorite character from his books.  He's one of my most favorite characters from ANY book.  I have been enjoying Odd's story so very much and one of the things that we know as we read this series is that the only way we could be reading these books is in the event of Odd's death.  So, we know what the final outcome of his story will be - he IS going to die.  But, how does he get there?  No doubt it will be in some heroic fashion.  I am not looking forward to his death but I am enjoying his journey and I wait with anticipation for it to be continued.  In the end, I know that his death will be a beautiful thing and that it will move me unlike any other fictional character.
5 I can't recommend this book highly enough... another brilliant and compelling &#34;Odd&#34; tale. Never a dull moment with Dean Koontz
4 First of all, if you haven't started this series, start with the first book,Odd Thomas: An Odd Thomas Novel, and then read them in order.  Read the interludes too.  Seriously, this series is great, but only great if you read the books in order.You've done that already?  Good.  Now on to the review...I love the character of Odd Thomas.  He will tell you he's just a simple fry cook with the ability to see the lingering dead, but he's more than that (though that is kind of amazing!).  In this installment, Odd is still wandering around, collecting friends/allies and saving people.  He's still cheerfully sardonic, even though he can be stressed, afraid, depressed, or any other negative emotions you can think of.  His writing (OK, it's Dean Koontz's writing, but it's told first person from Odd's perspective, so we'll pretend it's Odd's) is lyrical and introspective, and filled with his observations.Odd is on a journey, and this is just another leg of that journey.  I was kind of hoping that he'd get a little closer to his destination.  He met more really interesting people.  He had another dangerous task to perform.  He thought about Stormy.  Bad things happened.  Until about the halfway point in this book, I kind of had the impression that Mr. Koontz couldn't figure out how to end the story and was just wandering around until inspiration struck.  Again, Odd's thoughts and impressions of people and life in general were fascinating/humorous/insightful, but nothing seemed to happen.I'm giving this 4 stars because 1) something eventually happened, and  2) more fascinating characters showed up that I seriously hope are around in the next book.  Oh, and I love Odd's (sorry - Dean's) writing style.  I'm hoping all the characters are in place for resolution in the 7th book.  I suspect that it may take place in Pico Mundo (you know, where the first book started) mostly because there were some hints that it might.  It's kind of weird (maybe even odd) but though I love Odd Thomas, I'm looking forward to the end of his journey.  I don't know how Mr. Koontz is going to pull it off, but I have high hopes.
4 I do not write lengthy reviews. I just come to the point. I have listened to all the Odd series. This one, for me, was another good story of Odd Thomas' life as a "special fry cook". I must say this story seemed shorter than previous ones.I prefere listening to books rather than reading them. As I have gotten older, the written word in books often makes me fall asleep no matter how good the story is.This particular story read by David Aaron Baker held my attention all the way through. In my opinion, Koontz seems to put in a lot more humor in this story. The things the charactor said could be very funny. I love David Aaron Baker's narrative of all the "Oddie" stories.Towards the end of the book, I was given the impression that perhaps the Odd Thomas series might be coming to an end? I won't spoil it with any detal.Anyway, a very enjoyable book. The humor at times made my laugh out loud, especially with Odd Thomas' penchant for not swearing. He used substitute words instead which I found very amusing.Yes, I recomment this book, but get the audio version. Narrator Baker brings the character to life on top of Koontz' ability to bring to life his characters.
5 Dean Koontz is great at story and character development.  Holds your interest throughout the book  Love the main Character, Odd Thomas.  Very relatable.
4 This is the first book of  Dean Koontz that I have not read in one or two days.  It is excellent, but not as riveting as the others I have read.  I love his Odd Thomas books, and Dean Koontz is my favorite author.  I would rate all the other books that I have read by Dean Koontz as a 5.  This is a 4.
5 Definitely one of the better odd books in the series, glad he is still writing them and as always look forward to the next one.
5 You can tell the books that Mr. Koontz enjoys writing and cares about... These are the type of books and stories that I've come to love from this author Over the past many years.  Recently the author has released several books that I felt were probably written to meet a contractual obligation.  The odd Thomas series is not one of them. I can't wait to the conclusion of this series, but I believe I will have a hard time buying anything from this author in the future that isn't Odd Thomas or Frankenstein.
5 It is clear now that each story while great by themselves, is a part of a larger arc. Koontz is such s great storyteller and writer...underrated in what I have seen.
4 I have read all the Odd Thomas books and, with each book, I like him more.  This book, however, was a little harder to get into and I wish the supporting characters would have been filled out a little more in the first half of the book.  In this book Odd is chasing a character whom he believes is killing, or is planning to kill, children.  Throughout the story, Odd goes from one reality into another and back.  The time spent in the other reality is way too long and way too tedious and it was never fully explained what the other reality had to do with the main story - maybe it was over my head.  In any case, by the end of the book I wanted to know more about the supporting characters and how they are going to play into the next story.
3 This was a fun read. It still left a lot of questions unanswered and brought up new ones. But I imagine they will all be answered in the next Odd book.
3 Odd Thomas is a man who attracts trouble and this time, trouble drives an eighteen wheeler Pro Star+. As Thomas investigates the truck, the driver--who reminds Thomas of a rhinestone cowboy--confronts Thomas. The driver isn't pleased that Thomas is interested in his truck, and tries to neuter Thomas with a gun complete with a silencer. As Thomas grasps the man's arm to wrestle away the gun, he has a vision of three drugged children tied in chairs and the driver torches them with a flame thrower. Thomas manages to elude the driver in a near-by grocery store, but when Thomas returns to the parking lot, the truck is gone. Thomas hasn't eluded his pursuer, but the driver has made his own escape, and Thomas knows it is to kidnap the children. Thomas also knows this is now his mission, to stop the driver and the heinous acts he has planned for the three children Thomas saw in his vision.Thomas steals a Ford Explorer from bank robbers during their robbery in progress, and sets off in pursuit of the trucker. The trucker runs Thomas off the road, leaving him for dead. But Thomas climbs out of the wreck and sets off, on foot, in pursuit of the trucker. While he's walking along the road, a stretch Mercedes limo pulls up beside him. Inside sits diminutive eighty-six year old Edie Fischer, in want of a chauffeur. Edie is a woman of surprises, a character, and the best part of this novel. She and Odd (she calls him Oddie) set off in pursuit of the rhinestone cowboy--maybe they will be able to thwart his plans, maybe not.I've been a fan of the Odd Thomas books since the first one, but this one had trouble holding my attention all the way through. Alfred Hitchcock is the dead character in this book, but unlike the others, Alfred doesn't need help crossing over to the other side. Instead, Mr. Hitchcock is sent to help Odd in pursuit of the cowboy, and unlike the other dead that have crossed Odd's path over the years, Alfred Hitchcock can speak. While there is a strong element of the supernatural in this novel--Odd keeps experiencing an alternate reality throughout the book--I still missed the interaction of Odd with the quirky dead.This novel seems to be winding down the series (and some of the writing in the novel seems to suggest this, but since I read an advanced reader copy, I don't know if the writing I refer to made the final book). I didn't find myself as immersed in this book as I have in the other novels, probably because there were no surprises--the suspense wasn't there, which is why I gave this review only three stars.
5 I don't know how he does it but each of the Odd Thomas series books is unique and masterful but also a seamless continuation of the previous story. I have loved reading them and am already excited for the next installment!
5 i have loved the series from day one i think this is the best yet!!some advice1.dont read this book whithout reading the first one there are to many references .2.at first (to me at least)the concept of the Elsewhere is kinda hard to understand so keep an open mind and just role with it.i loved this book and i hope you enjoy it too!!
2 I have read Dean Koontz before so I don't what happen to this book. I found I was skipping pages getting bored; some parts were good but not many.
5 they want me to write something clever or meaningful here.  I really don't have the time. so  blah blah blah blah blah  blah blah blah blah blah  blah blah blah blah blah  blah blah blah blah blah
5 Odd Thomas is one of my favorite characters. I love his optimism even in the face of absolute evil.  Koontz is great.
3 3 1/2 starsI am a huge fan of the Odd Thomas series and I enjoyed travelling with Oddie again, but this installment was heavy on the politics and very light on the story. There were a couple of chapters where very little happened and the action/story seemed a mere backdrop for the cultural and political criticism. Odd doesn't like the reality TV. He also is distrusting of the government. I get it. But I came here for the story. If you stripped away the commentary you would have been left with a semi-interesting novella. Not the most compelling story line in this installment of what I think is a very good series.I did like how it sets up what is probably going to be a very good 7th and final installment in the chronicle of the Odd one.
5 The best story since the first original novel and actually better.  The odd characters in Oddies world has grown and made his story that Mich more interesting.  4 stars!
3 A disappointment after waiting and then paying full price. Wait unless you are into Odd's walk-a-bouts. 72 pages at one of many stretches of his Oddumentaries. interesting, but I prefer his chanter.
5 If you have ever read an Odd Thomas book, you know how addictive they can become, so read at your own risk! This was a real &#34;page-turner&#34; (hard to do on audio). I sometimes drove for no other reason than to listen to it in my car. Must read for Oddie fans.
5 I am a huge fan of Dean Koontz and the Odd Thomas books are among my favorites.  I find Odd very endearing and loveable.  His devotion to being reunited with Stormy Llewellen is inspiring.  Unless you know Odd from the other books, you should read those first.  This is not a stand alone book.  Odd is now living with the mysterious Annamaria - she is pregnant and he is her protector/companion.  Alfred Hitchcock rather than Elvis or Frank Sinatra is his companion on this adventure.  On a visit to town, Odd has an encounter with a truckdriver he dubs the Rhinestone Cowboy.  Odd has a vision of the trucker burning three children and the quest to save them (and possibly the world) is on.  I found this adventure with Odd to be just as engrossing as the others.  Unlike other reviewers, I find DK's view of the world to be what frames Odd Thomas' life with meaning.  No matter what he faces - Odd manages to retain a certain optimism about the world and the future despite it all.  That is what makes Odd -- well, odd.
5 I have read everything Koontz has written and his Odd Thomas character is the best one yet!  I love the series and can't wait for the next one to come out.  I am NOT looking forward to the day when it might end...I hope Koontz keeps giving us more Odd Thomas adventures for a long time to come.
5 Dean Koontz keeps doing a great job with a great character.Odd is a well developed character and fun to read about
5 I have enjoyed many of his books and have been hooked on the Odd series. This latest was great and I wait expectantly on the next!
5 I love Odd Thomas and I've read the whole series.  This is right up there...pure Dean Koontz.  I look forward to the next Oddy adventure!
4 I have always like Dean Koontz's writing style and still do. I think the story line on this one lacked a little.But it is still a good read.
3 I love Dean Koontz, and I like the Odd Thomas series however, the story plot with Odd Thomas is getting mundane.  The most interesting thing about this book is the introduction of the characters; which is more prevalent than the plot itself.  The plot for this next installment is weak.  I am hoping that through this novel, Dean Koontz is going to give us an amazing next installment of Odd Thomas. I would honestly characterize this novel as a prologue.  Buy it if you like the series, but be prepared to be disappointed.
5 I got hooked on the Odd Thomas series in May of this year. By the first of July I had devoured the whole series and am eagerly awaiting the next book. The anticipation of where Odd's tantalizingly tangled destiny will lead us is leading maddening.
5 I have read all the &#34;Odd&#34; books and they still keep me entertained. I hope we see MANY more before Odd goes to meet up with Stormy.
4 Odd Thomas is one of my favorite characters what with his special powers and amazing soul. I didn't go the full 5 stars because  I just had a hard time wrapping my head around the high concepts in this one, probably just my personal limitations but it was harder for the &#34;suspension of disbelief&#34; you need for Odd's adventures. ...See the dead sure, another dimension that's just gray paint? uh,no.
4 I love the dialogue that Dean Koontz uses, especially the inner dialogue of Odd Thomas.  Eagerly waiting for the next addition.
2 I have enjoyed the previous Odd Thomas books and looked forward to Deeply Odd; however, it is odder than the normal Odds.  I found it tedious and difficult to follow, while I think it lacked the redeeming qualities of Koontz' writing that might otherwise keep me intrigued during an unappealing story.  The character of Odd seems to spend more time than ususal explaining himself and his &#34;gifts.&#34;  This prevents the story from moving forward and from me becoming engaged.  The situations are unfathomable, even for a Koontz novel.  For me, this is one of Koontz' few disappointments.
5 I've read all the Odd Thomas books & enjoyed all of them. The last one, however, seemed to loose Odd's voice, which bothered me. I thought Dean Koontz had lost the flow of Odd, but this one was back to the true Odd Thomas personality and inner voice. I really liked it.
5 Excellent book that goes with the Odd series. I can never get enough of Odd!Great job Mr. Koontz! Please keep them coming!
4 The story was great although a tad slow at times.  I loved the introduction of Mrs. Fischer!  Hope to see her in the next book.  She is a great character and I would love to read more about her!
5 this book has it all. everything from laugh out loud to nail biting on the edge of you seat moments. love the underlying dialogue on the statement of our society at large. I found it very refreshing even if it is the view of a fictional character. :)
3 Odd Thomas has a following amongst Koontz fans, and there's no doubt why: he's a quirky, truly unique character, the kind that only comes along every so often.  He's the epitome of innocence, thrust into a corrupt world steadily spinning out of control.The problem is, Odd is something of a one-trick pony.  ODD THOMAS ranks among Koontz's best work; however, despite everything that happened in that volume (and since), Odd hasn't changed.  He's gone from naive to...well, still naive.  It's not a realistic progression, and Koontz's prose and plots don't do him any favors.  Take DEEPLY ODD: our young hero finds himself pursuing a rodeo-wannabe truck driver.  Odd gets a freaky vision of three children being burned alive, and follows this madman through eerie dimensions of space and time.  There's a very deep, almost psychedelic tale here...but Koontz glosses it over with mundane prose and an overly-complex plot.  Koontz's writing used to leave me floored; at times he bordered on poetry.  But now he's sunk to referencing his own work--in this case, TWILIGHT EYES, which you should definitely check out--and going off-topic to bring us moral and spiritual lectures.  Not to mention the dang dogs.  They were great at first; WATCHERS is still his best work.  But every...single...book...Perhaps the greatest stumbling point of DEEPLY ODD is the lack of characterization.  This is something that has plagued Koontz's work for roughly a decade now; I'll admit, I don't pick up every one of his books like I used to.  I wait until I can get them for a discount, if then.  Why?  Because Koontz's characters are no longer morally complex.  He's still tackling the same themes--good/evil, love, the triumph of the human heart--but he's doing it with characters who are so one-dimensional, they're practically cliches.  Even Odd has suffered; Koontz has replaced "substance" with "quirkiness," leaving characters that are shallow and predictable.  His villains, ever since FROM THE CORNER OF HIS EYE, have been basically the same cliched psychopath; and his supporting characters are either blatantly good or blatantly evil, and not a single one of them is in any way realistic.Why give DEEPLY ODD a whole 3 stars, then?  Because I refuse to give Koontz less; I know the spurts of brilliance he's capable of.  Also, it's hard not to like Odd.  He isn't nearly as interesting as when he was first introduced, but he's still a unique presence among popular literature.  Perhaps there's nothing that's very "realistic" about him, but then that's part of his charm.  If only the other characters, and plot, were realistic enough to make up for it, then DEEPLY ODD would be a first-rate thriller.  As is, it's for Odd Thomas lovers only; fans of Koontz's older work should probably steer clear (although, by this point, they probably already know to do so).
3 Have not finished this book yet.  Not the best Odd novel, loved all the others but am having trouble staying with this one.
1 As you know, this is the 6th book in the Odd Thomas series and deals with Odd coming across a dangerous cowboy who has plans to kill a bunch of children. Odd starts a cross-state hunt to stop him and along the way he meets 86-year old Edie Fischer, who helps him on his way; she's as mysterious as AnnaMaria but far more action oriented.I LOVED the first Odd Thomas, as most of us did, and didn't really feel I needed a sequel. But we got them, with varying success. I have found the odd-numbered books better than the even-numbered, and that is especially true for this book. I am not a slow reader and bought the UK edition of the book the day it came out - and one month later I'd barely gotten halfway through. Up until then I'd only liked chapter 14 and some few - VERY few - scenes that came before and after. That first half of the book is the most boring stuff I'd ever had to paddle through. I know, I could just stop, but I have promised myself to read all of the Odd series, even though I feel Koontz has lost his grip on what makes books, well, gripping. Back in the day I was the biggest Koontz-fan in Europe (maybe an exaggeration, but I was a BIG fan), but in recent years he's just been lacking in quality. I'm not only talking about him going overboard with his catholicism and right-wingery either, he seems to have lost the edge, to dare going to dark places, and in this book his descriptions of skies and seas and lakes and houses and rooms and the such REALLY went into overdrive, so much so, that I occasionally zoned out and just read the damn paragraphs without really absorbing them, but just to get them over with. We don't NEED half page descriptions of some room, ESPECIALLY not in the middle of a chase. Also, hammers on anvils isn't the best way to describe even the hardest rain, methinks.Often his descriptions of the most mundane things are laughingly stupid. Like: "Blood has an odor faint but distinct, of conceit and modesty, of courage and cowardice, of charity and greed, of faith and doubt, in short the fragrance of what we might have been and the smell of what we are..." No, Koontz, the smell of blood is coppery and sweet, no more, no less. This isn't even clever or profound, it's just a ramble of the worst kind.At one point he even had Odd mention that he'd read a book called Twilight Eyes.Later, as he's driving with Edie, they start talking about laws and she says something about "idiot laws" and Odd asks "what law?" and she says, "Oh, all kinds of laws, sweetie. Idiot safety laws, bone-headed environmental laws that actually contribute to pollution..." I know that you're a Republican, Koontz, but you're still allowed to think for yourself and not believe every lie Fox News tells you about pollution and/or global warming; it's not a hoax, maybe if you actually READ the gazillion, independent studies on it and its effects, instead of equating science = evil, God = good, then you might actually avoid sounding "bone-headed" yourself. And idiot safety laws?? What, shouldn't there be limits on how fast you can drive? You DO know, that even a few miles extra an hour can cause severe damage that could be avoided by just driving a bit slower, right?Then, as he and Edie are talking in a diner, he comes up with this gold nugget (he's talking about mottoes to live by when it all goes to hell and states some examples): "The secretary of defense announces from Sweden that he is having a sex-change operation, is in love with the prime minister of Russia, and has given his lover our nuclear launch codes." REALLY, Koontz? In that short sentence you display an ugly opinion of trans-, homo- and xenophobia. Transgendered and/or gay people are a threat to the US? This IS what you're saying with this, and it's a blatant lie, it is typical right wing-Michele Bachmann-paranoia crap; but it is no wonder, as it's well known that Koontz has supported Michele Bachmann, John McCain and Mitt Romney who all LIVE for installing fear for foreigners and gays in the American population. Shame on you for this, Koontz, you had a lot of gay readers back in the day and since none of them are hurting YOU, why do you have to be such a bigot?Just a few pages later he, ironically, muses on this: "Usually I spare myself from the news, because if it's not propaganda, then it's one threat or another exaggerated to the point of absurdity [...], of bigotry and oppression misnamed justice, of hatred passed off as righteousness..." This IS all very true, but, again, Michele Bachmann and her ilk are the worst offenders in doing this, AND YOU SUPPORTED HER! That is bigotry!Then he becomes delusional: "Among the nations of the Earth in all its hstory, ours is one of the few that has not brought forth its Hitler, its Stalin, its Pol Pot, its Mao Tse-tung, its Vlad the Impaler." A lof of nations haven't brought forth one of those, the US not being one of them: the massacring of Native Americans, Bush starting a war on grounds there were lies, bombings, shootings. Yup, it all adds up. You have just as much blood on your hands as a lot of other warring nations.Near the end of the book, when all is ending with kids and dogs and happy sunrises, he writes: "I will not say that they were all beautiful by the standards of our culture, which is obsessed with models and airbrushed celebrities..." Well, dear Mr. Koontz, when was the last time you had a less attractive female lead in one of your books? They all have long black/blonde hair (never redheads) and deep almon-shaped brown eyes/deep truthful blue eyes, they all move with grace and have slender legs and full breasts and what have you. In a LOT of your books you have equaled beautiful = good, ugly = evil, so you're as much to blame in that culture you slam. That's bigotry too. I even remember in one of his earlier books, I think it was The Eyes of Darkness, where he had an elderly maid think about how this culture idolizes young people. Again, Koontz IS part of that culture, as it seems that the older he gets, the younger his protagonists are.Which brings me to his slamming of Hollywood and everything it stands for; that is deeply ironic, since his books use every Hollywood clich&eacute; available.His love for dogs is also too exaggerated; in one scene, Odd is attacked by three Dobermans, pacifies them, and freaking starts APOLOGIZING for having to do it!And would it have killed you to kill off just ONE of the 26 children in this book? I don't wish death on anyone, but it's suspense fiction and the stakes are supposed to be high. ALL the bad guys die, ALL the good guys survive - where is the excitement in that? Booooring!Of the five or so people Odd kills, one of them is a young woman, the only woman in the entire book who shows any sexuality and the only one of the killed ones whose death throes is disgustingly described. I'm not saying Koontz is a misogynist, but catholicism is and it's also afraid of sex and he's a self-proclaimed catholic, but I find it realy disturbing that he's in a way "slut-shaming", intentionally or not.My last gripe with this book is his decriptions of Satanism. Maybe Koontz should take the time to read The Satanic Bible; Satanism is NOT about sacrificing children, or grown-ups, or goats or anyting else like that; it is NOT about summoning the devil. It IS, however, about not wanting to be shamed for all the stupid things the bible says and live your life as YOU see fit, without hurting anyone. That is ALL satanism is about. Of course, there's always some bad seed in every group, even catholic priests abuse kids, but get your facts straight, Koontz. Also, some of the symbols the satanists use are ankhs and Celtic crosses. These are NOT associated with satanism in any way, it isn't just catholicism that is good and loving, far from it, in fact!Normally I hate spoilers, but for this book I actively sought them out to see if ANYHTING would happen that would make it worthwhile, but found nothing and thus had to FORCE myself to finish it.Overall this is a very, very, very bad book; I WILL read the last Odd book, but then I think my 28 year long affair with Koontz is over. It seems like a loooong time since Whispers, Watchers, Midnight and Dragon Tears. MAYBE I will read Chris Snow #3 if he ever gets around to write it; I'm not sure, because even though they were alright books, they are not among my favourites.Too bad, because you have given me many a good read.
5 This is probably the most profound of the Odd Thomas novels although a little frustrating with really nothing new revealed about the characters who inhabit his world. I find myself not liking much all the mysterious talk of those around him given that the refreshing part of OT himself is that he talks plainly and no  in riddles.
5 The Odd series has drawn me in from page one. Love it. Dean Koontz is my favorite writer of all time. His books linger with me long after I've finished the last page.
2 I'm about half way through the book and it just boring. Way to much time spent on small details.Tthis book could of been half as big if you take out all the fluff.
4 I am a fan of pretty much everything written by Dean Koontz.  He builds atmosphere, and characters, with style and creativity.  I love that his stories pit good against evil, and good wins. The only reason this is 4 stars instead of 5 is that Odd Thomas just isn't my favorite Koontz character and I'm more than ready to see the end of this series. However, I loved the addition of a mysterious old woman (with a fascinating group of friends I would love to meet) and Alfred Hitchcock to this story.  I also like that the Odd story seems to be coming to an end although this was one of the better Odd stories, and other than a brief drag in the middle of the book, it kept my interest (and kept me reading) all the way to the end.  As is usual in Koontz stories, there is humor, fear, suspense, pure weirdness, and first class development of the environment.  This story has all of that, and although it ends satisfactorily, it leaves me anxious for the next installment (hopefully the last?) of Odd Thomas.
5 The best odd thomas since brother odd a more supernatural book than of late with a more tangible  feel of good  and evilI feel  that the best is yet to come.
4 I have really enjoyed all of the Odd Thomas novels. The quirky characters, the snappy dialogue, the building suspense leading up to the "event" which Odd must try to thwart in each novel. If you haven't discovered Odd Thomas, then treat yourself and pick up the first novel in this wonderful series (don't start with "Deeply Odd" as you'll be pretty lost as this novel's events unfold).In "Deeply Odd", Dean Koontz takes Odd to a much darker world. Sure Odd's battled crazed gunmen, bone monsters and terrorists, but the places Odd visits in "Deeply Odd" are quite a bit darker and more chilling. As the story begins Odd is drawn to a slick looking tractor trailer, and as he catches up to the truck he gets visions of children being burned alive by a madman with a flamethrower. Worse yet, is that apparently this horrific scene is actually playing out in front of an enthusiastic audience.Odd knows that he is the only chance these children have of surviving and he must rescue them. But standing in his way is the maniacal trucker, a viscious murderer who can seeming kill on a whim, but can somehow do so without being noticed by the people around him. As Odd tracks the truck and driver, he runs into a fun, but crazy, cast of characters (as usual if you're familiar this series).This is a great addition to the series, and hope Koontz continues to create new adventures around this character.
1 i used to really enjoy the odd thomas books however i am quickly losing interest due to the amount of political commentary that is woven into the inner thoughts of the main character... it seems like oddie is watching WAY too much Fox news and i hope the author figures out he is alienating at least half the readers with these anti government rants
4 I felt right at home.  While in the last couple of installments I felt that Odd and the storyline were a bit lost (and hated the Moonlight Bay connection), here I felt that Odd was back on track.Some strange folks, ghosts, and attitude.  And while Odd is sometimes a bit on the sticky/sweet side of nice - he hides it all beneath a health dollop of cynicism.
4 Odd Thomas is an enigma that continues to grow on you as you read the many memoirs of his young life. I have enjoyed every book about his unique adventures of hardship, loss and horrific ability to weave his way through the tapestries of evil... he is a beacon of hope to the hopeless...It was refreshing to see him begin to find some sort of peace and contentment as this story closed.I look forward to the next episode of his life, hoping  that death doesn't find him and claim him before he thwarts the evil of his dramatic loss of the first memoir in this series.DEAN KOONTZ... you always stay true to your characters and story line. I applaud you with this latest installment of the insight into the life of Odd...
5 What a writer!  What an imagination!  Everything he has written, (that I have read) always makes me wonder at his descriptive abilities.  Now, someone should write a book about the life of Dean Koontz...Or, has someone already done that?Admiring fan.
1 I started the book with great expectations as his old works were excellent and I had not read his books in a long time. This book was so boring that I decided not to finish it.
5 Dean Koontz wrote some great horror books early in his career. In recent years he's evolved into a writer who not only tells a great story but who can also be relied on to create a deeper "layer" or "current" beneath the surface of the book that serves to inspire or exalt morality and virtuous behavior. Koontz did this masterfully in Odd Thomas, the first book in this series - creating a great protagonist that was heroic, witty, loyal, but also a bit flawed.I enjoyed the subsequent books in the series, but I also felt in the most recent ones that Odd Thomas lacked direction and growth in terms of his character. Well, Deeply Odd cures that and then some. This is easily the best book in the series since the original and I'll give two reasons why I feel that way:1. Odd Thomas gives voice to his most overwhelming need - redemption. It's been a constant theme of course that he saved lives in the original book but lost Stormy - however, it's never been this in-depth or articulated so well. In Deeply Odd you can literally feel how pained Odd is and how much he craves redemption, even though he doesn't believe it is possible.2. Odd Thomas' journey in the last few books was so random at times that I was frustrated at the lack of growth in his character, but now ... we find out how all of his adventures have been building up to one great purpose - his journey has a destination, and everything to this point (and including the storyline in Deeply Odd) has been preparing him for the final book in the series. Without including a spoiler, suffice it to say that Odd Thomas' journey is set to come full circle.It took me 175 pages or so before I began to appreciate these two points in Deeply Odd - but from that moment forward the pace was relentless and everything that had seemed random began to take shape and gain meaning.A couple other notes (without spoiling anything) for readers already immersed in the world of Odd Thomas - it's pretty subtle but if you read closely between the lines then I think there's a big reveal about Annamaria near the end of the book that could play a major role in Odd's future; and Alfred Hitchcock does something pretty cool, as well.For readers who are new to the world of Odd Thomas: I noticed other reviewers suggested that if you've never read an Odd Thomas book then you should probably read the others first - however, I'd put it this way: if you're willing to suspend your disbelief at the randomness of the universe then you'll be just fine reading this book. Two examples: one, if it bothers you that when Odd is running from a bad guy he just happens to cross paths with a gang of bank robbers who leave keys in the getaway car, then you might be distracted from the finer points of the book; and two, if the first randomly convenient car bugs you but doesn't keep you from plowing forward, then the elderly woman who shows up in a limousine and asks Odd to be her chauffer at the next instance in which he is in desperate need of wheels might. Just suspend your disbelief - his name is Odd for a reason - and you'll enjoy this book.
5 I love, lover, love Dean Koontz's character, Odd Thomas. I haven't been disappointed with any of the Odd books.If you haven't read them, buy the first. You'll be hooked and will have to read all of them.
4 I liked this recent saga of Odd Thomas. I'm a little disappointed in still having a couple of unanswered questions. Guess I must wait on the next Dean Koontz tale. I would recommend to Stephen King lovers. I'm one and I did enjoy it.
5 I was given the book "Lightening" by a friend a very long time ago. I didn't think it was the type of book that I would read so it sat until one night when I was sick and had nothing else to read. So I read it. Straight through. I then read everything he had ever written in a 2 month period and I haven't stopped yet. Yes, some I loved more than others but I've enjoyed every one of them. As for many people, the "Odd Thomas" series is special and this one was too. All the twists and turns that you know are coming but are still surprised when they do. The wonderful quirky characters that always show up. The "scared me to death" entities (or whatever they are) that have made me put a book down on a stormy,southern night. I don't have the words that others are so talented when writing a review and I don't ever want to give anything away and ruin it for them but, do I still love Dean Koontz and, in this case, Oddie? A high 5 yes!
5 As usual the Odd Thomas book was exciting to read, could barely put it down. Want to go back and read it again and so looking forward to more.
1 I never thought it would happen, but I'm throwing in the towel and giving up on the Odd Thomas series. I thoroughly enjoyed the first book, ODD THOMAS, and even enjoyed the third book, BROTHER ODD. But this series is steadily getting stranger and stranger, devolving into something entirely different than what it started as. Normally, this wouldn't bother me and I'd find it interesting to see characters evolving and changing, rather than a repetition of the same story with different details told over and over again. However, in this case, there is too much telling of the world building and the evil portents without enough pacing to keep the book moving forward at a speed. The plot starts out with Odd's psychic magnetism leading him towards a specific truck and a rhinestone cowboy and then throws in a lot of nonsensical plot twists and changes to the original world Koontz created for this series. I have had to struggle for weeks to make myself read even a page and I'm normally a pretty fast paced reader once I start a book, particularly one by an author like Dean Koontz. Sadly, this will be the last of the Odd Thomas series I attempt to read.
4 Very intriguing and suspenseful.  Definitely a Dean Koontz mystery.  Odd Thomas, like the other Odd books, is a story that will keep on the edge of your seat.
5 As always, another page turner from koontz. I love all of the Odd Thomas books and this one did not disappoint!
5 I have read many of Dean Koontz's novels...especially since he was raised in same County.  I have loved every one of his Odd Thomas novels & hope to have more to read soon!  My absolute fav is &#34;Dark Rivers of the Heart&#34;.  Made me stop & think about our government's power.....
5 I have followed Odd Thomas through all of his adventures and this one is my favorite thus far. The last book was slow to me...a bit tedious.  THis book is wonderful..lots of new characters, secrets revealed, and a big ole dose of the wonderful Odd!
2 I will make this review short and sweet...I was deeply disappointed with this Odd Thomas book.  I couldn't even force myself to finish it.  I slogged through the first 10 chapters but realized that a by-line for my life might read "so may books...so little time" and decided I couldn't or wouldn't waste further time on a book that I wasn't enjoying. I'm too old for that.  I only have a certain amount of time on earth, as we all do, and I can't spend it wasted on a book that I have to force myself to pick up and continue reading.I enjoyed reading the other Odd Thomas stories but noticed them slowly declining in quality as the series went along.  "Deeply Odd" has deeply hit the bottom of the barrel for me.  Too bad, really.  &lt;sigh>  Alas, dear Oddie, I knew you well.  But I'm afraid we have now reached the parting of our ways.
5 I've read all of this series and trying to think of how much further the author can carry this character. Fabulous storyline!
3 Well, I guess it's time to retire Odd Thomas. This book was kind of dull and a rehash of previous works. Oddie meets evil-Oddie meets good people-Oddie conquers evil. Unless Stormy comes back from the dead, this series IS dead.
5 Loved it! I wanted to call in to work so I could finish it (alas,I couldn't). I can hardly wait for the next installment.
5 The odd Thomas series is such a great series to get involved in. I just hate waiting for the next one to come out but it is always worth the wait.
5 this is one of the best. I loved the supernatural aspect of the book very much and can't wait to see where the charactersintroduced in this book take us next. I did notice how dean koontz is playing on his shifting realities so i think it helps alotto read 77 shadow st (in of itself) a great read.
5 The Odd Thomas series is one of my favorite collections. I will be sad if it ends. It seems to be leading that way though. Loved the chararacter Edie, and her friends. Great ending. I recommend reading all of Oddies adventures.
5 ive read all of d koontz's stuff, and seen every movies of his works, and Odd Thomas is the series that holds me at beck and call.
5 The odd series continues with our humble but &#34;oddly&#34; competent hero. The supporting characters have a story of their own. My only criticism is that it's too long between books,
3 Odd acts too much like `Peter Parker.'  If you like a male character that thinks like a prudent older woman, then this is the book for you. I found it tedious. Odd is another Spiderman (Peter Parker). Duplication of another character that frets constantly about making a decision.
5 This is the best Odd story since the first novel.  Koontz gets it right.  Its funny, poignant, insightful, and introduces a series of characters who are more mysterious and enchanting than anything Koontz has dreamed up in a few years.  The satanic angle was a bit overdone...I was hoping for something more sinister, less hokey.  But overall...fantastic!  I love Odd Thomas, and I love his new friends.  And Alfred Hitchcock is the bomb!!
4 I, like many Dean Koontz/Odd Thomas fans, have found the Odd Thomas series to be somewhat spotty as to focus on the plot, lack of interesting characters and  somewhat of a tendency toward formula.  Enjoyed most of them but some more than others.  Frankly, the first, third and now the sixth, "Deeply Odd", are the books that seem to carry Odd's journey forward the most successfully, in my opinion."Deeply Odd" pretty much fulfills the hopes/dreams/requirements that I want and expect in a Koontz novel. Being scared to death and then seconds later laughing, for instance.As usual, most of the likeable characters were very much so and the villains as psychopathic as one could possibly wish.  Good conquers a terrible evil--but isn't remotely defeated--and Odd lives another day in which to save the world.  And I'm not being trivial or trite in saying this because modern literature so seldom is willing to admit that evil exists at all and we're left cheering on the behavior and morals of some very mediocre and not particularly nice "heroes".  I want to read about good, decent, average, ordinary people willing to fight the good fight and very often win but sometimes with a steep price to pay to do so.I most highly recommend this book to anyone who fell in love with "Odd Thomas" in his first book.  You won't be disappointed.
5 I am not guite sure why I love the stories with Odd, but I do.  The book moves quickly and and I think is a great storyline. I hope for many more novels with the Odd one.
5 This book did not disappoint.  All of the books in the Odd series were great reading and this was the best of all!
5 love Oddie ,One of my favorite books are the Odd Thomas books Can't wait to see what odd gets into next..
5 Like all the Odd books this one was just as good. I love all the twists and mysteries. Can't wait for the next one.
4 The battle lines have been drawn.  Odd Thomas must now recognize the truth about himself and the world he inhabits.  Evil may reign for a time, but the good will triumph always.Amen
5 If you have read any of the Odd Thomas books,this one is a must read. The character is delightful and lovable.
5 i've read quite a few Dean Koontz books. i enjoyed a few of them and was following the Odd Thomas series until this book. i am not a literary critic by any means, but this one was difficult for me to read. i didn't finish it. Not because Koontz is by any means a linguistics mastermind, i just could not get into it. Maybe i will pick it up some time in the future and be able to complete it. i am sure Mr. Koontz has great plans for his enigmatic character, so i hope the next installment is as enthralling as the very first was.
5 By the way the series is coming around, it's my guess that Odd Thomas is not long for this world...by that, I mean that Koontz appears to be readying us for the ultimate battle against evil, and Odd is getting ready to meet Stormy again. I love the new guides, Alfred Hitchcock and Mrs. Edie Fischer.
5 I just adore the Odd Thomas stories.  This one has more supernatural elements to it than the previous tales.  It was well handled and fairly presented.  Well done.
3 Koontz has been stringing his readers along with the last few Odd books, but this one, while still long on the authors indulgent philosophy, returned often enough to the magical, spiritual nature of Odd Thomas to make it a fun read.
5 I have been following the Odd novels and found this one equally enthralling! Great mystery, intrigue, and suspense. Keep it up, Koontz..I'm already looking for the next one.
3 I have loved reading the Odd Thomas novels(from what I hear they are making a movie out of the first book)and this one is not bad but it seems the series is lagging on this one. Although I did read in one day-which is not unusual for me-it was dragging in many places. I am wondering if the series should come to an end or not?This one has our hero-along with the ghost of Alfred Hitchcok-chasing(and being chased)by a crazy truck driver who will do anything to get his way. And it just keeps going-the characters are not as solid as they used to be.The first one-SPOILERS-has him losing the love of his life and comes back as a ghost-I did not see that coming at all and it was very powerful.The series is lagging and it seems he is just making them to pump product out to the public as quick as he can to earn a buck. Which that is the nature of the game-readers expect compelling characters and situations.Worst addition to the series.
4 I've been a huge Odd fan from the beginning and read every Odd Thomas story that Dean Koontz has written.  When I saw Deeply Odd was coming I was very excited but somewhat underwhelmed by the plot description given.  I needn't have worried.  Koontz delivers a terrifying yet humorous continuation of Odd's travels through Southern California in search of his destiny and those, both dead and alive, who need his help.As the book opens Odd is now staying in a beach house with Anna Maria, Tim from Odd Apocalypse, a couple of dogs (one a ghost), and occassionally the spirit of Alfred Hitchcock.  The book wastes no time and the reader is barreling down the highway with Odd chasing an evil he has never encountered before.  Odd Thomas has been well defined in the five previous novels and other shorter stories and retains his trademark wit throughout, but Koontz still has the power to surprise us and evolve his main character.  There are several instances in this book that seem to indicate Odd has turned a corner in realizing his destiny and things will never be the same.  The old rules may no longer apply.  This may offend a few readers but I got a jolt of excitement at the possibilities.  I believe there are good underlying reasons for the changes that take place here.Despite these changes, Odd Thomas is as funny, lovable, and broken as ever.  The Odd Thomas novels are riddled with great secondary characters and Deeply Odd is no exception.  The character of Edie, an elderly limousine rider who has lived an interesting life herself, is a delight and has as many secrets as both Odd and the Rhinestone Cowboy, a man who is planning a monstrous deed.  Rhinestone Cowboy leads Odd deeper into the recesses evil than he has been before and, as with so many things, proves to be more than he appears.  The book is filled with some of the most terrifying action I've read in quite a while.  A choking scene in total darkness comes vividly to mind more than a week after finishing the read.  Hitchcock has much more involvment than Odd's previous spirit escorts which proved to be a lot of fun.  My only real regret about Deeply Odd is that we don't get to spend much time with Tim or the still pregnant and mysterious Anna Maria.  I felt like the previous installment, Odd Apocalypse, gave some real hints about her nature and identity and I was looking forward to adding some evidence to my theories, but that was not to be here.  However, it is apparent that Odd's journey is coming to a conclusion.  Koontz has said he will write a final Odd Thomas novel, Saint Odd, that should wrap up the character's story nicely.  This book drops some tantalizing hints about the direction in which that final book may go and I can't wait.If you haven't read the Odd Thomas novels before, I recommend you start at the beginning.  If you're up to date and have been waiting for the next novel, you won't be disappointed.  Odd Thomas remains one of the best characters in modern fiction, pitted against the darkest evils of this world and elsewhere.  Deeply Odd is a thrill to read and highly recommended.
4 I'VE READ ALL THE ODD THOMAS NOVELS AND I WOULD RATE THIS ONE AS AVERAGE IN COMPARISON TO OTHERS IN THE SERIES.  THIS ONE IS MORE MYSTICAL AND DELVES MORE INTO SATANISM OR EVIL DEMONS.  IT IS NOT AS ACTION ORIENTED AS SOME OF THE OTHER ODD THOMAS NOVELS BUT MAINTAINS ITS THEME OF GOOD VS EVIL.  IF YOU HAVE KEPT UP WITH THE SERIES THEN THIS ONE IS WORTH READING.  HOWEVER, IT IS NOT A PAGE TURNER UNTIL TOWARDS THE END OF THE NOVEL.
5 I feel sad when the story ends. I am happy Odd survived, but worried what will happen next. He nailed it in this one.
5 I always like Odd Thomas and in this one he has a friend to help him.  And I love her!!!!  I hope she is in more books so we can get to know her better!!!
5 Odd Thomas is one of the most endearing characters to ever step out of a book. He charms us with his underlying wit and sensible concerns. Odd is a hero who brings out the best in most people, and protects them against the worst. A supernatural power like his is a gift, and sometimes a curse. This is a great story that will leave you wanting to read more of the series. I am a Koontz fan, and true to his calling card, the reader is led down a trail of good vs. evil, and our hero saves the world - kind of - read the book if you enjoy in depth weird characters with heart, and will want to read more of his story.
5 If you have never met Odd Thomas, don't be afraid to start here.  You can always go back and catch up.  Oddie is introduced to more evil and more good than he has thus far experienced.  Our young fry cook is drawn into the most horrifying situation that will take all of his gifts and more to bring to a conclusion.  Along the way he is joined by two special characters to help him in his tasks. This is a must read for Dean Koontz fans.
5 all of the "Odd" series is top notch. deeply Odd is no exception. the nemesis in Deeply Odd is especially sinister. Odd is more focus on his, "calling as a warrior for good" in this book. the people in the small coastal town's suffering caused by the evil/alien force is chilling.
4 Dean Koontz does a great job with this series and this was one of his better efforts.  Introduces fun new characters and sets up coop possibilities for the future.
4 Without rehashing all the plot spoilers some of the other reviewers have given, this Odd Thomas story starts off fast with Odd following his psychic magnetism to the rhinestone cowboy truck driver, who is bad in all kinds of ways. Thus begins an adventure with Odd meeting lots of interesting people during his quest and we as the reader (and Odd as a character) are introduced to a much larger world out there of Good vs. Evil.For me, the witticism is back to the level of the first couple of books. I felt like the last couple of books had been too serious and adult, resulting in a loss of Odd's humor. So this was a pleasant revisiting of his funny commentary.A lot of moral commentary throughout, but I never felt preached at.We do depart from the previous books where the bulk of things were driven by the ghosts of those needing help to "find rest". This book is almost exclusively psychic magnetism.There are some things that change with Mr. Hitchcock that I'm not sure if I like, but at the same time, it opens up that many more possibilities for Odd in future stories.Yes, in the previous books there are some completely unanswered items, such as Annamarie. At the same time those mysteries are kept to just a few things. This book is such a teaser to the "larger world" that there are more questions unanswered for Odd and the reader than you can shake a ghostly stick at. We aren't meant to know those answers, just meant to realize there is more to life than we normally see around us.Again, great creative imagination.Again, great detailed description.I like Good vs. Evil stories, and this one doesn't disappoint.I agree with another reviewer, that its best to read the other books first a there are many references in this book to the previous books.Some of the middle books had content that was a a bit too adult for my taste, where I won't let my teen read them. But this book was "cleaner" in plot and description. Thus taking a note from Hitchcock and giving the reader enough to imagine worse things vs. showing the worse things in all its gory and/or depraved detail.OVERALL: If you are an Odd Thomas fan...you'll want to read this book.
4 In the latest of this wonderful series of books, Dean Koontz begins to share a deeper and more compelling philosophy of life than the simple hero cycle tales he is famous for.  I can hardly wait for the next novel to be written, and will buy it the first day of publication, even if I am in the middle of another good book!  No other novel could possibly be more important.
5 Unique and engaging characters and storyline.  An easy read.  At least the good guy usually wins with this series.Something unique and different and fun to read.
5 I admit it, I'm a fanboy.  I loved it and I can't wait for the next Odd Thomas novel.  Dean Koontz keeps teasing with Moonlight Bay references.  Come on, Dean, we're waiting for you to deliver with an other Christopher Snow story.
5 I always enjoy Dean Koontz books and this one was not a disappointment. I especially like his direction into the mystery of our world and life. Can't wait for the next instalment.
5 This is an amazing book - Dean Koontz  continues with the Odd Thomas series with passion and great humor and love.
3 Koontz has been one of my top favorite authors since the late 70's; I have read every book he's written (except the the graphic novels) since that time. But, the Odd Thomas series is getting real old. If this was the first-ever Koontz book I'd read, there'd not be a second. It drones on and on with very little excitement and much predictability.
5 Dean Koontz is my favorite author. I have read (I think) all of his books. I love his Odd Thomas novels, and look forward to when he puts out another book!
1 Dear Mr. Koontz,I've got a few things to say to you regarding your current writing:1) Enough with the slapstick.2) Enough with the constant yacking and verbal diarrhea between characters.3) Enough with the conservative talking points. I'm tired of you putting your own opinions into your characters' mouths.In the past few years, I've gotten your books from the local library, because they aren't good enough for me to buy anymore. Now, they're not even good enough to read for free.Let me give you some advice; either write thrillers the way you used to, or do yourself a favor and hang up your keyboard and find something else to do with your life. Or at the very least, go on long Sabbatical from writing until your creative juices start flowing again. You've got the money, you can afford to loaf around for five years until you get a really great idea for a novel again.
5 I felt as though the Odd Thomas series began to lose my interest a bit, especially as I could really do without the Annamaria character.  With this book however, I felt myself get drawn back into the world of Odd.  I can't wait for the next one.
5 We live in a time of unspeakable horrors brought on by nature and man.  The horrors created by man doesn't even have to happen but each day we try our darkest to outdo the horror from the previous day.
5 Once again Koontz comes through.  Odd is a wonderful character - and I've followed him since the first book came out.
5 Always been a huge ODD fan, this one was a bit too sci-fi to me but well worth the trip with Oddie....looking for more adventures with him!!
5 If you like Odd you'll love this book.  Once again Dean Koontz hits the bull's-eye with deeply strange and yet completely believable characters.
2 I generally like dean Koontz for lite reading but this story was boring and predictable  I had read another Odd T. book that i found readable but not this one..
5 Odd gets better by the book.  In this episode, odd encounters evil greater than ever before, but he learns that he is not alone.'Nuf said.  Don't miss this great story.
4 Loved it. It seems like a great ending point for a wonderful series. Creepy but colorful story line that keeps you on the edge of your seat.
5 This is definitely the best Odd Thomas in a while.  I do wish there were a few more questions answered instead of always more added.  Odd still remains one of the truly good souls.  It's a great book.
3 I have enjoyed the Odd Thomas series and this latest sequel is no exception; however Mr. koontz tends to grate on my nerves by espousing his political and religious opinions through his characters.  If he would just get off his soap box  I would have given him a 5 star rating. I really don't care what his opinion of non- Catholics  or Democrats are; I can get that crap from Facebook, I just want to read a good story and be entertained by it.
5 Dean Koontz proves why he is absolutely my favorite author.  In "Deeply Odd" he features once again the endearing Odd Thomas, the fry cook with the ability to communicate with the dead.  Odd is easily my favorite Koontz character ever - his wit always makes me chuckle.  Adding the lovably kooky Edie Fischer as Odd's new friend and ally in this novel, Koontz takes Odd on a life-or-death adventure involving innocent children and a dark, dark evil.  Will Odd succeed in triumphing over that evil?In "Deeply Odd," Koontz has adroitly melded together the paranormal, humor, evil vs. good, adventure, and philosophical musings to produce one walloping good book.
5 A little slow at first but Mr. Koontz did not disappoint as usual.Odd Thomas needs to team up with Chris Snow. They would make one hell of a team.
5 The first Odd Thomas book took a second read to get me to enjoy his personality.  As a Dean Koontz fan, I felt I owed him that with how many hours of enjoyment the author has brought me.  After that second read, I have enjoyed all of his Odd Thomas books (Brother Odd being my personal favorite) and this one kept the tradition going.  His driving &#34;companion&#34; gave me the same feeling I get whenever I read Ticktock (my favorite Koontz novel).  The banter between Odd's ally and himself just made for a fun read while keeping up with Odd's traditional intrigue.  Keep it coming, Odd-one!
3 I'm a big fan of Dean Koontz and I've read all the prior Odd Thomas novels and really enjoyed them.  But I had a hard time getting through this one.  The storyline just didn't grab me, and often times I found the writing to be tediously descriptive.  There was just way too much detail describing each and every thing to the point of sounding like rambling. After I finished, it really didn't seem like there was a whole lot to the story. Even the big battle was pretty anticlimactic. I'm glad it was a checkout from the library and not a purchase.
4 Dean keeps Odd ... well ... odd! I really enjoy the series, and was awaiting a crossover from the Frankenstein series! When Brother Knuckles helped out Deucalion in that series, I was hoping for Deucalion to help out Oddie, especially in light of the atmosphere of &#34;Deeply Odd.&#34;  Maybe next time. One can only hope. Can't wait.
3 Koontz is so prolific  it's astounding and while I was instantly hooked on Odd Thomas and the additional books in the series, I'm afraid it's time to retire him. This last one was just OK and not on the same plain as previous Odds. Sad to see him go but won't not re-read the others.
1 Sad to say, I can't finish this book. I had a hard enough time getting through his last Odd book, Odd Apocalypse. I started this one with high hopes, but when I began to skimm pages just to get to a place where SOMETHING was happening, I knew the end was near. I think Mr. Koontz needs to put this character away and go back to the way he wrote before this series started. I will say that I loved Odd Thomas in the first four books, but the last two - well, I think I've covered that.
4 The Odd Thomas series by Dean Koontz is a nice side road from his usual books. He has developed the character of Odd Thomas and his adventures which make for a nice change from his general stories.
4 I enjoyed this book, just not as much as the other ones in the series. You do have to read the previous books before you read this one or you might get lost on his references to the other books.  Dean K. has said there is supposed to be 7 total in this series. Hopefully the last will be back to the quality of the earlier ones.
4 Another in the Odd series, great as usual. However, the enigmatic stuff is becoming rather tiresome. This book is no exception. Instead of answering a few questions, more unsolved riddles are simply piled up. I have to wonder if Koontz is merely winging it and hope some explanation comes to mind at a later date. Oh, and it's beginning to look like a Christian/Heaven vs Satan/Hell thing, too bad, but I suppose he has to play to a Christian/American audience.I suppose Annamaria is the new Mary and her child is the new Christ, waiting to be born these last 2000 years. Boring. Koontz could do better.
5 5 Stars for Deeply Odd.  One of the best Odd Thomas books yet.  I couldn't wait to get the book so I purchased it on my Kindle and it was worth it.  It was well written and just the right length.  I would recommend this book to anyone.
4 I like the &#34;Odd&#34; character and I thought there were some &#34;unique&#34; supporting characters in the book - but I felt it fell short of feeling like a complete story.  Things/parts seemed to be missing that would tie it together a little better - and too much of the action seemed to happen for no reason.  Just my opinion ...
5 I have enjoyed all of the books in the Odd Thomas series, and this does not disappoint.  If you enjoy the others, you will enjoy this one as well.  The good guys win again!
5 The Odd Thomas series is at the height of Mr. Koontz' literary style. Great yarns, easy to read, (not too many three-syllable words for us that move lips while reading, etc.),  and the characters are believable with just a bit o'the fantasy thrown in to heat it up.I'm proud to line up the Odd series on my bookshelves, and enjoy reading them over again. You will, too.
5 Dean Koontz' books never fail to satisfy. This one left me satisfied and oddly at peace. I salute the author.
4 Deeply Odd is the seventh book in the Odd Thomas series. Now, Deeply Odd tosses Odd straight into his destiny, leading him back around to his opponents from the first book and backing him up with all-new resources and aid. It took a little longer to pull me in than the first book did, but once it did I was hooked. It&#8217;s also highly quotable, unlike some of the middle books; Odd Thomas&#8217;s narrative voice has built back up some of its whimsical, offbeat steam. I even had a not-quite-teary moment, which is a great sign that I&#8217;m connecting emotionally with a book.This tale seems like it&#8217;s supposed to belong to Annamaria&#8211;the bell she gave Thomas finally rang, and it&#8217;s been a full three books since she joined the cast. However, yet again she has almost no part in things other than as a plot device. She&#8217;s still annoyingly enigmatic. She is the embodiment of the series&#8217; oddities taken too far, wrapping back around into cliche and fortune-cookie philosophy.Edie is such a fully-realized character and has so much clear previous history that I found myself wondering if she was a preexisting character. Koontz is nearly back to full power with respect to the uniqueness and depth of his secondary characters, although the first book still has an edge there.Deeply Odd is not quite as good as the first book, but that&#8217;s a difficult bar to reach. It&#8217;s certainly better than most of the books that have come between, rendering it a worthy entry into the series. I&#8217;m looking forward to seeing more of what Odd Thomas can do with his new resources!
5 Thankfully, I managed to get an Advance Reading copy of the new "Odd Thomas" novel, Deeply Odd, by Dean Koontz, which is coming out in hardcover at the end of May.  See, miracles do happen!Reading Deeply Odd proved to be a blessing in disguise.  Since March, I've dealt with a lot of friends passing away.  Two friends died within the late eight days.  Anyway, within the first couple of pages of Deeply Odd, I found myself lost inside this intriguing story of "good versus evil".  Even more importantly, it's a novel about hope and boy do I need hope at this particular moment in my life.Thankfully, the character of Odd Thomas is filled with large amounts of hope...hope for the future, hope for humanity, hoping to be a fry cook again, and hope that he will eventually be reunited with the love of his life, Stormy Llewellyn.  Hope is definitely a good thing, and it's what I needed to get me through the gut-wrenching chaos of my own life.  I have to tell you that nothing gets the heart pumping like a story where the lead character has to overcome unbelievable obstacles; yet, still manages to retain that strong degree of hope all the way to the end.In the newest "Odd Thomas" novel, Oddie (his nickname) takes up the sword again after the adventures of Odd Apocalypse have ended.  Something draws him away from Annamaria and their tiny cottage in a small, quaint coastal town along the California shoreline.  When Odd is drawn to take a long walk into town, he soon finds himself near the local shopping area.  It's there, walking along the highway that he sees a black tractor trailer rig passing by that causes alarm bells to go off inside his head.  Running after it, he quickly locates the rig parked in the lot of a grocery store and confronts the driver, a white haired, blue-eyed cowboy dressed in western wear.  Odd Thomas has an instant vision of the man murdering children with a flamethrower and realizes he's the only one who can stop this from actually happening.And so the journey begins.Odd Thomas barely keeps himself from being killed by the driver dressed in snake skin boots, and is then forced to go after him when the man takes off.  Always keep in mind that nothing is Odd's life is a coincidence.  Through a series of circumstances, a black limousine happens upon Odd Thomas in the middle of the highway, and the elderly lady driving the car, Edie Fischer, offers to give him a much-needed lift.  Edie isn't an ordinary person.  Like Odd, she has certain powers and uses them to deter evil as well.In their search for the driver of the tractor trailer rig, Edie and Odd head across the state of California.  They eventually discover information about a number of missing children and also take time to arm themselves with weapons like the Terminator does in the second film.  Both of them know a battle of epic proportions is looming ahead.Before the story reaches its conclusion, Odd Thomas will find himself turning into something he utterly despises...a killing machine.  "Hasta la vista, baby."  It's the only way he can stop others from destroying the weak and innocent.  It's going to be a battle to the death, but this time Odd also has the assistance of Alfred Hitchcock's spirit to guide him through the turmoil of destruction.  "Good evening and welcome to my show."  And, if that isn't enough, Odd learns of a parallel universe where something that favors him in appearance is hungry for his life.Though I realize Odd Thomas is nothing more than a fictional character, Dean Koontz has tapped into something that makes me think he knows more than he admits, and it's hard to get him to admit to anything these days.  I understand that evil exist in our world.  You see it every day in different walks of life.  The world is also going slightly crazy.  I don't have an answer as to why, but I suspect Mr. Koontz has seen this too and certainly takes notice of it in his novel.I do know that Mr. Koontz hits the nail on the head with his villains.  He clearly did it with the man who drives the tractor trailer rig and the other people gathered at his home in the middle of California, ready to torture and murder nearly two-dozen children.  The author clearly knows that something is going on, and it isn't good.  If I had to take a guess, I would say that evil is fighting for control of our planet, and it looks as though it's winning.  It's like an unrelenting wave of darkness enveloping our world within a heavy shroud of pure, outright meanness.There's one thing I do know and Deeply Odd brings this up, too.  Good people are out there, striving to fight the negative changes erupting within our mist.  These people give me hope for the future.  It makes me wish that Odd Thomas was real and I could sit down with him and have a good talk about what's happening.Like the other "Odd Thomas" novels, Deeply Odd is filled with pure entertainment, including stark suspense and even belly laughs.  It also includes bits and pieces of insight into our world and the things transpiring around us.  I believe Mr. Koontz is ahead of his time in how he's able to see the subtle changes taking place and then carefully uses them in his stories.I certainly loved the characters in Deeply Odd: Odd Thomas, Annamaria, and Edie Fischer and all of her friends who enter and exit this fun-filled book.  Mr. Koontz always manages to keep a sense of mystery about each character, though they may seem familiar to you as they often do to me.  He makes each character a little off kilter, both the good ones and the bad.  This keeps the reader on his toes as he attempts to guess what's going to happen next.I won't call this piece of information a plot spoiler, but just to let the readers know, everything is coming around in a full circle.  Odd Thomas is being led back to Pico Mundo to be reunited with Stormy Llewellyn.  Deeply Odd gives you a clear hint of what to expect in the very near future.  It's definitely going to be BIG.  It will also end the series.Deeply Odd is highly recommended to those who are as deeply odd as the author and I.  You can't go wrong with Odd Thomas at your side, and don't forget, the movie of Odd Thomas is due out sometime soon.  The studio keeps changing the release date on it.Written by Wayne C. Rogers from Horror Novel Reviews. Horror Novel Reviews does not receive payment for reviews. All books are promotional copies.
5 This has been a truly interesting series.  The characters are complex and interesting.  The subject matter is heavy and dark, but Koontz still manages to inject a bit of humor.
1 I wouldn&#8217;t read another book in this series, not even is someone gave it to me as a gift.After rating Koontz&#8217; last book, &#8220;Odd Apocalypse,&#8221; I swore I&#8217;d never read an Odd Thomas book, unless I knew that the author started answering some of the many, many questions that have been raised. Well, I guess I didn&#8217;t consider whether I really meant that, especially if I got one of the books as a gift, which is the only reason that I read &#8220;Deeply Odd.&#8221;Again, the author doesn&#8217;t answer any of the burning questions of this series. Again, he introduces new characters, and in doing so, raises more questions. These no point in discussing what, or who, they are, just as there is no point wondering what the answers are, because there are none.Similar to the two-book series, &#8220;Seize the Night&#8221; and &#8220;Fear Nothing,&#8221; (hero Christopher Snow) Koontz continues to fuel an entire series on mysteries that never get answered. And on that note, he clearly connects the stories of Snow with those of Odd Thomas, mixing some of the same characters and places (in this book and in &#8220;Odd Interlude&#8221;), but just leaving the reader to wonder whether the central stories and characters of the two series will intersect. (I wonder whether Koontz got the idea for the Odd Thomas series from the Snow series; he&#8217;s just winking at the reader, saying, &#8216;Yep, your suspicions are correct.)In addition to mounds of unanswered questions, there are stereotypical bad guys doing familiar bad things. In this book, a super bad truck driver has kidnapped a bunch of kids who he (and other Satan worshipers (seriously) are planning to kill in gruesome ways with rich people milling around. This &#8220;plot&#8221; is somewhat similar to the last book: a bunch of sadistic rich people killing young girls for pleasure. (So the formula: a bunch of evil ____-ers, kidnap a bunch of ______, and torment/mutilate them in a secluded ______, only to have Odd Thomas ruin it all with his supernatural luck.) There is no depth to these bad guys; they&#8217;re just super bad, with no human qualities, so you feel no remorse, or pause, when they meet a brutal end. Boring!And there&#8217;s a monologue that&#8217;s getting very, very tired. If I have to read Thomas saying, &#8216;I&#8217;m just a fry cook,&#8217; again, I&#8217;m going to puke. So, by ditching this series, I can forego nausea the homeopathic way. Then there&#8217;s all the musings and ramblings of Thomas, including comments on whether graffiti is a real &#8220;art,&#8221; or other random topics. The reader is left with the distinctive impression that Odd Thomas has just become a platform for Koontz to print filler from his daily journal.Koontz once wrote a great book on writing, &#8220;How to Write Bestselling Fiction.&#8221; Central points of the book included (but were not limited to):- Don&#8217;t write for money; write to entertain: FAIL. The Odd Thomas series and denigrated into a series that is clearly motivated more by making sales by following a formula, which is no longer entertaining.- The purpose of writing is to be read: FAIL. If he&#8217;s going to continue down this path, fewer will be reading the Odd Thomas books.The also says that readers demand the following:1. Strong plot &#8211; FAIL. The plot of Odd Thomas follows the same pattern. They may be pieced together well, but you can pretty much guess what&#8217;s going to happen next.2. A great deal of action &#8211; INCOMPLETE. Yes, there are a lot of guns, fights, and crazy things happening, but then, I&#8217;ve seen it all before.3. A hero &#8211; the critical element. FAIL. It wasn&#8217;t a fail in the beginning of the series, but now, with all of the musings, it&#8217;s like there&#8217;s no Odd Thomas anymore. It&#8217;s just Dean Koontz talking.4. Colorful, imaginative, and convincing charactizations. FAIL. The bad guys are all bad, and the good guys are just an endless maze of mysteries, i.e. none of them are convincing.5. Clear, believable, character motivations. FAIL. Now Koontz has Odd Thomas risking his life, willing to die for the Annamarie, or whatever her name is (she's so marginalized one forgets about her), and for no understandable reason. And since many of the new characters in the last few books are mysteries, we don&#8217;t understand their motivations, so they&#8217;re not clear or believable.6. Well-drawn backgrounds. FAIL. A truck stop, small down, and lake cabin, where rich Satanists hang out, seems pretty lazy to me. Koontz has a habit of cornering each book into a small place (Odd Apocalypse &#8211; a rich man&#8217;s estate; Odd Interlude &#8211; a small community of houses; Deeply Odd &#8211; cars and a lake cabin, and so on.) It&#8217;s pretty easy to write a background where you limit it to a small space that could fit in just about any time or place.7. A writer familiar with English language. PASS. Yes, he can write clearly and crisply, but after reading a few pages of Donna Tart&#8217;s &#8220;A Secret History,&#8221; one remembers that good writing, by itself, can be a pleasure.8. Lyrical language &#8211; STYLE. FAIL. I feel like the writing is reminiscent of a relay race. He hits all of the hurtles on cue, but there&#8217;s no suspense when you&#8217;re the only one in the race.If I get another one of these books as a gift, I&#8217;ll promptly return it, or exchange it.All that said, I'm holding Koontz to a pretty high standard here, yes. But then, they are HIS standards. He can do better.
4 I really like the character of Odd.  Hope he continues to have more adventures and show the good in people as well as the evil.
4 Good Book from the start it launches into action.  Many twists and turns, good plots, with plenty of excitement.  Naturally, the ending leaves many more questions, and hints as to who a certain person he travels with is, and of course the next book.  Well done Dean, another bullseye, and a great addition to this series.
5 Dean Koontz wrote dozens of books that are a pleasure to read. They are interesting and have the literary qualities and wit that other writers fail to master. He adds charming and amusing sparkle to virtually every page with clever understated dry humor. This is his seventh novel focusing on the rather strange but likable Odd Thomas, who may have obtained his name Odd when his mother misspelled Todd. Koontz also has three graphic novels based on the Odd Thomas books. Odd is incredibly wise, respectful, and unusual; he calls people "sir" and "maam," even people who are intent on killing him in the most horrendous manner. He is a fry cook, unemployed in this novel because he is hiding from police who think he performed unlawful acts. Odd can see and speak to lingering dead people who haven't decided to give up this world and move to the Other Side, people such as Elvis Presley and Frank Sinatra, people who may be searching to settle scores, or looking for someone to help them. These dead can't talk, perhaps because they would reveal something about death and the world beyond that we the living are not meant to know. This makes Odd's attempt to discover facts extremely difficult and adds to our suspense and delight.In this novel, the love of Odd's life has been killed; he yearns for her, and looks forward to joining her. He meets a strange old lady who seems to have unusual powers and who insists that he become her chauffer. He sees a strange looking man who also has strange powers who repeatedly tries to kill him. But rather than avoiding this man, Odd chases him even into other dimensions because he has a premonition that the man will try to kill children, and he is determined to stop him.
5 This installment of the Odd Thomas saga was intriguing.  The characters of Mrs. Fischer and her network of friends added even more mystery, and for a couple of books we've already had the mysterious Annamaria.  Who are these people, exactly?  I certainly haven't figured it out, but I'd love to have a Mrs. Fischer in my life!  Her resourcefulness knows no bounds. I loved her.  I'm sorry to hear that the Odd Thomas series is winding down.  I've read every book, and enjoyed them all, but it sounds like our beloved fry cook is nearing the end of his story. So sad to think about, but it'll be worth it if Odd gets to be with his Stormy again.
5 this book was truly a roller coster and quite frightening . this was Dean Koontz at his best, I hope he continues with this character
5 This ODD THOMAS. Novel is. Excellent!!!!  I hope Dean Koontz  writes more in the series of Oddies adventures with the  spirit world and his struggles to defeat evil.
1 I usually read military/espionage/crime thrillers.  Maybe that's why I found this book too weird, the plot too contrived, and the characters too plastic. I recall enjoying my last Koontz book years ago.  It'll probably be years still, before I try another.  I'm a fast reader with lots of free time and a high tolerance for mediocrity, but I returned this one without finishing.
5 Love Odd Thomas -  I'll be sorry to read the last one!  It has been an enjoyable literary trip .
4 Koontz is a wonderful writer who has created in Odd Thomas a great character. In this book Odd is discovering new aspects of his &#34;power&#34; and the plot is a bit more horror oriented. Good read!
5 I love this series.  I like this book better than the last, but not as much as the first 2.  All in all a very good read, a very quick read, and another life changing adventure for Odd Thomas.
4 For me it was a good Odd Thomas story but not great.  I already am looking forward to his next novel.  Something tells me there are many to come.  Maybe Stormy Llewhelen will show up in one of Odd' s future adventures.
4 I've been a fan of Dean Koontz's Odd Thomas books since the first one was released, many years ago.  While I find most of Mr. Koontz's other fiction very hit or miss (mostly miss this past decade), the Odd Thomas books are consistently interesting, witty and captivating.  Odd Thomas (someone left the T off of Todd on his birth certificate), or Oddie, as he his known to his friends and fans, is an ex-fry cook.  He makes the  world's best, fluffiest pancakes.  He also sees ghosts.  They do not speak, but gesture to him and pantomime, to get their points across almost always that something bad is coming, and trying to help out.  In the first few books his ex-vivo silent companion was Elvis, followed for a bit by Frank Sinatra.  Currently he is haunted by Alfred Hitchcock.Oddie also has a kind of psychic magnetism that draws him inexorably towards places that he needs to be.  These always have to do with stopping a person or persons from committing acts that could or will result in mass death and/or destruction.  It seems that Oddie's mission in life is to prevent as much of this mayhem as he can, until a stray bullet, explosion or knife in the back catches him and reunites him with his ("You are destined to be together forever") beloved Stormy Llewellyn . There's a lot more more to Odd's back story, but you can glean much of it from this novel, that refers back to many or most of the previous books.  "Deeply Odd", like all of the Odd Thomas books, can be read as a stand-alone, but I recommend going back at some point and reading them all.  All of them are little gems and the references to previous events will be clearer and the enjoyment of this newest entry, "Deeply Odd", that much the greater.Near the beginning of the novel, Odd runs into a white-haired nasty cowboy driving a ProStar+ rig, both of which emanate terrible evil.  A waking daydream or vision convinces Odd that trucker intends or is somehow linked to the mass death by fire of a large number of young children.  Fleeing from the trucker's threat to de-man him with a gun, Oddie meets up with octogenarian, Edie Fisher, who is driving a black Mercedes stretch limo.  Seems her long-time driver has just died and Edie is in need of a replacement that she instantly identifies as Oddie.  ("I'm a fry cook, Mrs. Fisher, not a chauffeur.")  But Mrs. Fisher ("Call me Edie.  Yes Ma'am".) is much more than she seems to be, and "hires" Oddie (over his protestations) as her driver (while still driving the limo herself). Mrs. Fisher becomes Oddie's' partner in his mission to find and stop the evil cowboy to stop him before he kills the children.  Along the way things become way strange, venturing into a parallel universe (or is it?) and Odd finds, for the first time, someone with abilities similar to his own.In Deeply Odd, Oddie takes center stage sans all of his friends and companions from previous novels (having left Annamaria back at the ranch when he went for a short trip into town to buy some jeans whereupon all of this adventure started).  But Mrs. Fisher is a great new character, and a fine foil for the witty banter that Odd Thomans fans have come to love expect.  We meet a few of Edie's friends (she seems to know just about everyone all over the place) who are uniformly extremely helpful and all of whom love her  very much.  Odd's internal commentary (all of the books are purported to be his memoirs, not to be published until he is dead) is also funny, with many of his similes and metaphors apt to make the reader laugh out loud.The ending (actually I think it would have worked better as a Coda or an Epilogue)  is a little too fantastic, incomprehensible and happily ever after, but that is a rather small quibble.  Finally, at the end, this reader was left feeling that Odd Thomas's adventures that began only 19 months (and 6 novels) ago in Pico Mundo, CA, may be drawing to a close, and he may be coming closer to his reunion with Stormy.  This  is only a impression, but it is one that has lasted for the week since I finished the novel.Another must read for all Odd Thomas fans, but also a reasonable place to start if you like interesting characters, horror leavened with humor, and light fantasy of a unique sort.Highly recommended.J.M. Tepper
4 While I enjoy Dean Koontz and have enjoyed all the Odd Thomas books he has published, this one was not my favorite - the thing I have enjoyed most about the Odd Series is that it is different from most of his books in that it focused more on the character and less on the science fiction - I find as his odd series continues it becomes more science fiction and macabre and less focused on the key characters - they seem not as developed as his early characters in the series - so while I still enjoyed this book, any future books in the series will not be at the top of my list to order right away -may wait for paperbacks and reduced prices.
5 You either love him or you hate him, but I have loved the Odd series since book one.  I love the mystical nature of the lead character, as well as the many things that seem to defy explanation.  A woman pregnant for years, who seemingly knows the future? Boo, the ghost German Shepherd?  Elvis and Alfred Hitchcock make appearances.  And it's just a plain good and entertaining story.  Wonderful way to spend an afternoon.
4 Always waiting for the next installment of Odd Thomas. This one did not disappoint!  Mixing Humor,  suspense and horror I found myself constantly laughing while sitting on the edge of my seat with suspense.
4 I do like this character very much.  Odd Thomas is a more subtle version of Koontz' usual heroes.  I wish the book were longer, however, with more character development and less mayhem.
5 Our young hero, Odd Thomas, is in the thick of it again in Deeply Odd.  This time the villain is quite mysterious.  This story takes place only one month after the events in the last Odd Thomas book, Odd Apocalypse.  Odd, Annamaria, and Tim, the boy they rescued from the Roseland Estate are renting a house in a small California coastal town.  Odd gets up one morning thinking he could use some socks and a new pair of jeans so he walks to town to purchase them.  On the way his 'Spidey' sense starts tingling when he sees a distinctive looking eighteen-wheeler.  Knowing better than to ignore his intuition, he follows the truck and when he comes upon it parked, he walks closer to investigate.  That's when the trucker who looks like a rhinestone cowboy but behaves like a psychopath walks up on him and demands to know why he's interested in his vehicle.  Before he knows it Odd's looking at the business end of a pistol and the cowboy's smiling at the prospect of pulling the trigger.  Luckily Odd manages to escape getting blown away in the first chapter.  But the cowboy gets away too and now Odd must go after him because while they were talking he was able to glean with his sixth sense that the mysterious cowboy in the gaudy clothes is planning to do something horrible to three innocent children.  Odd's forced to steal a car in order to give chase.  Hence begins Odd's new adventure.  The pace moves at breakneck speed.  Odd is helped along the way by some interesting new characters like Edie Fischer, a tiny woman in her 80s, who is a mystery unto herself.  I like the way this series is coming to a head.  It's as if all the forces of good are gathering to fight the forces of evil in a showdown.  I'm sure that when the end comes it's going to be memorable.
4 Part of the series of exciting books about &#34; Odd Thomas&#34;, one of Koontz's best characters!! You will love them all, if you like Dean Koontz. Good summer read!!
5 This story was super.  Definitely a page turner.  Highly recommended reading.Hope DK writes another one as interesting as this one soon.
5 I will put the caveats first:1. You should not read this book as a stand-alone... too many references to the previous five volumes are made and much would be lost.2. You have to accept the book for what it is - light prose depicting dark events with constant humor breaks.3. You have to be willing to go with the pendulum swings of pessimism to optimism and back.4. You have to be willing to follow the story with all of the descriptive prose that Mr. Koontz loves to use... if you get aggravated by too many adjectives or too much description, this might not be the book for you.With that said, I think this book rivals the first Odd Thomas book in keeping the pace up, introducing interesting characters, and further developing a world that if we work and pay attention, we can easily relate to.  I read the book in one sitting (who needs sleep??) and came away satisfied that the story ended where and how it should, with a good feeling of where he will go next. Enough has been left unanswered that I know I will come back to this universe as soon as the next book is out. I can't ask much more from a book.As far as the story goes, it is a paranormal detective action adventure with lots of moral commentary thrown in and the humor strains that Koontz uses in his "lighter" books.So - if you are a Koontz fan and liked the first Odd Thomas Book - I highly recommend this one!!... and yes, there are dogs.  :)All the best,Jay
5 Mr. Koontz never fails to amaze me with his writing! Each Odd Thomas book makes me love this character even more.  Soon I will have to re-read them all to truly remember all the joy, terror and laughter these books have brought me!!!!
5 In case you hadn&#8217;t noticed, I&#8217;m a huge fan of Dean Koontz&#8217;s Odd Thomas novels. Why it has taken me this long after its release to get around to reading Deeply Odd, I actually have no idea. I can only point lamely to the massive TO-BE-READ stack of books on my shelf and stammer incoherently. Nevertheless, I have now read all of the extant Odd Thomas books. Not all of them that there will be, God willing, as Koontz obviously has an endgame in mind for the character, but this brings me up to date with his publishing schedule. And the good news is, its a better spot to hang out than the ending of Odd Hours, which drove me nuts for years while we waited for Koontz to actually produce a new entry in Odd&#8217;s memoirs. Given that this is a series, this review may contain spoilers for previous Odd Thomas adventures.Odd&#8217;s had an eventful three months. First he foiled the terrorist plot in Magic Beach, then the very next day found himself in the strangely sinister roadside outpost of Harmony Corner before moving on to Roseland and ending a madman&#8217;s plot to become immortal no matter the cost. For the past several months he and Annamaria have been living in a small California village that he barely bothers to name while he attempts to recuperate from having to take on this veritable $#!^storm of evil, but that period of rest is put to an end when a chance encounter with a demented rhinestone cowboy sets him on the trail of a trio of kidnapped children. Unless Odd can stop them, the cult to which the rhinestone maniac belongs will sacrifice them with a number of others in a dark and perverted ritual. New enemies, new allies, and a new understanding of the nature of the world all await Odd as he embarks on what could be his most harrowing adventure yet, one that will set him on his way towards the final leg of his journey&#8230;.What can I say about this book that I haven&#8217;t said about previous entries in the series? I think this was one of the better ones, although the first half was a little slow. Odd Thomas continues to be one of my favorite characters of all time, and I love the way Koontz is able to communicate that, for all the evil that exists in the world&#8211;and there is evil, have no doubt about that&#8211;there is good as well, and that the good is stronger in the end. He is also adept at bringing humor to every situation, usually through Odd&#8217;s internal dialogue. I very much look forward to reading the upcoming final chapter to Odd&#8217;s adventures, though I will be sad to see them end.CONTENT: PG-13 language, with the implication that Odd is filtering out a good deal of R-rated language from the baddies. Brief sexual innuendos. Violence, occasionally somewhat disturbing. Occult content: Odd can see the dead, and interacts with (read: fights) a foul demonic entity intent on stealing his soul. The villains are cultists who plan to sacrifice a number of children to some dark demonic entity, so if the presence of such stuff offends you (or you object to Koontz vilifying Satanists) you may want to stay away. I would personally defend the book on the point of it being redemptive and on the point that all those intentionally interacting with these demons (as opposed to interacting with them while trying to thwart them) are unquestionably villains, but that&#8217;s just me.
5 Love the Odd Thomas books have read them all. Can't get enough of Oddie, keep them coming. :-) Thanks Dean Koontz!
5 This was a great book and I couldn't put it down.  If you like Odd, you have to read this.
5 all his Odd Thomas  books are good , some  better than others you read the  not so good to keep in line with the series.
3 I used to like Koontz's Odd Thomas novels, but they are losing their charm. Part of the problem is the amount of filler. Koontz stuffs the book with dismal thoughts about how the world is devolving into a horrible place, and in this one he actually predicts that it might be America's time to produce a Hitler, Pol Pot, Idi Amin type of leader, one that will wreak havoc on innocent citizens and export horror to the world. There is a good story in here, but a reader has to struggle to stay engaged, and slog through all the extraneous material. Strangely Koontz cannot stay dark, and the end of the book cycles into an almost fairy tale happy situation full of gentle big dogs, cookies, cocoa, and "good people."
5 I think it (the series) will come to a close pretty soon, but Dean Koontz definitely still has my interest!
5 The book wasn't as good as the others.  I wonder if Koontz is getting tired of Odd.  I enjoyed it but it didn't get my interest up as the others had. Jennie
5 Hope this really isn't the end of this series.  I really enjoy the odd Thomas books and this last one seems to be open for more.
2 I have read all the previous Odd Thomas novels. In fact I have read all of Dean Koontz's novel. Many of them I have greatly enjoyed. However, the last one I really liked was What the Night Knows. This Odd Thomas novel is a trainwreck from start to finish. Poorly written plot and even poorer dialogue. Odd Thomas should have been retired when he left the monastery. I know it can be difficult to give birth to new ideas but if this is Dean's best, he should consider retirement. I was Deeply disappointed.
5 I really love the whole series of Odd Thomas books, and this one is just as good as the others.  I always enjoy books that make me feel for the characters, and Odd Thomas is a great character, and reminds me of my son, who is mildly autistic and about the same age as Odd;  especially in regards to his innocence, and optimism in the face of so many trials and tribulations.  You root for him in lots of ways, always hoping that he will reach his goal of being with Stormy, and yet not wanting the books to end!  This is a great chapter in Odd's story, of course everything in it seems improbable, if not impossible, but that is one of the charms of the story.  Odd overcomes every time; never easily, and never without some kind of sacrifice, but he does overcome.  If you haven't read the Odd books, read them.  I think you'll be charmed and captivated.
3 The character Odd is a little too much like the T.V. show the ghost whisperer except being a male rather than a female character.  The plot is interesting but too much over the top for my taste.  I give the book three stars because the book was likable but to unbelievable to really grab me.
3 I love Dean Koontz & the Odd Thomas series specifically however thus one seemed to be long winded & overly descriptive. I almost gave up on it midway but it did pick up at the end
3 I'm a die-hard Dean Koontz fan. I love the Odd Thomas series... Yes, there's the &#34;But&#34; word looming over my review. The last two books just haven't had the Oddie boy I've come to love and root for. Lack of characters and the plot line (supernatural, spirits...) seem to have sadly faded away. I love Mr. Koontz style of writing, but long for Oddie and his helpful friends ( or even the dark figures) to return to the storyline. It feels like the stories being unnecessarily drawn out with long-winded &#34;feelings&#34;.
2 I'm going to be the odd one out, as I see this book has gotten lots of great reviews. . .but I really did not care for it at all. And I loved all the other books in the Odd Thomas series. This one felt very piecemeal to me. I felt like he was telling little anecdotes here and there and that none of them really connected.In addition, if I had to hear &#34;Call me Odd. Or Oddie. I'd like that.&#34; and then the other person going, &#34;Yes, Mr. Thomas,&#34; ONE. MORE. TIME. I was going to shoot myself (and it was that way with every. single character!!!And last, this book was just waaaaay too philosophical for me. I wanted way more action.Ugh. Just not a good one for me at all.
3 The basic Odd Thomas story was good but not quite as &#34;on the edge of your seat&#34; thrilling as previous books. I personally found that Odd rambled on and on with descriptions that were mostly unnecessary. I skimmed through all of that fluff and found very little of it would be informative for folks who have not read the previous Odd Thomas books. If Dean Koontz continues to write this series, I will read one more of them; but, if it is like this book, it will be my last.
5 Koontz's capacity to draw you in from the outset, his abilty to build characters with heart and soul, and to paint vivid images in your mind continue with this latest offering of Odd Thomas. Fast paced and edgy it ensures that the reader wants to consume the book in one sitting...though doesn't want to finish because these books are so damn enjoyable to read. A perfect holiday book...consume with enjoyment!
5 A little philosophically wordy but not too bad.  I liked the story and the new character.  I will be sorry to see Odd's journey end.
4 Dean Koontz is a real good writer and the Odd Thomas series is a very interesting read. enjoyed it very much
4 Odd Thomas is about to have a bad day. He is about to run into true evil and he has to decide if he will risk his life to save others against a force of evil that is powerful and malicious. He is forced to react quickly as the time to save the victims is quickly diminishing....This book is 1/2 good and 1/2 bad. The basic premise and storyline is good and it is interesting when it is moving forward with fast action and suspense. Unfortunately the book is filled with a lot of fluff dialog between Odd Thomas and other characters and even Odd Thomas and himself. Some of the dialog is just ridiculous and boring. It is an attempt by Dean Koontz to add humor into the story but I found it boring and just over the top.I liked the story but I hate it when books are filled with filler pages to make the book longer. I like the Odd Thomas series and I will continue to read or listen to them on audio but I wish the books could be more seriously written. I rate the book as a 4 star because my wife and I are Dean Koontz fans and we love the Odd Thomas character.We listened to the book on Audio CD on a long trip. We like the narrator and he has done all of the Odd Thomas audio books. We have come to think of David Aaron Baker as the voice of Odd Thomas and we enjoy listening to him. Sometimes the narrator helps make the story better.
3 I'm a big Dean Koontz fan, but he came up a little short with the latest in the Odd Thomas series.  It was still a good read and kept my interest throughout, so don't give up on him, yet.
4 I'm not sure why over the years I've drifted away from Dean Koontz... but this is the first Koontz book I've read in a long time.  Here were the mostly ups and slight niggles I had about it.Here's what I liked:- I'd forgotten how much I liked Odd Thomas - the psychic who sees and helps dead people, thwarts dastardly deeds and attracts odd charachters and carries an odd funny sense of humor to go with his name.- In this one, he's fighting an even greater evil than the normal human variant he plays with - when he goes chasing a man who seemingly has one foot in this world and another in an other "elsewhere" world. It's an interesting premise, packed with plenty of action.- The characters he picks up are as fun and over-the-top as I expect from Koontz - if occassionally too much so.  (Seriously, does everyone he comes in contact with have to be, well, such an over-the-top oddity?Here are my niggles:- I'm not sure why - because the premise is good, the oddball character entertaining and there is action - but, it just wasn't an "I can't put it down type page-turner" book for me.  I think because so much time is spent wandering around trying to find the villian, and even if that wandering is with a wild old lady in supped up car --- it got a bit dull at points for me.- I'm not sure if you've never read one of the Odd Thomas series this would be the first I chose.  I happened to know who some of the characters were they referred to from the past, but some of the references from the later books went over my head. (I've never quite figured out why it is necessary to refer quite so much to some things from past books.  Obviously, things like his wife and how he feels now need to be addressed - but other things, those that read them know about it already, those that don't can't glean enough from a mention of it.)All in All:  If you're a fan of Koontz and Odd Thomas you're definitely going to enjoy this one. If you haven't been back to Koontz in awhile, this is a nice lark to revisit him and Odd on. If you've never read Koontz -- I'd pick some of his earlier works and maybe some non-Odd Thomas ones first whih I tend to have more affection for.
4 At long last I got his latest book on the Odd Series.  It was not as good as his previous books were but stillgood.
5 Welcome back Odd.I wasn't disappointed and it was nice to see that Odd is back and retains his individual outlook.
1 I usually like Dean Koontzs books but this one  couldn't keep my  interest.  I didn't like the story line at all.
3 I have read all of the odds and this one was a little bit of a disappointment. Sorry Dean.......I had to be truthful. The other odds were a lot better.
4 In the interest of full-disclosure, I must begin this review by telling you that I am a Dean Koontz admirer and a fan of his Odd Thomas series. Therefore, I may be accused of being biased towards favoring this book. If that is the case, then so be it. You have been warned! ;-)If you are a fan of Odd Thomas and have read the previous books in the series, then you are almost guaranteed to enjoy this book. [If you haven't read the previous books, you should do so before starting this one. If not, you will be lost and confused by the references to previous characters and adventures.] While it's not the best in the series, it is engrossing and a more than worthwhile read.Normally (if that word can be used when talking about this series of books) Odd works with spirits of the dead in order to help them cross over and/or find justice/peace. This time out Odd is trying to prevent a triple-murder from occurring in the first place. He doesn't know whom the victims are or where to find them, but he does come face to face with the potential killer...a rhinestone bedecked truck driver...and a frighten vision ensues.Annamaria and Alfred Hitchcock are both back for the adventure as odd faces the strongest adversary he's ever encountered.I recommend this book strongly to readers of the series. I will caution that there is a large about of pessimism in this tale that you will have to persevere through...but you'll be glad you did.
5 This series combines life stories with injections of humor that almost goes over your head, but usually leaves me laughing outloud.  Definitely my favorite author.
5 My favorite Odd Thomas book since book 1! Odd&#8217;s  perspective is always enjoyable, and his life is always interesting. I was drawn in right from the beginning, and stayed with him the whole way. The bad guys are super creepy (to be expected from Mr. Koontz) and I got chills a few times. I love to see bad guys falling short. The very end seemed strange to me, but I won&#8217;t give any details because to give any details about the plot would seriously harm your reading experience. Honestly, I can&#8217;t think of much I could say that wouldn&#8217;t  spoil something. Just read it. You&#8217;ll probably like it.Language: Very, very little bad language. Odd doesn&#8217;t like it, so he interprets what people say in the retelling. It&#8217;ll make you laugh out loud.Sexual Content: There may be some mention of divergent behaviors, but there aren&#8217;t any scenes.Over-all Message/Plot: Strong plot but without sacrificing character drive. The message is, evil is stupid and although evil people may be powerful, good will always overcome.
5 This one is intense. The introductions of Edie and a young girl with Odd's powers are very interesting and hold promise for future complex interactions. I was never sure what Annamarie brought the the table, but Edie sure is a pistol. Odd's journey gets more complicated with every book and leaves the reader anxiously awaiting the next adventure.
5 Clarity, insight combined with a high entertainment value. Profoundly poignant to our times. Mr. Koontz's prose rocks. And the story line is astounding. We finished it in two days, and I had to go to work both days. You've got to read this novel!
5 Dean Koontz has written a collection of books about an extraordinary young man who can speak to the dead! But they don't speak back. They just show up at the time ODD needs them most. It is an easy read and fans of KOONTZ and ODD THOMAS will be quite satisfied. The first book in the ODD THOMAS series is coming out in a film version. Was slated to open in Sept. 13, but the date may fluctuate. YOU MUST READ THE WHOLE &#34;ODD THOMAS&#34; Series!
4 Odd Thomas, as usual, is highly entertaining in his wit and by the way he describes the situations he encounters. I think the Odd Series as a whole has gone down hill since the first book. This book helped redeem that. I have read all the books except the Odd Interludes. This book is also no exception that it seems as the series goes on the series becomes darker and more bizarre. Defintely worth reading - it made me more eager to read the next book in the series than the previous one.
5 After Odd Thomas has left Pico Mundo, he runs across a truck driver who owns a rig and wears a strange flashy outfit resembling a cowboy&#8217;s attire. During their first encounter, Odd Thomas has a vision that this trucker, whom he calls rhinestone cowboy, is about to kill three children. Using his psychic magnetism, Odd tracks down the cowboy but keeps losing him.Eventually, Edie Fisher, an ally in the shape of an 86 year-old woman in a Mercedes, her friends, and the ghosts of Odd&#8217;s dog and Alfred Hitchcock help him to track down the cowboy and save seventeen children.In this book, Odd Thomas is twenty-two, having grown up from the age of nineteen in the first book, and he still pines after his love, Stormy Llewellyn who had died during the Pico Mundo Mall attack in the first book of the Odd Thomas series. What is different here is that the Rhinestone Cowboy also has supernatural powers that equal and probably transcend those of Odd Thomas&#8217;s, as he can store stuff in another universe, which Odd calls Elsewhere. In this book, I especially liked the fact that the Rhinestone Cowboy's occult powers are stronger than Odd Thomas's, which shows the protagonist succeeding over something much bigger and more dangerous than he thought he would encounter.Although each book in the Odd Thomas series is a stand-alone, far-out story, earlier books provide a backstory for the later books. The writing again is superb and the plot, although it follows a certain formulaic pattern, still succeeds to be original.I have enjoyed all the books in this series, but I feel sad because the author has said that this book is the last one in the series. Maybe he&#8217;ll change his mind.
5 I have read all of the series and each book seems to get better than the last. The stories in itself are unique and captivating. It is the narrative that is most intoxicating to me. Odd is this brilliant and ageless. In many ways. His observations on the human condition are absorbing. Of course his humour ties it all together into a can't put down novel.
5 I enjoy Oddie's adventures and his very amusing cast of friends.  It is never boring to read a Dean Koontz story.
5 I have read all the O.T.  books, and while none come up to the enjoyable standard of the first Odd Thomas story, this one has enough guile to hold your attention.
5 I love the Odd Thomas books!!!! This was rather dark. But very good and Dean Koontz has quite an imagination and is also a deep thinker!!! I recommend starting with his first book. To see how Odd has evolved !!! Good Book!!!
5 Odd is, as always, a loveable character, and someone you would want on your side! In DEEPLY Odd, we find our amazing hero on the trail of a man he knows is evil. The man is dressed as a cowboy and Odd decides to follow him since he suspects that he's a killer! The Cowboy runs Odd off the road and his car is ruined; however, Odd is picked up by an 86 year old woman who needs a driver. After asking him some questions, Odd becomes the driver of Edie Fisher, a woman who is tough and funny! Oh, almost forgot, The ghost of Alfred Hitchcock is with them and riding shotgun!Odd Rides Again!
5 Read the series.  No review could do it justice.  No disappointments in any of these books.  Odd Thomas is the sweetest hero (or unhero).
3 I loved the previous Odd books but this, in my opinion, one wasn't as good.  Story seemed to jump too much and wasn't as interesting.
5 I thought this was a good story, very entertaining and held my interest.  I have read the entire odd series in order.  I think it could be read out of order because dean always includes the history of his characters in each book.
5 I love Odd so much!  And once again he has captivated me!  This book like so many in the,"Odd Thomas" series captures the essences of pure goodness and pure evil!  and we have been introduced to some new and lovable characters!  Another amazing read by Dean Koontz!
5 I really love this series ....look forward to the next chapter in his life! Odd Thomas is the hero...... always!
5 Love the Odd series. Give us more. Like all the other Odd books it leaves me wanting another one to be available right away.
5 I think that each of us have all the reality we can stand. This read is a wonderful fantasy trip to where I would love to be; where good and evil are clearly delineated. Then, each of us can make the choice of where we stand. I am on Oddie's side.
3 Took a good portion of the book to figure out what was happening. Not the best of the series, wouldn't miss one
4 It was good but not quite as good as the other Odd novels.  I had a hard time getting into it.  I could easily put the book down and not pick it back up for weeks.  With the others that wasn't the case.
5 I couldn't stop reading this book, and it didn't disappoint! There were unexpected twists and turns, and many familiar characters. A good read.
5 Another great Oddie story. I enjoy the way Koontz references well known movies and famous people or actors ~ makes the story feel that much more real, in the moment. Just love this character and the adventures he gets thrown into, like it or not! I hope Koontz keeps this going for a long time.
5 I love this entire series. If Odd Thomas was a real person I would love to know him. Can't wait for more Odd adventures!
5 Dean Koontz ongoing story with Odd Thomas is such a great read.  There are good characters, and lots of suspense, as we expect in a Koontz novel.
5 I loved this book. I am a fan of the ODD THOPMAS series. I am also a fan of Dean Koontz. I love the way he puts the stories together.
4 Hmm, I generally love an Odd Thomas book, but this one got a little stranger with the addition of Edie.  Where will Koontz take Odd next??
4 Sixth in the Odd Thomas lite horror series revolving around a young man who sees ghosts and feels compelled to help people. It's been 19 months since Stormy died.My TakeThis is an Odd adventure with very little of Annamarie, who appears as almost a cameo. Instead, Koontz is introducing a new branch of characters who help. In some respects this was somewhat same-same with a a descent into clich&eacute;, and yet it did have some terrifying moments. Mostly, however, this was a confusing story. I didn't understand a lot of what was going on, even as it introduced a deeper level of scare with the new cast about whom we don't learn much. I'm frustrated with not knowing what's going on with Annamaria, what her deal is. I can't believe Odd just keeps going along with her.Oh, not fair! I'm craving cheese meatloaf...and I've never had any before!Eeek! Koontz, this is not fair pulling in cultural references like scary movies! It makes it too easy for me to imagine the scary stuff and makes Odd feel like a regular guy. It also compounds events in the normal-seeming truck stop. A very lucky stop as it prepares him for what's to come.Other Odd sure gave me the creeps, but I did love love Kipp and Mazie's! Oh..."Purdy was all heart, not all face" is such a lovely sentiment and so true. I remember meeting this gorgeous guy, truly drool-worthy. And he was dumber than a box of rocks. Turned me off completely. I would look at him and not see the beauty, but the slog of a conversation, the tedious time spent in his company.Odd was irritating in this one. Normally, I enjoy his politeness and his scruples, but those qualities felt exaggerated in this, and Odd came across as a dork. I wanted to smack him a few times. Especially that scene at the end when Odd wants to release that last captive in the truck, and Hitchcock is telling him no.Oh, if only therapy could work this fast...! Still, it is a better version than most.The StoryOdd's gift seems to pull in the wandering helpers as well as the ghosts in need. It's lucky for him that Edie Fischer pulls in, in time to help Odd escape the rhinestone cowboy, even if he's not interested in taking the place of her deceased chauffeur.It's a lucky, if odd rescue with yet another inscrutable woman holding back information. Must be destiny that Odd keeps attracting people who don't question his purpose.The CharactersOdd Thomas is a fry cook. A very good fry cook who makes the fluffiest pancakes. He also sees and acts for the dead. SinceOdd Hours  (Odd Thomas #4), Odd travels with Annamaria, the very pregnant and very inscrutable Lady of the Bell. Traveling with them are Raphael, a golden retriever fromOdd Hours  (Odd Thomas #4); Boo, a German shepherd ghost dog, who chose to accompany Odd inBrother Odd  (Odd Thomas #3); and, young/old Timothy, the dead boy fromOdd Apocalypse (Odd Thomas #5. Stormy Llewellyn was Odd's much-loved girlfriend who died inOdd Thomas ( Odd Thomas #1).Edie Fischer seems a lot like Blossom fromOdd Hours  (Odd Thomas #4)in that she roams the countryside following, looking for...something. And matchmaking. Oscar is her former chauffeur. Heath was/is her beloved husband with many talents including magic. Purdy Feltenham was his best man for the wedding.The easygoing and amused Alfred Hitchcock is Odd's current ghostly friend.Andy Shephorn is with the California Highway Patrol, and an Edie-believer. Gideon and Chandelle ride a Harley. Kipp, a former equities trader, Mazie, a former lawyer, and their sons, Tracker and Leander, have quite the armory in their fortress. Edie believes in proper weaponizing. Harmony is Leander's wife. Justine is Tracker's second wife; they specialize in printing. Big Dog is their humongous Great Dane.Among the missing are Jessie and Jasmine Payton, eight- and six-year-old siblings, ten-year-old Jordan, and Verena Stanhope, who also sees dead people. Chet, a diner, and Sandy, one of the waitresses, inform them of the other missing children.The cowboy trucker in his rhinestone suit is very menacing---his personality certainly does come out in this!Lyle Hetland is the current high priest. Rob Burkett is an office guy, and Jinx is one of those being favored. Zebulon is one of the more powerful demons.The CoverThe cover is a scene within Odd's face. A bright blue night with the yellow of reflecting lights on his right cheek as Odd stands on the center line and faces down the rhinestone trucker.The title is so very Deeply Odd himself as he falls so very deeply into this adventure.
5 Koontz has created such a wonderful character in Odd Thomas. This is one of the few series where I buy the book without needing to read the description. DEEPLY ODD didn't disappoint. Again, a delightful balance between the real world and &#34;other&#34; world -- just enough to make you wonder &#8230; ?
5 By far Dean Koontz is my favorite contemporary author.  He has the talent to majically weave words, discriptions and similies in ways to keep me  spellbound and often makes me feel as though I am actually there with the character.  For example, after reading his discription of a rain storm, I feel wet.  It always takes me longer to finish a Dean Koontz book because I find myself re-reading descriptive passages that have mesmorized me simply because I love the way the passage is worded.  I also take time out from reading to write down passages that I want to remember and to share with my friends. He develops his characters as though he was the one in their shoes.  I love Odd Thomas, his journies, his morals and his associations with the lingering dead.  By no means did &#34;Deeply Odd&#34; disappoint me.  However, I found myself somewhat distracted and sad reading this book because Odd reminds the reader that what we are reading are his memoirs.  Does that mean that he will cross to the other side in the next and final book in the Odd series?  I have to keep reminding myself that what ever happens to Odd next, Dean Koontz will not disappoint me.
4 I am a huge fan of mr koontz writing.  i have read all of the odd thomas books.  this one did not seem to flow for me, it seemed a little disjointed.  however, as always it was an enjoyable and entertaining read.
5 I love the writing of Dean Koontz.  I have always enjoyed the way  his stories blend evil, the supernatural and spirituality.  But I am absolutely in love with the Odd Thomas stories.  Dean Koonts has built a wonderful story around a young man who is very spiritual, given him supernatural talents that he does not necessarily want and a self-depracating sense of humor.  If you have never read any Dean Koontz, might as well start with Odd Thomas.
5 Dean Koontz does not disappoint in yet another great Odd Thomas book.  Keeps you wanting to read from the get go!
5 I've read every installment of the Odd Thomas series and have thoroughly enjoyed them all. This latest adventure does not disappoint.
4 The penultimate offering in Koontz's beloved Odd Thomas series represents a departure from the previous installments.  The high-octane action sequences have been dialed back in favor of more deep, introspective musings.  And the groundwork is laid for a showdown between forces of unspeakable evil and a secret network of supernaturally-gifted heroes who have dedicated their lives to fighting these dark forces.Of course, there are also a more immediate threat and villain for Odd to vanquish.  Here our villain is a diabolical rhinestone cowboy, a worthy opponent who is able to shift between our world and a parallel shadow world and who serves as the ringleader of a demonic cult with an appetite for human sacrifice.  Odd foresees the imminent sacrifice of three young children at the hands of this twisted cowboy, forcing him to intercede before his disturbing vision becomes reality.New characters who come to Odd's aid include the ghost of Alfred Hitchcock and an elderly woman named Edie Fischer, who figures prominently in the network of heroes and travels about in a gadget-laden heavily-armored limo that would make Q proud.  This novel shows a few too many signs of the doggie-obsessed and cozy-ish Koontz, which is not a side of him I favor.  But if this oddly deep novel is a necessary set-up to a dark and dangerous final showdown in Pico Mundo, then I'm still all-in with this series.-Kevin Joseph, author of The Champion Maker
3 This was a very disappointing Odd Thomas book and I am an Odd Thomas fan. There was a lack of meaty plot and the author spent too much time on useless ranting and  off topic comments (at least to the plot),
5 My palms are still wet...so is my face.  My heart is returning to a normal rate. I am amazed that a book could touch every sense...and make sense of the confusion that reading it brought me to.  Amazed and amazing.  Food for thought for sure!!!!
5 As always Dean Koontz delivers Odd to us in a story that makes you laugh,worry,get scared all at once. you feel multi emotions within a page of reading
4 As good as Koontz is, this was a bit weak. It is hard not to like it if you are a fan, but this was not his best work.
3 I was kind of disappointed with Deeply Odd because it dragged a lot up until the end which was very exciting and very well done. If I had not read all of the other Odd books I would have quit on this one. I did wan to see how it ended and I was not disappointed.
5 Odd Thomas is far and away my favorite character. Excellent story line , with great new characters! If you haven't read all the Odd stories read them now.
5 An amazing Novel, one that has everything you could want  in a Dean Knootz  novel. I was  spellbound, intrigued ,and totally engrossed with this book. A must read for anyone looking for one of the best books of the year .
5 I had a lot of fun reading Deeply Odd.  Koontz brought back a lot of what I enjoyed in the original Odd Thomas, even though it's clear that the evil is getting darker and darker through the series.This time he encounters Satanists who have some paranormal power which makes it that much more difficult for Odd to fight the evil.  Gradually, against his wishes, Odd has had to resort to using guns in his battles and he makes it clear that he this is something he doesn't want to do, but he needs more than his wit and cleverness to battle these bad guys.Koontz illustrates this ironically and with a humorous tone.  The first time Odd stands against the "the rhinestone cowboy" he fights him by throwing apples at him in a supermarket. I loved this scene. But by the end of the novel Odd has to have a few more resources than his pitching arm.  This had me laughing throughout the book and was one of the main sources of humor and ironic at the same time.I loved the humor thrown in here, some of it very subtle which gave the reader a break from the darkness of the novel. As Odd has evolved in these six novels the depth of the evil has also evolved so we need that breather of humor.  Some of the humor, for me, was very subtle but just a great enjoyment. Throughout the series Odd Thomas points out that he is just a fry-cook, refuses to see himself or have others see him as a hero. He's a respectful young man which adds to his charm, always addressing his elders as "M'am" or "Sir".  This becomes a humorous point in Deeply Odd when he meets a new friend, Edie Fishcher, who keeps telling him to call her Edie but his response is always, "Yes, m'am, Mrs. Fischer.  (I am looking forward to seeing Fischer and her friends in the next volume).We know that Koontz has been building to a finale of the series, by his own words, where he like J.K. Rowling has announced just how many books will be in the series.  But we also get a sense of it as Odd Thomas is rushing to his destiny.  I love the use of the spirits who appear to him, first Elvis, then Frank Sinatra and now Alfred Hitchcock.  I loved Hitch and his spirit antics in this book.  I think maybe Dean Koontz is paying a real homage to the masterful director. Hitchcock makes his appearances much like he did in his movies and tv shows.  If you are old enough to have watched the Hitchcock tv programs you will appreciate this.All in all, the book was filled, with suspense, humor and most of all, questions. Many of these questions remain unanswered by the end of the book which makes me frustrated... simply because I can't wait for the release of the next and final book in the series.As many other reviewers have suggested, to get the full enjoyment of this book you need to read the other Odd Thomas books... at least the first one if you can't wait to get to this one.
4 This was the best Odd Thomas, because we get all the bits that we like about Odd Thomas with a minimal of maudlin memories of Stormy.  Yes, they are "destined to be together forever". Yes, his steadfast love for Stormy is one of his more admirable characteristics.  But I was sick of the crying and breast-beating by the third book.  Yes, she's mentioned in this book but not to the point of annoyance.
2 Koontz was my favorite author ever since I read 'Watchers'.  The past several years I have been more & more disappointed in his books.  Eventually I stopped buying them, waiting for the library to get them.  77th Shadow Street was the final straw for me.  I couldn't even finish it.  I don't know what happened to my beloved author but his books are just unreadable.  Despite this when the next book in the Odd Thomas series came out I decided to read it because I remember the good Odd books (the first 2).Odd Apocalypse (the book prior to this book) was a disappointment.  Plenty of unanswered questions, vague descriptions of the monsters & bad guys who are not particularly scary.  Deeply Odd is similar in it's disappointments. The unanswered questions of the previous books are still unanswered.  Virtually nothing of interest occurs in the entire novel.  At first when I began to read, I was pretty happy.  It started out interesting & even gave me a laugh or two.  But that was it.  The remainder of the book is 99% Odd's inner thoughts & descriptions of his surroundings.  He meets several unique individuals but they are not explained.  So little is provided about these characters that as the reader I don't even care about them.  Odd is so unchanged book after book that I find I hardly care about him either.  There has been no growth of his character; mentally he is the same age as he was in book one.The encounters Odd has with the bad guys are so anti-climatic it's enough to make you pull out your hair.  Mostly these encounters involve Odd seeing the bad guys & describing his surroundings in full detail while telling the reader what his chattering thoughts are.  Not much really happens with the bad guys.  Once something happens, but it doesn't happen.. or does it?  Don't worry if you read the book, you'll discover this event & the unsatisfying lack of an answer or explanation to said event.The end of Deeply Odd is filled with sunshine, butterflies, cookies, dogs, giggles, kittens & rainbows.  Well not all of those things but you get the idea.  It is so full of silly fluff that also is not explained & somehow while all this wonderful warm sunshiny fluff is going on Odd misses out on just how various events happen during this time.  He must have been lost in thought.Koontz cannot or will not explain the events of his own book to any satisfaction.  It seems he expects us to simply be thrilled because there are cookies, cocoa & dogs at the end.
4 I read this not really knowing what to expect, but found it very hard to put down.I don't really like media or anything that deals with evil or the occult,but it was a good read and not to graphic. I will read more of these.
3 Mr. Koontz's novels don't seem to have the edge they used to.  Often times he will take pages to describe mundane scenes.
5 I've always been a fan of the Odd Thomas series.  This one did not disappoint.  Quirky new characters, and seriously evil villains along with a story line that keeps your attention were all vintage Koontz.  David Aaron Baker's voice perfectly captures the personality that we imagine is Odd Thomas's.Another enjoyable tale to make the daily commutes pleasurable.
5 My favorite Koontz character has once again managed to keep me reading far past the time I should be sleeping! I do love Oddie.
2 Odd is getting old....While the initial work was fresh and original, it seems to me that the author is struggling to inject his usual enthusiasm in the latest works....All his characters are a bit trite by now.
4 Very good read. I must admit that I skimmed some parts and there was far less humor in thus than the other odds, but the series is going along nice ans smoothly.
4 More great writing, twists & turns, humor, & spiritual philosophies! Can't wait for the next book of the series. I like Odd Thomasa lot!'
5 So glad Odd Thomas is back.Dean Koontz is amazing at creating characters we love and ones that scare the bejesus out of us.Well Done Dean Koontz
5 I love all of the Odd Thomas books, but this one is the only one to rival the first! I can't wait to have another adventure with Odd!
5 It's so great to finally read another Odd Thomas book.  Odd brings us to another adventure but this time it gets crazy.  Koontz does a great job in describing every last detail in the places that Odd goes.  Bringing you to some places you wouldn't want to read about in the dark.  Although Odd has lost some of his humor, it's understandable from the places he's been and the things he's seen.  He still stays positive.
5 If you're like me, a big fan of the Odd Thomas books, then you'll love this newest addition to the series. The story is pretty typical of the series - but there is a surprise near the end. Even Odd was surprised.There are some new characters introduced in the story, and I'm hoping that their back story gets explored in future Odd Thomas books or maybe even a spin-off series.While I recommend this book - I know that the fans of the series don't need any encouragement from me to read this new book.
5 One of if not the best odd book yet can't wait for more scary and peaceful at the same time.
4 Enjoyed the read.  Towards the end it seamed like he was reching for a new type of searies with Odd.
4 I couldn't figure what was going on at first or where the story line was going.  I came very close to quitting but stayed with it because I felt committed since I had paid for it. It was a great decision on my part.  Everything started coming together and I was mesmerized. At the end I was left wanting more.
5 I read it a while ago now on to other of his books but I like sthe whole series would keep reading if more came out
5 This is the latest volume in the Odd Thomas series, about a young man who can see the lingering dead and has the ability to find people by a sort of psychic magnetism. Trouble seems to seek him out, and his conscience won't let him step away from it when he can possibly help someone. This book starts out with Odd walking to the store, only to run into a someone he tags `the rhinestone cowboy', a trucker who tries to kill him right in the grocery store because Odd was looking in his truck. When Odd touches the trucker, he sees a man torching some children, and he knows he has to follow the rhinestone cowboy to prevent the deaths of innocents. With the help of the ghost of Alfred Hitchcock and a little old lady with a 12 cylinder Mercedes limo, he goes into action against the most dangerous foes he's faced yet, a demon worshipping cult. He also learns that the world is a far, far weirder place than even he thinks it is.Koontz writes a find blend of horror and black humor. Written in the first person from Odd's point of view, he gets to make dry comments about society that wouldn't be possible in a different format. He describes things in a these are just the facts manner that is none the less very humorous, a relief from the suspense of the rest of the writing. I love this series, and I see I've missed a couple. I must remedy that before the next one comes out- one that may be the last of the series.
5 As I read the Odd Series, & other books by Mr Koontz-I am reminded that even in dark, uncertain situations there is always balance.  With the dark, the light always glimmers in.  Another great read. I treasured the escape, and enjoyed the ride.
5 this book is part of a series and was a great finish.  You do not have to read the others in this series but it helps.
4 I have read them all and enjoyed each one. This new one included. Please keep them coming. Thank you Dean.
4 Oldie gets deeper into the other world......love Odd, not sure I like all the otherworld stuff.....worth reading in the saga though...
2 Before I get into the review, let me first say that I am a fan of Dean Koontz, though I have not read every Odd book.  I read the first two and enjoyed them and picked back up with Odd Apocalypse.  I disliked Odd Apocalypse but read enough positive reviews to give this book a chance.  The original Odd Thomas is a bit of a distant memory for me, so I recall more the senses of the book and the characters rather than specific things.  I do know that Odd was likable in the first two books, and that has changed with the past two books.  This book is so poor it makes me question Dean Koontz as a writer as well as a storyteller.Every person Odd ever meets would likely be the most unusual person you or I would ever meet.  He meets an old woman (after having a food fight in a grocery store, chancing across a running Ford Explorer that was being used as a getaway vehicle for a bank robbery, and being run-off the road and flipping the vehicle) who seemed to be the size of a dwarf among her many eccentricities.  As well, Odd meets a woman with the whitest teeth he's ever seen, another woman who had the constellations in her eyes, men who were so handsome they looked like living Ken dolls, and so on and so forth.  Every single sentence of this work feels forced.  The grocery store food fight feels forced.  The rhinestone cowboy feels forced.  The dialogue between Odd and his new employer is so unnatural, and repetitive it felt like no editor had even glanced at it. "Call me Edie, dear."  "Yes, ma'am."  That exact exchange happens probably twenty times.And maybe all of this would be okay if there was some semblance of a story lurking beneath the ramblings and diatribes.  As a parent I should be terrified at the prospect of children dying by being burned alive.  That aspect of the story gets so lost in purple prose and Odd's internal dialogues and musings on the world it almost never feels like a horror book.  Any action Odd takes, be it entering a room or killing someone, leads to paragraphs or pages, literally, of lamenting about the sad state of the world.  If you stripped away Odd's internal musings and reflections on the past there is probably a boring novella left over.  One more thing, and please feel free to comment if you agree, how tiresome is it to read what are supposed to be Odd's memoirs, written as if they're going to be graded by a high school English teacher?  His use of prepositions is correct, but no one speaks or thinks in this way, especially not a 21 year old fry cook.  Alfred Hitchcock returns and we are regularly treated (bored with) details about his professional life.  At one point we learn that Alfred Hitchcock had a daughter "...upon who he doted."  Just say he doted on!  No one says "upon who/m he doted" in regular speech!As others have remarked, the story is rather thin.  Odd meets bad guy.  Odd follows bad guy.  However, the bad guy seems secondary to Odd's musings and the limo-driving, gun-toting, disguise-having, pixie of an old woman and her banter about being "smoothed out and fully blue."  It's ridiculous.This does not feel like a horror novel.  This does not feel like the Odd Thomas from the first two books.  This feels like Dean Koontz's bitterness about the world and politics and religion bleeding through his once likable character.
3 all over the place during the first 2/3 of the book. Im gonna have to read it again later, cause Im sure I skipped alot of the metaphysical nonsense
5 I love the Odd Thomas series - If you haven't read the first books in the series though, I think some of it wouldn't make senseIn Deeply Odd, Odd Thomas uses his psychic magnetism to track down the "rhinestone cowboy trucker" who has powers of his own - evil powers though. Odd has a vision of the trucker burning three children on stage with a flamethrower and so begins to follow the trucker to a market where he disappears. Odd knows his next quest has begun.Odd takes a bankrobbers car and follows the trucker but his ar is totaled by the trucker. While standing beside the wrecked car Edie Fischer, an 86 year old, pulls up beside him in a stretch limo and states that she is in need of a chauffeur. Odd reluctantly accepts this roll - for a short time - as he needs a vehicle in which to follow the Rhinestone Cowboy to a truck stop. At the truck stop Here we meet Odds new famous ghost (ghosts follow Odd around)... Alfred Hitchcock.I love the humor in the book, I love the statements referring to our current government situation, I love the famous ghosts and Odd's personality. All in all I found it highly entertaining and informativeI hope we'll see a lot more of the limo-racing, pistol-packin' elderly Mrs. Fischer ("call me Edie, dear" - "Yes, ma'am") and her vast network of do-gooders.
5 Of course, the stories about Odd Thomas are always strangely unique and wonderful. I love the way the lines between reality and the supernatural overlap in this story.
4 I found this book a bit tedious compared to earlier stories about Odd's abilities.  It picked up but there were some parts that just seemed like filler.  Maybe these were for readers who had not read the earlier books.  I always recommend that a reader start at the beginning.  Anyway that's why I gave it a 4 star rating.  Dean Koontz's stories are always gripping and keep one awake to finish but this one just didn't hit the 5 stars for me.  Any Koontz fan must read it.
2 I was really afraid for &#34;Oddie&#34;. Kept me guessing the whole time, a great read!  Can't wait for the next one.
5 I am a Dean Koontz fan and like so many, fell in love with his character, &#34;Odd Thomas&#34;.  I am instantly drawn in to Odd's story and his way of thinking.  He moves forward not because he has to, but because it's the right thing to do.  And Odd admits to his fear, something too many of us are too proud to do so.  Odd is humble, loyal, brave, true to his first and only love, Stormy, and sounds like the perfect boy scout, who claims to be &#34;just an ordinary fry cook&#34;, but he is a character to love.  Read this book.... but start with the first one to get the full story.
3 I have lisTened to all of the Odd books on CDs and enjoyed the first four, but i just could not get into all the rehashing of previous books. I quit on the second disk.
4 I've read almost all of Dean Koontz's books and have always enjoyed his Odd Thomas series.  Deeply Odd didn't disappoint.
3 think I should have started with the first Odd Thomas books, Dean Koontz is one of my favorite authors will always finish his books
5 He's one weird egg but Oddie is a character that you have to love. The whole Odd series is well worth the time.
4 Dean Koontz is such a good writer.  I get lost in his stories.  His characters have so much depth and take us outside of ourselves.
5 Mr. Koontz has created a character in Odd Thomas unlike any other modern day hero. I look forward to the next book in the series with wonderful anticipation tempered by a trepidation that it may be the last. If you have not read the previous O.T. books, you will not feel as though you walked into a movie in the middle, however I would strongly suggest that his &#34;memoirs&#34; be read in the order they were written so he can evolve. Well done, Mr. Koontz, well done!!!!!
5 What can I say?  I haven't read a Dean Koontz book yet that I didn't love and this was no different.  I don't know how he can keep coming up with more ideas.
5 I have been a fan of the Odd Thomas series from the beginning. In Deeply Odd, Odd starts to town for some needed necessities only to have Annamaria tell him she will see him again "when the wind blows the water white and black." Odd does not know then that his journey will be a race to stop a tragedy before it happens. He picks up two new companions on his journey or rather they pick him up - the ghost of Alfred Hitchcock and the adventure loving Edie Fischer. Together Edie and Odd chase after a truck driving rhinestone cowboy.Deeply Odd (Odd Thomas)Edie proves to be as much a mystery in her own way Annamaria. Once again Koontz includes a generous amount of humor and reveals a bit more about Odds past and hints about his future. I found Deeply Odd a very satisfying read.Amazon Vine Advanced Reader Copy
5 I love this series so much and waited with great anticipation for the release of this one and I'm happy to say it didn't disappoint. Now I'm waiting for the next one!
4 I always enjoy the Odd Thomas books.  It is easy to get lost in the world of Odd Thomas, a protagonist who is young, and certainly on his own journey in life.  Odd is humble, and wise, and lives up to his name, because odd things certainly happen (otherwise it would not make for much of a story if he just flipped flapjacks and made hashbrowns for the entire book). Each novel takes us further into the mysterious world of Odd Thomas and his now companions, Annamarie and the young boy rescued from a prior book.  A new companion is introduced in this book, and she is, awesome. We follow Odd as he goes on yet another journey.  These books are fast reads, partially because the writing flows and partially because you do not want to put the book down because you want to know what is going to happen next; in fact, I felt like I had to know what was coming next.  In addition to a new character, we also get to meet Mr. Hitchcock, a perfect addition to Odd's odd world.  If you are a fan of Odd Thomas, you will love this book.  If you have not read the other books, you will be able to follow along, it will reference things that you are not familiar with, but it will not take away your enjoyment of the book, so if anything, it will make you go out and get the Odd Thomas books that came before it.
5 Odd Thomas is perhaps my most favorite fictional character ever.  Always deeply profound and always irreverent yet witty.  I can't believe these books get better with each new addition.  How does your mind work, Mr Koontz?
5 I love the Odd series!!!  Good book, wonderful writing, keeps me interested!  Cannot wait for the next Odd book.  I will miss Odd, when the series is finished.
5 As far as I know Odd Thomas is the only character Dean Koontz has ever carried over in to multiple novels and I am very glad he did. Odd Thomas was appealing from the very beginning of his first story to the end of this one. He is an unforgettable character and needed multiple volumes just to touch the tip of the iceberg in his complex personality and history.
5 Loved the intensity and pace that held me until I could finish this episode in Odd Thomas's story. Can't wait for the next book.
5 I love Dean Koontz and his Odd series of books.  This one was slightly different from the rest.  If you enjoy Koontz, and if you enjoy reading about possible conspiracy theories, you'll love this book.  It kept me on the edge of my seat from cover to cover!
4 This is the sixth novel based on Koontz indelible character. There was also Odd Interlude a novella that came between Odd Hours and Odd Apocalypse and was actually one of the best Odd stories. I've been a Koontz fan for almost 25 years, I've read almost all the bestsellers from the mid eighties to the present, including the books written under his various pseudonyms  a couple of which are my favourites. Dean at one time was my favourite  author. Not so much now. The Odd books had seemed a bit of a departure from his usual dark suspense and his eerie paranormal novels. Now I like Oddie but each new book seems to be the same. Yes the plots are different and so are the antagonists, but he seems to be writing them for new readers.  He rehashed  Odds story continuously . This was the sixth book if you're not which the odds story now read from the beginning . While I loved Stormy ,this story seems to have explained ad nauseam in every book. Mentioning her a few times to say she the love of his life is fine but does he have to explain to every person he meets on the street? That's just for starters, if I had a buck for every time he mentions he's just a fry cook I could buy the complete works of Koontz at full hardcover price. I always seem to feel these stories could be about 50 pages shorter,not because of the story but the repetition. I like odd and certainly want to see were it all ends but I seem to race through these books just to get to the denouement . I'm looking forward to Koontz New novel coming this winter, his first non odd book since 77 shadow st., a book with its own problems, but I digress, I will continue reading Koontz until he retires which I'm sure is a long way off. I love the guy and most of his writing but if I had to rate the odd books, I'd give them s 3.5 out of 5 stars. I'm sire if your a Koontz fan and like Odd Thomas you probably will enjoy Deeply Odd. But as Koontz fan I'm looking forward to the end of the series and Dean getting back to basics. Of course nothing is basic in the world of Dean Koontz.
5 I've read all the Odd Thomas books and enjoyed them all.  This one was over the top - in a good way!  I highly recommend it for all Koontz fans.Mr. Koontz, thanks for bringing the dog back!!!  I loved this book, but how do you come up with this stuff?!!!
5 This was the best Odd Thomas book yet! Thrilling, suspenseful, very entertaining! Can't wait for the next one, hoping against all hope, there will be another. PLEASE!!!!!!
4 I have been reading Dean Koontz books long before he started writing series of the same characters as in Odd Thomas and his Frankenstein series.  I have loved all of the Odd Thomas books and in this one, I was so impatient to get to the next exciting part, I found myself skipping over much of the descriptive parts of the terrain or type of furniture inside places Odd got himself into.  This one did have a different take as in another world Odd calls Elsewhere.  A sort of level between the physical world and the wasteland which I assumed was to be hell.  This Rhinestone Cowboy that Odd runs into at a shopping mall is totally evil and Odd has a vision of children being hurt so he has to follow this Cowboy in his 18 wheeler to stop him if he can.  I love the new character of Edie in this book but I would also like to know more about Annamaria that is still with him in their rented house.  I hope there will be one more book in this series and it will answer a lot of questions before putting it to sleep for good.Mikki McBride
5 This was a great book filled with wonder and awe.  I can't wait for the next one.  I love the way good and evil are contrasted.
5 Another beautiful book by my favorite author. Can't wait for another installment of the Odd Thomas series. The only fault was I wasn't long enough!
3 I've read all the Odd Thomas books and really looked forward to this one...but something was missing, I can't tell you what.  I was hoping that the hints Koontz had left in previous Odd books would lead this book to Moonlight Bay and Chris Snow but it appears that I'll have to wait a little longer.  You'll have to read this book in order to keep up with the series, but to me it wasn't a "can't put down, read in one day book".
3 I love Dean Koontz, but this Odd Thomas novel is way too confusing. Not only is the story too confusing, Odd Thomas is getting too prissy - too republican (can we say &#34;Tea Party&#34;?). &#34;Yes mam - oh please sir . . .
5 I love the Odd Thomas Novels.  They keep my attention from beginning to end!  Could not put the book down.
4 Got this as a gift for my husband and am sure he will enjoy it. He has them all in his car.
3 Sometimes Dean Koontz has a little trouble getting out of his own way as a writer and such is the case with this installment in the Odd Thomas series. Oddie has always been a mouthpiece for Koontz's own opinions, and this didn't bother me as long as it was secondary to the story. A stray comment here and there, a bit of conversation with another character, and so on--it was there, but it was part of our quirky, thoughtful Oddie--and it integrated well with what was happening in the storyline.Not so this time around. Entire pages were dedicated to Koontz "holding forth" on the government and the state of the world by way of Oddie and other characters--pages that contributed nothing to the plot, nothing to character development, and only served as an impetus to skim the text and skip forward. I go to church on Sunday for sermons, I read my Bible when I want to understand universal truths, I pray when I want to talk to God, and I read the news when I need to know that our government is up to no good. But I read the Odd Thomas series because it's funny and profound and because--when he's doing his job--Koontz is the master of the well-turned phrase and he knows how to deliver the rising action.The ending is the only thing that saved this story from failing completely and I almost didn't bother to finish it. This is why it's got three stars instead of one. If the rest of the story had delivered the way the ending did, I'd have no complaints.I am questioning whether or not I will bother with the last book in the series. I know I won't recommend this one. Maybe Odd Thomas has taken us as far as he can.It's a shame really. I'ts been a good run.
5 I'm in the minority among Koontz fans in that I was not immediately in love with Odd after the first book. However, as the series progresses, I'm enjoying it much more. The character is changing, growing with his experience while still retaining his core conviction that his true reward of being with his soulmate again is waiting, in good time. There are a LOT of layers to the story, a lot of unanswered questions, and while normally I would down-rate a book for that, here it seems natural. Odd's story is part of a bigger world, some parts of which we will never know, all of it fascinating and mysterious. And, of course, it wouldn't be a Koontz book without his trademark mix of philosophical musings and (alternately dark and goofy) humor. I can't wait for more of the story to unfold.
3 Admittedly, I fell in love with Odd Thomas after reading Koontz's first Odd book appropriately named Odd Thomas.While I'm still enamored by the character, the series as a whole seems to be heading downhill. The books are as engrossing as ever, the humor is great (in a storage room full of paper towels and toiled paper, a companion of Thomas' mentions that the bad people "... must have a reason to believe the world will end by diarrhea."), but Koontz's rants about the stat of the world and lengthy diatribes on religion and philosophy often detract from the book. I want to read about Odd and the mysteries at hand -- not paragraph-length lectures regarding Koontz's personal beliefs.While I will continue to read the Odd Thomas novels (as I'm sure more are on the horizon, as way too many questions were left unanswered in this novel), I'd like a refocus on Odd's original gift of seeing the dead. And less focus on parallel dimensions, worlds outside of our own, and demons a la X-Files and Supernatural. It's almost getting to the point of ridiculousness.
5 A very good book in the Odd Thomas series.  Odd learns more about the true nature of the world.  I look forward to the next one!
5 Another great Odd Thomas novel. The stories never get old or dull and Odd's personality is as charming as ever.
5 I am a huge fan of the Odd Thomas series and Deeply Odd is no exception. A wonderful next adventure for Odd. It's one of those books you stay up late to finish the chapter and next thing you know it's 3am and your book is over!
5 Odd Thomas was my first Dean Koontz novel.  Since then I've read everything he's ever published that I can possibly get my hands on.  Nobody can make you cry, shiver, and laugh like he can.  This latest installment in the Odd Thomas series was darker and more disturbing than the others.  I actually had to put it down at one point for a few weeks.  This latest novel was an engrossing tale of the forces of good vrs the forces of evil.  Odd, still faithful to his girl Stormy, is no longer alone on his journey which is good thing as it appears the stakes have gone up.If you read no other Dean Koontz books, you should read this series.  Okay and read Watchers, that's my favorite one.
5 I love all the Odd Thomas books!  I hope Dean Koontz keeps writing more of them in the future.  Odd Thomas is a great character.
3 I am usually a fantasy reader, and havn't read horror since my early love of Stephen King long ago.  I did enjoy this book, however.  I enjoyed the characters in this book and the way Dean Koontz is continuing to develope them even when into book 9.
5 Another great Odd Thomas adventure. Really enjoyed it and can't wait for another.  Really enjoyed the characters and social issues.
5 I am a big fan of Dean Koontz and the Odd Thomas books and this one was just as fabulous as the first. Koontz has a gentle way of reminding you what is truly important and how mysterious life is. Even if you don't remember the other Odd Thomas books he guides you so that you feel like you've always remembered. Odd Thomas is a caring soul who just happens to see the departed, he finds trouble when helping these souls, but is always guided back to safety with the knowledge that he imparts on us.
5 If you have read the "Odd" series and love them, you'll also love this. If you have not read the prior books, this may not be the best book to start on. The book itself is great, but mentions the previous books often and would become impossible to follow if you had not read them. Great read!
5 Never have I had Dean Koontz disappoint, and ODDIE is back!  Love this series, love everything about it all.  Good job, once again, Dean!
5 Love this book, has the same intrigue as any other book written by Dean Koontz, he always aimes to please....
5 Very well written. Can not wait till till the next instalment of Odd Thomas  and his next adventure into the weird and unknown world.
4 If you've read the other Odd Thomas books you'll really enjoy this installment, however, if this is the only Odd Thomas book you've read I think you'll be somewhat lost.  This is not a &#34;stand alone&#34; novel, that being said, I thought it was the best written portion of the series since the first book.  If it were more &#34;stand alone&#34; I would have given it five stars.
4 Book number seven out of an eight book series.In which Odd Thomas seems to have read a few books out of the old Mack Bolan (Executioner) series and attempts to be like same.The next and final book in the series is named Saint Odd. Since most saints are dead, this does not bode well for our hero.
5 As this is the penultimate Odd Thomas novel, it really looks like Koontz is revving up the tension for the grand finale. This one ranks as one of the best in the series. It also is very reminiscent ofShatteredbut in reverse. Instead of being chased by the killer in this case Odd is doing the chasing. Add to that some new developments when it comes to the dead Odd sees, this one is definitely worth the read.
5 I loved Dean Koontz books and the Odd Thomas series was great.  I loved these books.  I would recommend them to anyone!
3 If Odd is to be made into a Saint, then he needs to repent of his mumbo-jumbo belief system, which is really nothing more than repackaged humanism.I like the way that Koontz can write, and it has always been enjoying to read how easily he can paint a seen with words. Nevertheless, I found the plot, and the whole premise to be weak and intellectually boring. Saving 17 kids when the abortion clinic down the street kills more than that every day? Drunk drivers kill more people than that everyday.But, I still admire Koontz's boldness and -in this hostile world that we find ourselves- the audacity to discuss and to bring into the secular world the concept of a real devil. This is not easy to do, especially since the devil has done such a good job at making the world think he does not exist. My hat off to you, Koontz.Nonetheless, the plot was still not motivating and I found myself just listening to the words melt like butter, knowing that the premise was weak, but the mastery of the English language was strong, and always enjoyable.Book 1 was, and more than likely, will remain the best in the series. Unless in book 7 Odd meats Snow and helps to solve the HUGE paradox that he, Koontz, created in the ending of Snow's second book. It seems that Odd Interlude was a puzzle piece in that paradox, but I guess we'll see, that is, if Koontz "lives long enough.":)
5 Just as all other Odd Thomas novels, this did not disappoint and was extremely well written and very unusual.  In the style I am accustomed to, this was exciting and edge of the seat reading.  I was very pleased with the continuing story.
4 Odd Thomas is back in Dean Koontz's next edition of his episodic series as Deeply Odd.  Odd is now "almost" twenty-two and it's been 19 months since his love and soul-mate Stormy Llewellyn has been mowed down in the shopping center mayhem.  He now lives platonically with still pregnant Annamaria and is searching for the meaning of life.On a trip to town Odd has an encounter with a flamboyantly dressed trucker whom he refers to as the Rhinestone Cowboy.  He has a vision of him burning three children on stage with a flamethrower and follows the trucker to a market where he disappears.  Odd knows his next quest has begun.He meets Edie Fischer, an 86 year old pixyish FBI Agent Dana Scully look alike, who is in need of a chauffeur.  Odd reluctantly accepts this roll as he needs a vehicle in which to follow the Rhinestone Cowboy to a truck stop.  Here we meet the Koontz obligatory "Celeb du Libra" Alfred Hitchcock.The reader begins to suspect that the Rhinestone Cowboy might have as many paranormal talents as Odd making him a formidable adversary.  Odd, who believes that intuition is the highest form of knowledge knows he must play out this drama to save the three children as he continues the pursuit and follows the monster along the highways and byways of California and into his hellish chimeras.This is a rather formulate novel but for those who are lovers of this character it's one of the better ones.  I personally like Koontz's ability to play with words and phrases and often get a smile from the most innocuous of expressions.  In describing this villain Dean says "He had Nordic features and a melanoma-doesn't-scare-me tanning-booth glow".  When Mrs. Fischer was driving at breakneck speed she told Odd not to worry as she had dimples and "Dimples are a get-out-of-jail-free card".  Another is "One good thing about a condemned man's last meal is that he doesn't have to worry about acid reflux".This is just another light hearted dark comedy in the "Odd Thomas" series from the pen of Dean Koontz. It doesn't take itself seriously and in that respect is a fun read.  Enjoy.
5 I have read all the Odd Thomas series and find all fun and entertaining.  I have my favorites, the first being one and this being another, even though I have not quite finished, I am thoroughly enjoying.
5 Have to say good book and more action than I expected.Can't wait until I find out about Edie and how she is smooth and blue.And what that means
4 I have always enjoyed Dean Koontz more than any other writer of modern horror, bar none. In addition to his ability to scare the bejeebers out of me, he always writes with compassion, and with a great respect and love for the women in his stories. It never fails to convince me that Koontz is a man who actually understands both love and grace. The entire Odd Thomas series is a perfect example of this, and Oddie is one of the most admirable and memorable characters I've ever enjoyed spending time with. He's caring, kind, thoughtful, loyal, and devastatingly funny. And he knows what it is to commit to someone with your whole heart, for all eternity, and beyond the boundaries of this world. Because of this, he is on a mission that even he, so far, doesn't fully understand.As readers, we are along on the mission with him, and are watching over his shoulder as he encounters evils of every sort. He's flawed (but not nearly as much as he thinks he is), and makes mistakes (but not nearly as many as he blames himself for), and he's often scared witless by the things he encounters. But he perseveres, regardless of where his path takes him, and it is very apparent in "Deeply Odd" that he will be reaching the end of his journey, soon. We will have to say goodbye to Pico Mundo's favorite fry cook, and it will be a bittersweet parting, I'm sure. But it will be what he has been moving toward since that first wonderful and surprising book, "Odd Thomas." Any reader paying even a modicum of attention to date will have a pretty good idea of where this is heading. I'm certain Koontz will throw in some unexpected twists, but I'm counting on him being sure that Oddie's deepest dream is realized."Deeply Odd" was not my favorite book of the series, I have to admit, due in large part to there being an awful lot of rambling through the complexities of Oddie's mind. Now, he's an introspective guy, our remarkable fry cook, and he often has long, wandering thoughts, filled with observations both profound and hilarious. It just seemed like there were a lot more of those than usual this time around, and I felt it slowed the book down a bit. But it in no way decreased my pleasure, overall, nor my thoughts of how wonderful it would be to know someone like Odd Thomas. He touches my heart.For me, the book is still a solid 4, faults and all, and much of that is due to the introduction of some new and interesting characters, and the hints of what may come in the next book, which I have heard will be the final one. I'm looking forward to it, even if it means the series is over. Oddie has traveled a long way on his journey, and it's time for him to get his reward. The world will be a sadder place without him, but a better place for those of us who have grown to love him. If we take away a bit of who Odd Thomas is in our hearts, perhaps we will each be blessed with a little more love and grace, ourselves.
4 I've read the entire series now and feel the first 3 books are the best . As in the last three books there is too much repetition of factoids and descriptions that I found totally unnecessary to the story.Worth reading but not compelling.
5 I have been a fan of Dean Koontz for years and this is by far his best work to date.  The story is a good one ,it is the reading between the lines that the real story is at. Koontz asks the important question are you against evil or for it, because it is time to choose sides because the battle is coming to your house soon.  Are we going to just stand by and watch as our society crumbles around us or take a stand and fight?  You choose.
5 I bought this for my husband. He is a Dean Koontz fan and especially the Odd series. He listened to this 3 times in a row and finally donated it to our local library, where I'm sure he will check it out more than once
5 What can I say? If you are buying this book then you are already familiar with this series. Love Dean Koontz, love Odd Thomas. Does not dissapoint.
5 I love the whole Odd Thomas series and this one was no exception.  If you aren't a fan already, this is not the book to start with because you'll probably be confused and won't get it.  However, for fans, this one just makes it hard to wait to see what happens in the next book.  Odd Thomas is a very unique character and one of my favorites.
4 Enjoyed the book, always appreciate an Odd Thomas novel, but this one seemed to run on .....and on..... and on.  One description of the " outer world" would suffice.  Way to many adjectives.  This is a Dean Koontz book, not Churchill.  Loose ends and unanswered questions may be a "tease"  for next book but not necessary for this author.
4 What keeps me coming back to these books is to see where Odd will end up and what kinds of people will he meet on the way.  He doesn't disappoint.
5 Terrific storyline with a bit of thoughtfull philosophy scattered in throughout the book. I highlighted several phrases so that I would be able to think about them later.  Dean Koontz is my favorite author for suspense  novels.k
4 Like most of Dean Koontz's books the Odd Series books are easy reads, and the Odd Series, once started, are difficult to discontinue.
5 I (and my daughters) love, love, love Odd Thomas!  This book is the latest, so be sure you start with the first one.  You could read them individually, but you will have a much better understanding if you start with number one.  What's not to love about a fry cook who sees dead people?  The characters are amazing and the stories will hold your interest.  What is the true nature of the world?
5 love the odd Thomas books! haven't been let down yet. want to see the movie next! this just makes you want to read the next one
5 I have all Dean Koonz's books even the ones not in his name.  I read everything as soon as it comes out and then of course wait for the next one.
5 I got hooked on this series! Oddie is quite the character in that he has that sense of spookiness about him that is actually appealing. Love the series! Anxious for the next one!
3 As you know from previous books, Odd collects "strange" around him and when he is confronted by a rhinestone-wearing gun-toting cowboy trucker that seems to materialize out of thin air, Odd is curious.  What is more interesting is that this trucker seems to flitter between reality and wherever / elsewhere.  It is Odd's self-appointed duty to find him and prevent him from fulfilling his plans of murdering three young children that only Odd can see happening.As in the previous books, Odd's traveling companion is always a unique twist.  This outing, we are visited by the ghost of Alfred Hitchcock.As with anything that Dean Koontz writes, you will have to bear with his tendency to be easily distracted and take the reader on an unnecessary path before bringing you right back to where you had started.As Odd tracks his adversary, the reader is taken on a longer than necessary tour of California as good tracks evil.  There is very dry humor, interesting characters, ghost dogs, even an eighty six year old woman in need of a chauffeur that had a dream about Odd many years ago.With Koontz, you get what you get.  You either love him or hate him.  You either look forward to his next book or mourn the great books of his past.  If you do attempt the Odd series, you have to start at the beginning since Koontz doe tend to draw on previous Odd Thomas books and you will be lost without knowing what the reference is about.There is one moment in the book that lovers of old Koontz will get a chuckle out of.  Odd comments on a book "Twilight Eyes" which he has read and if you have been following Koontz for a while, you will remember that he wrote this book back in the 80's.  As a side note, because of that book, I am still creeped out by carnivals.
5 Much to my delight, Dean Koontz does not let the story line get old or stale. Cannot wait for the next installment.
5 Another masterpiece. I fond it desturbing and yet at the same time thrilling. Dark, dark in it s constrution yet also moving. Odd Thomas is my favorite male charcater. Can t wait for the next one
5 Another great Odd story in a great series from Mr. Koontz. I have been reading Mr. Koontz since the 1980's and will continue to read his books.
5 As with all of Mr. Koontz's books, I hated to see it end. But his incredible command and use of language will compel me to read it at least once more to be sure I don't miss an artful turn of phrase. He is my favorite author, so I have nothing but praise for this book and his others.
5 Another great installment in the Odd Thomas series. Oddie finds more people like him who have the ability to conquer the evil that threatens to darken the world. A great read!
5 What can I say... I love Dean Koontz and his Odd Thomas series. This one was really awesome and unexpected. The ideas that run through this authors mind are amazing. I am just waiting for the next book as I know there will be more because of one character in particular. If you are going to buy this book I advise you to start with the first book in the series as the character often makes references to those other books. If you are a fan of horror you will love this series
5 I love the adventures off Odd Thomas and once again he is on hot pursuit of evil. New and mysterious friends (?) are met along the path that has once again been chosen for him. Will he make it out alive?  Intriguing adventure.
5 I chose DEEPLY ODD  because I HAVE BECOME HOOKED ON ODDY FROM THE FIST BOOK THAT HIS CHARACTER CAME OUT IN.HE IS ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE NOT TO LIKE . ALSO ALL THE FRIENDS I HAVE RECOMMENDED TO READ KOONTZES ODD THOMAS BOOKS ARE HOOKED ON THEM.
5 If you like the other Odd Thomas books, you will like this one too.  Fewer ghosts, but a new path seems to be unfolding in Odds life.
2 Dean koontz is my favorite author and it pains me to give him a bad review. I am just so over this series. It shouldn't have had more than one book. However my young nephews are enthralled with this series so it might work marketed to teens. Dean is usually able to fill a story w color and wonder. He did so w the original odd thomas. The latter books are just disappointing. The last one I couldn't finish and this was no exception. Some mention his descriptive language but I find it lacking here. Very quick developments, storylines that go nowhere, just an all around dumbed down version of what I'm used to seeing from Koontz. If you like Koontz then read the first in the series and skip the rest. The story goes nowhere w the remaining books.
5 I have been reading the Odd Thomas series for about a decade now. For anyone that is contemplating reading this novel, you need to start withOdd Thomas: An Odd Thomas Novel,Forever Odd: An Odd Thomas Novel,Brother Odd: An Odd Thomas Novel,Odd Hours: An Odd Thomas Novel, andOdd Apocalypse: An Odd Thomas Novel.When I first read Odd Thomas I totally fell in love with the character of Odd, Stormy, Chief Porter, and all the inhabitants of Pico Mundo. At that time I stated to become a bit irritated with Dean Koontz's writing and was ready to write off that novel but I quickly fell in love with everyone.  I remember getting to the ending and ugly cried for about half an hour. Finally, it seemed to me that Koontz had managed to write something totally different, heart wrenching, with depth, that did not just quickly resolve itself like his other novels.However, by the time I got around to reading Odd Hours I started to get a bit disenchanted with our awesome fry cook. I started to feel that the overall premise of the novels needed to get a bit shaken up and that having Odd explain things using 20 words when one word would started to work my nerves instead of charming me like it had in the past.However, with the newest iteration of the Odd Thomas series, "Deeply Odd" I found myself falling in love with Odd all over again. For the most part this is a wonderful continuation of the series. We have Odd using his psychic magnetism to finally track down the cowboy trucker who we find has powers similar to Odd's. I loved the way Koontz set up this novel as Odd and he being polar opposites to each other (good versus evil).This time around we have Odd traveling with Alfred Hitchcock and I have to say I that was the only thing I found aggravating about the novel.  I wish that Koontz would stop shoehorning in famous dead celebrities to travel with Odd.Remember when Odd was a fry cook just doing the right thing and had his friends and loved ones in Pico Mundo? I wish we get back to that instead of all of the traveling. Though I understand based on what happened in book one why Odd left Pico Mundo I just wish I felt the same way about the new characters like AnnaMaria. Additionally, I found the ending to be subpar, but I still ultimately loved the novel.Recommend to long standing fans of the Odd Thomas series!
5 I have read every Odd Thomas book and find each one full of imagination, humor, joy, and downright good writing. This one is the best yet. Edie rocks!
5 It's Odd. Again. Far fetched and supernatural. But enjoyable. Looking forward to the next book. Just wish I didn't need a dictionary with me when I read it. Don't know why Koontz uses little used or archaic words in his descriptions.
5 This is Koontz storytelling - there is evil in the world but we can overcome it with our willpower, perseverance and creativity.
1 Just tried to read Deeply Odd by Dean Koontz.  Usually, when I start a book, I finish it.  Not this time.  This one is so far removed from reality and reasonable fantasy that it began to irritate me.  Who reads to be irritated?All of the other Odd books were readable.  Maybe impatience on my part is the reason but what Koontz was trying to achieve just did not work for me.  It's a shame, too.  Odd Thomas is a fascinating character.
5 This book was terrific. I couldn't put it down. It was unlike the other "Odd Thomas" novels that Koontz has written as it intertwined horror, the macabre and suspense as well as the other characteristics of Odd Thomas very well. The story is intense and theres action right off the bat. I will not give anything away. Buy the book, read the book. Its highly recommended!
