4 I didn't know what to expect from this one but since there was so much to do I decided to give it a whirl. I'm glad I did. Its the story of a 97 year old man who has flashbacks to his life in the circus during the depression. Those were rough times. It's about how hard things were, but also the good things. The story flashes back & forth between the present, in a nursing home and the circus days.
2 UGH! The first couple chapters were wonderful. Then it went downhill so fast I thought I was reading another book. don't waste your money.
5 I was afraid I was not going to be able to relate to this book as it begins when Jacob is ninety, or nienty three.  I assumed it was going to be about dealing with age and death, and, boy, was I wrong!  As soon as I started this book, I could not put it down.  I love how it hops from old Jacob to young Jacob.  It has mystery, love, suspense, and death...just to name a few.  It was so much more than the "easy read" I thought I picked up.  The characters had such depth, and you could truly feel their emotions. Who would have thought I would be so interested in the going-ons of circus life, but this book draws you in and makes you never want to leave the "big top".
4 Sometimes, reading a book, you wonder about editorial decisions, mostly to do with scenes or plot twists/direction that just do not belong. With this book, I would not have included the photographs that begin each chapter. I thought the writer was doing a more than adequate job in her descriptions and thought the photos detracted. Also, do not need the author's note at end. Don't remind us this was fiction, created and crafted; we want to shut the book and remember the story.
4 Great book, really sucks you into the story and for feel for this band of characters. The movie does not do it justice.
5 Good read.  Makes you wonder.  Would like to tell more but don't want to ruin the story.  Interesting, from another thought and time.
5 Great story, a fast read, you don't want to put it down. Sara Gruen is an excellent writer, she studies the topic and uses actual facts in her story. You really feel for the characters and the animals and are drawn into the story.
5 Yes, this was a terrific book!  And I am sooo glad I read it!  (But reading it prevented me from going to the movie, which may have been a bit of visual/audio overload for me.)
5 This book sat on my bookshelf for over a year and I finally picked it up because i saw an ad about the movie. Now I am saying to myself, why did I wait so long to read this book.Water for Elephants was so visual to me and I constantly dreamed that I was with the characters on the train. I would get up thinking about the animals and what they needed for the day. I dreamed that I was under the big top. I also could not get out of my mind the thoughts that the main character had as an older man. The author did not hold anything back and I loved that this made the character so real to me. This book was definitely a part of me while reading it and I am sure it will stick with me for awhile.The story goes from the main character being an older man to him thinking about when he was younger and how he got involved with the circus. There is a love story that is so strong and so real.I would recommend this book to anyone.
2 "Water for Elephants is fiction", but the author clearly did her research, and so it's solidly based on the sad realities of life for both humans and animals working in circuses during the Depression.  But sadly, animal circuses haven't changed much since that time.  Human workers may no longer be "redlighted", but captive wild animals are still packed into buses or trains without heat in winter or air conditioning in summer, imprisoned in cages or chained up, forced to perform demeaning tricks for the public, and given generally substandard, if any, medical care and often, not enough nourishment.Gruen can tell a story, she has vivid characters, she presented the animal characters in a sympathetic and favorable light, and I enjoyed the read.  But I have to say that to me, the happy ending of Jacob and Marlena finding employment with Ringling Brothers so they can bring Rosie, Bobo and the horses along with them is anything but.  Admittedly, for those times, it may have been the only option open to them, and there were few if any animal protection advocates out there exposing circuses like Ringling.  The truth is that Ringling Brothers has a long history of well-documented animal abuse, particularly of elephants, something Ms. Gruen never refers to in her novel--although, to her credit, she talks about the infamous, unbelievably cruel execution of Topsy by electrocution of none other than American paragon Thomas Edison.  It's also quite unrealistic that they would be able to keep an adult chimp as a pet, especially with five children of their own to care for and protect.  Chimps become quite intractable as adults; they're extremely strong, unpredictable and dangerous.I can't help thinking that the happy ending to a circus novel set in the 21st century would have Rosie sent to a place like The Elephant Sanctuary to spend her remaining life blissfully roaming hundreds of acres with other former circus and zoo elephants, and Bobo retiring to a wonderful sanctuary like Save the Chimps, where he would join a chimp family and have the closest thing to a normal life a captive ape can have.  And Jacob getting a job at a zoo so he can take Rosie along after his circus career is also not a very cheery outcome for me.  There's no question that zoo elephants lead short, painful, highly restricted lives, and many zoos are in the process of retiring their elephants to sanctuaries.Also, it's quite unbelievable to me that after Jacob witnessed so much brutality while working for circuses earlier in his life, he would want to join a circus again rather than live in a nursing home.  That speaks volumes about that nursing home!Lastly, I understand that the author considers herself an animal lover, but that can mean a lot of things, and I'm wondering exactly what her agenda was, writing this book.
4 Read this because my granddaughter raved about the movie.  Really liked the book, it's a good story.  Now I need to see the movie.
5 I could not put this book down.  Wish there was a sequel to this book.  Wonderful story. Now I want to see the movie.
5 I have really enjoyed this book. It is well written. I would recommend this book to my friends and family.
5 the novel had substance, you know, a plot.  Unpredictable.  Just when you think you might know what's going to happen next.  Intrique.  Sadness, hardship, joy.  Keeps you hoping things will work out -- of course, cannot tell whether they do or not -- a good, good read.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  Sara did a great job researching her subject and delighted me with characters that were believable.
5 Water for Elephants is a thoroughly enjoyable read!!  I loved it and give it the maximum amount of stars.The uniquely quirky world of circuses and traveling sideshows is fascinating and Ms. Gruen brings it to life with a sweet 93-year-old character who takes us back and forth between the depression-era traveling circus of his past and the old folks' home of his present.  Feisty Jacob Jankowski remembers those days (and a certain elephant) with much love  You'll love his story too.
3 If it doesn't depress you reading about getting old and senile and cruelty to animals, this is the book for you! Yes, it is very, very well written which is why I couldn't stop reading it, but it is very, very depressing.
5 You are very close to your parents and are planning on following in your father's footsteps, becoming a veternarian.  In fact you have completed your grad studies at one of the finest institutions of higher learning in the land and are prepared to sit for your finals.  Then you discover your parents were just killed in a freakish auto accident.  You are devastated, leave your immediate surroundings, if not your wits as well, and find yourself working as a vet in a broken down, "Greatest Show on Earth," circus wanna-be.This is the story of Jacob Jankowski, a prospective animal doctor, who tries to find himself after he experiences the worst possible news.  This phenomenal novel fluctuates between 93 year old Jacob's declining last years in a retirement home to his 3.5 month stint as a vet in a traveling circus during the Great Depression.You will not be able to put this book down as you travel back in time and discover Jacob's newly found existance as a member of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.  His friends, Kinko the Clown (Walter), Camel, and others will sadden you as you explore their limited, fragmented lives.  While Jacob grows more cynical in those who callously control the lives of others he also learns about himself through his caretaking instincts involving an elephant named Rosie.  This relationship seals his beliefs that he needs to complete his final exams and secure the profession he was meant for.  In addition, he discovers the love of his life, Marlena, and how true happiness is found in his desire to protect and defend her.The ending of this book will both surprise you and leave you with a sense of fulfillment as you discover the kindness of othres.  5+ stars
5 For me, this book was like making a dear friend, and then bidding him farewell. I tried to savor this story, but couldn't put it down either. I was so sad when I got to the last page and it was over.I think the other reviews cover the storyline well...and I'm not a fan of giving away endings, but in general, it has vivid character development, authentic to the period and circus era of the depression years... and despite some graphic scenes (which add to rather than take away), it was a great, great read.I suspect it will be hailed as one of summer 2008's top beach reads...and will be on my recommend list to anyone who will listen for a long time to come.
5 Ms. Gruen is a fantastic author. Water for Elephants is beautifully written. It's almost hard to believe that this book is fiction! I don't want to spoil this book for other readers, just read it! You'll be done in two days, this novel is a page turner!
4 This is an excellent story.  It's well written and well researched.  If you want to read a good book, grab a cup of coffee and pull up a comfy chair.  Get ready to go back in time and enjoy the characters. Fall in love.
2 After all the hype about this book, I finally gave in to reading a borrowed copy. I wanted to like it, truly I did.  I made it to page 164 with some effort.  The characters were not developed well enough for me to like them.  Also, I work with elderly people and the narrator as an elderly man was not altogether believable.What I did enjoy was learning a bit about the circus business  back in the 30s.Please if you know of some real 5-star novels, non-romance, let me know.
5 This is a love story set in one of the most romantic of all institutions... the Circus.Sara Gruen chronicles life in the depths of the 1930's economic melt down. The protagonist's parents lost their $5000 life savings when their bank closed. As veterinarians, they accepted farm crops in lieu of cash.  Their orphaned son, Jacob, hops a train in the night only to discover it's a circus train.I would bet today's circuses have several vets on staff or continency... Uncle Al's circus doesn't have any, nor does it need a resume, certification or even a copy of a degree to bring one on board. If the horse survives, you have a job! The other employment practices of this circus are not so idyllic. In these times people stayed with Uncle Al merely for a meal.The author has chosen a great vehicle for the tale, a nongenerian who longs to return to the world where he fell in love.This story is simply and beautifully told. I see that it has been optioned for a film.  The content is great for both print and screen.
3 I bought this book when it was a Kindle deal of the day, although I had long had it on my wish list due to the many rave reviews it had received.  I have never been fascinated by circuses, so maybe that's why I didn't find this story to be very engaging.  The characters never seemed very real, and the story just seemed too implausible for my taste.  I did enjoy the device of having the protagonist tell the story from his point of view at age 90 and at 23, and I thought the chapters taking the 90 year old's viewpoint were far better written than the rest of the book.  While I didn't dislike the book, I certainly do not think it deserves the high praise bestowed upon it by the majority of the reviewers.
5 One of the very best books I've ever read!  First watched the movie (also great) then decided if the movie was that great watching I better read the book! Excellent!
1 I did not like all the animal abuse.  It was just hard to read.  A very depressing story.
5 I could not put this book down.  Maybe it's because I love history, and this novel is so very rich with it. Or maybe it's because I've always been a hopeless romantic, rooting for people who shouldn't be in love to find their happy ending.  Or maybe it's my penchant for heroes who are thrust into unfamiliar territory, in this case the circus world, and have to find their way.  Whatever...this book stayed with me long after I finished it, and that's the best kind of read of all.
4 This was an excellent book. Both because of its fascinating glimpse into circus life in the 1930's as well as for its wonderful description of life for someone who is elderly and stuck in a nursing home when his body is frail but his mind and desire for independence is still strong. I loved the ending as well; very fitting.
3 The circus part of this novel is great and beautifully written and I really enjoyed it. Two things bothered me however; he really didn't do anything veterinariany after the initial diagnosing of the horse and the romance between Jacob and Marlena wasn't well evolved.overall it was good bathtub reading and it made me more interested in the circus.
5 One of my absolute all-time favorites.  Not for the weak of stomach, but a great book that keeps you reading with many twists and turns!
5 It was hard to put the book down.  The circus life way back was very interesting and fun to read about.
5 This is one of my favorite books ever! It's the past, present and future of a man, his life in the circus and his love for a woman and an elephant called Rose.
5 I do!  The story had me hooked - I felt like I was a part of this exotic traveling troupe and despite the horrors and sadness in it, I couldn't be pulled away.  Especially heart-rending was the author's detailed depiction of the heavy-laden post-depression days and what one tragedy can do to a person: turn his life upside down. The storyline had my emotions wrapped up in the circus, and in the next moment, broke my heart for the lonely old man in a nursing home.  Excellent read that pulled me in and caught my breath.
5 Stripped of everything after his parents' untimely death, twenty-three-year old Jacob Jankowski has failed to sit for his veterinary exams at Cornell, left with no home and no future, the country struggling through the Great Depression, bartering in goods instead of money. Hopping a train that by chance belongs to The Flying Squadron of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth, Jacob hires on to care for the menagerie, his training an entre into this bizarre world; but as the novel begins, Jacob is an old man, restricted to an assisted living home, his memories sparked by a nearby visiting circus and a creeping helplessness that assaults his ageing body: "Age is a terrible thief. Just when you think you're getting the hang of it, it knocks your legs out from under you and stoops your back."The story is related in the somber tones of the Depression, the hardscrabble and often unscrupulous business of a traveling circus and the heartless despots who make their fortunes on the backs of men who must do anything to survive. Star performer Marlena, an equestrian, is sensitive to the needs of her horses, although her mercurial husband, August, the trainer, is obsessively jealous and given to unspeakable cruelties. Uncle Al, Benzini Brothers circus owner-by-default, is a ruthless businessman who cares little for man or beast, engaged in a quest for fame to rival the great Ringling Brothers. With his advanced training in veterinary medicine, Jacob does his best to protect the animals from their harsh existence, especially Rosie, an elephant purchased to replace Marlena's lead horse. Jacob and Rosie share an affinity for one another, the huge creature at times almost human. Because of his growing affection for Marlena, Jacob suffers August's increasing affronts, caught in a cycle of inevitable violence, certain of a reckoning.In chapters that move flawlessly back and forth in time, from the rowdy circus atmosphere to the antiseptic corridors of the assisted living home, the world is viewed through Jacob's perspective, as he rages helplessly against the decrepitude of old age and the secrets of the past. In prose both poignant and infinitely tender, Jacob dwells in both worlds, revealing the wounds of the past and the sorrows of the present. In one touching scene, Jacob awaits a family member to escort him to the circus, yearning for the Big Top with every fiber of his being, craving the familiar sights and smells of that pivotal summer of `31, the roustabouts, the kinkers, the rubes, the animals. The denouement is devastating, as inescapable as the indifferent world that turns a blind eye to the vagrants of the 30's. Yet Jacob's spirit retains the essence of his kind nature and a respect for others, a man who will not be broken by circumstances. All is redeemed in a coup d'grace that will leave the reader strangely satisfied and richer for having met this raggedy tribe of miscreants and lost souls. Luan Gaines/ 2006.
5 Filled up a two day train ride. A very worthwhile purchase. Lovely ending, GREAT as a gift to an avid reader....
5 I have to confess that I only read the book because of the great reviews. I am not crazy about the circus, my childhood memories are made of bad smells and not so funny clowns. However this book is wonderful in every way I am deeply in love with the characters, the time period, and the animals...the best read this summer for me.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book and could hardly put it down. I recommend this book to anyone who ever went to the circus and also those who never had the opportunity to see one.
5 This novel is the best of all of my summer reading so far. I couldn't put it down and read the entire book in a day. I was absolutely captivated. Each incident, each character, the plot, the time-frame - every aspect of this book was simply amazing and I was even brought to tears twice.What a perfect setting. The Great Depression - the time when the great circus shows began to lose their prowess as the best kind of entertainment. But the Benzini Brothers circus isn't the fun, song-and-dance circus that everyone thinks of from movies like 'The Greatest Show on Earth', 'Merry Andrew' or even Disney's 'Dumbo'. This circus is a delight on the surface, but a nasty, dirty, dangerous and deadly place to be if you're not a performer. (And even some of the performers get the boot - like poor Walter the dwarf clown.)This kind of circus gives a taste of what spectators and boys who dream of running away to join the circus would never imagine.The method of Jacob's memoirs - alternating between his life now at 93 years old - still sharp minded and still having all of his teeth, stuck in a nursing home and feeling horribly depressed about it all, and remembering what happened during his time with the Benzini Brothers Circus - is an incredible technique. One minute I was drawn in by his angst of losing his parents, his home and his security to the point of jumping the next train to anywhere, and then suddenly, we are back in the nursing home, and poor Jacob is fighting with a fellow resident about the possibility of carrying water for elephants.Add the vulturous Uncle Al, the wicked ringmaster who'll stop at nothing to make his circus better than the Ringling Bros., the schizophrenic August, beautiful Marlena, a half-paralyzed drunk, a cranky dwarf and his little dog, Queenie, and an elephant who only understands Polish. The characters alone are enough to make you want to read before you even know half of what is going on.As I said, twice I was brought to tears - once by old Jacob in the nursing home, when he realizes that his five children had forgotten who was to take him on his outing, and he was actually brought to tears himself. I just couldn't help but think of my own 90 year old grandfather, who isn't in assisted living and drives himself and my grandmother to Florida every winter and goes bowling and plays shuffleboard every week. It was sad to think of poor Jacob, excited about getting to see the circus one last time, and then being terribly disappointed that his own children had forgotten. It made me feel like I will never let that happen to my grandfather.No one who reads this book will be disappointed. From cover to cover, it is absolutely wonderful. The writing style is simple and easy to understand. There is no 'filler' - unnecessary, boring descriptions or dialogue that has nothing to do with the story. It is an excellent novel and although I could rave some more about my favorite characters and my favorites scenes and so on, I will simply say that it is a must-read.
5 I really enjoyed this book.  I ended up reading Gruen's The Ape House first, which I greatly disliked, and kept hearing WFE was so much better - I was not disappointed!  The story was solid, interesting, and well crafted, and the whole thing was just a very enjoyable read.  I'm looking forward to the film version as well.
5 Loved this book.  Super detail about depression era circus life!  And modern day thoughts of nursing home resident!  Everyone should enjoy this book!
4 The various characters made this story interesting.  Each brought a part of every day life.  Some were misjudged.  I did not like the fact that one could not trust anyone well unless he/she were very well acquainted with each person.  the story was fascinating and circus life was presented as hard work, low pay, and no home for many.  I would recommend this book to imaginative spirits, and to those who trust and judge too easily and quickly.  There were some tender parts that were a relief from all the cheating.
5 This historic look at circus life was interesting and kept me reading for hours. I would highly recommended it for anyone.
1 If I live to be a thousand years old, I will never understand the hoopla surrounding this novel.  It was praised for its meticulous research, but while reading it I found myself thinking that it had been written by somebody who had never been to a circus, and I was unsurprised to find out that I was correct.  My first college roommate was a real circus girl, and I can tell you that Sara Gruen did not even scratch the surface of circus life.It's a rare writer who can write well in the voice of the gender they are not, and Sara Gruen is not eligible for that club.  If I had not known for sure that a woman had written it, it wouldn't have been a difficult guess.The story is so melodramatic, it belongs among the most florid of historical romantic fiction, and that is not my cup of tea.  I had to force myself to complete this book.  I wish I hadn't.
5 This book had a tiny bit of a slow start but once it got into the thick of things I couldn't put it down and I literally read the second half the book in a 2-hour timespan.  Such a great story I've made my husband (a veterinarian) promise me he'll read it!
3 I heard they made a movie of this so I bought the book but was disappointed in it.  Maybe it was just me.  Never did like circus.
5 What a pleasure to have such a fascinating book  read to me by two great readers! The main character, a 93 year old man recounting his life is read by an actor whose rough, gravelly voice perfectly embodies the character. The main character, as a 23 year old, is read by a much younger actor. Together, these two readers turned this book into an unforgettable novel.Maybe the book is every bit as good as a read, but having had heard it on CD, that's the way I'd recommend you discover it, too!
5 Loved the way it was written.  Loved the storyline.  Great ending.  Very good insight into the time of the Depression and the inner workings of a circus.
5 I escaped in this book over the weekend.  Wonderfully written and instantly grabs your attention. I'll admit this isn't a book that I would have typically chosen to read but several co-workers recommended it.  So glad I purchased it and highly recommend it!
5 I first saw the movie and loved it but wanted to read the book. I was not surprised to find the book was better.  the things that happen in the book were so much darker than the movie portrayed. this will be on my read again list!
5 What can I say that the other 5 star reviewers haven't already?Nothing.Read the reviews.Buy this book.It's wonderful!
5 Water for Elephants is a wonderful combination of history, romance and life in a circus. This was a fast read....I couldn't put it down. And the ending was a nice surprise.
5 What a wonderful story! What great characters! Loved the backdrop of both the circus and the nursing home. I am amazed how Sara Gruen was able to put us there, experiencing both young Jacob's life, as well as 93 year old Jacob's world. Everyone I've talked to in the last week I've told them about this great book. Look forward to the movie this spring. I sure hope they're able to do it the justice it deserves!
4 This is a sometimes gritty, sometimes heart-wrenching story of a man who ran away and joined the circus.  The story is told through the mind of Jacob, a nonogenarian (yes, I had to look that up) resident of a nursing home, who was orphaned his last week of veterinary school.  Jacob discovers that his parents, struggling along with everyone else through the end of the Great Depression, had impoverished themselves to keep him in college.  Broke himself, and unable to focus enough to complete his exams, he desperately jumps a train and runs away from his life.The train he jumps happens to belong to The Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.  Barely avoiding getting thrown off the train, he is befriended by a few of the circus workers, and becomes the veterinarian for the show's menagerie of exotic animals.This look behind the scenes of the train circuses is enough in itself to carry the book.  Sara Gruen's ability to place herself behind the eyes of a 93 (or is it 90?) year-old man is gripping.  The two combined give the story a depth that makes you want to keep turning the pages.The flaws in the story are not enough to make it founder but just enough to keep this from being a five-star read.  In particular, Jacob's ability to turn his back when those he loves are endangered is at odds with what we see of his nature at other times.  The encapsulated explanations for his behavior notwithstanding, his integrity is deeply flawed in a manner that can't be explained away, and yet the author ignores it.  We are thus left cheated from seeing not just how Jacob affects the circus, but how deeply the circus affects Jacob.
5 This has been one of my favorite books I have read in a long time and I really enjoyed reading every minute of it.
2 Although the story is quite intriguing and the juxtaposition of Jacob's life in a nursing home with his life as a young vet at the circus is a clever way to tell the story, the hardships that the animals endure are quite upsetting. I had to stop reading this book when August decided to take his anger out on Rosie, the elephant, because his wife who had never ridden an elephant was injured during Rosie's first performance, a performance for which neither one had trained. Circus trainer's used a bull hook to cause pain to the elephant so that it would do what they wanted it to do - I don't know the extent to which he tortured the elephant with the bull hook but I didn't want to find out.In terms of the writing style it is not the best. I believe the books' popularity may have more to do with the scenes in the nursing home which are much better written than those of the circus and touch the lives of many of us who have had to put our parents in or have visited these institutions.
4 I had numerous kin, friends and co-workers tell me to read Sara Gruen's Water for Elephants.  I told each person that as soon as I obtain the opportunity I would read the novel.  The narrator, Jacob, did an eminent job guiding the reader.  Personally I didn't feel everything he was going through, but I was able to help justify his actions.  For instance when he finally yelled at August or when he consummated his love for Marlena.  What intrigued me most about Gruen's writing was her ability to tie the ninety year old Jacob to the circus Jacob.  I was thrilled how she gave Jacob a sense of eudemonia when the book concluded.  Jacob finished up where he began; he ended up right where he wanted to be.  On a scale of 1-10 I would give this book a 9.  All in all when you read it you won't be disappointed.
4 Water for elephants was certainly an entertaining read, but I have  read better. It did help to open my eyes to the life of circus performers in the 1920's. This was very well projected throughout the entire book, and it was easy to tell that the author was very well educated on the topic. I do think however that there should be a warning about the sexual content within the book. I would only recommend it for mature readers. I would recommend this book if you have a lot of time to enjoy the context in which it was written.
5 Along with the Miracle Life of Edgar Mint, The Secret Life of Bee's, and Kite Runner; this is one of my favorite books.  I read it, gave it to my husband (who rarely reads a book)- he finished it in a week, and my 15 year old daughter - who finished it in a day.  We all really enjoyed it!  The way the author describes life in an old-folks home is hilarious and heartbreaking at the same time.  Even though it started with the end, we all found the book kept us wondering what would happen next!  Especially good for a book club!
2 This book just wasn't for me. Its not the writing at all. It's very descriptive and written very well. It's just too dark and depressing for my taste. It put me in a funk. I don't recommend reading this unless you don't mind reading a good story with a whole bunch of downer situations.
4 This book was an enjoyable read.  It was an unusual story and hard to get into from the first few pages.  Persevering I found it a good read.  I don't think I could watch the movie if they included the abuse to the elephant.
5 I loved this book from beginning to end. Along with some entertaining history, this is a beautifully woven tale.  To my mind, a good novel has unexpected twists and surprises .. and this book carried one beautiful surprise all the way through.This book stirred in me an affection for elephants that I hadn't felt since childhood.  Along with The Magician's Elephant by Kate DiCamillo, Water for Elephants helped to inspire the painting "The Gentle Somnambulist" which is included in my bookTREASURE Twenty One Paintings and a Key.
5 The characters were interesting and the circus storyline kept my attention throughout.  Learned some facts pertaining to a big top circus.
5 Water For Elephants was an excellent book detailing what life was like for those who worked for the circus during the Depression era and later.  This wonderful story was told in flashback by a crotchety ninety-year old, man named, Jacob who lives in a nursing home.Other reviewers have already summarized the story very well. Therefore, I just want to add that I especially enjoyed Water For Elephants specifically because it was told from the perspective of an elderly individual who, in telling the circus-days story of his youth, also gave the reader a realistic perspective of aging.  For me, this was what made Sara Gruen's novel all the more compelling.For those who have elderly family in nursing homes, I would recommend that you read this book to your love one. I'm sure they will enjoy it as much as you!Maizie Lucille JamesJanuary 13, 2012
4 This book was recommended to me by a few good friends and since there was a movie coming out as well, I was prompted to read it. It is the perfect book if you need a light read and to just get lost in another world for a little while. The story has great depth and imagination. It is filled with colorful emotions and characters. It is great for any reader seeking a dark, winding tale with a unique love story.
4 I had such a love hate relationship with this book. I struggled in the beginning that I even wanted to read it, but with all the hype and the movie coming out I figured I should trudge on. Overall, I'm glad I did. After a certain part there really are no dull moments, and lots of plot twists. The writing and character development is phenomenal, although there were a lot of graphic parts that I thought could've been left out and made me not want to continue sometimes (and I'm pretty tough). Towards the end I was flying through it and cannot wait to see how they pull off the movie!
5 These are the books I've been reading. Some were great while some were just okay! But all teach something. I love to read!
3 I am not sure what I see all the hype about for this book but it was a pageturner, I'll give it that. The writing was very well done as Jacob told his tale of being in the circus all these years later in a nursing home, forgotten and old in body, not in mind.The life of the circus was clearly visible while reading this story as was the life in a nursing home. At first I was more interested to have the chapters go back to the present because the past was so horrible to witness but then his present life wasn't that cozy either.The ending was the best part of the book, for me, as it was most tender. It wasn't a bad read but not an entertaining one.
5 I am truly enjoying this story. I recommend it to anyone who enjoys a story with humor, heart break and history that you can't find in your typical fiction.
4 Interesting details about circus life but you can pretty much guess what is going to happen. It's a decent enough book for a summer read, not to heavy. Not the best book for a deep discussion but enjoyed by many so may work well for book club.
4 The most interesting thing about this book for me was getting a look into how circus workers, performers, animals, etc. live day to day life traveling on a circus train going from town to town and performing multiple shows in each town. At times the story did drag a bit for me. As others have said, I feel the love story involved was not very well developed. It is clear from the beginning who the main character's love interest is and will be, but it doesn't develop a whole lot before they are hitting the sheets. I also feel some parts of the book were a little rushed and could have been explained a little more with more detail. Overall, I did enjoy reading this book. I learned a lot about how circus life was in the 1930's. You can tell the author did a lot of research for this book as far as details of the circus and circus life goes. I also enjoyed the fact that the book also takes you into the main character's later life and tells the story as if he is remembering and looking back on it all. The book also has a fairly good ending.
5 This book was a wonderful story and left me with a bit of hope.  Even in the dark moments I could not turn away from it.  Lots of genuine characters that made me feel as though I could reach out and touch them at times.  It reminded me of circus visits and riding on elephants as a child with my face painted and a bag of cotton candy in hand!  Though I normally do not like historical novels I loved this one.
3 I think really I would give this three and a half stars but because we can't do that I've gone with three. This book was really well written and in turn I was able to picture the characters as clearly as if they were people in the flesh. One particular character August got on my nerves and made me so mad I can't describe but that shows what great writing it was. Good book about how life is travelling with a circus.
3 Overall, I'm rather underwhelmed based on the hype around this book.The details of the Great Depression were amazing, and seemed accurate enough.  The writing didn't get in the way too much but seemed amateurish at times.  I spent the ENTIRE afternoon, EACH and EVERY ONE was used three times in a single chapter, and unimaginative clich&eacute;s one after another such as quick as lightning were not uncommon.  I assumed this was Gruen's first novel and was quite surprised to find out it was her third.The morality of the story fell very flat as well.  The characters kind of want to do the right thing, but I wasn't sold on their move toward adultery based on initial attraction.  A lot of people feel an attraction toward someone who is not their spouse.  That doesn't mean it is right or destined.  Greun's inability to convince me that Jacob and Marlena were any different was a major failing of the novel for me.How many meals can people in the Great Depression skip without even thinking about it.  At least a dozen times through the book people skipped meals because they didn't feel like eating.I had high expectations so I'm judging harshly.  Did not meet expectations.  Not a bad book by any means, but far short of novel-of-the-year quality.
4 At the time of this review there are over 1,700 reviews posted so I won't bother to sum up the story but just my opinion of the book.I thought the book was simple to read, an interesting story and engaging characters.Even though this novel is not perfect and a standard "boy meets girl" story with a charming setting, the descriptions are colorful and the characters are a variety of misfits; but somehow it all works and comes together very nicely for an entertaining and well paced read.Granted, the book is not going to be put on a shrine of the scholarly literary Olympus, but to me this book felt as if I was reading a fairytale - and I tremendously enjoyed it.
4 Two parallel stories where classical human principles and miseries collide. Very good character development and a nice ending to wraps things up. Very gripping, I finished in less than a couple of days
5 I found myself yanked around a bit by what seemed like a formula fiction plot, with the protagonist frustrated from reaching his goal at every turn and the Bad Guy a bit of a caricature. In spite of this, I really enjoyed reading this book. The circus world setting, historical time, offbeat characters, foreign language twists, and starring role for an elephant, made it a page turner and a book I can readily recommend to others as a really fun read.
4 I spent most of this book wondering why Gruen chose to intersperse her primary story of a young man who found himself thrust into the circus life in 1931 with the musings of that same man at the age of 93.  The story of how Jacob came to be in the circus and what happened to him there seemed like enough to me, and Jacob's aged voice seemed unnecessary.  At the end of the book, though, I realized why she gave us both perspectives, and could hardly argue with her narrative device, as the closure it provides works so well.
3 This book is just a fun read. Nothing deep or realistic about the story. Nothing to be learned. No point. Just entertainment. Don't expect to connect with any of the characters because they are totally unrealistic. This book is just pure fantasy, almost childish. I did find the book worth reading, not a waste of time because it is entertaining. However, am I compelled to buy another book from this author? Probably not. Am I going to recommend it to my friends? Probably so with the disclaimer that it is a light fun read.
2 Going to see this movie about a tyrant psycho circus owner who beats elephants till they bleed and abuses his workers cannot bring any more hope to a world already drowning in stories of despair. I hope the book was better.
5 I loved this story. About the circus. Not the sort of thing you usually find as a subject or background in a serious novel.  Characters are interestingly portrayed, and plot moves along quite quickly. This isn't Nobel Prize stuff, but a very enjoyable read.
2 Saw the movie first and was excited to read the book next. Very disappointed about the book. The movie carried the story line so much better. The worst thing about the book was the main character. In the movie at least they made him out to be a real hero. In the book he seems like a complete jerk.
5 This was a fun interesting and at times, heart breaking story. Almost immediately after finishing the book, I missed the characters.
5 As usual, much better than the movie. Hard to put down. A glimpse into a largely unknown world of the circus, with a lot of depth.
5 An evocative page-turner. A wonderfully gripping life story, with 2 timelines blending beautifully. The 93(or 90)year-old and 20 year-old Jacob Jankowski both tell their tales, both ultimately centering on the circus.There is little to add to the many reviews, but I want to stand up and be counted as one more who found the book absolutely riveting and unforgettable. The writing is beautifully clear, and the episodes from the 2 timelines are interposed perfectly. Artfully done, Ms. Gruen!
5 It was suggested to me that the book was better than the movie...which I loved!  But I couldn't put this book down!
4 From the very first paragraph, this author grabs our attention, and awakens every sense...touch, smells, descriptions that have us see every nuance of the scene before us, as if we were standing next to the hero. Besides, she surprises us with unexpected descriptions that are raw, real and gutsy. For eg., I left there "stiff all over."Wonderful reading, I need to go to bed earlier so I can read more of this wonderful book, before sleep o'ertakes me.
5 More than a vivid picture of early circus life. Wonderful characters both human and animal. Would love to read more from Sara gruen
5 Downloaded quickly and easily to my device.  The story was far better than the movie!  Lots of detail, and an overall good read.
5 This was an awesome story: very intricate and detailed. It is an amazing tale of a rich life now being recalled at the end of life...only, his life adventure is continuing.  I cheered at the end, excited to finally have a story with a happy ending. Great story.
5 What a great story teller Sara Gruen is!  Her use of narration and relaying events, like a traveling circus during the Depression, make this such a rich and captivating novel.  This novel was hard to put down and I often found myself thinking about Jacob, Marlena, Walter, Rosie and the many other colorful characters.  I found Jacob at 90 (or 93) funny and sharp.  I had worked in a nursing home through college so I found his behavior totally realistic, humorous and sad at the same time.  The younger Jacob's innocence, quixotic actions and love of the animal menagerie hook you right into the story and captures your imagination as you go through the Benzini Brothers Most Amazing Show.  This story of the travelling circus tragedy is amazingly well relayed.  I didn't want the story to end! So, imagine how ecstatic I was when I saw the audio book in our public library.  I guess I had not been read to enough as a child, so I found myself totally engrossed in this story, again, during my commute to work.  The readers' voices and intonations transported me to another time and place.  It felt like good radio of old (not that I come from that era, but I imagine people glued to their sets listening to latest adventure story).  Even though I knew the outcome of the story, I loved listening to it.  Water for Elephants was our last book club pick, and everyone enjoyed the story.  We all LOVED the ending, even if it is a bit unrealistic, it certainly connects well and mirrors the beginning with coming into the circus family.
3 I liked the ending of this book better than any other part. This mans life after the death of his parents was hard, as expected. It dragged on for me, until the end when he was living his last years of his life in a nursing home. his children disregarded him emotionally. They went to visit, but real interest in him was gone. They did their duty. He escapes in the end and lives out his life with the circus. The place where he lived most of his life after his parents death.It was good, not great for me.
4 I enjoyed reading this book and recommend to read it. It was fast reading and full of surprises. It really met my expectations.
4 As a person who usually reads non-fiction books about science and psychology, I thought I'd give myself a break and see what all the hype surrounding Water for Elephants was about. I was not disappointed. It was not the best book I've ever read, but it was very entertaining and a pretty quick read. I was explaining to someone that the story is very formulaic: guy wants girl, can't have girl, ends up getting girl - but it was set against a different backdrop than others. Sometimes that's exactly the kind of book you want to read.
5 I've just started and I'm already enjoying it very much. Bought it because I'm waiting for a film to come out, with robert Pattinson in the leading role. I wasn't dissapointed! Great choice Rob! The book has an interesting style, touching storyline, and seems just very refreashing and quite original, it has gotten great critique reviews, too. Buy this book, you won't be dissapointed.
5 Water for Elephants is a well-written, well-researched book regarding post-depression circuses and their people and animals.  the characters are fully developed, and i found myself rooting for some and booing for others.  i really didn't want this story to end; i have read it several times, and saw the movie (which followed the book pretty well).  i would recommend this book highly.
3 i didn't think that iwould like this book, but found that once i became involved with the time period and the characters i did like the book.  it was a book club selection from one of my three books clubs, otherwise iwould not have chosen it.  but after reading did like it.  because of the circus performers handicaps, it may not be appropriate for all readers but the story is so strong that the reader soon forgets the less desirable features of the story.
5 Ever page held u right there waiting to see what next was going to happen in the day of a circus Plus a love story It had u wanting to watch the movie which I will be doing as soon as possible I really like the ending , better then dying in a old age place
5 I loved the character of Jacob when he was ninety or ninety-three.  He has been there, done that as he reflects on his life on a depression era circus train.  When I think of Water for Elephants, I don't see 23 year old Jacob and Marlena and the circus gang, I see this old man who still stands up for his rights, mainly his right to live his life as he sees fit.  The whole story is developing this one character - You go 90-something-year-old Jacob - enjoy!!Rosemary was another character I enjoyed - so patient, so sincerely understanding.My main issue with the book - Water for Elephants - not the title I would have chosen.  A great title but I don't feel that the book reflected the significance needed for that name.  As I was reading, I kept expecting something to exhibit "Water for Elephants" besides McGuinty.This read was chosen for my book club and what a fun book to plan a party around, would definitely recommend this book to friends, family and fellow book clubbers out there.
4 Were it not for the tantalizing action captured in the prologue, I might not have read past page 7 of this book. Two tales are interwoven, one of the writer as a 93-year-old in a present day nursing home, the other of the writer as a 24-year-old runaway, in the 1930's, who accidentally joins a circus.The old man's story begins the book and the accurate portrayal of the patronizing, impersonal, falsely cheerful care that the elderly often receive is what nearly stopped me from reading further. I did NOT want to read about the miseries of life in nursing homes, even if the story was amusing and well told. Luckily for me the prologue, the excellence of the writing and, I admit, even the old man's story, kept me reading and let me get past the depressing details of the limited life of a 93 year old to enjoy the rest of the book.If you love animals and or circuses you will be swept up in this book. It is a charming, suspenseful, action-filled, violent, sexy, historically genuine, loving, soft-hearted, heart-breaking, and heart-warming book. I really enjoyed and recommend it.
4 It was with some reluctance that I purchased this book.  I'm more of a character-driven reader than a plot-driven one. Additionally, I don't especially like "adventure" stories. I was pleasantly surprised since Jacob was such a terrific character, and any adventure he encountered was worth reading.  This book certainly entertains -- and, it moves so fast. Also, the pictures of real circus life added to the story. Two people are currently waiting for this.  I trust that they'll have as good a read/ride as I did.  Loved Gruen's writing & expect to be reading more of her books.
5 Loved the story and style. I couldnt put the book down and finished it in a couple of days. Every page made for compelling reading. An easy book to read.
5 This book have many interesting characters and kept you interested in their development.  It was an interesting time of depression and the importance of the trains.  I didn't know much about the life of a traveling circus but found the class system believable and interesting.Great ending.
3 This is a 300 page book which took about 200 pages to grab me. It felt like the first 2/3 of this book just created background, letting us know the various characters in the circus and giving us a sense of life in that traveling circus of the 1930s. All of this was well written and interesting, but there was not much of a story until the final 100 pages, or at least it never grabbed me until then. I didn't start to really care about the narrator until then. Those final 100 pages were great fun, and I loved the ending of this book. I recommend this book, but cannot quite give it four stars when I spent most of the book waiting for things to pick up. If you read this, just sit back and enjoy the good portrait of circus life in the depression. Don't be impatient, like me. Eventually, this picks up steam and delivers so well. The ending is one of the best I have read in so long.
2 Why bother chiming in with review number 1,605? The verdict is in. Most readers (at least those who post reviews) love this book. Everybody who told me to read it (five or six reader friends) guaranteed enjoyment. I like those guarantees. Unfortunately, there's no such thing.Good things about "Water for Elephants:" Atmosphere Period detail (a rundown traveling circus from 1931) Old man's voiceNot so good things about "Water for Elephants:" Run-of-the-mill imagery. Examples: "His eyes drill into Marlena. His temple pulses." "Flailing my arms like a windmill." "I blush so hard my scalp prickles."  (Really?) "The roustabouts, once roused, run about like headless chickens."  The terrain is as "dry as a bone." "I leave though every bone in my body screams against it." There's not too much doubt about where the story is going, even from early on. We know Jacob will be successful, despite predictions he won't last a week. Tension is low throughout. Protracted scenes--such as Lucinda's funeral and the long strip-tease scene at the beginning. To what end? Perfect characters--too perfect. The sadistic hothead. The charming circus girl. Etc.In the end, the good things about the book were buried under the weight of the not-so-good. I left feeling like I'd been chewing on something tempting and sweet but ultimately unsatisfying, like cotton candy.
4 This book is nice. It gives you a feel on how live was during the depression and also a great insight of the workings of a circus in the 30s. I enjoyed this book a lot. The characters are great and I am looking forward to read more books by this author.
4 This is not the best-written book you'll ever read, it's sentimental and morally simplistic, but it's very entertaining. Good parts: The depiction of human and animal life in a seedy Depression-era circus is fascinating. The implausible adventures of the protagonist Jacob, a veterinary student who joins the circus, Marlena, the married acrobat he loves, the circus animals in Jacob's care, and the oddball, desperate circus folk, keep you in suspense and turning the pages. Gruen risks ridicule with her over-the-top romantic ending, which I won't give away, but there's something endearing about her having taken that risk. Bad parts: The admittedly engaging human characters are too one-dimensionally virtuous or nasty. Gruen, though she capably creates a world in which you can immerse yourself and carries the story along at a good clip, is no literary stylist. I did not care for the bookend device of beginning and ending the story with Jacob looking back on his life from a nursing home. If I were rating this on writing quality, I'd give it two stars. Because the story is so darned much fun and I love to read about animals, I gave it four stars. Highly recommended for long flights, crowded commuter trains and buses, or outside on a hot day.
5 Nothing more satisfying than a novel with a pleasing ending, and this one does just that, it makes the reader feel content.The story is believable, has you cheering, despairing, and crying for the antagonist and protagonist,and can be thoroughly enjoyed by both men and women.The story takes the reader on a journey of a man who, in the midst of his veterinary college training, ends up hopping a circus train and changes his path dramatically.  It is told through the memory of the 90+ year old man who lived it and is recalling it from his current life in a nursing home.I rarely read books twice, but this is one I would revisit!
5 The author gives a detailed, well-researched view of the life of the circus people.  The hierarchy is particularly interesting.  The photos really added to the book.My father is 90--or 93?--so Jacob's thoughts and fears were particulary heart-wrenching.  I loved the ending and wish a similar ending for every 90-something I know.
4 Truly a captivating story. Rich in history of the early days of circuses. She also captures the essence of the elderly and how they are often treated. Would recommend this book.
3 Gruen's novel is the story of one man's life.  It is presented both as a recollection of a 93 year old man reflecting on his youth, as well as the current story of the matured man.  The central story revolves around a character that drops out of school after a family tragedy.  Being the depression and few work opportunities available, the character finds himself working with a circus.  The author clearly researched the subject and provides historical photos to provide the reader assistance with the visualization.  Overall, the book was enjoyable up until the last chapter.  I feel like I would have been much happier if the author left this chapter off all together as it in implausible and affected my entire view of the book.
5 I was so sad when I finished reading, I wanted to keep on reading!!! Great story, very fast read and very eay too! Enjoy!!
5 Loved every minute of it, couldn't put it down, can't wait to see the movieI highly recommend it, you won't be disappointed!
5 I'd never read anything by Sarah Gruen before and I'd heard a lot of hype about this book due to the release of the movie. I decided to hold off watching the film until I'd had a chance to see for myself how the book was.I'm so glad I waited.This book had me from it's opening pages all the way to the close. The descriptions of life in a traveling circus were gritty and made me feel as if I were really on that train, traveling with Jacob, Walter, and Camel. Ms. Gruen's character developments were also incredible, and as a writer myself, I found myself wishing I had one iota of her talent for bringing them to life so vividly.The story is well paced, with just hints from the elder Jacob as to how his life turned out. I liked the transition from old voice to young and felt as if I could "see" the character both ways.All in all, a fantastic read!Nephilim
5 I ordered this book for my kindle wireless the book was a great read I enjoyed it very much read it
5 I had been waiting to read this for some time and our book club read it.  It arrived in a timely manner and in great condition for a used book!
4 Jacob Jankowski is spending the final years of his life in a nursing home.  Often ornery and ill-behaved, he remembers the past, when he ran away to join the circus during the Great Depression.  As Jacob turned twenty-one he was in his final year as a veterinarian at Cornell University.  Unexpectedly, his parents died in a car crash, turning his world upside down.  Unable to concentrate, he walks out of his final examines, only to find himself jumping a circus train.  Lacking a veterinarian, the Benzini Brothers circus is quick to utilize his talents.  In between taking care of the myriad of animals he falls in love with Marlena, a circus performer.  Marlena's husband, August, is a paranoid schizophrenic, who flies into bouts of madness and brutality.This book was fun and engaging.  Yet, it had its dark moments and suspenseful periods which kept the plot interesting.  Gruen researched the area of circus life in great detail and transfers the reader to a different time and place.  Overall, I give this book a 4 out of 5.
5 Very unique story about life in the circus.  Very well written with a great ending.
4 I bought this book, read about 3 chapters, but then got another book..the 3rd in a series that I'd read the 1st 2 of.  Decided to finish that series, but am anxious to get back to Water For Elephants. I like what I've read so far, and many friends have told me they liked it and think I will too.
5 I loved this book.  I'm especially drawn to the idea of a person in a nursing home looking back over his life.  It was well written and the circus life was interesting.  Great read!
5 What a WONDERFUL book about a slice of American life that not many people know about.  What was circus life like during the Depression? Don't let the topic discourage you from reading this book.  I was captured by the first line: "I am ninety. Or ninety-three. One or the other."  As I was reading this book, I could see the whole story play out in my mind as the author easily transitioned the storyteller from the present day back to the 1930's and his life on a circus train.  I can't say enough good things about this book.  Read it....It's a true winner!!!
5 The story, the people and of course the animals...you will not want to put this down.....take the time....you will not be disappointed
3 Did I only read this because it is supposed to have been a NaNoWriMo book? Yes. Does Sara Gruen mention that "fact" ANYWHERE in the book acknowledgments, on her website or in interviews? No. (Although she doesn't contradict the claim, which has been made very publicly by one of NaNoWriMo's founders.) Was it still worth the read? Meh. I don't know. I guess. Whatever. It wasn't a waste of time to read it, but it didn't enrich me or leave me with any lingering thoughts or feelings about the book. As a matter of fact, I barely remember what it was about (I want to say circuses?). All in all, it was a zero balance book. Some good footnotes though. I'd definitely recommend those.For more reviews, please visit my blog, CozyLittleBookJournal.
5 I sat down to just "get a start on" Sarah Gruen's new novel "Water for Elephants" and I didn't look up until I was a third of the way through the book! It's delightful, interesting, suspenseful and a unique and well-researched look into depression era circus life.And may I say further, just to pique your interest: it has a PERFECT ending. What a treat.
3 OK, it's not fine literature (so critics, would you please lighten up?), but it was lots of fun -- a glimpse into the era and life of the circus.  I honestly couldn't put it down and felt good when it ended.  Will this be on my list of all-time favorites?  No, but I appreciated the author's research into the topic; I learned something and enjoyed myself. What more could I want from a beach read?
2 Life behind the scenes at the circus was crude and inhumane;I will always view it differently!  The 90 year old man telling the story reacted the same way I would have...stomach distress.  Should be rated R for sexual and other graphic language. I do not reccommend it for sensitive, caring women.
5 Very good book.
5 I am still reading this book and can hardly put it down to go to bed at night!  I like a book that makes me turn off the TV to read which this one is doing for me.  I can't wait to finish and then watch the movie.  I do recommend this to others.
4 This book was easy to read and very interesting.  It had a circus-like atmosphere in it's storytelling and enlightened me to that world.I recommend it for those who are looking for fun entertainment with interesting, different characters.
3 Life in the circus during the Depression is probably depicted very accurately; times were hard and people were desperate.  The circus setting for the book is excellent; but, in my opinion, the plot is somewhat weak and the ending was less than I had hoped for.As others have described the scenes vary from life in a nursing home to Jacob's past life in the circus.  I actually liked that juxtapostion and felt it was done well.  I loved the pictures in the book and felt they added a lot.  In short, not a bad read, just not as gripping as I had hoped it would be.
5 I read this book in two days.  I couldn't put it down.  Very interesting characters and a great character study of the main character.  The ending will surprise you!
5 I couldn't put this book down.  I loved it.  There was just such wonderful imagery!!  Great book.  Don't miss it.M. White
4 I enjoyed the book rather than the movie. The author well compared both Jacob in youth and in his ninty. Also, the book was well described the story, and I could grasp the episodes and the feelings of characters. One thing that did not satisfy me was that both movie and the book had less scenes that described Jacob with Marlena and the elephant Rosie. I wanted them together a lot.
2 While I enjoyed the beginning of the story,I could not get through this book due to the animal abuse (I am an animal lover!) Even though it's a work of fiction I just didn't like that!!! Plus Marlena's character was flat,boring and left a lot to be desired!!! The movie is WAY better! Save yourself the time,and don't bother. This book was made to be WAY more of a big deal then it actually is.
5 "Water for Elephants" is one of those rare, enchanting novels that takes the reader into another world with complete believability.  Reading this tale makes you believe you are on board this Depression-era circus train, complete with all the sounds and smells.A great novel must combine such a travelouge with interesting, human characters, and Sara Gruen has accomplished that.  The New Yorker review complained that the protagonist, Jacob, was not interesting because he was "relentlessly decent."  Apparently the idea that some people really are decent escaped the jaded reviewer.  Also, Jacob certainly commits his share of moral transgressions (and is ready to commit murder) in the course of his growth into the decent man who so bored the New Yorker.The Publisher's Weekly reviewer complained of a predictable ending, and that's not true, either: it took me until the last chapter to see where Jacob's journey would end, and the final twist is a heartwarming one.  Maybe that's what some too-cynical professional reviewers really don't like: the idea that, in literature as in real life, some stories are uplifting ones.I'm a writer as well as a voracious and nit-picking reader, and I don't give five-star reviews.  In this case, though, nothing else would do.
5 Of the gazillion-billion books I've read in my lifetime, this currently ranks as #1.  I say currently because I'm allowing that I might come upon another book that bowled me over like this one did....I hope so....but I kind of doubt it.  Be forewarned...once you crack this book open, you will fall head over heels between the pages...and not want to come back out!
5 There aren't too many books that both my husband and I find impossible to put down, but this was one. The combination of human drama, adventure and historical detail were extremely compelling. We absolutely loved this book.
5 The setting is different and interesting - I learned a lot about the circus.  The characters and their relationships are also very intriguing.
5 Romance, love, eccentricities, violence and humor are expertly woven into this novel.  I loved it and I was sorry to finish it.  It was one of those books which makes it difficult to begin another book.  I cared about the characters, and the events lingered after I completed it.  That is saying a lot about a book for me; I'm a voracious reader and I usually begin a new book as soon as I finish the last.  I think it is a book which would appeal to a wide range of readers'
4 "Water for Elephants" was recommended by an animal loving friend with the comments that the book was a must read.  The story is set during the 1930's depression and takes place primarily on a traveling circus train.  Jacob Jankowski, recently orphaned, is hired as the veterinarian for the circus. Through Jacob's gaze, we are introduced to the inner workings of the greatest show on earth as proclaimed by Uncle Al, owner of the Benzini Brothers circus.  We learn of the work required to roll out and pick up a circus as well as the cruelty with which the men charged with this work are treated.  While the animals, performances and circus atmosphere are well rendered by the author I found the class structure created within the traveling circus of particular interest; a structure whereby the lowest members of the circus team may be guaranteed a meal but not necessarily a wage or a life.  Equally interesting to me is the depiction of geriatric care, familial and professional, afforded Jacob during his twilight years.  Gruen did an excellent job of capturing the desolation of aging without the care and proximity of your family."Water for Elephants" is a well crafted tale of adventure, love and murder.  The characters are memorable and the language easily accessible and imagistic.  This is an entertaining read but I must admit it dispelled any quixotic notions that I associate with running off with the circus; that was hard and dangerous work then. You were luck if you left the show with your life and even luckier if you left with a life.  For this reader, It'll be enough to watch the next circus that comes to town and remember the men and women that whose hard work made it possible then and keeps the show on the road now. Enjoy!
5 I found the title intriguing. I wondered how many buckets of water an elephant drinks per day..I decided to read an excerpt and I discovered it is about an elderly man who recounts his experiences with the circus.I like how the author alternates between the elderly character of Jacob and the young Jacob.
5 I hadn't watched the movie, but had heard that both that & the book were very good.  I had just finished reading a book & was looking for something else & decided to try it.  It was different than I thot it would be, but thourghly enjoyed it!!
5 This book definitely is number one on my list of favorite books (and I read A LOT).  The story is gripping, beautiful and a little sad in some parts.  It's one of those books that you start reading then constantly stop in the middle of whatever you're doing to read "just one more chapter".  The writer doesn't leave the reader hanging, wondering what happened to all of the characters but it's not a predictable ending.  Read this book, you will not regret it.
4 Not sure how to sum this up or it my title fits the bill, Yet I truly enjoyed the life story of an old man. Sad how people are treated and I am sure alot was true. Enjoyable reading
4 Loved the characters and plot and really loved the ending.  Not a fan of the graphic animal torture, though I understand it was historical and did happen.  If you're not sensitive, it won't bother you.
5 I loved this book.  It is a great story that keeps you wanting more.  I had trouble putting it down.
1 I felt like a bouncing ball in a porn shop rolled onto a circus train!  Between the poor character development to the stampede and the over dramatized porn and superficial sex scenes, I can honestly say that I would NOT recommend this book.  (Oh, and during the stampede, ALL these animals were in the big tent at the same time? without handlers? Why would Rosie be chained in the big tent during a show?)One of the primary editorials  states: "Jacob is the only person in the book who has a handle on a moral compass and as his reward he spends most of the novel beaten, broken, concussed, bleeding, swollen and hungover."Believe me, he may have started out as a moral compass, but he went down hill fast until he had no morals left.
4 This book popped up on my Amazon recommend list, initally i was reluctant when i picked it up.  but, i was gripped and read it in a flash..  love, drama, circus politics, all very intresting..  the reviews here are on the money, i concur..
5 I listened to this book on CD in my car while driving across country.  It was beautiful and sad and funny and completely entertaining.  Made the hours on the road pass quickly.  I'm in the car a lot and listen to books while I drive and this book was abolutely my favorite.
5 Based on the movie previews I had not interest in this book/story or the movie.  However my book club selected it and once I got past the first chapter I couldn't put it down.  It was such a colorful story - I didn't want it to end.  I saw the movie afterwards and it was equally as good.
5 I can't really say anything that hasn't been said already by the other people who enjoyed this book. There's a reason this book has so many reviews, and it's a good reason. The story sucks you in from the start, and Jankowski remains sharp even when he gets older as evinced by the scenes in present day. Jankowski is a well-made character and the story is as believable as it is engaging. I'd rate this ten stars if I could, but I'm willing to settle for 5 as it's all Amazon will let me do :)
2 It was an ok book.  although, I was expecting something a little more.  The book seem to drag on.  when it did end it ended very sadly.
5 i love this book, just like everybody else did!!! i recommend this book to everyone!!
5 As an avid reader and teacher I have many favorites, but this certainly is now in my top 5.  What a heartwarming story.  A must read for sure! What's even more exciting is, I just found out it is being made into a major motion picture! Looking forward to watching the movie and comparing.
4 So enjoyed this book!  Seemed to start out a little slow, but such a great book.in the end!  I cried for Rosie, Camel and Walter more than I did for anybody else!  Great read!
4 In WATER FOR ELEPHANTS, Sara Gruen takes us into the world of the circus during the Great Depression and the incredible lives associated with it.  For Jacob Jankowski, the circus is just about a last chance that fate has given him after some untimely luck.  Joining with the Benzini Brothers to care for their animals, Jacob is launched into a world that's strange and unusual for him, and provides the backdrop for reminiscing when he's 90 and in a nursing home many years later.With vivid imagery, you're taken into the world of the circus and into the lives of these characters.  The characters themselves are very believable and fleshed out, especially August the animal trainer.  His viciousness and mood swings were gripping and his evolution into the bad guy had me sitting there waiting for more.  And as the husband of Marlena, Jacob's romantic interest, August had plenty of opportunity to be jealous and controlling.  Even secondary characters were well formed and fleshed out, giving the book even more life and character.  Even Rosie the elephant becomes a character that you fall in love with by the end of the book.The author tackles a bunch of interesting subjects and has obviously researched them all thoroughly.  From the drinking of Sterno fluid during Prohibition and its effects afterwards to the history of the circus originally as an event for men to get on with their hoochy koochy stuff, Gruen provides a well researched take on everything.  This research shows and if you're a history nut like me you will not be disappointed.What I had a slight problem with was the love story.  It was very sweet, but it was also somewhat stereotypical.  Boy comes along and becomes the knight in shining armor to the damsel in distress.  It was still a believable, romantic, and heartwarming love story, and it makes you remember that back in the day, people thought that women were property of men.  Even in the circus with people protecting one another there was no escape from domestic violence.The story in the past and in the nursing home blended seamlessly and the transitions were impeccable.  Gruen crafted a well researched and well written love story that, though with its small faults, was a very good novel.  Gruen is definitely an author that I want to watch and read more of.VERDICT: Even though it suffers from a stereotypical romance, WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is a well-crafted, heartwarming novel that keeps you glued to your seat wanting more of the circus and the atmosphere.
5 A wonderful tale of love and circus life, written beautifully. I was engaged throughout the entire book, and have read it several times since purchasing it.
5 After seeing the movie I thought I would read the book. Not only was the detail greater, but it was also easier to get to know the characters. A very moving plotline.
5 This book had such an intriguing story line that once I turned the last page I practially sliced open the cover thinking there had to be more. I learned so much about what went into running a circus, so much about performer life, and I realized not much has changed. I almost forgot I was reading a a story - I felt more like I was doing amazing research by myself.
4 I read this book about a year ago and was truly amazed with the imagery and visions the author, Sara Gruen, managed to portray. Written as a historical novel, it reminded me very much of Nicholas Spark's The Notebook, with the main character being an elderly man and telling the story through memories of his youth.Preparing to take his final exams as a veterinary student at university, Jacob Jankowski receives some shocking news about his family which sends his future into a spin. Abandoning his exams, he leaves school and hops on board a train in the middle of the night. This train is home to a travelling circus, and it's through the characters he meets there that he becomes a vet to the animals on board and enters a world he never imagined. He quickly becomes part of the family and is soon caught up in a love triangle with the beautiful Marlena, a circus performer who holds a particular soft spot for the star of the show, an intelligent and lovable elephant, Rosie.The novel is so beautifully written and will touch the hearts of all animal lovers. Sara Gruen really did her research into the circus era and the book is even peppered with images of old circus photographs. Definitely worth a read!See more book reviews at Storybook Love Affair - [...]
4 I have to say that I was skeptical about reading this book.  A friend of mine talked me into downloading it onto my Kindle...and well...I finished the book in two days.  I wasn't sure about reading about a circus, but it is also a bit of a love story (nothing intense).  I found the book easy to read and I loved the fact that the book goes back to the past and then to the present with the main character (an older man maybe ninety or ninety three) in a nursing home with a sense of humor. I will recommend this book to my friends.
3 Not very exciting but a decent read.
3 I really enjoyed the juxtaposition between the 90 (or was it 93?)-year-old Jacob and the young man Jacob who ran away to join the circus in 1931. However, towards the end, the 1931 story devolves into a bit of a soap opera the I didn't really enjoy. Other than that I found it a lively read...but I wanted more about Rosie, the Polish-understanding elephant who everyone thinks is dumb because she doesn't understand English. Every moment where she is on the page, the book is highly entertaining, but I found parts of the book slow-moving and lackluster when the story so lends its self to being bouncy and light (it is about a circus, Miss Gruen!). People "locked eyes" 10 too many times for me. I loved the parts when Jacob is 90~~or is it 93~~(he can't remember)and his body, his family and life, in general has betrayed him. If you are looking for some lightweight entertainment and a quick read, I would recommend this book. The biggest thing that bugged me about this edition (and many other books) are the book club discussion questions at the end of the book. These type of questions are too lengthy to actually be part of a lively book discussion (believe me, I know...whenever someone in my book group chooses to go this route, the discussion dies a hideous death). These questions are better suited for essay questions.
4 I admit that I didn't pay much attention to this book until I saw the commercials for the movie (yes, I am one of "those" people).  I knew I would eventually see the movie so I looked up the book to see what it was about.  When I read the many positive reviews, I figured I should go ahead and read it before I saw the movie.  When the Kindle edition dropped to $4.17, I figured I wouldn't be out much money.  I am very happy I did.The story flowed very well and the writing was easy and accessible without seeming juvenile.  I found myself drawn to the older Jacob. Right out of high school, I worked at an assisted living home while attending college and I was also extremely close to my late grandmother. I thought that the portrayal of an elderly person feeling trapped by the limitations of their failing body (and sometimes their mind) was heart-wrenching yet spot-on. In your heart and your "inner dialogue" you don't feel any older than you did 60+ years ago, yet everything about your physical being has changed and the world around you has changed as well.The atmosphere and the feel of the book was wonderful. I felt like I was riding in that train car along with Jacob and Walter.  I felt the hurt that Jacob felt when he was orphaned, confused and lost.  I felt scared and anxious along with them, fearing that their "stowaway" in their car would be found.  I felt the elephant's fear and happiness.  I could almost hear the sounds of the circus, smell the peanuts and greasy food.The only thing I wasn't 100% convinced on was the relationship between Jacob and Marlena.  I felt it from Jacob, but not really from Marlena.  I felt like she was a weak character and there were moments I actually wondered if she gravitated towards Jacob because August was so cruel and hard to live with.  That is honestly the only negative thing I can say about this story.I think if you are looking for a real romantic read (like a Nicholas Sparks novel), I wouldn't recommend this. It has moments of romance but I didn't feel that was the main storyline. I got more out of it from the circus standpoint and the old man/young man's life.  I will be interested to see how "romantic" they make the movie (I am guessing by the poster, commercials and lead actors that it will be the main point of the movie).  However I will still see it.I do recommend this book.  VERY much worth the time spent reading and worth the price.  Probably 90% better than most current novels out there now.
5 I put this item on my wishlist when it first came out because the premise sounded interesting and then I forgot about it until I saw it was released in paperback. I purchased it and was not let down. The story starts a little slow was you try to make sense of what is going on and whose exactly is this main character, but it takes off from there and I basically read the book in a day and some hours.  I highly recommend, as it really is a great story of time past and present.
5 #42 Book Read in 2012Water for Elephants by Sara GruenI have put off reading this book for a while now because I was afraid that I would not be able to handle the way the animals were treated in it.  After a few friends read, they assured me that I would be able to handle it, so I added it to the reading list for a class I am teaching this summer.  Boy, am I glad that I did!Part of this book is set in a nursing home, where an elderly Jacob is living and waiting for his famiy to visit so they can bring him to the circus.  The majority of this book is set in a circus, a second rate circus who really wants to be Ringling Bros.  Jacob joins the circus and is considered their vet, even though he does not have his official degree from Cornell.  He meets the circus folk and instantly forms a love/hate relationship with August and an attraction relationship with August's wife, Marlena.Circus life is not easy and this book shows it.  Animals are treated as property and receive basic, minimum care.  There is a huge class distinction between workers and performers.  Money is given out in order of the caste system.  There are nice people like Walter, Earl and Greg.  There are evil people like Uncle Al.  The most despicable character in this book is August.  He abused his wife, his animals and his workers.  I was hoping for justice and felt satisfied with how August ends up.There is also some not so dark relationships in this book. Jacob and Marlena share a deep connection and they spend time together, even though it is forbidden.  Walter loves his dog Queenie.  Jacob has a connection with the animals, especially Bobo and Rosie.  Camel gets Jacob a job with the show.  There are good people in this book and readers will root for them.A difficult at times book to read, it was also powerful.  I recommend it.[...]
5 i just finished it and loved it! i thought the author told an amazing story, full of details. i never once lost interest. i'd definitely recommend this to anyone!
5 Excellent old fashioned story telling at it's best! I enjoyed every minute of this book, from the first page. Gives you a peek into a life one rarely gets the chance to see or understand. The characters are very well developed and so very vulnerable and real. I kept forgetting this was a work of fiction. If you love a good bedtime story, this is for you. Real, raw human reality, quirky and FUN.
2 This book just wasn't my cup of tea.  It was recommended by a friend that usually has the exact same taste in books I do.  There isn't anything specific I can say except I didn't like it.
5 I put off reading "Water for Elephants" for a long time because I'd heard it was about a circus, and that topic held no interest for me. However, so many people recommended this book to me that I finally bought it, and once I started reading it, I couldn't put it down!This is a wonderful story about the dark side of working on a traveling circus during the Great Depression. The story is told in flashbacks by Jacob Jankowski, a former circus worker who is now in his early nineties and living in an assisted living facility. Jacob recalls the tragedies that led him to jump a train one night and end up working as the resident veterinarian for the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. There isn't really anything spectacular about working for a traveling circus, however, and this well-researched novels depicts the class issues between the performers and the workmen, the mistreatment of the animals, and the cruelty demonstrated by the show bosses. "Water for Elephants" is also a touching love story revolving around Jacob and Marlena, a beautiful performer who is trapped in an ugly and abusive marriage with one of the circus bosses.I absolutely loved this book. It's a real page-turner filled with dynamic characters, vivid descriptions, comical moments, and terrible heartache. "Water for Elephants" will have a place of honor in my bookcase for all time. I highly recommend this book to everyone!
4 I really enjoyed this book. It is uniquely and well written from two perspectives of the same person. You definitely get drawn into the drama of the circus and invested in all of the characters. Sara keeps you wondering what is going to happen next. I do not want to give anything away but I was surprised at the ending!! I would definitely recommend and purchase this book to/for others.
5 I picked up this book because I wanted to see the movie when it came out. I have yet to see the movie, but I couldn't make myself put this book down!
5 For years, "A Prayer For Owen Meany" was my favorite book.  Until I read "Water For Elephants" for the first time.  I turned the last page and started all over again on page 1. I read it again after that.  I just love every sentence.  Jacob is a hoot!  The ending is the best ending ever!  Totally unexpected and totally true to character.  I live in Chicago, so the Chicago connection was one more sweet moment.  It's just such an all around loving, joyful book, with quirky surprises at every turn.  It made me laugh out loud.  I can't help it . . . I love everything about it.
3 WARNING: SOME SPOILERS!Water for Elephants is a story based on a young man's life with the circus in the 1930s. Also, it's about an older man reflecting back on his life. That alone should seem to confuse someone, but it was done seamlessly. A couple chapters of back-story, how it was back in the 30s and a chapter or two as the older man. Doing it that way, you get a feel of different personalities of the same man. How he was sweet and nicer in his younger days and grew to a grumpy old man.What I liked about this book was reading about the circus life and the history aspect of it all. It's clearly shown that Sara did her research when it came to writing that time period. Things were so in detail, I felt as if I was there.However, some things seemed a bit much. At the end, when I was reading the Author's Notes about this book, it mentions all the things that happened in the story were inspired by real events. The thing is though, not all of them happened to every circus. It was a random circus here and there. She ended up throwing all of the together in this one circus which was just too much and overcrowded. I really didn't think there needed to be that much in there. It makes it unrealistic to have it all happen.Supposedly there was a romance between Jacob and Marlena but to be honest, I didn't see it. I don't see how she was in love with him and I don't see how he was in love with her. I expected something to show they loved one another, I expected to be happy about it, but I was just lost and confused. It wasn't until Jacob kissed her that I realized that there was supposed to be a romance blooming there. I think it was then, about halfway through the book, that Sara realized she didn't have the romance in there and had to throw it in. It was stiff and unnatural. I like smiling at a romance that blossoms. I didn't smile.It honestly felt like they just "liked" each other because they both didn't like August, Marlena's husband. That's not enough of a reason to "fall in love". Or to cheat on your husband.There were a couple "mature" scenes in there. Two scenes were more sex related, though Sara doesn't go into too much detail about that. Well, yes and no. The first one is when Jacob is treated to a little something by the circus... slut. There were some details in there, which I skipped. I just was not into reading that. Sorry.The second one was with Marlena which was just a simple, they were in bed together. The fact that one is more detailed while the other is not is a bit confusing. The first one, Jacob was drunk and didn't know much of anything going on, yet he described things so well. Yet the second one, which was with the one whom he LOVED, was a simple line. There were no details, nothing. I thought if it was going to be with someone you loved, you would go into more detail than one curious drunken fling.Which was another issue with this book. The details weren't spread out enough in this. Some places it would be too much, while other places there wouldn't be enough. There was no balance in things.There was a good amount of language in here as well. I don't really find the need to have so many words in there cuss words. Especially to have the F word in there so many times. It was always F--- this, F--- that throughout, which I wasn't crazy about.Though, what I did enjoy was the fact that Sara wrote a male's POV though she is female. I honestly didn't know a woman wrote this until the end. I thought it was a man, due to some of the things that were written. I must say she did a male's pov very well.Would I recommend this book? Maybe. There are scenes in here that I don't like and I wasn't crazy about all of the writing, but it wasn't entirely bad overall.
1 I wanted to rate this a "zero." WHY can't there be a minus stars rating. Totally disappointed. Over-the top melodramatic and predictable, especially since the ending is revealed in the first 5 pages. AWFUL, totally dreadful, prose. WHY, would ANY publisher (other than Harleguin Press) pick this tripe up! Thank god I got this from the library and didn't pay $$$ for this.I suspect this may be one of those rare instances where the film version might be better (but only if they make the orig novel unrecognizable). It certainly couldn't be any worse. I listened to the audio version while exercising and could not reach the fast-forward button--made my workouts twice as difficult. ;-)
5 I finished Water For Elephants about 10 days ago and I can't stop thinking about it. I am quite a film fan and I often envision novels as a film, which to many purists is tantamount to blasphemy I suppose, but I cannot help it.  And I'm telling you this would make a terrific film. This is the first of Sara Gruen's novels that I have read, and as important as animals are to the story, I would venture to guess that Rosie the elephants importance in this novel is not near that of the role that the horses in her other novels have. In other words, this is not a book just for animal lovers, though being an animal lover can't hurt. This is  a revealing look at life in a Circus in the Depression era, and even more so a story full of fascinating characters and compelling relationships.  It is a page turner that I truly enjoyed from start to finish.  I am reminded of Thomas Berger's "Little Big Man" when I look at the structure of this wonderful novel. As it moves back and forth seamlessly over a seventy year span.Sara Gruen writes an interesting afterword to the novel in which she reveals how she came up with the idea and the extensive research that she embarked on before completing her tale.  Her hard work paid off.  I really learned a lot about a milieu that I knew very little of prior to reading the book.  I cannot recommend this novel too highly.
5 I purposely read Water for Elephants very slowly because I didn't want it to end. I thought the story was imaginative and magical, the characters vivid, and Gruen really brought the gritty 1930s circus atmosphere to life. I rarely re-read books, only because there are so many others to read, but this one I will re-read. One reviewer said it's just a notch above standard chick-lit, and I couldn't disagree more. This is literature. It's a fairy tale for grownups, and I mean that as high praise.
4 Absolutly loved this book! Jacob Jankowski is easy to love and provides relatable perspective to situations I could never imagine.  Though it takes place in prohibition/depression era, the vivid characters brighten each moment without breaking the romantic and grand illusions of traveling with the circus. Jacob, in both his twenty-third and ninety-third year, did not disappoint me!Read it and share it with a friend!
5 I loved it... just hard to get started. Diff. from what i normally read. LOVED IT!! It was a quick read once i got started.
1 While the writers style was captivating and interesting from the very first chapter, the book became so much more graphic and crude than was necessary.  Some things are better left to the imagination.
4 This is a wonderful story! It is all at once funny, heart-breaking, and thought-provoking. I found myself so absorbed in the story that when I had to stop reading in the course of a day I was disoriented for a few minutes before I could deal with my real life. That, to me, is a sign of a great book. I loved how seamlessly the narrative moved between Jacob as an old man of ninety, or ninety-three, and the young Jacob especially. There were no odd stops and starts and no chunks of time missing between past and present. And the end had me flipping back to the beginning to see if I read it right the first time (but in a good way)! Absolutely wonderful!!
2 Last week, halfway through my own reading of WATER FOR ELEPHANTS, I decided to check the customer reviews to see if any other readers were rolling their eyes as much as I was, and, to my surprise, not many were.  300 hundred reviews and most of them were five stars!  What seemed paper-thin and kind of ridiculous to me was "beautiful and moving" to nearly everyone else.  Everything about this book seemed like a cheat--like the warning you get on a bag of chips--"contents may settle"--to explain how there are only three chips in a family-sized bag.  Even the inclusion of the period photographs seemed to excuse the writer for not making clear enough pictures of her own.  It's not just the implausibility of the story either (elephant speaks only Polish).  If the details are right, I can be drawn into even the most ridiculous of stories (THE RUINS and THE TERROR come to mind)), but the paragraphs here are so flimsy (usually no more than three sentences long) that I never pictured (or believed) a word of it.  I'd close the book and pick it up a few hours later and have absolutely no idea what had happened.  It was an "easy read," but I don't know many writers who would consider that a compliment.
4 Water for Elephants is one of those books that I've been hearing about ever since it came out. In an age-old storyline, the main character ends up working with a beautiful and charming woman, and the only problem is her cruel but powerful husband - the twist here is that the whole thing is set in a traveling circus. The characters were interesting, the story engaging and not too terribly predictable, but I thought my respect for it suffered from because it had been so highly rated - I find it much easier to read a book without any preconceived notions of how much I will like it.
3 I'd heard some raves about this book and decided to treat myself.  What I found was a reasonably interesting story that was not terribly well told: for such a graphic topic, the prose was not very visual and often skimmed surfaces of moments that could have been captured with much more attention to detail.I would not recommend this book.  If someone is looking for a phenomenal story involving wild animals, I would suggest "Life of Pi."
5 A beautiful love story with a colorful and sometimes tragic backdrop.  It really keeps you involved and wanting more the whole time.
5 Like Water for Elephants is a terrific work of art. I thought the characters and plot were well thought out and tied together nicely. I plan to put this one on my book club list, I can't wait to share it with my friends! You should do the same!
4 I read this book shortly after a loved one who had been staying in a nursing home passed away. Against that backdrop, I was very moved by this book, especially by the parts where the old man was narrating. I loved the spirited way he interacted with his nurses and the other residents, and his inner dialogue as he grudgingly allowed himself to be taken care of. It reminded me so much of the things we would see when we would visit PopPop; it made me wish I had more time to give to my relative before he passed away. I also loved how the narrator's voice sounded old-fashioned in the context of the modern day scenes, yet somehow contemporary in his flashback scenes. Kudos to the author for doing such a nice job with character voice.The plot was fun too- a young man trained as a vet hops a circus train and joins the crew. He falls in love with one of the show girls, who happens to be married to the lead trainer. Conflict ensues, and somewhere along the line an elephant appears. (Personally, I felt the elephant could have been given an even larger role; she was wonderful to read about.)The plot is simple enough; will he get the girl, or will she stay with her husband? My one complaint is that some of the examples the author gave on why the husband wasn't a model citizen weren't all that horrible in my mind. Yes, he does some appalling things, but one of his supposed despicable decisions was... well.... practical, in my mind. Maybe I'm just a cold-hearted monster, but you'll see what I mean when you read the book.Also, I felt the 'twist' at the end of the book was more akin to a 'trick' as readers are deliberately misled by the subtle revision of a key scene, but I am willing to overlook it given the pleasure I received from the book overall.A word of warning to parents of pre-teens who may want to read this book because of the movie that just came out: Descriptions of masturbation, strip teases, and sexual encounters all make appearances in this book. As a mother, I would recommend previewing these sections and taking your pre-teen's maturity level into consideration before giving them the book. It's all fairly tame, but it is mentioned. Just an FYI.
5 This was an engaging story from start to finish. The author did a wonderful job telling Jacob Jankowski's story as an old man biding his time in an assisted living facility waiting to go to the circus, and as a young adult, who after finding himself homeless and parentless, jumps a circus train.I found the ending a bit surprising, but beautiful all the same. This was an easy read and something I couldn't put down. I love it when an author is truly able to bring you back to a time and place and make it so believable as Sara Gruen has done with Water for Elephants.Highly recommended.
5 I gave the book 5 stars because I thought it was excellent. I had a hard time putting it down. It is very well written and very obvious that the author put a lot of time to researching the history of the circus. Haven't seen the movie but don't think it could be as good as the book.
5 Water For Elephants is the story of ninety-something nursing home resident Jacob Jankowski, who reflects on the time he spent with the Benzini Brothers circus when he was in his early 20's during the Depression Era.  The story goes back and forth between those two periods of Jacob's life.  Old Jacob is clearly frustrated by the physical limitations of his aged body, and how small his world has become while living in the nursing home.  Young Jacob joins the circus due to circumstances in his home life that are beyond his control, and the story goes on to describe the events that occurred during the time that Jacob spent with the circus as the staff veterinarian.Sara Gruen writes with such rich detail.  The sights, sounds and images she portrays are all so vivid that while reading this, I felt that I was transported to another time and place.  I learned so much about what circus life was like during the 1930's, and how disposable both human and animal life were to the circus owners.  I was also very interested to learn that many of the happenings in the book are actually based on real-life events.  The characterizations of the animals were particularly well-written in this book, too.This book truly exceeded my expectations, and I am anxiously awaiting the release of the film!
4 Cleverly placed in the backdrop of the romantic but hard times of the Great Depression's wake [1931], this novel describes the weirder world in a stranger time in the not-so-common confines of a circus family.Gruen found a topic and made it extremely fun to read.  This reader likes stories, and the author either created or embellished great stories of circus folklore [reader Author's Note at end].And, amid the story there is a common group of guys who are the comedy which hold the story together - otherwise it may be too depressing and too violent for some readers. The three eclectic characters are the foul-mouthed hard-tempered dwarf clown whose mother sold him to the circus, combined with the protagonist - a Cornell educated veterinarian, protagonist Jacob Jankowski., who falls into emotionally hard times -  and the old man of the circus family whose overindulgence of jake makes him become a victim of the paralyzing Jake Walk Effect, as him limbs wither along with his mind from the chemical's destructive forces. Each with his emotional or physical scars, enlightens the others with dry wit and warm compassion as each struggles to continue to live on the circus train where many mornings are greeted with discoveries of losses of others from "red lightings" -  those who are not economically valuable to the "family" are thrown off the train while in transit at the latest of hours.Amid many stereotypical characters - aren't most circus characters stereoptyped by this time? - is the greatest monster of them all: a paranoid schizophrenic Jew named August. A love triangle grows between August, his lovely wife Marlena and Jacob. Things get out of hand and at one time the author has Jacob think, "It occurs to me that my conscience stopped me from killing August at the very moment someone was attempting to carry out his orders to kill me." "Prizzi's Honor" meets the big top.If there is any criticism of this book, it is not anything extraordinary.  Some of the dialogue was not totally sharp, but few writers can write great dialogue.  Dialogue is the hardest task of any fiction writer. This dialogue is very good. Just not great.I also take my hat off to her delivery of the story through a young man's eyes.  His feelings about women, his feelings about anger, and other items delivered through this book are not reflective of the author's gender. That accomplishment always amazes me and may amaze you as well.This book is good for trips or beach outings. This is a fun book to read.  I like fun novels. I read for fun. I like this novel.
5 I must confess I was concerned about reading this book based on the negative reviews, but it was wonderful. I couldnt put it down. Engaging, exciting and fast paced.This is one book I would definitely say you should not pass up. I actually had this book loaned to me but after reading it, I must purchase it to add to my library.
4 I really enjoyed the book. I watched the movie  along time ago and liked it and I finally got  a chance to read the book and it lived up to my expectations.
2 Sara Gruen did exhaustive research for her novel, Water for Elephants. But all went for naught to this reader. The story never became real to me. The characters were pasteboard figures. I was aware of the author too much, behind the scenes, pulling the levers. It seemed like a very "American" book- for people with short attention spans.All in all, characterization was thin; narrative was thin, and the whole experience of reading the novel did not transport me to another world.
5 "Not sure how anyone could NOT give this 5 stars. Just a wonderful, brilliantly told story. I LOVED THIS BOOK! End Of!"
5 Water for Elephants is the story of Jacob Jankowski who, at 90-something-years-old, relates through a series of flashbacks his life beginning with the tragic events that found him leaving college and joining the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth - a traveling circus. The book is heavily researched and that research shows in the detailed accounts of circus life during the Depression.I found everything about Water for Elephants interesting - from the details of circus life, to the sometimes disturbing treatment of animals, to the richly drawn and sometimes tragically flawed characters, to the story itself. This is not just a book about human relationships, but also about how some of us relate to animals as well. Even if you don't like circus stories, I think it's possible you'd still like this book.Water For Elephants is a passionate story of life and love. Because I dislike spoilers I don't want to give anything way, but I think it's safe - and spoiler-free - to say that Water for Elephants has maybe one of the best endings to a book I've ever read. I don't know if you've ever watched a movie and been so involved in the story and so content at the end that you wanted to applaud even though no one was there to appreciate your applause, but Sara Gruen made me want to applaud. Very highly recommended.
5 I wanted to see how the book was different from the movie or vice versa.  The movie didnt focus much on uncle al from what i remember and the book sheds light on him and it was good to have that in the book. It was a very nice and pleasurable book to read.  Makes me want to look up old circus photos and history also.
4 Sara Gruen spins a yarn, more than just a circus story, filled with memorable characters (not all human, some at a crucial crossroads), and highly dramatic events juxtaposed with the loneliness of old age. Near the end of his life, Jacob Jankowski finds himself reminiscing about his salad days, as painful as they might have been. He knows life is about the pleasure and the pain; you can't have one without the other (like good and evil). After a tragic loss, Jacob finds a home with a traveling circus as a veterinarian and along the way he: loses his virginity, makes some true friends, learns some valuable life lessons, and falls in love. But above all this book is about his grand love affair, how it began and how it will end. Oh, and there's an elephant named Rosie mixed in there too. I recommend this strongly. 4.5 stars.
5 I can only compare this book to the movie Titanic.  The way it moved the audience, from the bittersweet past to the present, and from this we were hooked.  The main character, Jacob Jankowski, is extremely well written.  The story is a colorful works of his life, in his early 20's.  The Great Depression hits him particularly hard.  A student in Cornell University, in Veterinary School, his parents are killed in an accident.  Jacob drops out of school, unable to pay his way.  In his own world of sadness, he comes across a wacky, dangerous group of circus folk, who call themselves the Benzini Bros.  Jacob lands himself a position as a veterinarian.  We emotionally become entangled in Jacob's downward spiral and passionately wish him to find his way through these, well written, but dangerous group of people.  We watch as he hits his lowests points.  We see him hit poverty, then beaten, crying, bleeding, loved and even see him drunk and hungover.  He is truly a rarity in the literary world, and when I finished this book I felt as if I made a friend.  My favorite character is Rosie, a deeply loving, horribly abused elephant.  I actually had points in the book, where I placed the book down, and had to take a break, because I was becoming so enraged because of a character named August, who relentlessly beats Rosie.  Some of the scenes are brutal.  I rooted for her the entire book as you will too.  It's amazing how such a warm presence she was after the book was finished.  If you're looking for one of those well written classics.  This is it.  It'll have you laughing, it'll have you in tears, it'll have you wishing there were more chapters.  I have no doubt this book is destined for the big screen very soon.
5 Given the number and quality of this book's other reviews on this site, I'll keep my comments short.  When a reader has a book that contains an otherwise unfamiliar setting made familiar though amazingly extensive detail, fully developed characters, a strong storyline, and subtly woven literary themes, they have a great book.  Water for Elephants is such a book.  Gruen's novel is proof that the combination of exhaustive research and solid writing makes an unforgettably stunning book.  This is one instance where the number of positive reviews don't lie:  Water for Elephants is worth reading.
4 I've just finished the book and liked it a great deal. Some of the research which underpins the book was outstanding. Depression era circuses, train circuses as Ms Gruen calls them, being a hobo on the rails, the brain of an elephant and the thread about Jamaican Ginger - all were fascinating - as was the almost seamless blending of the two time periods. Clearly the lady can absorb large quantities of research information and transform that into an excellent novel. She clearly, and obviously, loves animals. Will I buy the two other books listed here on Amazon? I don't think so but I am sure that horse lovers will and should.
5 I just finished reading Water for Elephants and goose bumps cover my skin as I type this review. Now this is a good book! Immediately engrossed, I had a hard time putting it down as I read the story of Jacob Jankowski and his reminiscence of days with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth--otherwise known as a train circus in 1930's America.A talented writer and storyteller, Sara Gruen takes readers on a bumpy and tense train ride through history. This tale defines Americana. There is no evidence of author here--simply narrator telling the story from Jacob's perspective (is he 91 or 93 years old?). I liked everything about the book, but primarily it was the crafting I liked best about this reading experience.Seamlessly, Gruen weaves together the modern day voice of this old man, a Cornell-educated veterinarian, abandoned in a nursing home--a.k.a. assisted living facility--and his memories of three months spent as the accidental veterinarian on a traveling circus. Just before his final exams, he learns his parents have been killed in a car accident and this is what sets the story in motion. Once he hops aboard a train, which he soon learns is a circus train, he falls in love with a pink-sequined performer, Marlena, and battles her schizophrenic husband, August, who happens to be his boss. Jacob, a sensitive and innocent soul, is highly likeable and befriends most of the animals aboard. Most unforgettably is a "Polish" elephant by the name of Rosie. But he also endears himself to his roommate, a dwarf named Walter, and a stowaway named Camel. One can't help but root for Jacob through the entire story. And to my complete delight, it comes to a surprising and very satisfying conclusion.This is an excellent novel and I give it my highest recommendation. Well done Sara Gruen!Michele Cozzens is the author of It's Not Your Mother's Bridge Club
5 Fascinating, well-written story.  I could not put it down.  I have not seen the movie, but heard it does not measure up, as is the case with most movies based upon books.
4 This book moved along. It was never slow, also a good story.I enjoyed the book a lot thank you
5 This book took to me a whole new world inside of me that I never knew existed. I became a part of the circus, the nursing home, a part of Jacob. I felt like I was with him, watching his experiences. It was truly one of the best books I have ever read!
4 I am never into the 'Oprah's book club' genre type of books, however I saw that a movie was being made of it, read the synopsis and gave it a try. I wasn't disappointed. What an enjoyable read! While the ending was a bit cliche, it was still a very interesting and entertaining book. The author weaving the past with the present really moved the story along and helped gain sympathy for our lead character. I would definitely recommend this book - especially to all those that don't usually appreciate the 'book of the month club' type of books. And even though I'm probably one of the only people I know that is NOT into Rob Pattinson, (LOL!) I would definitely like to see this movie. I read this on my Kindle and wish I had bought it in paperback so I could have shared it.
5 I got really attached the characters and found myself rooting them on.  Gives a whole new perspective of the circus.  I would recommend this book to anyone.
5 This book suprised me. I did not expect much, but it has won awards.  So I tried reading it. What a pleasant suprise!! The writter draws you into the story in the first chapter. Circus and the Depression are not a topics I am usually interested. This book was great. The writter captured life in a nursing home. A old man and what his life was like prior to the nursing home. Amazing story and well told.
4 The book was very realistic and somewhat sad.  The ending was an unexpected yet pleasant surprise. I would recommend to any reader.
5 I literally did not sleep last night due to being as o fully and thoroughly sucked into this book. Amazing
5 This book captured my attention from the start. I love how the author melds the geriatric version of Jacob and the younger version so well. The narrator is in constant reflection and delves deep into the emotional states of almost all involved, including that of the animals. As the geriatric version of Jacob looks into the mirror, he can no longer recognize any part of himself. He tries to look beneath the sagging skin and bruising and still nothing. This lets us know what he is really missing and that it is what a person does, that defines them.  If you can no longer do the things you love, then who are you? As Jacob finally realizes what he really needs, we can more clearly see throughout his entire struggle, what kept him so drawn in and how relationships with strangers can be stronger than that of family. Perfect ending!
5 I wasn't interested in this book by looking at the cover. It wasn't until I saw the preview for the movie, and the cast of characters, that I thought that I may be interested.  The book is NOTHING like what I was expecting.  It is an excellent story!  I especially enjoyed the narration from the main character from his nursing home.  It gave depth and perspective and revved up the ending!!!
2 Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is a book narrated by the memories of an old man in a nursing home flashing back to his life as a young vet on a travelling circus. Its based in the 1930s when the circus travelled by train into towns, to show off sideshow freaks and animal shows.What can I say about this book, it just didn&#8217;t grab me really and was a bit of a disappointment. The way it was written was very plain English and didn&#8217;t hold my attention or amuse me with the words. The talk about the animals and circus life was interesting and well researched. But the love story just wasn&#8217;t believable &#8211; the beautiful starlet falling for the pimply red headed virgin boy &#8211; nope don&#8217;t buy it sorry!I would recommend this book for animal lovers, young teens and the older generations as it has a mix from both sides of the story.
5 I really liked this book. It did make me sad the way they treated the animals but its a circus.  I thought this was a very easy book to read, and flowed really well.  I went and got the movie right after so I could compare the two!
5 This is a most engaging story. I am still reading and have been captivated since the opening page. I took a chance and bought the first edition as well and am so happy I did. Theis work allows you into a very sheltered historical community which many of us has fantasized about but never imagined the speculated on the life from the inside perspective. Gruen writes with grace and compellingly. I can't recommend it enough.
5 Jacob Jankowski leaves college where he studied to be a veterinarian after his both his parents die in a car crash. Unfortunately Jacob was unable to complete the test to obtain his veterinarian license. He hops on a train unknowing it is a circus train. Through the book, we see the different aspects of circus life, learn about the people whether they be workers or performers, the economics of the enterprise, insights to the animals and their training and how tough life was during and after the depression. Innovative story telling provides the reader with the past and the present merging for an emotional conclusion. The story awed me and the book was hard to put down.
3 Water for Elephants is a small step up from chick-lit, which isn't necessarily a bad thing, if it's what you're looking for.  A great read for the beach, or a good light read in-bewteen heavier or darker novels.As mentioned in other reviews, the character development was on the poor side, and the plot was pretty predictable (kind of hokey).  I felt the reading level was quite low, which made it a quick read, but not the brightest one.  Everything was pretty spoon-fed to the reader...there was no need for me to think about anything.  I prefer a bit more of a challenge.
2 I read this book on my kindle a week after watching the movie and I have to say I enjoyed the movie a lot more. They did a number of adaptations for the screenplay that made it work better. Like August was the owner in the movie, but in the book he wasn't but he was in charge of the animals and Uncle Al was the owner. At any rate, the movie was made for a PG-13 rating and though there were some mild situations and language, it was tolerable, vs. the book, where there was a lot of swearing and a few lewd descriptions that weren't necessary for the story in order for it to be a good one. If not for the cheesy sexual stuff and multiple F-bombs dropped, I would have enjoyed the book more. The story itself is quite good, but the delivery of it was lacking because of the language and overly-detailed sexual situations. So if I were to recommend one, I'd tell people to choose the movie over the book. It's less crude, and ultimately, a more satisfying experience. The story structure itself reminded me a lot of The Notebook by Nicholas Sparks.
4 I had this book in my TBR pile and really wasn't in any sort of hurry to read it. Now, after finishing it, I can't believe I waited so long.This book gives me an in depth account of circus life during the depression and of the lifestyles of those who traveled with it. I learned a lot. I however, got really emotional when aspects of the book dealt with animal cruelty and even human cruelty to each other.This is a must read book. The ending is also a surprise.
2 I endured this inartful, trite novel from beginning to end and I'm baffled by its popularity. Even as a peek into a fringe society it lacks any surprises. Frustratingly boring.
4 I laughed, cried, got angry, and every other emotion right along with these characters! I wasn't sure at first, but Jill told me to persevere and I am so glad I did. This is definitely a different kind of story with a lot of descriptive scenes and perfectly worded chapters. I was so happy by the end of the story that I didn't even want to get out of the car. I wanted to let it all soak in. Very good!
5 This book is really, really good. Well worth buying and reading. Wonderful story, very different. I highly recommend his story
4 Water for Elephants is terrific.  How much you will enjoy it depends on what you are looking for.  As historical fiction---evoking the Depression Era and travelling circuses of a time gone by, it is five stars.  As romantic fiction, three and half stars.  The past is brought back superbly:  compelling and detailed.  The life seems awful on many levels, yet, at the same time, so exciting and alive that a part of you is jealous of the characters living it---like the sailors of the British Navy in the Aubrey/Maturin series (seeMaster and Commander (Aubrey Maturin Series)).The romantic scenes are less well executed, and the author does not well capture the sexual feelings of a 22-year-old man.  That is a small part of the story, though, and is more than outweighed by the other bonus the book offers, the reflections on aging from the protagonist at age 93.  These are powerful and thought-provoking.  I "read" the audible version of the book, and the reader for the "old" Jacob alone would have made the book worthwhile.I recommend this strongly.
5 Get your tissue ready, and be ready for intense feelings!  I read this book MANY years ago, before the hype and reread it again with my book club.  It was worth a second read, so to have this book as your own is worth it!  There is mystery, magic, and injustice.  The charcters are strongly built, and the scenery is vivid.  If you are looking for more books like this one...check out The Dirty Parts of the Bible.  You won't be disappointed either.
4 This story has a circus, a villain, an adventurer, and a love story. What else could a summer reader wish for? I thoroughly enjoyed this novel. Granted, it's not Dickens, but it is great fun.Jacob's experience as the an old man reminded me so much of the nursing home my mother died in. His experience as a young man reminded me of the stories my father told about the depression, especially riding the "freights."I passed this book along to a woman co-worker, and after she finished it, she said, "I love this book!"Sara Gruen did a marvelous job researching train circuses. That alone is worth the price of admission.
5 This book was really engaging, had good characters, good plot, interesting structure, and a good ending.  I have read books that have been very good and then the ending seems to be rushed, not thought out, or just plain awful.  Loved this book.
5 What is a life worth? How do you judge if someone is worth saving? What does it mean to be human? What or who is really an animal? Why can an individual choose how to live but not how to die? Who has the power to answer these questions? How do you know that person is right?Hidden beneath this easy-to-read though dark coming of age romance is a novel that prompts the reader to ask the above through the reminiscing of protagonist Jacob Jankowski who is prisoner in fact to old age and in feeling to a nursing home. The story begins as the circus rolls into town and the flood of Jankowski's past full of pleasure, joy, love, hate, regret & guilt washes over him.Sara Gruen brings the Circus Culture of the mid 20th century to life through meticulous research, both the bright spot light and the grittier nature of transitory existence. Anyone who ever dreamed of running away to the big top or just dreamed of running away should read this book.
5 Ok, well after reading the other reviews published mere hours ago i just couldn't help but put in my two cents worth!  Firstly i would like to recommend this book, because i really enjoyed it!  It has been a little while since i have read it, but it is a favourite of mine (and i would like to add that it is now ranked 62 in the top 100 list of my local bookshop! so hah!) and i thought it was really funny! (in a good way, that is!)I am totally confused by some of the recent reviews that talk about Jacobs morals, etc. blah blah blah.  I think these people should go back and read the whole book again because i really found Jacob to be a likeable character and think he was one of the few in circus who DID have morals and a conscience!Anyway, this book was moving, funny and incredibly interesting (i just found the whole circus idea really fascinating) and I'm not ashamed to admit that i loved this book!  Obviously as it got a 4 1/2 star rating from over a thousand reviews i am not alone... i really recommend this book if you like a story that is well written, original and not the norm! Great Reading!
5 I'd like to think one day, when I have nothing else to do but read until my heart's content (which is probably impossible to do btw) I will re-read every book that has hit my favorites list. Honestly though with all the newly discovered titles, authors, backlists, series, etc I fear I'll never get to revisit my beloveds anytime soon. But when (and if) that day comes, Water for Elephants will be on that list!I've never really been a big circus fan - reading about them or attending them, but I liked the atmosphere of circus life of the 1930s. It is both beautiful and gritty in detail. After reading this I must read more Great Depression era books. I can't imagine how hard it was to live in that time period and I find it fascinating and frightening.Bouncing between young and old Jacob's POV was actually a great way to read the novel. I felt as if I was re-living Jacob's memories as he did, rather than being told a story.  Jacob is utterly honest and humble as a young man and it's hard not to like his character. Harsh reality is thrust upon him after he tragically loses his parents and is forced to find a way to survive without money or family. Normal life is hard but living life under the famous Benzini Brothers' big top is even harder. Despite elderly Jacob being extremely (and understandably) cranky (I probably wouldn't want to be around him - family or not) Gruen does a spectacular job portraying his life and state of mind at the assisted living facility.Gruen actually does a spectacular job at a lot of things. She delivers a cast of characters that become just as important to me as Jacob, Marlena, and even Rosie, the larger-than-life elephant that is supposed to save the Benzini Brothers show from biting the dust. The characters are really the hands-down winner for me in this story. But it certainly was coupled with some amazing story-telling.I think I didn't give this one a solid 5 stars because the ending didn't quite sit well with me. While I'm glad of the outcome for Jacob I felt the HEA was sort of - slapped on, for lack of a better term. Kind of like "Come on, let's hurry and wrap it up here" ending...if that makes sense. It's happy (which made me happy; I happen to really like Jacob). Maybe a little too convenient for my tastes though. However, I have a hunch that if the ending were any different I'd still have a problem with it. Maybe I just didn't want Jacob's story to end *shrugs* ...Definitely a good thing about a book, if you ask me!As a side note I have not seen the movie adaptation but I want to. Nothing could really ruin the story for me but I'd hope the movie did some sort of justice to the book.**I received an eBook copy through AmazonPrime**
5 I read this book only because it was on my book club list. I had passed it up many times in my search for a "good" book to read. When it came time to read it for the book club I was not looking forward to it. All I can say now is WOW!!! I would have missed a great ride had I not been "forced" to read this WONDERFUL story. By the end I was cheering! I have since recomended it to many people and they all have had the same reaction. This is a keeper!
2 After finishing a powerful and emotional novel like "the Kite Runner" i started to read "water for elephants". I am at chapter 8 and i am still hoping that this book will turn out to be better. Its written boring so far and the storyline is not making it any better. I know a lot of people will be shocked bout that comment, but i will continue reading and i hope that it will get better. So far its quite boring to me.UPDATE:Well i did finish this book and i dont know how this book got so many 5 star ratings?????? did i miss something? The whole story was BORING and I really didnt care to much for the main characters. The old man telling the story was a good Idea but at the end it was simply dissapointing.If you didint finish the book yet, then dont continue to read!From the first moment when he met August his wife we all knew what would happen.so that was not surprising at all.After reading and figuring out how august was acting up all the time it was also not hard to figure that he probbably had a mental problem. That was not surprising neither.I really wanted to like this book and i kept my word and finished it in the hope that it will get way better but .... no... this book is OVERRATED!
5 Water for Elephants took me by surprise. This book was really well-written. Not only does this author know how to tell a story, she educates the reader without making it unreadable. She seamlessly wove the main characters story around the unknown story of circus life during 1930s. She offers a glimpse of animal treatment, different types of jobs within and the classes that separate the workers, the expectations given by towns on entertainment, prohibition, etc. The research is evident and I welcomed and looked forward to it. The book does have romance but it has so much more depth so I read freely, not really anticipating the story between the hero and the heroine.Sara Gruen has made me a fan and has given me hope for modern writers.
5 As always, the book is better than the movie, yet the movie was good, too! The author tells a first rate, unique story that had me laughing at various points. There were also points I was in tears. Am looking forward to see what Ms. Gruen writes next.
4 Great book. Slow paced but with enough detail and grace to make it hard to put the book down. Recommended.
5 I just finished this book after three days of reading, and I could not put the book down. It has been awhile since a book has had that type of impact on me. This book was excellent.I never really thought of the circus being around during the Great Depression. Everytime people hear 'Great Depresion' people automatically think of the soup kitchens and as Ms. Gruen put it 'hobo jungles'. I was pleased to learn a little bit about the circus during this time period and learn that there were harsh treatments and conditions of the animals AND workers in this book (which is horrible because I love animals, and people shouldn't be treated like nothing). I have read a few reviews regarding the volgar and violent content of the book. Let's face it, this is what happened (or at least similar to what was so to say). There were no strict enforcements on labor law or even animal laws such as PETA back then. This was life; workers and performers thought of it as such. It is unpleasant to read and even learn about but it was a different time and a different world. Just like other tragic times in history (wars, genocides, slavery, etc.). As for the volgar parts, like the sexual scenes, just part of life back then too and I suppose Ms. Gruen wanted it to be properly formatted.This book is very descriptive, and emotional, has an excellent plot and an unexpected ending. This was unlike any other endings to be honest, and I was shocked and pleased with it. The pauses between young Jacob and old Jacob got me too, just because I feel sorry for old Jacob and happy he's able to go back to an important time to him. Got you thinking about the people in those situations who have nobody left and feel like a burden to your family just to come visit.If you are looking for a love story, happy ending and action book, this book is for you! :) Five stars!
5 At 23 life can be difficult for anyone, but for Jacob Jankowski, a veterinary student at Cornell, difficult is a bit of an understatement. Not only has he just tragically lost both of his parents, but thanks to the bank he is now broke, and homeless. Unclear as to what to do next Jacob starts walking, unfortunately a few hours later he realizes he is lost and his feet are covered in blisters. In short... he's no better off than when he started, but... all of that is about to change when he hears a train is coming his way.  With no clue as to where he is, or where to go next, Jacob makes a decision; hop the train and see where it takes him, little did he know that that would be the circus. Finding himself knee deep in the Benzini Brother's most spectacular show on Earth; Jacob quickly discovers that his "previous" life may (in fact) do him justice in his "new" one, and takes on a job as the circus' official veterinarian. With animals however, comes their performers and that's where things start to get sticky. Marlena is beautiful, kind, smart, and more importantly... taken. Will Jacob be able to control his feelings for the one person he is forbidden from caring about? Why and how are people disappearing off of the train, and what REALLY happened that fateful day when the world flipped upside down and all hell broke loose?Gruen is very clearly a masterful storyteller.  Not only did she deliver a gasp worthy love story, but the background in which her story took place was so artfully crafted that after only 1 chapter I found it impossible to put down.  The detail involved in creating the grit of a traveling circus (while at the same time tacking such issues as the Great Depression and Prohibition) was genius, and to do it through the eyes of 1 man at very different times in his life (23 and 90 or 93) added a depth and emotional connection that would have otherwise been lost if penned differently. The story as a whole was perfectly plotted, leaving zero downtime for the readers mind to wonder off or lose focus of the moral dilemmas at hand, and at the end of the day became: just another one of those books that sucks you in and doesn't let you go.Overall...a wonderful book and an interesting peek into classic American history.Happy Reading my fellow Kindle-ites and remember: animals may not be able to talk to you, but they can understand you. Be nice
3 Sure it is a well researched book.  The detail and description of circus life is very realistic and at times downright disgusting.  But what else does this book have that made one of my friends rave that this was the best book she had every read.  I'll tell you what....nothing.  I partly read this book on the recommendation of friend but I also wanted to read it because it was described as a murder mystery book.  A mystery murder it is not and by the end of this book I wanted all of the main characters to go away too!  I won't spill any beans but frankly this book deserved less time on the best seller's list and more time on the bottom of my discard pile (the books I will never read again or books that I would like to forget).  You make up your mind.
5 This was my book club's book this month.  I don't always like what they pick, but I give each book 100 pages before giving up on it.  I liked this book immediately.The main character is in a nursing home and the story goes between his life there and his memories of his younger days when he worked for a circus.The imagery is excellent and you can feel the movement of the train as the author is describing the setup of the cars and where everyone rides.  You can smell the disinfectant in the nursing home when Jacob is there.I guess one of the reasons I liked this book is that I've never read something on this topic.  It was very interesting to learn about the different aspects of the circus and its struggle for survival.This is slower reading, you can't plow through it like one of those books you read on the beach, but you will enjoy every moment!
4 I enjoyed this book although it wasn't quite up to my expectations having been recommended it after finishing a Salmon Rushdie's 'Midnights Children'.  There was certainly plenty of suspense and interest in the story and the author's extensive research is obvious.  There are some great characters in the novel and it has a lovely ending with a twist.
5 This book is a near perfect read. I recommend it to everyone I know. And absolute must read!!
5 This book was recommended to me a 1000 times just by everybody (including Amazon). The thing is I thought it was going to be really depressing: a circus (they really depress me), great depression era.... and when I started reading it.... an old man in a home. Well, I finally thought, ok I HAVE to read it, at least to see why everybody is so in love with it, and now I am one of those people recommending it to everyone!Sara Gruen obviously has the gift of being a true story-teller, she just makes you read page after page completely forgetting your surroundings. The story is original, it has a drama and a force that absorbs you into it.If you want to have a great time reading or are looking for a special gift for someone: BUY THIS BOOK!
2 I had to force myself to finish this and was continually disgusted with the animal cruelty. Maybe I should have stuck w/the gut instinct that I don't usually care for historical fiction? Gruen's insight into the minds of the aging is wonderful - she should have written something focusing on that. This book could also have been about 75 pages shorter and was painfully slow at times. The writing was not "stellar" - I just don't see all the hype but for the millions that loved it I'm glad for you - just be prepared if you haven't read it to wince w/some of the scenes.
5 I just finished Water for Elephants and could not put it down. I won't tell you why, but please read the prologue at the beginning of the book prior to starting the book.It was such a beautiful story. It was a subject that I never thought I would interested in but boy was I wrong! Read it...you will love it no matter what age you are!
5 could not put this book down and read it in a couple of days. such a nice story. sad and happy both at the same time. you will enjoy it.
5 I take issue when reviewers write extremely detailed reviews of excellent novels, such as this one, so I advise not to read all the long detailed ones here, and just take a chance with this book- you will not be disappointed!I am ashamed to admit that I saw this book in a few different bookstores under the "recommended reading" sections/tables, but never purchased it since it didn't seem to interest me. It was only after it kept appearing on my personal "recommendations" through Amazon.com that I decided to give it a shot, since the recommendations I get are usually pretty good. Thankfully I did, and was pleasantly surprised by how much I LOVED this novel!"Water For Elephants" is truly a rare find- meticulously researched and beautifully written, it manages to educate the reader (about circus life, Depresssion-era America, etc) while at the same time captures your heart with stories of love and loss and the reality of growing old. I fell in love with the characters and the author's writing style and truly hope to read more of her work - she has such a natural gift!I HIGHLY recommend this novel to absolutely anyone - I think people of all ages, backgrounds and interests will find something in it to relate to and to learn from.
5 An amazing journey filled with brutality, compassion, and love against the crazy backdrop of the circus life. Beautifully written. You will not be able to resist falling in love with Rosie.
4 The book is amazing and well written. I would recommend  it to anyone and even advise skipping the movie. The book is way better.
2 MILD SPOILERS--I'm a little confused as to why this novel is classified as literary fiction, as it's lacking the strong character development and emotional complexity that most literary fiction strives for.  I'm aware I'm in the minority, but I can't honestly say I enjoyed this book.  It was very predictable, and the characters were wooden.  Marlena has zero depth--and Joseph isn't much better.  They fall in love, but it seems more like the affair happens because the author wrote it into the plot, not because these were two developed, real people whose minds and hearts shared something magical.  A few of the secondary characters have more detail, but they never go beyond superficial personality traits.The elephant is the absolute best part, and once I read that Gruen was inspired by old stories and photographs of real circus elephants and performers, I wished she'd gone ahead and written a non-fiction book so she could really delve into the struggle of the era and the horrible treatment of these animals.  She makes aspects of the circus interesting--in fact, that's why I kept reading even after I'd given up on the story having any real complexity or resonance, but the whole book is littered with anachronistic language that disturbs the realism she's aiming for.She's trying to get at some very deep issues (mental illness, extra-marital affairs, spousal abuse, the traumas of the Great Depression) but it's all very superficial.  She never quite digs deep enough to give these real complexity or power, so all of the characters have very obvious, stereotypical, predictably shallow reactions to these deep issues, and I was left feeling a bit like I was reading a kid's slightly juvenile interpretation of events.  Overall, disappointing and even a little simplistic.  The frame of Joseph in the old folks' home is the richest and most emotionally complicated part of the text--until the ending, which is utterly unrealistic and saccharine.
5 This book was beautifully written. I felt so connected to the characters and the descriptions made the characters that much more vivid in my mind.The content regarding animal cruelty was hard to read for me. I cried a few times as I read them.With that said, I think it is beautiful and honorable for these elephants to be acknowledged and their names remembered as their stories are further shared with the world.The details in the book regarding the workers and the environment of the circus were accurate and well portrayed.I felt a connection with all of the characters not just their Marlena and Jacob.
5 I adore this book.  I love the characters and they are so well written as to visualize them.  I like the use of first person narration of the main character Jacob Jankowski.  It is interesting to go from the present to the past, and back.  It really integrates the progression of the character rather than a linear progression.  I read this book a couple of years ago, but reading it again, I found I couldn't exactly remember the outcome and was like reading it anew.  The character of Rosie is one of my favorites, inspite of the fact that she is an Elephant.  August is hard to take, yet one can see before it's revealed that he clearly is mentally unwell.  The tension of the triangular relationship was reminiscent of the trio in Sophies Choice.  Walter the clown and Camel are both very sympathetic characters, though Walter's true nature is revealed slowly from being a crusty, mean spirited person to one with great compassion.  The historical details of the depression era and circus life is so well drawn as to feel you have been working on a circus throughout this story.I highly recommend this book.
5 Loved this book!  It was a reminder of my childhood experience in a small town when the circus came, with a definite look at the seedy side of the circus life.  The story was filled with the good and bad that exists in every element of society.  I loved the author's style of writing from the memory of a man in his 90's, which also gave the reader empathy for that stage of life.  Great ending as well!
5 I loved this book.  It was very honest and doesn't hold anything back.  It really pulls you in.  Once you start reading, you can't seem to put it down.
2 This is quite an unusual book, but the story is told very well. I recommended it to friends.
3 Let me say at the outset of this review that I usually read literary fiction.  This book was a departure for me, one that I took on the faith of the 1600+ positive reviews.  Those reviews misled me, I'm afraid.It's mystifying why so many reviewers loved this book.  It's not a bad story, a fairly straightforward narrative without any literary flourishes, written in plain language and present tense. Certainly the author did her research so she could use the right lingo and details.  Flash-forwards to the protagonist's current life in a nursing home only provide a pretense for the ending, unfortunately.  The plot is so thin that until about 3/4ths of the way through, I was convinced there wasn't one.  Likewise, the characters are fairly thinly realized, except for the "paranoid schizophrenic" villain and the intelligent elephant, Rosie.  I found myself wondering why I even liked the protagonist, who fashioned himself as a kind of savior for a couple of victimized lesser players.  Recently bereaved, the protagonist's experience of bereavement is completely absent from the book, which I found unrealistic at best.That said, I was surprised that I stuck it out and read to the end, which is why I didn't give the book a lower rating.  In all honesty, the last quarter of the book is quite possibly the best, when the main character finally acts on all his misguided desires. However, the final scene disappointed me; it seemed a bit too contrived.Light reading, this one.  If you want to read for 30 minutes before bed, this is a good bet, because it doesn't not require much thought or deconstruction.
5 This book takes place back and forth from the great depression / present day. I thoroughly enjoyed the story and  the characters. I became so wrapped up in this book I had to tell all of my friends to read it and they more or less all agree with me when I say this was a great love story.
5 Never thought that a book in this setting would be so riveting.  I'm so glad I read this.  I loved the characters and the build that she was able to achieve as the story progressed.  The love story was incredible and not with just humans.  The conflict escalated to keep the book going and it was a great mix.  The narrator stole my heart.  I might even read this book for a second time!
2 This book is an easy read - a straightforward, uncomplicated, simple story sprinkled with profanity, violence, animal cruelty, and sex.  I think if you like books about the downside of humanity then this book might interest you.  There's plenty of examples of human and animal exploitation.  The "love story" aspect between Marlena and Jacob is lackluster at best.
5 I read this book in about a week and a half and I don't have much time to read. After the negative reviews, I was waiting for it to let me down but I never got there. I was interested through the whole thing and wanted to know what was going to happen next.I read it for a book club selection and was happy with the book. Not sure I want to see the movie depending on what I hear about the animal abuse. I don't think I could take it.Great read and I will recommend to others.
5 I waited to watch the film until I read the novel.  What a great read.  I thoroughly enjoyed this book, and was disappointed to see it come to an end.
5 What a gem! Really enjoyed this book... so much that I'm having a hard time picking my next book for fear it wont be as entertaining as this one was.
5 I bought this book in September 2007. That means I had it in my drawer for almost five years and I just kept postponing reading it (I bought it along with many other books and it took me a while to read them all; then other books got on the way and so on).  When the movie came I refused to watch it knowing I should read the book first. And so I finally made up my mind and did it. It's a great book. I'm not a circus fan but the love story is precious. It was interesting to read about the Great Depression and how hard it was to make a living. I liked the pictures inside the book. I think they were a nice touch from the author. And of course I rented the movie and watched it after reading the book. Guess what? The book is better!
5 I was given this book years ago. Looked at the cover and didnt feel compelled to read it.It sat on my bookcase for years.The movie came out and then the books were everywhere.So, i decided to read the first chapter and see what happened next.I finished this book in a day.It was such a unique story that was so touching and page-turning!This is a great read!That was the last time I judged a book by its cover.
5 I never got to see the movie so decided to read the book. I had heard from another person that they didn't like it. But I don't listen to other reviews and I'm glad I didn't. I really enjoyed this book. It was entertaining, emotional and kept me guessing. Very well written.
5 One of the greatest books that I have ever read. I have yet to see the movie, but I don't think that I will now; the book was too good.
2 The book is okay so far, but I'm very distracted by the horrible Kindle formatting.  I've never had a problem with a Kindle book before, but this one is full of gaps and spacing problems. Dialogue is separated by abnormally huge gaps, but author-intended spaces intended to denote a pause are the same gaps as the extraneous ones; in other words, the intentional spaces are lost in the shuffle.  This makes the book very hard to read and follow, since I'm never sure if it's a "Kindle" gap or an "author" gap.  This was very poorly digitized.  It almost makes the book unreadable because it is such a distraction.
5 This is a great read, one you can devour---and I don't even like circuses. The reviews piqued my interest and Water for Elephants was even better than I expected. Pleasing on every level---prose style, plot, denouement. Actually you will probably guess part of the ending but it is ever so satisfying. I sat and thought about this one a long time after I finished reading.
4 I experienced to this book as an audiobook, so my opinion is shaped by that.  Also, I scanned a few 1- and 2-star reviews before I read the book, to see what some people didn't like, so some of my review is addressing others' opinions.First, the narrators for the audio book I thought did a pretty good job. The young Jacob did a wonderful job using varying voices for the various circus people and I forgot they were all spoken by the same person. The old Jacob's voice was great for a crotchety old man, but still clear enough to understand. 4 out of 5 stars for narration.I thought the story overall was good. I did not feel as much of a connection to the characters as I would have liked and that may be due to the "shallow" writing that some people have complained about in reviews. I did laugh out loud in the car listening to some of the narration by the "old Jacob" though, I thought his character was amusing.I don't claim to know much of anything factual about the early 20th century or life in the circus (then or now) for that matter. With that said, I thought the descriptions of this FICTIONAL circus and recent college graduate veterinarian were nicely done. I felt like I understood what the narrator was talking about and how he was feeling (most of the time).Yes, there was some animal cruelty and there was some sex/masturbation. While I don't particularly enjoy reading about animals being hurt or neglected, I felt that the things they were doing seemed as if they might have been done during that time period due to desperation/ignorance or that was just what everyone else did. As for the sex/masturbation, again, I don't generally enjoy reading those things, but I thought they might have been appropriate for the time and characters.  How else is a little person going to get physical pleasure in a time before "political correctness" where his mother SOLD him to the circus to be a circus freak/clown because of his stature?  The sex between the characters was inevitable and if someone is so offended by it that they quit the book, maybe they should go back to reading Dick and Jane (unless you're also offended by the word/name Dick).Overall, I enjoyed the story. Interesting time period, good characters, and good narration from two different perspectives of the same character. I've never read any books about the circus and after reading this one, I might have to find some others. This is the first book I've read by Sara Gruen and I have another book by her "Ape House" in the car and ready to listen to later today.
5 If you want to feel the sorrow and excitement of joining the circus and the sorrow of old age in our country, Ms. Gruen could not have crafted a better story.  The protagonist, a Polish vet student, of all things, joins the circus and therein begins the story of corrupt managment, the wonderful animals and the class system among the workers and the performers.  The reader is provided with historical information while the author paints a vivid picture of the circus train and its dynamics.  She interweaves a touching love story and a strong respect for circus animals, espcially Rosie, the elephant who only understood Polish commands! Read it - you won't be wasting your time.
4 When this book came out in hardcover, I passed it by.  No interest in reading about circus freaks.  When the book came out in paperback, I passed it by.  Still did not sound interesting.  Three people recommended it to me and then, finally, a friend gave it to me after she finished it.  Still, I waited a month or so before beginning it.  Within the first few chapters, I was intrigued.  I loved the descriptions - created a definite picture in my mind.  I loved the characters - I wanted to know what would happen to them.  Although I thought the end was somewhat predictable, on the whole, I found this a very enjoyable read.
5 One published review of this book described it as a "romance between star-crossed lovers" ... what an unengaged, superficial understatement that is!It's ever so much more. Among other things, it's a young man's coming-of-age; it's about a test of character and compassion in the demanding, cruel, carnival atmosphere of both the circus and the Great Depression, all accomplished while the death of the young man's parents is still fresh.You'll smell the blood & stench of the circus, feel the splinters of the train's floorboards, and breath dust as the musty tents slap bare ground at yet another town of rubes; you'll empathize with the rib-thin sadness of the (mostly) sweet, sweet, circus animals; you'll feel the protagonist's love, lust, pain, and anger as he makes the choices that allow him to become a man. You'll see these same qualities shine forth in the 90-year old (or is it 93-year old?) version of the man.I found it astounding that the author of his book is a woman. My experience of myself and my male friends as young men, and of my father as an old man in assisted living, ring true with the nuances embeded in this book. It's also evident that substantial research was necessary to give the book the authentic feel that it has. And not only does this book reverberate with atmosphere, heart, and passion; it's a good read! The pacing, plot and narrative make for a non-stop adventure. Highly recommended.
4 It is such a pleasure to dive into a book and read wonderful prose.  As a busy busy person who is a reader I found myself stealing moments where ever I could to read this book.  The story held my interest on evey page and I learned alot about the circus, cruelty and class.  Read this book it is delicious.
5 Water for Elephants amazed me.  It was not at all what I expected.  I knew it was about a circus, and obviously for the title, an elephant was involved.  What I was not prepared for however, was the cruelty it showed.  And I don't doubt for a minute, that even though this was fiction, that these atrocities didn't happen in real circuses.We are introduced to a death in the prologue.  While it is fuzzy and hard to tell who's who, we are witnesses to a scene that the narrator, Jacob, has viewed and never forgotten. Mayhem abounds as we discover that the menagerie of a circus is on the stampede.We are then reintroduced to Jacob, many years later, as he is a resident at a nursing home.  He is ninety three, or ninety one, he can't keep it straight and a circus is in town and being set up within sight of the nursing home.  This causes him to reminisce about his time spent with the Benzini Brothers circus.As a runaway college student, after the death of his parents, he finds himself hopping a train that turns out to be part of the circus train.  There, instead of being thrown off, he is taken in by an older man named Camel who secures him a job with the circus mucking stalls, which later turns into a position as the circus's veterinarian.He falls in love with Marlena, the wife of his schizophrenic boss August.  While he keeps his love hidden, August, dangerous and unpredictable makes life tough for Jacob in the circus while in his better moments is a best friend to him.He also makes the acquaintance of Walter, a dwarf clown whom he bunks with and together they help Camel in his time of need.  He also makes an unlikely friend in Rosie, an elephant picked up from another failing circus whom he feels a bond with and devastation at her treatment from the cruel August.Throughout the book it cuts back and forth from Jacob at the nursing home, to his reminisces of the circus and its happenings.  One of the ending chapters recaps the prologue, only with more detail.Gruen does such a marvelous job on this book that you would believe she had traveled with a circus.  But she hadn't, all her knowledge came form extensive research and interviews.  The result is this novel, gritty and real and it keeps you at the edge of your seat wondering what is going to happen.  Jacob's tale is one I could read over and over again.  By far this turned out to be one of my favorite books.  And the ending, well in hopes to get you reading this book, the ending was perfect and real fitting for such a wonderful tale.  Its well worth the read.Water For ElephantsPublished in 2006331 pages
4 This book was engaging and a good read.The story kept me interested & not skipping pages.It was interesting how it flipped from current to past in the chapters.It was my first novel by Sara Gruen. I'd definitely look for others.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed every word of this book.  I was actually quite disappointed when I reached the end.  I recommend this book to everyone I know!Water for Elephants: A Novel
5 This paperback has sat on my bookshelf for two years and last week I finally got round to reading it - was I surprised! Quite simply, I found Water for Elephants an exceptional read and one that any reader should not miss. Briefly the novel is during the Depression in the USA and it recalls how a circus struggles to survive. The story is seen from the eyes of Jacob Jankowski, an unqualified vet who jumped on the Benzini Brothers circus train, one evening after the shocking death of his parents.The action in Water for Elephants is just right; more than sufficiently paced to keep the reader glued to the pages. There are flashbacks reverting back to the nursing home of the present-day, where Jacob is finding his aged infirmity unbearable, but somehow this only adds to the depth of the story.Sara Gruen has created a circus world that's believable; one that you feel right in the midst of and this is carried through with her characters.  Uncle Al, (the circus boss) and August, (the animal trainer) are characters you'll hate. Whereas Marlena, Kinko the Dwarf, and Camel are character's you'll love. Chief protagonist is Jacob Jankowski and I found myself completely empathising with him. His struggle to fit into circus life, gain acceptance from his peers and deal with the urges of his love interest, make him a hugely engaging character.I highly recommend this book. It's a gripping story and is one of those novels which will both shock and thrill you. The stark poverty of the early nineteen hundreds is interspersed with details of the emotional deprivation the main character, Jacob experiences in a nursing home during his latter years. Yet in both settings a light is shone on acts of kindness which define our humanity and reinforce the fragile dignity of those who are almost overwhelmed by their plights. There is a social history dimension to the story which enhances its value and impact. This is easily one of the better books I've ever read.
5 Beautiful and enchanting tale set in a circus. Excellent story that is beautifully written and utterly absorbing. Highly enjoyable - recommend!
5 I bought the audio of this and was enthralled and wouldnt get out of my car for two weeks.  I bought the book also, just to keep it.  An original premise, the work reads evenly and there was nothing that I didn't like about it.  Pleaded with Hollywood to make it into a movie, but probably won't watch it as I don't like the actors, as in my head Tom Hanks was the father.Anyway great book, don't hesitate.
5 baby boomers beware, if you have an aging parent who brought you up on stories about the depression and a relative that joined the circus for work, or vice versa ( that should cover several million people) you will enjoy this book.it isn't about the circus, it isn't about aging, its about life and love.a truly beautiful book.
5 great story,well written. I can't say anything about the circus parts but the nursing home parts were really close to home,and I about cried at some of that. highly recommended to read this book. loved it.
4 This was an incredible read and a quick read if you want something to captivate you for a trip.  For fictional history it's clear the author did her homework.  The author took many real events and spun them into the journey of a fictional character through a composite circus during the depression.  The story is exciting and hard to put down.  The intro leaves you wondering throughout the whole story.  Its very easy to relate to the main character and feel what he feels, stress, confusion, love...  I can't say much else without giving away the books little secrets.
5 I received an advance reader's copy of this book, and gave it to my neighbors to read. They thought it was ok, but no great shakes. But every bookseller I spoke to loved, loved this book. So I decided to read it. *I love this novel* and cannot put it down! Gruen really fleshes out the characters in this book. And what I especially enjoy is the strong sense of time and place she evokes, she recreates a real slice of Americana. Water for Elephants is set during the Depression, a time long before I was born. I feel as if I much better understand what life was like for Americans during this period, and the importance circuses played in providing some escape from people's otherwise desperate lives. And I feel as if I glimpsed what life is really like in a circus, behind the facade of magic and glamour. I heartily recommend this novel to anyone wanting a compelling read, even though there were some aspects of the plot that I could see coming from a long way off. The real photographs from Depression-era circuses included at the beginning of each chapter was a nice touch, as was the striking cover art. The ending could have been heartbreakingly sad, but it turned out to be uplifting, made me turn the last page with a sigh that I had finished this fairy tale. I highly recommend this book, now I know what all the bookseller buzz is about.
3 The quality of the writing is not in question. My problem is that I did not find the characters or plot to be engaging. I did not enjoy the book and have no interest in seeing the movie.
1 I would have given this book no stars but that is not an option.This book is horrendous. I cannot imagine anyone with a lick of intelligence actually enjoying this trash. I threw it away after 25 pages.
3 This is a well researched and reasonably well written book,in the sense I began to care what happens to the main characters. There are serious weaknesses, though, which are very irritating. Compared to all the prattle about his falling in love at first sight with a woman, there's not much in this book about this veterinarian's love for animals. He just has a dim realization that he's got to take care of them because in the midst of all the cruelty, he's all they've got. The end of this vets years in the circus are compressed too much, so the book switches from very great detail of his life as a young man, all of a sudden, to his life as an ancient in a nursing home!I am an animal lover, and felt cheated that this circus based book was just another love story, and all about the people. There are some remarkable strenghts, too..Ms. Gruen's description of the elderly in assisted living is brilliant and moving. Though I enjoyed the book, it's not a keeper and I will be passing it on to a friend without any reluctance to give the book away. M
5 I really liked this book!!! This is the first book I've read by S.Gruen. Now I'll probably try something else of hers.
5 I read this book in a day. I simply could not put it down. It was so dark, with just a touch of goodness, which in itself was even complex. The love aspect of the story was so muddied, and heart wrenching, it made me feel for Jacob and for Marlena. How confusing it all was.Plus this story is based around a lifestyle we never hear about...a traveling circus. I loved Jacob, Marlena, and animals and even began to love Kinko.This book is by far a favorite, and so captivating.
5 I thourghly enjoyed this book. The majority of the book about the young man in the travelling circus was a great adventure. And the parts with the old man in the rest home gave an interesting perspective. I highly recommend this book.
4 I enjoyed this book; it was like an interesting history lesson or a memoir and I learned a lot about the horrors of living with the circus in the early 20th century. The relationships weren't as well developed as I like, neither were the characters. But the variety of characters made the story very interesting. The concept of Jacob as as old man remembering the circus is a good idea, but I didn't like Jacob as an old man; he was grumpy, self-centered, and aloof. I thought it took Jacob out of character because as a young man he was very mild mannered and pleasant. I don't think that part made the story better.
5 The vivid descriptions of the characters and setting, the obvious depth of research the author did in order to write this book, the historic photos dispersed throughout the story, the fascinating plot, the seemless transfer between past and present, and the most satisfying ending makes this read one of the best I have encountered in a long time. I just could not put this book down. Amazing all around!
3 I have never thought of giving a book a "content suitability for certain audiences" rating before I read this one.  I would have to give this an "X: Adults Only" rating due to the explicit sexual content, violence and language which I found unnecessary for this story line.This story tells a tale of two time lines in the life of a circus veterinarian. It begins as the elderly version of the man who is forced into memories of his youth. Through the story,  he is transported back and forth between the two time lines. This is the first dual time line story that I've actually enjoyed. With the exception of the "X" rated parts. This is a delightful easy read. The author has a talent for description which allows the reader to easily become absorbed by the story line.  She has done quite a bit of research into circuses of the past, which helps to make the story more authentic.
5 Jacob Jankowski is just about through with veterinary school when fate switches things up a bit and turns his world upside down.  He decides to hop a train and ends up in the middle of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.  The Great Depression was just in its early stages so for Jacob having a paying job was lucky but he also found parts of the circus life to be a living hell.  As he was just shy of his degree, Jacob ends up being put in charge of the menagerie, the starring animals of the show.He then meets Marlena, the beautiful equestrian act star who happens to be married to August, the twisted and manipulative animal trainer for the show.Uncle Al, the big boss of the Benzini Brothers, makes a habit of visiting other circus shows that fold and go under.  There he has his pick of their performers and animals.  It is at one such place that he picks up Rose, an untrainable elephant.  He hopes her to be the savior of this traveling show that struggles a bit to keep up with Ringling Brothers, the top of the line.  Jacob finds an instant connection with Rosie and the show and his life start to change.The book alternates between Jacobs time with the circus and his "present" time where he is 90 ("or maybe 93"...as he can't quite remember) and in an assisted living home.  A circus has come to town and is visible out of the windows of the home.  No one knows Jacobs past at the home when a new resident comes along and claims he carried water for the elephants in the circus when he was younger.  This kind of woos the ladies and makes Jacob (who is much the curmudgeon by this time in his life) very upset and sets off a string of trouble for him at the home.The prologue when read at the beginning of the book very much drew me in to the story.  When the same story makes its appearance toward the end of the book it is amazingly powerful.  You'll just have to read it for yourself to truly see what I'm talking about.You can really tell that the author has a love of the circus and has done her research to bring the most accuracy she can to this tale.  I honestly thought when I heard about this book from everyone that it was really not my cup of tea.  I'm not one to just read love stories...I have to have some kind of conflict or suspense or something along those lines to keep my interest.  That being said, this book does not lack for anything.  It is really a great read and I would suggest giving it a shot even if you are having doubts about whether you will love it or not.  Fantastic read....hoping to see the movie and also hoping it will not let me down.
3 I was torn between two or three stars. I read this book for my book club, otherwise it is unlikely I would have picked it up considering my backlog.Personally I didn't find anything wow-ish or over the top astounding with this story. Besides that it takes place in a circus. It had its moments of course, which makes me think that what really makes you like a book is not sometimes the overall story, but a couple of scenes that really stand out. And this had a handful of those, especially those set in the present time, which were the only ones to actually pull my emotional strings, which usually doesn't take much I'm afraid, and considering that this book didn't stir much in me overall. Not even the traditional `big twist' scene riled me up. I actually read a paragraph past it then did a double take on `oh that was suppose to be it'.
5 I sampled this book because it's so popular and the price was right. The author's voice captured me with the authenticity of the elderly Jacob. Literally seconds after I finished reading the sample, I hit "buy now." One of the most brilliant techniques in the book, and my personal favorite, is the little jolt the author created every time the point of view switches from young Jacob to old Jacob, and it makes you flinch as though you too have been wrenched from the prime of your life into the body of a decrepit codger in a nursing home.The ending is perfect and satisfyingThe scenes depicting cruelty to animals were emotionally difficult to read, though. If that kind of thing bothers you, you may not enjoy the story.
5 This just became My Number One most favorite story I have ever read in my life!!  period!!  And I have a gut feeling it always will be.
5 KEEP ME SPELL BOUND TILL THE END. I WENT OUT AND GOT THE HER REST OF HER BOOKS. I WANT TO SEE THE MOVIE TOO.
2 For all the hype this gets I expected much better writing.  I cringed at the fact that the 'hero' of the story never stepped in to help the animal he loved so much when it was savagely beaten by the 'simon legree' type circus overseer.  It is only by the grace of the writer that the elephant didn't strike out at all of the obnoxious people who let the beatings occur!Some of the other reviews say much of what I thought about this book and the writing.  The characters are thin, not lovable, not anyone I root for ... with the one exception of the hero as an old man.  That is better done than any of the rest.The interaction of him with the nurse, Rosemary, is more real than that with Marlena.  I don't recommend this book for those who want good writing.  This is rather amateurish in so many ways.  I do admire that the author did the research... but her execution of the story and the story line leave a lot to be desired.  I felt the writing and plot itself wasn't much above that of a 'bodice ripper'.  I was disappointed.
3 It was good, much better than the movie.  It held my attention and provided much of  a circus background. It was interesting.
5 This is one of the best written books I have read in 2006, older people will certainly recognize some of their own life, and younger people should see a whole new view of their future.
5 This is a beautifully written novel. I gave it to my dad two Christmases ago, and meant to borrow it for myself, but kept forgetting. I finally put it on hold (still in high demand) at my local library and had my chance at reading.The story wraps you up and brings you to it's world. It has been a little while since I read it, and I don't like giving out specifics, but I cannot find fault with this book.I highly recommend it b/c it will remain on your mind for weeks after reading it and you'll be glad you got to know the characters and their stories.
1 i cant believe how many people are in love with this book. i really, really wanted to like it, and kept waiting for it to be good, but it was so boring i could hardly even concentrate. like another reviewer said, the best part was the pictures, and that says alot. dont waste your time.
5 This is a great book. I had seen the movie, so knew I had to read the book. I'm loving using my kindle!
5 What an interesting and enjoyable book to read. It was heart wrenching at times, especially the way the animals were treated. But it really opened my eyes as to why so many folks don't think that animals should be made to perform in the circus. Great read.
2 Here are my problems with this book:1) Remove the sex and animal cruelty scenes, and it reads like a script from a bad Disney movie.2) The main character is shallow and throughout the book I had no idea what made him do the things he did. Why did he join the circus in the first place? Not once did he mention missing his dead parents, his home, school etc. Didn't he have any memories from his childhood, no worries about the future, no relatives, no friends? You never knew what he was about to do next, because his motives, thoughts and emotions were never dealt with, and that's probably because the writer had absolutely no idea how to do that properly.3) I get the feeling that some people liked this book simply because it was so easy to read even Bobo the monkey would get it, since it lacked any depth or complication in the script or the characters. Readers who rate this kind of books with 5 stars have obviously no idea what real literature is.4) The dialogue was poor, and so blatantly contemporary that it made me angry at the writer's lazyness of doing her research properly.5) It was so obvious that the writer was a woman that you could not get it out of your mind even for a minute.6) I'm no prude, but I'm sure images of the masturbating dwarf will be haunting me for a long time.7) Trust a good old disaster/great accident to get rid of the bad guys for you. That way you don't get to kill them yourself and become (gasp!) a bad guy yourself. I would be curious to see how the main character would get out of all that mess if the stampede had not happened.8) If you owned a circus and half a brain, would you hire a 90 year old cripple whith serious health problems who ran away from a nursing home and whom you have just met? Yeah, I didn't think so.9) I can't really recall the sex scenes, which means they we probably not as graphic as some readers suggest, and as for the animal cruelty parts of the novel, yes, they were (theoretically) gruesome but failed to disturb me or make a real impression on me because they were simply not convincing or believable, as was the rest of the book.
5 Great book. Could not put it down once I started reading it. After I finished it, my husband read it and enjoyed it as much as I did.
5 This was the best book I've read in a while.  My 89 yr. old father lives in an assisted living and I know he has many of the same feelings as Jacob.  I was fascinated by the lives of those working in a traveling circus and loved how the entire story unfolded.  I will suggest this one to my book club.
5 I absolutely love this book.  It's something you can read over and over.  I recommend it to any one who wants to live a great love story.
4 I enjoyed this book and the trip it takes you on back in time. It was an enjoyable trip for me :)
5 I gave this high marks.  Great story.  Was fresh and held my attention,well written. I couldn't wait to get back to it when I put it down.  Thank you
5 It doesn't happen often where you are just reading a book for the shear beauty of the writing. Water for Elephants may just be that book.There isn't anything truly original about the story but there is something inspired in the creation of her characters and the telling of the story.The beauty of Gruen's prose had me turning pages without a care in the world.
5 Water for Elephants is an unusual story that I found captivating and difficult to put down.  The story is well written and provides a glimpse into circus life and the cruel times during the early years in the twentieth century.  I would recommend it to anyone looking for a fast paced story that is a wee bit like Grapes of Wrath but less dark.
5 An easy and enjoyable read. A interesting look into an unusual way of life. Highly recommend. I'll check out her other books.
2 The books is an easy read with an interesting plot. Characters are not that interesting and the quality of writing is overrated.
5 This book was such a fabulous read.  I literally felt as if I was part of the circus.  A very charming tale.  Totally recommend.
5 A very good read!  The story as related by Jacob, alternated between the present when he's already 90 or 93 and during the 1930s when he was 23 and traveling with the circus.  It talked about loss, love, friendship (odd and otherwise), fellowship, family.  The book is full of so much emotion that even if I have not been to a circus all my life, and given that I am a woman, I was able to transport myself into Jacob's mind, and feel the story.  I just wish there was more to read after the old Jacob got himself into the circus "train" again.
4 This was a selection for our book group last month and although I'm glad I read it, I'm carting ASAP it to our local used bookstore since I don't have the stomach to read it again.I'll let other reviewers take care of the synopsis and author information. What struck me about this book was the author's handling of the violence against animals--human and otherwise. Sara Gruen takes the reader on some kind of amazing highwire act: we teeter on a fine line between wanting to throw the book down because we can't bear to read another page rife with brutality, yet still we are compelled to edge our way another inch closer to her bittersweet and satisfying (if somewhat unbelievable) conclusion.I'm interested to see what else Ms. Gruen has in store for us.
5 Water For Elephants has to be the best novel I've read in a long time.  I read all the time and I rarely read a book that I don't like but this book has to go to the top of the list right up there with The Lord of the Rings and Anna Karenina.  I had been told by several people what a phenomenal story it was for some time and I decided to make it one of my summer reads since it is hard for me to really get into books during the rest of the year (I teach).  One of my students was reading it in May and told me how great it was.  I refused to allow her to tell me anything about it because I was determined to read it as soon as summer began.  It took me a while but I am so glad I finally got around to it.This is a book that is easy to read and really pulls you into the story.  It reminded me of the film Titanic in terms of characters.  I have to say that if you are looking for a book that is truly engaging and pulls at every emotion you've got then don't wait any longer. Read this novel and enjoy!  I didn't want it to end and I can't wait to see how the film is compared to the book.  Only a few novels I've read really stick with me for life and this one is one of them.  You will not regret reading Water For Elephants by Sara Gruen.
5 This book is an absolute must read. I would literally read faster just so I could get more of it read before I had to stop. You constantly want to know what's going to happen next. You feel like you be one a part of the story and you root for your favorite characters to make  it.
5 Growing up I was not a fan of the circus, so I was hesitant in trying this book.  Boy was I surprised.  The characters are engaging and the plot was interesting.  I learned a lot more about circus life and realize my feelings about circuses were justified.
5 This book was so great to curl up and read during the winter months! It was written beautifully and the descriptions are so vivid! You will not be disappointed!
4 I read this on behest of a suggestion...it was definitely worth the read!  I will definitely check out the movie.
4 I loved this book!The meat of the story is told in flashback form. Jacob, a 93-year-old man living in a nursing home, recalls his stint as a vet on a traveling circus during the 1930s. As a young vet student at Cornell, Jacob is just about to sit for his final exams when both of his parents are killed in a car wreck. Sorting through their affairs, Jacob discovers that his family was penniless, having mortgaged their home to pay for his Ivy-league education.Sick with grief, Jacob hops a train. A train, he discovers, that is carrying the Benzini Brothers traveling circus. Before he knows it, he's on staff as the circus vet, tending to the needs of the circus lions, chimpanzees, and other fauna. It doesn't take Jacob long to meet Marlena, the beautiful performer in charge of the trick horses, and he's instantly smitten. However, Marlena's not free; she's already married to August, a bipolar, abusive manager in the traveling outfit. (Hence the requisite love triangle.)The rest of the tale follows Jacob as he discovers Rosie, a talented performing elephant; finds his own voice; siezes true love; and makes his way in the world.This is a great book. It's entertaining and easy to read, but not so rote and predictable that you don't get a kick out of it. Details of circus life in the 1930s are colorful and rich. Plus, the characters are great.
5 I'm going to stop writing reviews if you keep making me write a certain number of words for it to be valid.
4 It's a pretty good book some parts can get boring but over all it was a good read. Would recommend it to people who like a story that follows a good plot..
5 I think this is one of the first books I've given a five star rating since I started my blog. Quite honestly, the goodreads synopses does the book no justice because what this book is-is no less than amazing. Everyone is entitled to their opinion, but mine happens to be that this is one of my all time favorite books. My compairison to the movie almost ruined the book for me, but I'm glad that I was able to get past it.The beginning of the book is very misleading, and it really made me dislike Marlena, the leading lady of this books. It is Marlena who begins an affair with Jacob, our hero, only they don't sleep together until its already been assumed by other people that they were indeed together. I did not like her one bit until the end.One of the most charming aspects of this book is how it flips between young Jacob as he works on the circus with the animals and then back again to him, 90 or 93 (he's not quite sure). I thought that the switch between the two worlds is great because on one side you see this young man who has his whole life ahead of him and then you see where he is today.I loved when he talked about the animals and how he took care of them. Once he mentioned that he was a vet student, you can tell that he is going to work in the capacity of vet to the animals. I hated how the animals were mistreated by August, especially Rosie, who was the lovable elephant. Although Rosie seems stupid, she proves to be a lot smarter than anyone thought.Most of the characters have redeeming qualities that, although they are rough around the edges, you can't help but feel for them. Walter and Camel, Jacob's two bunkmates are no exception to that characterization. Walter- a midget clown and his dog Queenie, are very mean at the start until a prank makes Water soften up on the new guy. Camel was the one that helped to get Jacob a job on the circus to begin with.What made the book for me was also the ending, and although you can interpret it two ways, I chose to see it as an old man who isn't ready to settle down into a nursing home and so instead he moves forward with his life on board with another circus.
5 I was amazed, surprised, and entertained while reading this book, who ever thought about life in a traveling circus! not me that's for sure. Along the entertainment value, the facts, the history, the research was superb.I look forward the movie, even the author and her family will have a cameo.
5 Loved the main character Jacob. Have to watch the movie again, but definitely don't remember this ending. Loved the author interview at the end also, so insightful as to how and why she wrote this book. Definitely have and will recommend.
5 This was a beautiful book with a sweet ending. Definitely some beauty in the memories the main character reminisced on and the reader can get hooked.
1 I just finished reading this book tonight, and all I can say is that I do not understand what all the hype was about over the book/movie. I could not get into this book at all, and could not wait to finish it. If I wasn't the type of person that had to finish all the books I started, I would not have even bothered with this.
5 I saw the preview for the movie and decided I would like to read it  before I watched and I must say the book was better!! Gruen  grasps  your  attention from the first page til the very end of it.. I would definitely recommend reading the book i enjoyed it thoroughly and  will definitely  be looking  for more  by Gruen!
3 I picked up "Water for Elephants" on a whim because I liked the title and the premise was cool: Old-timey circus workers rescue a trained elephant from cruelty. I understood that, while the story was fiction, the author did some research and incorporated several real-life incidents. So, based on this, I actually crossed the threshold of a physical Barnes & Noble, picked "Water for Elephants" off a wooden shelf, and presented my plastic card to a human cashier. For all this effort, I truly hoped the novel would be superb. In some ways, it was.  But overall, no."Water for Elephants" is the story of the struggling Benzini Brothers circus, for which the main character and narrator, Jacob Jankowski, works as a veterinarian. Jacob falls in love with Marlena, a kind and beautiful performer. Unfortunately, Marlena is married to the violently temperamental animal trainer, August. When the circus acquires an elephant, Jacob and Marlena struggle together to defend the sweet pachyderm against August's rages. The story divulges the slimy underbelly of circus life, including gross mistreatment of both human workers and animals, right up to the stunning climax when Marlena ends August's reign of terror.Gruen alternates the novel's setting between a contemporary nursing home where 93-year-old Jacob now lives in a state of semi-dementia, and the 1931 traveling circus. In the nursing home, as Jacob waits for his family to escort him to a modern circus, he wafts in and out of lucidity and mentally revisits his old Benzini Brothers days. Although the flashback technique feels a little worn and, in Gruen's hands, contrived, it does set up a finely constructed and sentimental ending, which is one of the novel's strengths.Aside from the tender conclusion, the story itself has other redeeming qualities. The plot is engaging enough to keep you reading, especially as it nears the climax. Also, Gruen exposes the abuses that occurred in depression-era circuses and, which I fear, probably still exist to some extent. Several scenes are emotionally excruciating, but responsible consumers should be aware of ugly realities.Unfortunately, "Water for Elephants" also disappoints.  First, the characters are shallowly constructed. I didn't walk away with a lasting identification with any of them, and in fact, by the time I wrote this post, I had to look up all of their names. Also, Gruen's writing style is flat and unmemorable. While the premise was promising, her blas&eacute; rendering diminished what might have been a great novel in the hands of a more skilled wordsmith.If you care about animals, you want a good story, and you're not a finicky reader, then step right up! "Water for Elephants" will entertain and amaze, and it may even spur you to reconsider your attitude toward traveling animal shows. But if you're hungry for something profound and beautiful, then move along, folks. There are lots of bigger, better shows out there.(You can find more of my book reviews at ninasbookieblog.blogspot.com.)
5 Water for Elephants is an interesting look into train circuses of the early 20th century. It will captivate you from the beginning and hold you through to the end.
5 I really learned a lot about the circus, the good and bad parts, and have such a great appreciation of all of the work that goes on behind the scenes.  Plus, giving the characters a &#34;real&#34; life and personality, made it all the more interesting.  I loved Rosie, the elephant - such &#34;humanness&#34; in her attitude and loving nature.  I liked the way, as an old man, he was able to reflect and recall his vivid youth working in the circus.
2 Okay... I'll admit I was drawn to this book by the upcoming movie previews and, like most, I had to read it prior to the films release.There is no way the written word will outshine the movie this time. It can't and won't even come close. The character's alone, (Reese Witherspoon and Robert Pattinson) will redeem the satirical shallowness and cliched style simply with their screen presence.As with many of the comments already noted, this book is just not believable. I can totally comprehend how Rosie, an ginormous creature can pull a stake from the ground, okay... even sneek away for a drink or two or ten. But please, pulling the stake and splitting a skull in the midst of such chaos??? I think a more realistic death for him would have been...death by stampede!But more importantly (at least for me)... I would love a comment from ANYONE who can tell me how the Bible's story of Jacob (Genesis) was incorporated into this novel! Did I miss something??? I just don't get it! I say!
5 Jacob Jankowski is a student at Cornell Veterinarian School.  He gets the heart-breaking news that his parents have died in a car crash.  In the throes of the great depression, Jacob finds out there is nothing left of their estate.  He tries to finish his exams but cannot.  Jacob takes the next train out of town.  Inadvertently, he finds himself on the Benzini Brothers Circus train.  Jacob is hired on and becomes immersed in the circus life.  He also falls in love with Marlena, one of the star performers married to August, the equestrian trainer.  Jacob is telling his story some 70 years later as a 93 year old patient in a nursing home.  Present day happenings are interspersed with his memories of life back in '31.  The circus chapters start with historical photographs lending to the authenticity of events.  Mesmerizing writing, fascinating characters, and actual documented circus events combine to make this an exceptional novel to enjoy!
4 Pluses: This novel is well constructed and well-written (with the exception of a few too many "outrageously long eyelashes" describing the elephant) and the main characters well-drawn. The pace of the plot and the use of flashbacks work very well and speed things smoothly along.  The sensitivity between nursing home resident Jacob and favorite nurse Rosemary is beautifully portrayed, and Jacob's observations in the nursing home seem right on target.Minuses: (1) Not enough solid background research into the psyche of the lead character (Jacob) as an almost-veterinarian (moreover, he is also son of a veterinarian).  There were passages where his feelings for and about animals were almost entirely ignored.  In general, there would have been more solid creativity if the author had explored and deepened the relationship of the vet with the animals.  I was expecting Jacob to develop a very deep understanding of at least the elephant, leading to a very strong bond, etc.  He goes through the motions, but I never believe he really understands the elephant, and this is one of the most important parts of the story.(2) Conversely, too much attention is given the run-of-the-mill sexual awakening and human love story of the main character.  I don't mind that it's part of the novel, but I was expecting a deep, enchanting bond between human and animals, which would set the novel apart from the ho-hum.  For me, this borders on a Romance Novel, and should be advertised as such.(3) There was just barely enough information about the circus to hold the story up, and there could have been richer texture by beefing up the details about circus life.Summary: If you happen to have read Waller's -The Bridges of Madison County-(another book that caused a big stir, even though it was basically a romance novel), as well as a perfect gem of a book called -Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistlestop Cafe- (Fannie Flagg's masterpiece that was almost as good on film) and if you've read Berger's -Little Big Man- one of the most creative uses of the flashbacks of an very aged man (not so good on film)...put these 3 together and you can imagine what -Water for Elephants- is like.Better yet, if you haven't read Fried Green Tomatoes or Little Big Man, GO READ THOSE INSTEAD of Water for Elephants.  And if you're interested in the circus, I recommend Bruce Feiler's -Under the Big Top-.
3 The story was good but had too many swear words for my taste. The circus storyline was very interesting (ie, how a circus works, what happens behind the scenes, etc). I was also surprised to find a good description of getting old. If you're interested in reading just that part of the book, skip the chapters with pictures at the beginning. In doing so, you'll also skip most of the foul language.I've given this book 3 stars, but it really should be 2 and a half.
4 It took me a long time to pick up Water for Elephants, because I'm generally not a fan of the same type of books that seem so popular. I was hesitant when I first bought it and wasn't expecting much. I was pleasantly surprised when I dove into it - I couldn't put it down. I've heard a lot of people complain that this falls short of "real" circus life - but I can tell you, it's as close as I'm sure you'll ever get in this day and age, unless you talk to someone who worked back then. I can tell you from experience that circuses and carnivals have changed, very very drastically, from their old days. While I can't say I've traveled on a circus, I have grown up on a carnival that has been in my family for decades. The stories passed down from earlier times, the pictures taken, etc tell a very different tale from the modern day carnivals. I'm sure Water for Elephants is the same way. Sara Gruen is a favorite author of mine since I read her horse series years ago. I was sucked into this book from the beginning and was very pleasantly surprised by the way things progressed. There was never a dull moment in the book, though it was easy to guess what was happening next during most of it. It was a surprisingly dark book, but it was done in a way that did not make it terrible to read. The characters were interesting and engaging, though the love between the two main characters seemed rushed and sloppy. I would have rather seen a longer book with more development between them, but I can't complain too much. It was an exciting, though easy, read and I recommend it to anyone who is a fan of romance or simply interested in an old-time circus setting. I only hope the movie turns out as good as this book ( though my hope is not high ).
5 I avoided reading this book for a long time because I feared it was over rated- I was wrong.  Well worth the read. Good story, easily connected to the characters - loved every minute of it.For those who compared this book to HBOs series Carnival - very very wrong.... general story, the characters, theme - nothing the same. I was an avid watcher of the 'Carnival', the whole black magic thing- loved it. 'Water for Elephants' has none of that.  Comparing the two stories would be like comparing movies 'The Hangover' and the HBO series 'Empire Boardwalk' and the common trait is they both have gambling and take place in a gambling city (not event he same city).  'Carnival' and 'Water for Elephants' only common thread is that take place in the same time in history and based on traveling entertainers (not even the same type of traveling groups).My big regret is not finishing the book before they announced the movie and who was playing the characters - but that's not the books fault.
5 When someone recommended this book to me I thought they said Waterford Elephants.  I thought it might be about China collectible elephants.  Seriously though, this book was fabulous.  I couldn't put the book down.
2 I'm not picky about my books, really! I read airport books! I read mystery novels! But about half-way through, Water for Elephant's 2-dimensional, unrealistic characters' bad soap opera conversations became too tedious and repetitious.  I slogged through, anyway. I was waiting for more elephant plot. But no- Ms. Gruen got even lazier at the end.  Anything and anyone that might have been considered a loose end gets killed off without regret.  "Mr. Major Character W? We threw him off the train 30 minutes ago. Probably(!!) died. Don't worry about it."I was disappointed.
5 As avid readers there are times when we are apt to encounter books that continue and linger in our minds once read.  For me, "Water for Elephants" was a serendipitous find and I truly and lovingly enjoyed this novel.  It's one of those books that you never want to end.  There is reason why this book has been on the NY Times bestseller list for more than 12 consecutive weeks.  As many reviewers have already recounted the summary I will simply say just READ IT!  I promise you will be searching for more of Sara Gruen's novels.  BTW, Apehouse is the next novel to be released!
4 ** spoiler alert ** Like many people before me, I picked up this book after having seen and enjoyed the movie. This is one rare occasion where I loved the movie more than the book (but that may just be because I saw the movie first.) In some ways this is like an amped up romance novel. There's so much focus on the romance between Jacob and Marlena but she has the personality of a wet napkin so I really don't get the appeal. When I read the negative reviews for this book a lot of people made issue with the " graphic and frequent sex scenes" it made me somewhat hesitant to read it but those concerns were unfounded. There was some sex, and some thoughts of sex and some lit nips BUT the story is being told by a sex-deprived geriatric/ a horny teenage VIRGIN! If anyone was shocked that a 19yo was obsessed with scoring a little trim they should walk directly off the nearest cliff. It was a bit more detail than necessary but I've read sex scenes that made me cringe from the details and this wasn't that. If I had to list my own personal complaints I would start with the ending, that was literally my biggest issue with this novel. There are some big, gaping, elephant sized holes my friends. I mean, what did they do, stand around Bumpuckey West Nowhereland with 12 horses and and elephant for however many days until Ringling could come pick them up? I mean I get that it was a happy ending, the sun will come out tomorrow etc. but the author basically did a Sopranos style fade to black. What about the other animals?! Whatever, don't get me started, I could go off on an all day tangent.... point is there was something to be desired. My favorite parts of the book were mostly centered around Old Jacob, he was by far the best written (and my favorite) character. Curious as to why they cut the Rosemary character out of the movie, because their relationship was a nice really sweet. Overall it was a good read, I enjoyed traveling back in time to the circus and I am willing to overlook the flaws to take the trip.
3 WATER FOR ELEPHANTS gives the reader an insight to the innards of the early circuses,  It is well written.  I preferred the movie.
5 I would have never believed that I would have enjoyed this book. Let alone enjoyed it to the extreme level which I did. A well respected friend recommended this book to me so I pull it up online and read the synopsis. Well, the synopsis and subject matter regarding circus life in the mid 1900's did not interest me in the least bit. Suffice to say I did not immediately read it. Only after subsequent prompting from my friend did I agree to give it a shot. That turned out to be an EXCELLENT idea. It was clear and concise reading that gave me vivid images of that era and written with short chapters that propelled me along to read just a little more each time since I was skeptical from the start. The story recounted through the eyes of an old man reminiscing his youth was pulled off seamlessly. It was like reading two stories. Now, after reading the book for myself I'm amazed at the few negative reviewer's comments. I'm reminded that some people complain about everything.
5 I absolutely loved loved this book. The characters were easy to follow, to relate to . I felt like i was riding along, like i was a part of the circus!Jacob Jankowski : " I am ninety. Or ninety-three. One or the other." Jacob is living in a senior citizen home, grumpy, depressed and starting to lose his memory . The author does a wonderful job of alternating between Jacobs story of his life in the circus and his current life.The details of circus life, the struggles, the sadness and the happy times.I highly recommend reading this one. On a scale of 1-10 this definitely gets a 10!!
5 Water for Elephants is a love story. Love between a man and a woman; love between humans and animals; and people's love of circuses. All these sub-stories coalesce into one that is set at the time of the Great Depression to make up the background of this book.The book starts with a horrendous scene in which the circus's animals stampede and a murder takes place. A man's head is split open by a big stake. The next chapter is in the nursing home where we get to meet a 90+ year old man named Jacob who is in a nursing home. Jacob is lucid and his mind is still sharp and he comments on the other residents of the nursing home who are much further along the path of dementia and senility. The rest of the book bounces around between Jacob in the nursing home, and Jacob as the brand-new minted veterinarian.Putting the story in a time line, Jacob is about set to graduate from the Cornell Veterinary School when a tragic accident kills his parents. He is an only child and it turns out that his parents took all of their savings and a mortgage out on their house to be able to afford to send him to Cornell. When they die, there is nothing left for him so he returns to Cornell to sit for his final exams. His mind is not on schooling and he ends up leaving the school and wanders down the road. It's not long before he decides to hop on a train that is travelling by and this gets him introduced into the world of the circus as it just happens to be a circus train that he jumps on.Being the time of the Great Depression, there is a chance that he will get thrown directly off the train as a hobo but he manages to make some friends among the crowd of laborers and they get him accepted as another laborer on the circus until it is discovered that he is almost a veterinarian. For the circus owner, that is close enough and Jacob is now the circus's vet. Now he moves up in the world and is allowed to travel in a train car with performers and meets the love of his life amongst them. He also meets up with animals that he treats with empathy and kindness - and they respond with friendship.He also meets with some of the more zany and crazy people who inhabit that world and none of them are necessarily nice. There is a crazy horse trainer; violent security men; "patch men" who clean up the inevitable problems and messes that take place; and, of course, the associated laborers and hangers-on who populate the world. Jacob deals with them all in his own way and the story develops in a relatively predictable manner. It is no surprise that the animals respond to Jacob's kindness in kind and find ways to get back at the people who treat them badly. There are numerous anecdotes sprinkled throughout the book culled from the rich history of the circus world - things like the Lemonade Thief; the Animal who only understands Polish; and the less than legal activities that surrounded the circus.The climax of the story is presented in the first chapter - the murder. There is no real mystery there - we know who will get murdered right after the first meeting with the man. What is left in doubt is who did the killing. That is resolved in a very satisfying way at the end of the book.However, there is another storyline here too. The old Jacob finds out that a circus is coming to perform outside his nursing home and he would dearly like to go back to the world that he left 60-odd years before - if only for a visit. But, wouldn't you know it - that happens to be the week that his family forgets to come visit him in the nursing home. The twist that the author puts in at this point is brilliant and brings the whole book to a double satisfying ending which proves that once you are involved in a world that you really like, you never really leave it.This was overall a very fun book to read. Being an animal lover, I really appreciated the insights into the world of the exotic - and not so exotic - animals provided. Of course, the whole glimpse into the world of circus life was also interesting. About the only negative thing I have to say about the book is its almost obsessive fascination with human sexuality. There is almost no single chapter that does not have a sex scene in it and it is not clear to me how most of them contribute to the overall story line. In other words, I would not give this story to your younger children to read, but, aside from that one quibble, this is a good read.
5 The way the story went from present to past was interesting. The circus details were fascinating. The ending was charming. I really enjoyed reading this book.
5 This book is great. I was only reading it on my way to school and back. I don't know how many times I missed my stop because I was so into the book itself. This book is great, easy to read and really makes you feel like your there. The details and the way it's written are excellent...time to watch the movie. Let's hope it's half as good as the book.
5 Loved this book.  I'd seen it around since it came out, but hadn't read it.  So glad I finally got around to it!  I didn't want the book to end - I was so disappointed as the pages decreased and I was nearing the end.  Loved it.
5 How many novels have you read about the circus? This was certainly my first and that's what I loved about it - it was something out of the ordinary. The story flowed smoothly and was full of great stories. I read a review stating that the characters weren't realistic, August was too horrid and Jacob was a coward. I definitely disagree and found most, if not all, the characters to be believable.My only complaint is the vocabulary in the novel. It seemed the author was going out of her way to use synonyms fairly close together within the plot. While I don't mind challenges to my vocabulary I didn't find it believable as if the story was really told from one person's point of view it is doubtful that they would use such extreme variety in word choices. This is nit-picking though, overall I really enjoyed the journey!
5 What a thoroughly engrossing book! I plan to buy gift copies for friends and family since it was THAT different from the normal 'whodunit'!
4 Water for Elephants is told through the "90 something" year old man in a retirement as he relives his life which came back to him when the circus comes to town.  The main character goes through some tough times and finds himself working for the circus a world he knows nothing about.  He then falls for a girl who is about as off limits as she can be.  This book is a very entertaining book that may start off a bit slow but once it picks up you can't stop reading until it's all over.  Fantastic book for a summer read!
4 This book was selected for our book club and I was none too happy.  But I will always give a book a try.  I picked it up and the prologue had a pretty decent umph to it.  The plot, a cornell student in his senior year, loses his parents and joins the circus in a fit of anger and disbelief, is told to the reader soon after the book starts.  The rest of the book is told through the eyes of the boy, Jacob as a young man in the circus and simultaneously as an old man in a home.The story is a bit strange, yet it works.  I have to admit that some of the character development was not great but it seems that mysterious part of the story was intentional.  The book is about Jacob, and his experiences.  The other characters were just there to help us understand this man.The part of the book I thought I would like the least, animals, I tended to enjoy quite often.  And Sara's soft writing style but quick with the action kept me on the edge of my seat.  As soon as I thought the story was taking a long, boring, un-necessary mistep to fill empty book pages, she surprised me with another turn in the story.  I enjoyed her writing style.  She had a story to tell, and she told it.  She didn't bore us with endless details of animal cages, circus scenes, or odd scenic descriptions.  In fact, ironically, I found myself wanting a little more time with some of the animals.  At the end of the book I thought maybe she could have wrote a few more in-depth scenes with jacob interacting with the animals.  But like I said, this is a story about a boys emotional journey through a very difficult time in his life.  The animals and the other characters in the book just provided a backdrop and an interesting environment.Note:  Although, I see the book as a book about Jacob, Sara was inspired to write this novel after reading an article about the Circus.  She then spent some time researching the circus and animals intending to write a story about the circus.  Interestingly enough, maybe she wrote a story about the circus and Jacob is just the human backdrop!  I do highly recommend this book.  It was very difficult to put down!
2 Very disappointing - if you are an animal lover - don't bother purchasing this book.  I don't think I even got half way because of disturbing animal accounts.
5 This book was a wonderful read, drawing you in, making you part of the story.  THAT is what makes a great book, when you are there, you are wrapped up in the characters, loving the good guys and hating the bad guys, feeling it all, as you lose yourself in a well written book such as this one.  I highly recommend this book!
4 I enjoyed this book so,so much. Who would of thought? I was thoroughly entertained. I had never read anything about a circus so learned a lot.
1 The book was weird. I felt like I was reading a porn book or something. The description on how the female dances, it goes all into details even how she touches her boobs she even goes naked. I don't get it is she a a circus whore? I didn't want to read a book on how she touches herself... so im returning,Im not into that kinda of reads. Maybe it is not like that as in whole book? but its an early start for dirty things so I assume the rest of the book is the same.
4 Sara Gruen's "Water for Elephants" is a one of those books that fascinate you with a look inside an unfamiliar world while entertaining you. The author is very adept at spinning a yarn, creating characters that spring to life in vibrant color, and setting up simultaneous storylines that build suspense and keep you interested. She is one of the best writer's I've read when it comes to inventing villains. I look forward to reading more by this author.  On sheer writing ability, I would've given her five stars, but there were a couple of things in the story that put me off. I won't spoil it for others by pointing them out, and I would still highly recommend this book for its pure entertainment value.
5 I hesitated reading this book for three reasons:1. I don't like circuses.2. I am not particularly interested in books written about the Depression era. (I find both #1 & #2 well, depressing).3. I don't like reading the "latest best seller/Oprah Book".I am very glad I went against my own prejudices and read this book.  The sections about his current life as a 90 or 93 year old (he is not sure how old he is, or exactly what year it is right now) were charming and a realistic view into the mind of someone who is both angry that he is being treated like he has lost his mind and afraid that he actually is losing it.The sections of him as a young man working learning the ropes of circus life were interesting and enlightened me on the crazy, unstable life that was so common for so many people during the Depression.  It was also impossible to not be enamored with some of the circus animals like Rosie the elephant and Bobo the chimp (or was she an orangutan?).The only thing I DIDN"T like about the book was an excerpt from the New York Times Book Review that I made the mistake of reading off the back cover:"With a showman's expert timing, [Gruen] saves a terrific revelation for the final pages, transforming a glimpse of Americana into an enchanting escapist fairy tale."I read the book afraid that it would turn out to be the dreams or fantasies of an old man who never actually worked for a circus.  The ending was sweet and heartening; nothing that transformed the book for me, just something that completed it.
4 Throughout the whole story, I kept wondering why everybody thought this was so great...however, the ending was really a great twist, really worthwhile. This is the kind of story where you feel very redeemed and glad you finished the story. It was really hard to read about the abuse of the animals because you just knew that, even though this is fiction, this stuff really happened. My heart goes out to all of the circus animals that suffered during the depression era and after.
5 This is the kind of story a grandpa would tell over and over again. I did not buy the book but I wish I had. And for only $4 on the kindle, it's a steal! I cannot wait to see the movie. The best part is that this is just one story of the old man's life. And I would like to hear more! It will keep you turning pages until there are no more to turn!
5 I didn't think I would like this novel as it was what I thought was a book about the Circus. I was way wrong. The characters that were developed were terrific and the imagery that Sarah Gruen creates in depicting the 1930's Circus world is amazing. I recommend this book to anyone who wants to smile.
3 Normally I wouldn't have picked this up. The circus is not really a topic that interests me, and cruelty to animals really upsets me. My coworker really liked this one and talked me into reading it.I tried to get into it, I really did, but this book draaagged for me and I'm not exactly sure why. Honestly I had a very hard time finishing it, and I'm usually a very quick reader.It seemed to have all the makings for a good story (A decent beginning, middle and end...love story...drama...etc etc.) Obviously there are a lot of people out there that really enjoy it. I'm glad it worked for some people. I wish I had found it as compelling as everyone else, but for whatever reason I just could *not* connect with the characters emotionally. The forbidden love story left me feeling bored, and I didn't feel all that sympathetic towards the lovers. The only character that really was interesting to me was August, the cruel/charming/abusive husband. He was definitely the highlight of the book for me.Overall, I guess I wil give it a 3. It was okay, not poorly written, and I could see it being a 5 star for some people...just not me.
5 Jacob is a fiesty 90 or 93 year old as he says. This book is written well, starts off grabbing the reader, and never lets him down.  One of those, "I want to read it more" books. The authors research is extensive and from my experience accurate. From senior nursing facilities to the great depression she has it all down. A great read that you hope will never end. Better have a great book ready to go when  you finish this one.
4 Water for elephants is happy, sad, romantic, and exciting ,it changes from page to page. Just as something exciting happens it switches to Jacob struggling as an old man in a nursing home. There are plenty of plot twists and surprises. The book is a very detailed description of a disgusting circus in the 1930's from the illegal moonshine to straining horse trough water through a pair of clowns panty hose to make lemonade, and the red lighting (when they are thrown off of the train over a tressle) of unwanted employees.  Although the main character has some difficulty, you know it will be ok in the end because he tells it as an old man in a nursing home. During his time in the circus Jacob makes some very interesting friends, like Walter the midget clown, Earl the gentle security guard ,and Uncle Al who is way more of a jerk than he seems. Overall the book was a very exciting story about Jacob trying to survive in a circus and getting the woman he loves.
5 Being an avid reader with little time to do so, I do not waste my time on just any book.  This book is a true winner; one that I will think about for years to come.The author spent much time researching circus life in the 20's and 30's and it shows.  The book had such vivid characters and the story line was fast-paced and so, so interesting.  The blending of fact and fiction is expertly done!!!  Having never really been interested in circus life, I found things out that were surprising and shocking!  Life with the circus was a rough, tough, hard, shocking life that was full of strict rules and social status.  However, these rules changed on the whims of the owners/operators and changed many fates for the worse.  The original black and white photos included throughout the book add to the total top quality of this great read.The main character, Jacob, narrates his life story at the age of 90-something.  While the story-line jumps from present to past, it is easy to follow and never confusing.The characters are wonderful and you will find yourself so caught up in the plot of this book. I could not turn the pages fast enough. I guarantee you will laugh, cry, and be shocked when you are finished reading this great read.  It will leave you wanting for MORE.Do yourself a favor and get this book and just ENJOY!!!
5 interesting and easy to read. In excellent shape. I am use to reading non fiction books. But found this novel to have a lot of truth in it.Always have been interested in the circus life.
5 I was so taken by this story when I first started reading it that I told my Mom about it, suggesting that she would love it. I was almost finished with the book when my Mom passed away. When going through her things, I found a copy of "Water for Elephants", and it really hit me hard emotionally, much like Jacob's feelings when his parents died (my Mom died from a neural hematoma after slipping on a step ladder). Now, almost five years later, I was able to bring myself to finish reading this wonderful tale, and I am so glad I did.
5 Overall very Good book.  As a movie, I had no interest in the story. However, I decided to give it a shot only because it was an available book at the time I was browsing. Very intriguing! Enjoyed the book and am sure you will too.
5 This book was great! Unable to put it down, very detailed. It made me feel like I was there!!! Can't wait to see the movie.
5 **Note: my review will not do this book justice! LOL. I loved the book so much I'm try not to let myself give too much away!**My Description:Water for Elephants is a novel bringing us back to the world of the traveling circus in the early 1900&#8242;s when they traveled by train.  Jacob Jankowski is a young man in his early 20&#8242;s with dreams of becoming a veterinarian like his father.  Very close to the final day for his testing to become licensed his parents die in a car accident and his entire life changes.  Running away from his problems he ends up jumping on a train and this one-act takes him on the ride of his life.  Jacob becomes a worker for a traveling circus as their very own vet and in the process falls in love with Marlena, one of the shows acts.  The problem, she's a married woman.  Along their travels the circus owner buys an Elephant, Rosie, in hopes to become the greatest act in all the history of circuses...Water for Elephants is a magical book! It brought me back to when I was a child dreaming of being a circus performer.  The way Gruen describes the circus and it's acts really paints a picture in your mind and you feel like you are right there with Jacob the entire time.  I loved how Gruen cuts back and forth between Jacob as an elderly man in a home remembering when he was on a circus to when Jacob was in his early 20&#8242;s on the circus.  You love Jacob in both ages, especially as a  feisty elderly man! I love when Gruen brought Jacob in as an elderly man, he brings in some comedy as well as makes you understand how some elderly people feel when they are in a nursing home.Gruen knows how to writer her characters.  You fall in love with so many of them!  Walter, Jacob's roommate on the train. Camel, the man who takes Jacob in under his wing when Jacob first jumps on the train.  The lovely Marlena, Jacobs love interest.  Rosie, the beautiful 53-year-old-elephant.  You also don't like some of the characters like Uncle Al, the circus owner, and August, Marlena's husband.  Trust me, there are times you just want to jump through the book and beat them yourselves!I absolutely fell in love with this book.  I had two of my good friends telling me that I must read it because it was just that good and I was not disappointed.  I do believe that anyone who has an interest in any genre would love this book!  It's a very fast read and you don't want to put it down. Again, it's just magical! It leaves you smiling and happy.  This book will be on my bookshelf forever and will be picked up several times for a reread! :-DOh, you can buy the Kindle version of this book for just a little over $4.00 but from what I've heard you don't get the awesome circus pictures throughout the book.  Gruen places a real circus picture at the beginning of each chapter that is from when Jacob is in his 20&#8242;s on the circus.  It's awesome! There is only one chapter that didn't have a circus pic infront of it when it should have, :-( but really they are great.  If you buy the kindle version, the next time you're in the bookstore pick up the paperback version and flip through and check out the pictures at least...they're fun!  :-D
5 I just finished reading this book and I can't wait to recommend it to others. I was certainly THE best book I have read in a long time. It was mesmerizing and had me hooked right from the beginning.  The book is well written and reflects careful research and attention to detail. I will be looking for more books from this fabulous author.
5 ...a young man ran away and joined the circus, where he found love, sex, death, redemption and family. A splendid story that I could not stop reading until the end, with a cast of characters that is beautifully realized--no shortcuts, no stock characters, everyone explored and explained and unique. Very highly recommended.
5 I enjoyed this book from start to finish. My only criticism is regarding a little to much explicit sexual description and violent animal abuse. Otherwise, I found it very well written, and a fascinating tale.
4 Well written at a good pace with events. Kind of weird with the flipping between timeline, but I see this type of conversation with my dad. Will not see the movie as I enjoyed the book more than I thought I would. Is a good read.
5 I really like it. I am going to watch the video if I can find it.  The historical parts  are fascinating.  I have been to some IN historical circus places.  Those times were tuff but very interesting.
5 I enjoyed the book so much that I had to see the movie to see what they would do with the story.  I liked most of the characters.
5 This was a very well written book.  I also appreciated the comments made by the author on her research and the way she brought the stories she uncovered into the book.
5 This was a wonderful book...hardly took me anytime to read it. Held my attention & was fast moving & interesting. Would highly recommend to animal lovers for sure...but also to those who enjoy books bout people.
4 Gruen paints a portrait of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth, a Depression-era  train circus, operated by Alan J. Bunkel, known as Uncle Al, who is described as "a buzzard, a vulture, an eater of carrion," who grew fat off the carcasses of circusses that collapsed after the Crash. Their losses were his gains.  The Prologue introduces the narrative which begins with a stampede of circus animals, and we are introduced to a secret which is kept by the narrator for 70 years.  The reader is immediately pulled into the narrative.The narrative is juxtaposed between Jacob Jankowski's life during the seven years he spent in the circus and his present life as an irascible 90 or 93 (he can't remember which) year old man in an assisted living facility.  As a young  veterinary student about to graduate from Cornell, Jacob finds himself homeless and parentless and is unable to take his final exams.  He finds himself jumping on a train which turns out to be Benzini's Circus train.  The reader is introduced to circus lingo - rubes are the circus-goers, kinkers are the performers and Patches are the men assigned to smooth the ruffled feathers of disgruntled spectators who might be angry they didn't get their money's worth at the Freak Show or those of a homeowner whose garden has been destroyed by a wandering elephant. One is given a glimpse into the highly stratified, almost caste-like social world of the circus in which performers never rubbed elbows with the likes of the lowly workers, particulary the black workers of the Flying Squadron, who were instructed to run into their tents and remain invisible as soon as the rubes started to make their appearance.The novel is plot-driven, and although there are many stereotypical elements - there are the requisite evil villains - Uncle Al and his sidekick August Rosenbluth, the equestrian director and superintendent of animals who is hated and feared for his violent tendencies and his legendary cruelty to humans and circus animals. There is also the requisite central love story between two gentle souls sho have been dealt life's difficult blows, but whose goodness and pure intentions help them to weather the storm. There is Bobo the orangutuan and particularly Rosie the elephant, who steal our hearts, and we root for them as much as we root for Jacob and Marlena. If you are looking for a novel embedded with deep hidden meanings and rich with literary technique and complex characterization, then this is definitely not the book for you. If you are looking for a plot-driven novel whose events proceed rapidly and which transports the reader to another world, then I highly recommend this delightfully readable novel.In spite of the stereotypical elements, I thoroughly enjoyed this novel. I found myself getting up extra early and staying up extra late to get to the last page, and when I did, I was sorry the journey was over. I wasn't quite ready to say goodbye to Jacob, Marlena, Kinko, Camel, Rosie or Bobo.  Perhaps I will just read it again.
5 An adventure - inside the circus but more importantly inside one man's experience of others.  Very deep.  Glad they made it a movie so more people can experience it, but it is always better to read the book.
5 This book was so interesting to me and it moved me.  I liked how the author portrayed each and every character -- flaws and all.  I especially liked the main character and his thoughts on aging.  It evoked many emotions from me.
5 This book was wonderful, such great incite into the circus world of the depression era. Loved the characters and the transition from the past to the present.  Recommend it highly.
4 This is not the sort of book I normally read, but I enjoyed reading this one.  It had a very good story.
5 This is a wonderful story.  I first heard it on Chapter A Day and just finished reading it to fill in the parts I'd missed.  The extra bonus in reading the book is seeing all the fascinating historical pictures Gruen gathered from various circus museums.  I loved that some of the amazing things that Gruen discovered in her research about circus were woven into the story.  She began her research into the world of circus life by contacting Circus World Museum in Baraboo, WI which we have been to and love.  Gruen's book has added a whole new dimension to the world of the circus.
5 Highly recommended.  Good authors are hard to find -- Sara Gruen is one of those.  The plot, the grammar, the characters, the research, -- all excellent.  I have given this book to friends as a gift -- my highest recommendation.
4 This was my least favorite of Riding Lessons, Flying Changes and Ape House. Sara Gruen has a way of writing about relationships between humans and animals. It is unbelievable the love that is conveyed is incredible.
3 The story of this plot-driven book keeps you turning the pages, but I did not much care for the characters. They didn't have much depth; they could have been developed so much more. In addition, there are quite a few scenes that are either offensive or gross or both, apparently for sheer sensationalism. The circus train theme is interesting and fun to read, and this is what keeps the book going. One scene near the end depicted the main characters in a church; I thought this would be developed further. It turns out this was just added in to try to show the morality of Jacob, perhaps to foreshadow that he could never kill Marlena's husband August. Jacob started out at the beginning of the book as a naive innocent kid. How he could change into such an experienced risk-taker in a period of just a few months confused me. He certainly doesn't seem the church-going type by the end of the novel. And the fact that he and Marlena end up together, with lots of animals, by way of Rosie eliminating August, is just plain silly.
5 I read The Glass Castle and didn't think I could ever find another book that would grab my attention like that one did.  WRONG!!  If you liked Glass Castle... your going to love this book.  Don't the title deter you.I totally enjoyed this book.  Enjoy
4 WATER for ELEPHANTS was a quick and mostly enjoyable read for me.  The story of Jacob, a young man on the verge of his career as a veterinarian, was told as the flashback of a much older Jacob, who now resides in a nursing home.  As young Jacob was about to take his final exams and graduate from vet school, his world crumbled when his parents were killed in a car accident.  Left without family or money, a despondent Jacob jumped on a passing train.  He soon found himself working as a vet for a traveling circus.  The story of young Jacob's adventures with the circus is interwoven with the story of old Jacob's life as a resident in a nursing home.  I loved the book, but I found parts of it too graphic.  There were sexually explicit passages as well as descriptions of violent animal abuse, which I felt were overdone and unnecessary to the story.
5 This is an uncommon setting and an out-of-the-ordinary character makes this book a surprisingly wonderful read! I love this author's style.
5 This is one of the most well written books I've ever read.  I'm not much on fiction, but this is an enthralling story.  I didn't think it would appeal to me much but a friends' endless raves convinced me to give it a try.  It's gritty, gutsy, appalling, delightful, sad, glorious, and many other adjectives.Movie supposed to be out this year also.  Can't wait!
5 I enjoy reading about things in this timeframe.  The book was very good but I would be afraid to see the movie because I don't like to see bad things happen to animals.  Somehow reading about such things doesn't affect me as seeing it.  This book was well written and I would recommend it to my friends.  Loved the ending.
4 Sara Gruen created an amazing story that takes into account the events between the present and the past. This is an enchanting tale that I did not want to end. Her extensive research into the circus life; its animals and the relationship with people involve was very evident. Her writing is very descriptive and full of emotion. Overall, I thought Water for Elephants was a terrific story and worthy of a readers time. Highly recommend.
5 After 132 previously written reviews I know there is not much new to say about this book. So, I will just say that I thoroughly enjoyed this book. Ms. Gruen states in the Author's note that she was going to write an entirely different book and instead wrote this one and I am so glad that she did. The research and old pictures make this a once upon a time story. The story is hypnotic and truly heartwarming from beginning to end. If looking for a great read, this is it.
5 I read this book after I saw the movie to compare which can be a mistake but not in this case. Of course there were some differences but both the book and the movie were very enjoyable.
2 This a book. Written to the end.Way to go. If you make it that far and you didn't wish for the time back, congrats on your five-star review. The rest of you can join us behind the menagerie tent for a smoke.If you're interested in reading something about road shows that's real, dig back to the source material.  Read Geek Love if you have the stones. And then write a note to Katherine Dunn for opening the tent flap.
4 The best part of this book is the narrator, the back and forth in time, the way it's made as a memory. Beautiful story.
4 I was a bit relucatant at first but after starting, it turned out to be a wonderful story.  Current then past...etc. It didn't confuse the reader, it took you on a trip from the 1930's to current day and what a fun ride with action, romance, sadness...almost every emotion.I usually don't go in for this sort of book but it was very well written
5 "Water for Elephants" is on the best sellers list! No wonder! It was a great book. I enjoyed each segment whether it was set at the nursing home or the circus. I thought the characters were well thought out and believable. We will review this book at our next book club meeting.
5 Gruen got inside the circus. This story is told from an old man's point of view, but we see Jacob clearly as a young man too.If you like action with a little romance, this is a good read.
3 As I read this book, I found that it was continuously straight-forward. There weren't any twists really, any shockers, and nothing that wasn't really expected. The "shocking" ending was more of just an "hmm, all right." It didn't really change anything nor did it affect how I felt towards any of the characters.The story is a good one that did keep me reading and interested. It shifted between the past and present day as the protagonist continued to reminisce about previous years and reflected on his current life. I did not really get connected to any of the characters and I just felt like there was something missing from this book that I just couldn't put my finger on.The characters were interesting, the story was good, and the setting was of course new and refreshing. But it just seemed something was lacking. As I was reading the "Reader's Questions" in the back contemporary books are starting to put in, I found that they weren't many powerful themes or internalizations to take away from this book. That doesn't mean the book was bad because it was just a straight-forward story, it just was missing something.All the parts woven together make an all right read, but nothing amazing or enlightening.
4 I really enjoyed this book.  Water For Elephants is the story of a young man who almost becomes a veterinarian, but is too distraught over the death of his parents to sit the final exams.  After being left with nothing, he accidentally hops a circus train and is hired on as their vet.  The story of his time with the circus is told in flashbacks, and is very well done.  Love, betrayal, hope, cruelty, and compassion combine with wonderful prose and true-to-the-era settings to give you a great read.  I picked this book up on a whim not knowing anything about it, and then couldn't put it down.  Fascinating!
5 Beautifully written! It told the story of the great depression, the hard life, the loneness! I believe the animal cruelty was needed to show the mind set of the time period. It was a very different time/life! Could you live then? Are you strong enough?! No we aren't the same class of people! Please read this story a wonderfully written book!!
5 At first I was hesitant about reading this book. I figured that reading about a traveling circus really wouldn't appeal to me, and I didn't understand why it was continually being suggested to me on this website. Eventually, I gave in and bought it. I pushed it aside for months, never bothering to read it, still mostly uninterested. Finally, bored one day, I picked it up and started reading. Two pages in, I didn't want to put it down.The opening is clever, leading to a fantastic ending. The writing style is charming, falling in love with the main character is completely inevitable.This is definitely on my top-ten list of novels. It is so beautifully written, I highly recommend it to anyone. It has all the mystery, love, emotion, and intrigue a novel should.I only hope the rest of her books are as lovely.
5 I saw the movie first and knew after that I had to read the book. One of my favourite in a long time.
1 As a devoted historical fiction reader, I thought this book would interest me. It did not. Water for Elephants reads like a children's novel, save for excessive and serious profanity, graphic and frequent sex scenes, and violence so vivid I was moved to nausea. If you are able to ignore those sorts of things, you will not find yourself feeling any kind of sympathy for the one-dimensional characters. The characters do not develop over the course of the story, and seem only concerned with dabbling in vice. As a result, I was unable to identify with them.A portion of the story is written from the point of view of the main character in his old age. This writing is exceptional, and managed to keep me interested during the course of the book. Still, these marvelous little glimpses of author Sara Gruen's potential do not permit me to recommend this book to anybody. Avoid it.
5 Not only was Sara Gruen able to get completely inside of Jacob Jankowski's head, she was able to grab hold of me and bring me along.  I lived this story alongside of Jacob, and loved every minute of it.  For days after finishing the book, I missed the characters profoundly.  In my mind, that's success.  It's been a good long while since I've read anything that touched me like this one.  Kudos, Sara Gruen!
5 Very nice interesting book -- a nice change from romances or killer/thrillers!  Relaxing and enjoyable! I would definitely read this author again.
5 Outstanding story--I was very sorry to have it end!  I kept thinking of the story for a couple days later.  I would recommend it highly!!!!!!!!!!
5 I loved this book!  I don't generally give 5-star ratings, as I believe that most books could use some improving.  This book was wonderful.  It was engrossing and readable and the story was believable.  It was obvious that the author did a lot of research about train circuses as well as elephants.I would recommend this book to anyone who has a couple of hours to slip into another world and enjoy the characters created in this world.
4 I'm so glad I didn't see the movie! I've just recently read the book and couldn't put it down. Honestly it wasn't that long and only took me about 2 days to read which was good. At first it was a bit slow but the plot was really great and had just enough suspense!! I highly recommend this book, it's popular for a reason!!!!
5 This is a lovely story.  Not something that I would normally pick to read but it had me hooked from the start.  I enjoyed it right through to the end.
4 Guess which one?  Most people would choose the circus story, I would venture to guess.  But for me, the old man in the nursing home was the superb plotline.  Having observed my parents and grandparents and other people in that situation, I thought the author captured the experience, and the frustration for the...I always want to say 'inmate' rather than 'patient'...who one day finds him/herself to be 90 (or 93) and wonders how this ever came about.  The little indignities were all there, along with understanding that the 'inmate's' children are getting on in years themselves and can't assume caretaking.  It was done with humor, compassion, and insight.  I suppose a whole book devoted to a nursing home soap opera would have been too much, so the circus story paced it out.I found myself skimming the chapters about the circus so I could get back to the nursing home drama.  I often do that with books where I like one plotline but not the other.  (The Devil in the White City; The Short History of a Prince).  Pssst, don't tell the authors, but I'll bet a lot of other readers do, too.
2 Not my kind of story;  read a few chapters after recommendation by a friend,  but never could get into it!
5 Water for Elephants further romanticizes the age-old dream to runaway and join the circus. Unfortunately for Jacob (our star) it was not his dream to join the circus, but rather coincidence mixed with his last hope. The story is told from two viewpoints: Jacob is now ninety-something years old and we see what has become of our young protagonist, and we see many flashback sequences to the events that took place as he traveled with the circus.As readers we are exposed to the sharp contrast between his youth and aged eras. With the circus, Jacob's life was so full of adventure and non-stop activity. Now he is resident in an assisted-living facility and he fears he is losing his energy and becoming more and more like the peers with whom he shares lodging. As he relives the excitement of his days with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth he not only longs for a different time, but resets his grip on his past. He is one old man who is not ready to give up on life.Sara Gruen gave us a beautiful story about a man who refuses to let go of the events that changed his life. As you read about Jacob your heart will break and then, if possible, it will break again. It is much more than one young man's tale of woe, however. The story is one of love, hope, never giving up and some unlikely good friends. You will laugh, worry, delight and cheer with Jacob whether he is twenty something or ninety something. I really appreciate that the author went the extra mile in her research of life in the circus.I didn't think I would like Water for Elephants, but I heard from too many people that it was good. When that happens, I had no choice but to give it a try. I really liked this book. And I'm glad I read it.
5 I was a bit apprehensive about reading this book, but found it surprisingly refreshing in its approaches (spoken from two time periods) and its treatment of life as part of a circus "family."  While the senior perspective was somewhat depressing, it was quite vivid of how one can be forgotten when one has so much life left to live and so much to share.  I also liked reading the excitement of the junior perspective, his trials and tribulations.  I think that both could have easily been expanded and still kept the reader's interest - wanted to know more about each character who are one and the same!  Bravo!
3 This book tells of a man whose experiences as a young man are recalled when he's in his 90's. the writing is vivid and the experiences of the man when he's young and old are effectively told. My imagination was captured and I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
2 This would have been a great young adult fiction book. However, the author, for some reason, was really into nasty words and graphic sex. Too bad she took the low road and destroyed her book. I don't understand all the people who thought it was brilliant - it was just "dirty." However, it had potential.
4 Had heard book was good and used it as my borrowed book with Amazon Prime.  Wonderful story...kept me reading.  Gave me considerable insight into the intelligence of elephants!
5 Could not put this book down, read from front to back and held on tight.  Without giving the good stuff away, you are there in the book at all times....amazing....wonderful.The twist on Jacob from the Bible (which you won't notice unless you read the Bible) is a grabber!We all will get old some day.....and if you are close, give this book to family members waiting to put you in a nursing home.  I think what got me the most was  "pay attention".I don't even want to see the movie...this was good enough for me!
4 This is a sentimental story, with quite a bit of charm. It is touted as a "crowd pleaser" and that is probably the reason for its huge success. You do root for the narrator, even if the plot is contrived, the ending obvious, and the characterization somewhat weak.I would have hoped for a more authentic and earthy description of a Depression-era circus, but the writing is watered down. Often the conflicts between the characters are too quickly or conveniently resolved, and the characters seem to be at the mercy of the plot. Major crises are quickly skimmed over, and the true potential of this book is never fully developed.I read this to the end--which says something--but reflecting back on the book I wish it had been stronger and more carefully constructed. 3.5 stars.
5 Do you ever have a book "shoved down your throat (brain)" by friends in bookclubs, to the point that you rebel and refuse to read this "wickedly popular book?" Well, that's what had happened to me, regarding this gem. Five separate friends, in five separate bookclubs wouldn't stop yammering about this book and exclaiming, "Oh! If you read ANYTHING this year, you MUST READ THIS!!!!"So, fool me once, shame on you...fool me twice, shame on me! I've read highly recommended books and ended up HATING THEM! Too boring, too dark, too something or another, so I've learned to smile and nod and say, "Gee, thanks for that recommendation. I'll have to look into it," and of course, I don't.Well, thank goodness for a rainy-soaked Mother's Day weekend and the virtues of my Kindle app! I had just finished my last book, couldn't find anything of interest that I wanted to read, got an email from amazon about "Reduced Rate Kindle Books," and ~shrugged~ figuring that a $4 buck and change e-book wouldn't set my finances back, much. Once I started this novel, I couldn't put it down! I am now dining on "crow and humble pie", and have acknowledged that in THIS incident, my 5 friends were correct...this is a MUST read book!The characters are charismatic, whether Good, Bad or Ugly. People evolve or de-volve throughout the story. The circus, that time frame, and the animals all turn real, inside your imagination. Bad things happen in this story, and good things, then bad and good again. The tension is riveting, and you decide that "just one more page, just one more hour" is necessary to find out what happens...until you turn the last paper or e-page of this novel.All I can say is, "Continue to listen to your friends!" Sometimes, they truly DO know that you'd "love this book!"
5 Holy cow!  What a Book!  Here we have a novel written by a woman whose lead character is a young man, er... old 93 year-old man, er... an elephant named Rosie.  Never mind.  But she does it!  She pulls it off.  The story-telling is spellbinding.  You are right there in the blackness of night, wobbling precariously on the roof of a train crossing a trestle with a knife gritted in your teeth and murder in your heart.  You love Rosie the elephant. You ache with fear and infatuation for Marlene, trapped in the grasp of a lethal psychotic maniac.Sara Gruen is a literary gem to put us in the mind and depression times of the traveling Circus's, the smell of the animals, the freaks, and the language. How about fathoming the mind of a cranky, reminiscent 93 year old coot whose character and lovable humanity hold the whole thing together?So what's next?Pierce Scranton M.D.author, Death on the Learning Curve
1 I don't get it. I couldn't even get through the first half of this book. I sure tried. I was bored! And so disappointed!
5 The startling life of a man left behind in a home stays with you. Each of us happily cheers for the hero as he drifts back to his circus days. You only hope your own life is as full where romance and engaging performers tug at your soul. A+.
1 The protagonist is not convincingly portrayed. He impresses as a bit dull. Somehow he acted without characteristics that justify his actions.
4 I liked this book, wouldn't say it was the best one I've ever read though. The story itself was well thought out and put together with good incorporations of the flashback to 1931 and the action occurring in the present. I think right after the beginning when Jacob first joins the circus and they get the elephant is a little slow where there is not really much of a plot that has been introduced yet so it was slightly tedious in some parts in that area. The other thing is that there might have been a couple of unnecessary characters that made the story too much of a task to follow at times with all the names and who is who and such.
4 Sara Gruen's Water for Elephants is a creative delight.  She uses structure, plot, and setting with originality.  She employs literary devices in innovative ways.  Her characters are believable even though they inhabit the unreal world of the circus.First, structure and plot.  Gruen describes the ending of the novel in the prologue.  She infuses the prologue with ambiguity so the reader cannot be clear about what happened.  She structures the rest of the book as a search for answers to the perplexing prologue.Second, innovative literary devices.  Gruen withholds information like a magician.  This device (suspense) allows her to keep the reader engaged, and befuddled. The novel reads like the children's storytelling game where the narrator brings a character to an impossible situation then hands the storytelling over to the next person.  Each chapter has a rise and fall.Another literary device Gruen handles creatively is point of view.  The story, told in first person, is seen through the consciousness of Jacob Jankowski.  But Jacob's point of view is complicated because it alternates between Jacob in his twenties, and Jacob in his nineties.  So the reader sees two viewpoints depending upon which stage of life Jacob narrates his story from.Finally setting and characters.  Gruen's setting and characters are unusual.  The background is Midwestern, and depression-era.  The culture is the circus (Benzini's not-quite-as-good-as-Ringling-Bros Circus).  The characters are performers, entertainers, workers, and animals that perform, eat, sleep, travel, love, hate, fight, and care for each other with a common goal: to produce a show.  Though the setting and characters are specific, the reader can relate to them because they display the same passions and vulnerability we all do.  Gruen transcends specificity and finds universal connections.  Life is performing in the Big Top.  We are all players.  We struggle with good and evil, kindness and cruelty, pleasure and suffering, life and death.  The show goes on.  Sara Gruen writes with originality and soul.
5 Jacob Jankowski, like many Americans, was having a hard time in the Great Depression.  After failing to complete veterinary school, he ends up working on a traveling circus, going to town after town with the big top acts, the freak shows, and the menagerie of exotic animals.  He quickly learns that there is a darker side to the circus behind the scenes that the happy, popcorn eating crown never sees.The set up workers are considered expendable and are kicked off the train if they stay on past their usefulness, and animals are often treated cruelly and ruthlessly.  Out of necessity, sometimes life was cruel during the Great Depression, but sleazy ringmaster Uncle Al and violent animal trainer August Rosenbluth choose to perpetrate this unnecessarily at the Benzini Brothers circus.  Jacob remains part of this world as he is tied by love and duty to the animals in his care, as well as his friends and the beautiful Marlena, wife of August.This was not always an easy book to read.  There are graphic scenes of animal cruelty that had me wincing, as well as heartbreaking scenes of human disappointments and pain.  Despite this, I recommend this novel wholeheartedly.  Sara Gruen describes the scene perfectly, from the Great Depression to the atmosphere of the circus, and there are some uplifting messages about the powers of kindness and love for the reader to take away as well.  I also recommend her previous two novels Riding Lessons and Flying Changes.
3 It was an OK book. I was expecting it to be really great and it didn't really live up to the hype. Maybe the movie is better
5 This is one of the best books I have read in a long time. It has an engaging premise, characters I came to care about and it is well written.Because the setting for the story is obviously a circus Ms. Gruen gives us a great deal of information about this business. Thankfully this adds to the story and doesn't bog it down. This story showed me that the circus is as much a lifestyle as it is a business.I would recommend this book to anyone and will probably read it again - and these are the highest compliments I can give to a book.
5 The readers, both the old and the young Jacob, do a great job of bringing this novel to life!
5 I probably would not have picked this book up on my own because I dont really care for circuses and the thought of clowns freak me out. This was a book club selection that someone else had picked, so I gave it a try. What I found was a story that hooked me.I was so terrified to read about any animal cruely, and to be truthful there is some of that in this book. However, I found myself not able to put it down.The story was more about someone who had chosen a path in life, and then when a devestating act occurs  changes that path to something totally differently.I think the whole lesson of the book is that life may be taking us one way, and then one little moment can change everything. That changed moment can even make us think that what we wanted was not what we really wanted after all.As for the animal cruelty, while I hate it, I had to say that it really did occur and probably still does occur in some circuses. Very hard for me to stomach, but at least the author put the truth in the book.I am not going to summarize the book. All I can really say is pick it up and give it a try. A definite entertainment. Also, for those not too crazy about clowns, well my doubts were not founded in that department. There is not really mention of them that I can recall.
4 After reading several reviews, I think that many readers may have missed the entire point of "Water for Elephants".  Some reviewers said that the book didn't say much about circus life and some say they did not care about learning about the circus. "WFE" teaches us that it is ok to rememeber fondly those most rewarding experiences throughout your life but also that it is never too late to create new experiences.  It also provides us with a unique perspective of everyday life in a senior living facility...a place that many of us may end up in one day.
2 Oh, Water for Elephants... America loves you. America loves you so much that Hollywood is making a movie about you starring Reese and Rob (swoon!). So why can't I love you too?Probably because you had so much potential and didn't live up to it. I will admit, my expectations were a little high, given how much hype has surrounded this book, but I guess it was foolish of me to assume that if a lot of people are loving a book then I would too. Overall, my reaction was just... meh.I picked up Water for Elephants because:Like I said, other people are really digging this bookI was in the mood for a really good love storyThe setting - a traveling circus - is greatWater for Elephants only really lived up to number three. As I mentioned above, the book didn't really live up to the hype for me. And the love story was just okay. It wasn't particularly passionate or compelling - I would call it "love story lite". I would actually describe the whole book as "lite". It ended exactly how I expected to end. There were no twists, nothing unexpected, and it just didn't have much depth. Which is really disappointing because the setting was great. A circus, traveling through the U.S. by train, during the Great Depression, with hundreds of employees and a whole menagerie of animals, including the titular elephant, provides so much potential for an interesting story. Unfortunately, the author didn't put this great source material to the best use.Don't get me wrong - I finished the book and finished it pretty quickly. It was a fast read and there were some good characters, but I just wanted more. More detail, more passion, more depth. Water for Elephants just didn't go far enough for me.In a nutshell: Just okay. Water for Elephants would make a decent beach read, but it wasn't as good as I wanted it to be. Two and a half stars.And because I love to comment on the casting of movies I haven't seen based on books I've already read - I ain't buying Robert Pattinson as a red-headed Polska. Nice try studio execs.
4 This is a good book that partially describes how the circus business operated during 1930's. Good plot, interesting emotional characters and lots' of historical information/anecdotes.The story is narrated by a very old person, I found some parts of his everyday life descriptions not so exciting. The narrative seemed like a novel approach though and I give the author credit for that.
4 I've actually read this book twice--once because some friends recommended it, and then a few years later I read it again when the movie came out.  I thought the story was fascinating about a young man whose veterinary education is interrupted and he hops a circus train.  He becomes the circus vet and his whole life changes. Of course this all happens during the Great Depression.  I guess I liked this book because of the background research by the author about circuses during that period.  The old photos were charming as well. Like another reviewer mentioned not all of the facts regarding the care of animals may have been accurate but it's a fictional story and I think you have to give some license to that.  It's a book you would take on the plane or to the beach just to enjoy!
5 I did not see the movie, but would like to. This book held my interest from beginning to end. I would recommend this book for both men and women. I learned a lot about the circus world. Didn't think I wanted to, but found out differently.
5 After reading the hysterical prologue ("A polar bear towered above it all, slashing blindly with skillet-sized paws. It made contact with a llama and knocked it flat - BOOM. The llama hit the ground, its neck and legs splayed like the five points of a star...") it is no surprise that this book is a NYT best seller. What is surprising is that it's only Gruen's third book - with prose like this you would easily expect her to have a dozen or two novels under her belt by now. Couple that with Gruen's attention to detail, which is reflected in her extensive research of the subject. Bet the original publisher who turned this manuscript down for lack of interest is sorry he did so. (Ms. Gruen did herself a favor in finding a new publisher!)I left the book feeling like I was friends with the characters - the cantankerous, honest yet likeable Jacob, the beautiful Marlena, the humourous and captivating Rosie. Rosie easily stole the show - as the title suggests - and you felt a special relationship with her as you went through her trials and tribulations while part of the Benzini Brothers entourage. Her behavior is nothing short of stunning and miraculous towards the end. After the circus' collapse, how can Gruen deliver after such a memorable scene? You'll just have to find out. And you won't be disappointed.
5 I love reading books which captivate me so much that I constantly think about them; the characters, the plot...what's going to happen. When I was a child, Enid Blyton's books did the same thing for me. Sara Gruen is the kind of author a lot of people (including me) should aspire to be like.  Although this is a ficticuous novel, some of the events are true...Ms. Gruen should be applauded  for doing such an excellent job weaving past events with fiction. Her writing style is superb. Most people will probably start reading the book and think they know the ending......you won't!  That's how brilliant this author is.I highly recommend this book...and, oh, in addition, I would LOVE to see the next traveling circus.  (Do they still exist?)
3 There are some brilliant scenes in this book. Gruen does a great job capturing the era and the characters who led the circus life. I re-read the last chapter a few times and think she had a few too many martinis and left out some key info that would have made the ending tighter.I do want to see the movie despite mixed reviews.
5 Water for Elephants is a quick read that carries you through many experiences and emotions.  I enjoyed most of the characters (human and animal).  It was thrilling, sad, sexy and hearbreaking at times, but in the end you won't regret reading it!  You'll get the added bonus of reading historical fiction too.  Very good read, highly recommended.
5 I love this book.  I even bought it for a friend who never reads and she loves it too.  The movie however was not that good compared to the book.
5 What a lovely story this was! I feel like it was witten for hollywood, I cant wait to see the movie. I loved the fact that the story was remembered by an old man. The author REALLY got what it feels like to be old and she makes you get it also. I felt like I was right in the story, I read through this wonderful book in a few days. My only complaint is that it wasnt a little bit longer. This is only about 300 pages but I felt it should have been more.
4 This story was so easy to get wrapped up in, even thoguh it is in a different time and unusual circumstance.
5 Another book I just couldn't put down. I did have to put it down for a little while, when the animals were mistreated. I also didn't like the fact that the circus employees weren't paid. Overall, it was a great story and I hope to read more books by this author.
5 I held off reading this book because everyone I knew who had read it or was reading it loved it but kept referring to it as "depressing" or "violent" or with other strong negative adjectives.  I wasn't in the mood for a "downer."  Nothing else in my "recommended for you" list appealed to me so I downloaded the free sample.  This book is everything everyone said it would be...violence, cruelty, betrayal, death but somehow the story grabs you and won't let go.  Told by a 90 or 93 year old vet from a circus, the story is as personal as a biography and engrossing as a news account of the circus in the 1930s.  I read it in 24 hours.  Buy, borrow it or download it...it will not disappoint!
5 I loved everything about this book! Jacob, Marlene, Walter, Camel and of course dear dear Rosie. It is very well written.
3 I bought this book because it was a Kindle Daily Deal and I'm glad I didn't spend more than $1.99 on it. It was an interesting read, but it did seem very contrived in a lot of places. I know nothing about circuses or being a vet, but even so, the book seemed to pick up only on meaty half-realities, kind of like she wanted to shock or surprise or otherwise manipulate the reader. I didn't like the present day parts...why was that necessary? Kind of like an easy way to let us know that the main character (POSSIBLER SPOILER, BUT ONLY IF YOU DON'T READ THE FIRST CHAPTER) survived and did okay.I think, in short, it was a very melodramatic book. Evil, moustache-twirling villian(s) (did he HAVE to be Jewish? Really?) Sweet, beautiful heroine. Smart, masculine hero. Lots of supporting characters. That said, the hero had a lot of failings. I should have liked that (deviating from the melodrama), but his failings seemed nonsensical. Why did he stand by so many times when animals were being harmed?I didn't hate the book. I read it and enjoyed it, more or less, but it didn't seem like any kind of great literature. I'm surprised it was made into a movie, in some ways. In others, it seems just right as the characters seemed to have been written with the big screen in mind.
5 Every now and then I find a book that is so wonderful.  It's like finding the lone needle in a haystack.  This book is a treat.  Imagery is beautiful, characters are fabulous, and I loved that the animals had personalities (as they do in real life).  I recommend this for someone who loves to read for pleasure.  Can't believe I almost didn't read this because it was about a circus; that would have been my loss.
5 And read this fabulous story.  I could not put it down.  The author's insight into all things human, notably aging, is phenomenal.  This book is top of the line in every respect.  Thank you Sara Gruen for all your inspired research and talent.
4 I will admit, the only reason I bought this, is because it was $5 for the Kindle, but the story grabs you from the very beginning, and holds you until the end. As vacuous as it may seem, the author writing from a male's perspective was a bit off, but Jacob's character is easy to identify with, and who doesn't love an elephant that kicks the bad guy's ***!!!
2 This is the type of novel I expect to be on the bestseller list and is why I typically overlook popular novels, sometimes to my own detriment. An elderly man, now in a nursing home, looks back on his time spent as a veterinarian in a circus. It's a story that could have been capable of more, but the plot seemed fairly predictable and the characters not that believable or rounded. It wasn't bad, mind you, I guess you could say this elephant was just too watered down.
5 Having read after watching the movie, it's hard not to imagine Reese Witherspoon and Robert Patinson as the lead characters.  The book is very engaging and a quick read.
5 Reading the first line of this book caught me immediately. I have ADD with books sometimes, but this one, I didn't slip a word. The author makes you care about everyone, even the jerks.
5 This was a refreshingly interesting read due to its uniqueness.  Much research was done to make it as realistic as possible and it shows through - you'd be missing out not to read this book!
4 Quite a few people recommended I read this book and I'm glad I did! It had all the components you want in a good book, and a fantastic inside look of the depression era circus. You can't help but love or hate the characters,and I found myself smiling at the end. Read it!
5 This book was recommended to me by a friend. I went out, bought it and finally read it. It was amazing book. The book kept me hooked to the last sentence.  It was well writtin and you get to feel sorry for the old man but he finds peace in the end.  This book does not disappoint.  It is a time peace but you will still love it.
5 I love this book! It has such great detail and description I feel like I'm there! I would highly recommend it
4 I really enjoyed this historical novel about a depression-era circus and the people who work in it.
5 Water for Elephants is one of the best books I've read in a long time. This book was mentioned several times in the House at Riverton book club I participated in; and was a huge seller during the holidays on Amazon.  I figured even though it wasn't a book I would normally pick up and start reading, I would give it a try.I'm so glad I did!The story setting was depression era circus life...more than intriguing! Sara Gruen did an amazing job with her research and the detail she outlined in the book.  She was able to find a perfect balance of grisly and romantic.  Gruen used that same "memory sequence" style of storytelling as The House at Riverton, Titanic, and Rebecca.  The flips from past to present were seamless.Gruen's depiction of the narrator as a 98 year old man was awesome.  She allowed the reader to understand the traumas of being "that old" as well as remind us there's often a pretty amazing story to most of the older generation.Each character had a function in the story, including the nursing home staff.  There were no superficial characters and every single character helped you to understand "who" the main character was.This was one of those fun reads that sucks you in and makes you wish the story could go on forever.  I ended the book feeling like I wanted to join a circus, wanted a pet elephant, and wanted to work in a nursing home.  All very strange, indeed!  Its not often a book I read can make me want to do anything remotely close to those things.
5 A true grit romance with all the details of the hard life of "carnies".  An amazing tale of one man's life, survival and eventually love.
5 When I read the summary of this book, I wondered why it was so popular.  It didn't sound like anything I'd ever want to read, but when a fellow book obsessed friend of mine told me that I had to read it, and I had to read it immediately, I took her advice.  Boy am I glad I did!  This book is so well written, the characters are great, and the story is absorbing.  I live near a circus museum, and am now planning a trip to visit because of this book.  I highly recommend it to anyone that loves a good story!  I've also read Riding Lessons and Flying Changes and am eagerly awaiting her next novel!
3 It's OK.  It's long and not really eventful until the end.  It took me a bit to get into it
1 It is very rare that I don't finish a book. I just couldn't find a single reason to continue reading; the writing style is that of a children's book - in a strange combination with graphic sex and 21st century profanity (both of which I don't mind in the right setting), the language doesn't match the 30ies, the cruelty to animals made me cringe, and the story was predictable.
3 I found this book to be an engaging and interesting read.  There were several authenticity and continuity issues that bothered me.  During the era of this situation, Fox Terriers were very common and used a great deal in entertainment.  Jack Russel terriers are a relatively recent introduction to the US.Jacob gives his watch away, and then it reappears.  There are two or 3 other gaffs along this line that are annoying.  It would be great if the author would put out a new edition with these things corrected.Rose, the elephant is the real heroine of this novel, and she provides the frame for the story.
4 I found Sara Gruen's WATER FOR ELEPHANTS thoroughly enchanting in a very engrossing tale of the 1930s traveling circus Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. Part wonder, part adventure, part tragedy and turmoil, and part romance, my first Gruen novel conveys a novel artistry in the settings, characters, prose and storytelling that resonated. Similar to another I read recently (Cornwell's rendition of Arthur), we find a popular style of writing I find many authors choosing as of late: a first-person narration that shifts from a flashback when he's 23 years old and to the present tense when he's 90... or 93. The flashback comprises the bulk of the book's content over the span of 3 to 4 months when 23 year-old Jacob lands in a shady traveling circus amidst the historical backdrop of the Great Depression and the prohibition of alcohol. Normally, first-person flashbacks tend to affect a doleful disposition. Not so here. Remarkably, I found the present happenings of our senile 90-or-93 year-old Jacob in a nursing home refreshingly funny and instructively captivating as we laugh and empathize with Jacob. I'll never look at my grandmother the same way again. In fact the book derives its title from a grumpy Jacob grousing over another old man claiming to bring water for elephants in his younger days.Personal wants and simple plot devices prevented a perfect 5-star rating on my part. I'm impressed by Gruen's research into the time period and traveling circuses, and admittedly, Gruen's hypnotizing writing style, symmetric storytelling and gritty characterizations far surpasses many of my 4 and 5-star books. I read a 553-page large print edition of WATER FOR ELEPHANTS containing black-and-white photos of 1930s circuses and for the 100 to 200 pages, I was enthralled. The wonder and the adventure of it had me smiling and on the edge of my seat. The book then settles down with the August-Rosenbluth character who factors in more and more prominently. Much of the plotting deals with August, his wife Marlena and our protagonist Jacob as the third wheel at a private dinner or outing. August's violent schizophrenia took center stage and the August character and his prominence choked much of my enthusiasm. Instead of August, I was hoping for more wonders of the circus, more Camel, Walter, and more plots with the animals of the menagerie. The caste-like, hierarchal circus society consisting of performers, workers and rubes was very interesting, but Jacob's helplessness within that hierarchy, although gritty and realistic, proved altogether exasperating. I was hoping to see Jacob doing more, whether helping the elephant or protecting Marlena (both from August). I also found the ending a bit disappointing and anticlimactic, I wanted to see at least one more chapter of closure in the flashback rather than relaying the aftermath in the present tense.At its heart, the book expresses Jacob's story of love -- an impossible love for his wife, a love for animals and the elephant, and of course, a love for the wondrous circus. Unlike so many potboiler romance novels, here's a love between a man and woman that isn't so trite: we have a sexually-inexperienced, red-haired 23 year-old college boy and the compassionate star of the circus who dares to love him, and in return, warrants his affection, caring, loyalty and love. Even though their first love scene isn't ideal by romance standards, it nevertheless reverberates with passion and we witness Jacob's joy for giving as she guides him. Granted, it's written entirely from Jacob's perspective and even though the first lovemaking wasn't scientifically precise (again, by romance standards), the book captures how each gives their heart for the other. Everything isn't initiated by Jacob and that in itself was noteworthy. For myself, love is about mutual giving, and I always hope to see some semblance of that. WATER FOR ELEPHANTS doesn't disappoint.I'm astonished to read a very believable and resonating account of a male character written by a woman. In spite of Jacob's frustrating helplessness at times, I loved how realistic, how passionate and how intense he was about the animals, friends and love he cares for. I appreciated Jacob's passion and intensity minus the inane, repetitious introspection so common to the romance genre. No, guys don't think and muse about things for endless pages, and Gruen thankfully discarded that element of the romance. Things are happening anyway, so Gruen need not fill the pages with cheap introspection.The story actually begins with the ending. It was actually deftly done, and Gruen fills in the details when we encounter the prologue at the very end of the book again. Ironically, this added a measure of suspense to the novel.  As I mentioned before, I thought the book limped to its conclusion. I would have appreciated another chapter in the flashback depicting our protagonists in a new act with another circus.Still, I found the reading experience a captivating novelty to say the least.
2 This book came recommended to me by a couple of friends, but I won't recommend it to anyone else as long as there are plenty of other decent books to read out there.It was relatively engaging in that I wasn't bored.  And it has a lot of potential.  But when I reflected on the story as a whole, I realized it didn't accomplish anything interesting, significant, intelligently complex.  I found it absolutely laughable that it had book club discussion questions at the end. For the life of me, I don't know what there is to dissect, analyze, or discuss about it!I never felt emotionally connected to any of the characters, except for the old man's musings at the beginning on growing old and being ignored by family in the midst of their own busy-ness.  Frankly, I was surprised that the love story ended up the way it did because I didn't realize the "love story" part of it was actually to be taken seriously.  The couple was so flat and void of chemistry.I didn't appreciate that the book started with a future event only to get to that actual part of the story and learn that it was quite different from what the prologue led me to believe.  That kind of fake-out should be reserved for 1-hour TV shows, not books.  It was sloppy and it set me as the reader on the wrong course for the rest of the book.About 2/3 of the way through the book, I was just pushing through to finish it and say I finished it.  Sometimes a book can redeem itself in the end, but this ending was too ridiculous for redemption.I've read some good modern fiction recently, but this doesn't make the list.  It's a real shame it's going to get a bump in revenue because of the movie -- and because it's a Robert Pattinson movie at that.  (sigh)
3 It's tough to be the sour note in a chorus of "Hallelujahs."  "Water for Elephants" disappointed me. I believed and liked the narrator, Jacob, a snarky old coot who apparently couldn't stop complaining. I wanted to like this story. But I couldn't.The characters who accompanied Jacob on his journey were so strange and unbelievable that empathy was unachievable for me. To see them as anything but gargoylesque charicatures was impossible. Perhaps if they hadn't been circus characters, but everyday kinds of people like grocers and real estate agents they would have been more believable.  Perhaps if they had not been so extreme in their outlooks, histories and passions they would have seemed real. But we shall never know.As it stands, the book is beautifully written, with all the skill of language and prose that one could desire.  It has an important theme and is chock full of human frailty, and human victory.  It even has elephant victory! But it has a singular deadly flaw that scars the book so much for me that I can not enjoy it or recommend it.I AM glad to be in the minority with regard to this book.  I AM glad for all those who are not bothered by the characters. May you read on in happiness.
4 WATER FOR ELEPHANTS by Sara GruenMay 15, 2008Rating ****   (4.5/5 Stars)There was a lot of hype surrounding this book the year it came out, and I usually don't like to read books like that until the fuss has died down a bit. A friend sent this to me and I finally found the time to read it (plus it was also a group read). The book definitely does live up to its reputation, and I will most likely list it as one of my favorite reads in 2008.WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is the story of a man, who now in his golden years, is reminiscing about his past and his days with a traveling circus. The book goes back and forth between the two time periods, the present and the past (Depression era), and I think it was done quite nicely. Jacob Jankowski is the narrator and old man that is looking back on the eccentric life he had with the circus, about the people he met and knew, and the woman that changed his life. While Jacob sits in the old folks home, his mind wanders back to those days, often confusing the present with the past.His past takes us to his story of how he ended up with the circus, just a few college exams short of a degree. His future was to be that of a veterinarian, but that dream was cut short when his parents die suddenly, and he doesn't have the focus to continue. He loses the family home, loses his bright future, and has nowhere to go. Luck brings him to the train that carries the circus from one town to another. He hitches a ride, and thus begins the adventure of a lifetime.The reader will discover that this book is not really about the circus. Yes, most of the story line does take place behind the scenes of a circus, but what WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is really all about is loyalty, friendship and love, and the relationships that Jacob develops during these years with the circus. Comparing Jacob's current life in the seniors' home to what he had in the circus is almost akin to that of a caged animal being locked up. Jacob's time in this seniors' home is stagnating him, and he continues to look back at his younger years with longing. He remembers all that had transpired, his relationships with his fellow circus entertainers and workers, the circus ringmaster, a cruel and dangerous man who had his gentle side, and the ringmaster's wife, Marlena, who is in a way imprisoned in a marriage that she can't get out of.  In the middle of it all is a gentle elephant named Rosie, who becomes an integral part of the circus and an animal that Jacob takes under his wing. It is Rosie's relationship with several of the main characters that helps tell the story of these people, leading back toJacob's present state and where his last remaining days on earth will take him.I highly recommend WATER FOR ELEPHANTS. It's an insightful story about people, in an unusual setting.
5 Original, tension-filled and slightly bizaare.  The right ingredients for me.  I would recommend this to anyone who likes to read something different for a change.  Good story.
5 Sara Gruen creates a Depression-era tale of a traveling Circus and fills it with some of the most memorable characters in recent fiction as well as a compelling tale of love and loyalty.Jacob Jankowski is struck with tragedy when his parents are killed in a car accident just as he is about to finish up his Veterinary degree at Cornell.  Not knowing what to do with himself, he jumps aboard a random train and finds himself on one of the Benzini Brothers Circus cars.  He gets hired to be the circus vet and is tasked with keeping the menagerie of animals healthy.Things are not easy at Benzini and Jacob soon finds himself in the middle of the fiery relationship between the show's Ringmaster, August, and his wife, Marlena, the horse rider.  When a unique elephant named Rosie joins the circus Jacob forms a special bond as Rosie only responds to commands in his native Polish language.Gruen's use of language and flashing forward and back between young Jacob and the 93-year-old version of himself in the present are remarkable.  This is a novel the reader will long remember after turning the final page.
5 I could not put it down buy how often do you need to here that to read a book. you will enjoy this . promise
4 vivid is the best way to describe it. very interesting portrait of the depression era
4 Fun book about the circus life of the 1930's.  Characters pretty well developed, easy to follow. I especially liked the chapters about the old man and his thoughts about his life. Very real.
5 This well written story introduces the reader to the myriad of life that belongs to the Circus.  The author developsthe characters from the top brass to the lowest workers, who are sometimes thrown off the train while it is in transit.  Some of the animals are more important than the workers  The story is told in first person by a veterinary student who joins the circus after the tragic death of his parents  His young life in the circus is contrasted by chapters describing the latter part of his life in an assisted living facility where he is left only with his memories.  RB
2 2000 readers can't be wrong can they?  Umm, yea they might be.How is it that a mediocre book can consistently get raves?I was excited by the "prospect" of this book but the more I read, the more resigned I became to the fact that there was nothing very extraordinary about it.Not only is the writing flat and the plot a giant cliche - there's also the matter of the central "love" triangle being blatantly lifted from Sophie's Choice (I cringe referring to that classic alongside this book) right down to the suprise party / angry accusation by a lunatic.Mediocrity is being rewarded with a big Hollywood movie starring Reese Witherspoon.  Ahh, American pop culture.
5 With a book like this...when i come on to review - i check the negative reviews first.  I could not believe there were ANY 1 star reviews; tho i did read them...and really found nothing i agreed with (obviously - i gave it 5 stars!).  But compare for yourself the amount of high reviews, compared to low reviews.I read many, many books - and have for over 35 years.  This is one of the best, in every way.  The writing style, the characters, the story, the way it develops - and i personally like the "back and forth" way of telling it... the remembering.  I LOVED IT.  I would put it in my Top 20 - and like i said - i've read many.  The book is great... what more can i say?  Enjoy!
5 What a awesome read.  I loved the characters.  I did not see the movie, so the ending was a bid of a shock to me in a good way.  This was on my summer reading list.  I couldn't put it down once I started.
5 I'm a little late to the party on this book, but I just loved it. I had picked up Ape House, her second book, and got about halfway through before I gave up - it's really strange and awful. I wouldn't even have read this one unless it hadn't been our book club pick.Now I understand the hype. I love fiction where you learn something, and though this is no Grapes of Wrath, it's a great picture of Depression-era life, and the information on circuses was absolutely fascinating (if incredibly depressing). Put that together with a solid love story and I was sold.Chapters switching between times can be annoying, as you're essentially getting to know two different characters, even if it's the same person, but I felt it worked well here.Highly recommended.
5 Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is one of my all-time favorite books! The story is told by an old man looking back on his life in the circus during the Great Depression. As a young man he joins the circus after his parents died in a car accident. There he discovers a whole new and strange world in the small traveling community. He learns the hard work involved in the back scenes of a circus, as well as the harsh and sometimes tragic lives of the workers. It isn't long before he falls in love with the beautiful Marlena, one of the star performers. Things are complicated though. She's already married to the controlling and cruel head animal trainer.Get ready to cheer for the hero, boo the villain and ooh and ahhh at the story that draws you into a bygone time and place. It's a memorable book that will stay in your heart a long, long time.
5 I liked everything about this book, but I especially loved the contrast between Jacob as a young man and his life as a 90 (or 93) year old. It's one of those stories that older people tell that makes young people realize they need to sit down and talk with the elderly people they know, or this type of story is going to be gone forever. Jacob's story of the circus and falling in love were so moving, but when you see what happens to Jacob as an old man, it is bittersweet. I was expecting the end to be much more of a downer - I thought the ending was very uplifting.
1 This was a Book Club selection last year and our group of seven were looking forward to enjoying a recent best-seller. None of us liked it. I thought the story about circus life was interesting but I did not like any of the characters and although I tried, could not find a redeeming quality in any of them. I also did not care much for the writing style. Had it not been for Book Club, I would have quit a quarter of the way.
2 After reading Water for Elephants when it was first published and then reading it again this week for book club it is no more clear than it was the first time.  The first scene describes the stampeed and then it is remembered a different way later in the novel.  Historic fiction?  Ok, there have always been a traveling circus of some sort and circus performers--that's as historical as I can get from this.  Seems like the "break" (no pun intended) that the author had to take between writing the first half and finishing the novel was a memory fading event.  From the reviews with so many enjoying this novel I can only surmise that those are from fond memories of seeing the circus (which we did as children in Indiana many years ago--Shriner's Circus - makes me sentimental for my Grandparents) and not necessarily this novel.  Sorry, I wanted to love this book but just couldn't get by the "change in memory".  I will say that the flow between old and young memories other than the biggie were pretty fluent.
3 Abandoned drop-out Cornell vetLooks after all the circus petsFalls in love with someone's wife,Of her he'll think for all his life.Barbara's chest or the Fat Lady--It's all good ol' hyperbole,They'll make you laugh and maybe cry,But you feel they're just a circus sight:When show's over all shuffle home,Men to bars and tigers to bones,Adulterous romps can only so long last,Hands part and hearts get stuck in the forever past.(Must Love always beGood ol' hyperbole?)
4 Well written book. I like a book that when I am reading it I feel that I am right there.
4 I liked the realistic history of the story. Knowing that was really what happened with the circus and animals. I just wished that reality was not so cruel to the animals or so hard on the people from that time in history. I love that it really tells that life, and maybe we should look to see our older people with value and not something that we can just cast off.
5 Great novel.  At first I was hesitant to read this despite the great reviews because I just couldnt understand how a novel about a circus could be any good, but boy was I wrong.  This novel has suspense and romance and you really understand and fall in love with the Jacob, the main character.  It is a must read.
5 Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is a well told and well researched book about the early days of the American circus. The book is told both in the present and in 1931 by Jacob Jankowski. We start with him in an old folk's home, where he tells us he's either 90 or 93. He's past caring at this point about pretty much anything. Then one day he sees a bunch of the other patients gathered at one of the windows. He goes over to see what they are all looking at and finds that the circus is in town, and within throwing distance of his geriatric home.The appearance of the circus brings back memories of his first experience with the circus, which began just as he was finishing his veterinarian degree at Cornell University. He goes through a tragic time and leaves in the middle of his final exams, walking until his legs get tired. Where his legs led him was to the town's railroad tracks. He jumps on the next passing train, although it's late at night and he's not sure what type of train he's just hitched. In the morning he finds that it's a circus train and he's taken on as the circus veterinarian.The book then goes through his time on the circus, his interactions with the beautiful Marlena and her abusive husband, August. Not only does August treat Marlena badly, but he abuses the animals, especially Rosie, the Polish-speaking elephant taken on by Uncle Al, the circus ringleader.I know not all people are huge fans of circuses, but if you can stomach it I highly suggest you read this book. It's obvious from her writing that Gruen has a soft spot for the circus and this time period. She wrote about it in a lovely way, without being too easy on the circus operators. She showed the dark side of the circus (beating animals, low pay, difference between working men and performers, etc.) without overdoing it. I never felt like she was trying to harp on about animal abuse or any of the other terrible things that used to happen in circuses. And the archive photos from Ringling and other circuses made the book even that much more fun to read.
5 This is a very well-written novel.  The characters are realistic and the story is interesting.
4 I am always the one to come in late in the game. A book will become popular and into a popular movie before I read the book. But when I do, I typically enjoy it. Well, I was late with Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen.This is a story, if you didn't already know that, about an old man reminiscing about his life with the circus. Jacob is about to become an official vet during the age of Prohibition. Just as he is about ready to sit down and take his final exams, he is informed that his parents were killed in a car accident and everything had been mortgaged too much. He now is without a family and a home. Instead of taking his exams, he runs off and finds himself on a circus train.Jacob finds himself falling in love with one of the performers who is also the wife of his boss. It all gets ugly as his boss reveals physiological problems resulting in death at times. Jacob develops friends in the most unlikely places including that of a large elephant.Ms. Gruen does an excellent job going back and forth in time as Jacob is an old man dealing with growing old and as a young man not sure who he is or where his future lies. The loneliness of the assisted living is shown with deep emotion, and the dirty side of the glamorous circus is laid out before the reader.This is one of those books that you'll either love or hate. It is not action packed. Most of the action does not occur till very late in the book. The majority of the story is slow as it goes through many of the mental thoughts of Jacob and the detailed life of a circus performer and worker. I found it easy to put down and resume reading at a later time. But I am very glad I read it. It is a good read, but a read that only those that prefer slower, deep readings can enjoy.There is graphic language and scenes that might be offensive to some though they are not many. It is not a pretty story as the life of the circus was hard and dirty. This story depicts a seedy side of the glamor.Ms. Gruen did a great job bringing to life interesting characters that won't soon be forgotten.Note: This book was borrowed by me from the library.
5 Water for Elephants was beautifully researched and written. It's not only romantic, but the history and thrills make this book hard to put down. I loved how Jacob transformed from young to old; and of course the relationship with Rosie was amazing, it brought tears to my eyes a few times. The twist ending is one of the best I've read; I'm still in shock. Water for Elephants will forever be a favorite of mine. A definite must-read.
4 This book, as expected, is about the circus.  But it's about the circus in the early years....not the big stadium circuses we see today.The story is narrated by a 90-year old man in a nursing home.  He worked in the circus when he was younger, and when he sees a circus setting up down the street, he begins to reminisce.  The story is told in two eras, that of the man's young years with the circus (during the Depression) and that of the man's present time in the nursing home.I have to say that I looked forward to getting back to the book every day.  I truly enjoyed it.  It's action packed, thoughtful, and different.  I read this book very quickly!
5 What a wonderful book...at frst I wasn't sure I would like it but it just kept getting better and better.  If you're looking for a book that will lock you in....this is it !
4 I bought this novel for my Nana long before it was made into a movie - she loved it and raved about it to everyone. I felt very proud to have picked a good book for her. A few years later I read it myself and I fell in love. This book is delicious and a real treat. You will fall in love with every character and you will not want the circus to end.Even if you have watched the movie - you should read the book - it is (as always) so much more than the movie.
5 I wasn't so sure I'd like this book by it's title, but I loved it!  It's a great read with a wonderful story line and characters with whom the reader becomes friends.  I read it in one sitting -- couldn't put it down.
5 I could not stop reading. As my first  KF download I can't wait to read more stories like this. I was dreaming about the book last night ... I could write the sequel.
5 Water for Elephants is told by and about Jacob Jankowski, a cranky but likable 90 year old (or perhaps 93) man who resides in an assisted living center.  The story maintains its momentum by alternating between the past and the present as Jacob recalls the circumstances under which he found himself traveling with the Benzini Brothers Circus.Through Jacob, the author Sara Gruen, presents us with a fascinating history of the American circus as well as a painful look at the time known as "The Great Depression". Gruens storytelling technique is enhanced by the period circus photos (circa 1920-30) that appear at the beginning of each chapter.The eccentricities of the characters as well as the alarming treatment of both animals and performers propels the story and mezmerizes the reader.  The complicated interpersonal relationships of the circus "family" is deftly interwoven with that of the rest home "family".I was truly seduced by this book.  Reading it was an unexpected and astonishing adventure that continued to resonate long after I had read the last page and closed the book.
4 I found this book interesting....I loved the way the bad guys 'got theirs'...and the ending was perfect!  I would recomend it to any older, retired individual...you can see yourself in a lot of the story.
4 Water For ElephantsBy Sara GruenSo for this book I decided to jump had first into it without reading any reviews or even the synopsis.  It turned out to be a very well written and beautiful story about love, hardships, and a circus. It's the great depression 1932, prohibition is in full swing, and like so many others a young man has had his entire life torn into pieces and ends up wandering straight into the adventure of a lifetime.  Jake Jankowski, the main character in our epic story, is distraught when he is informed that both his parents have died in an automobile accident. After, what we can only assume is a nervous breakdown while taking his final exams for veterinary school; he walks out and continues until he cannot bear to go any further.  While resting near a train track as a train rumbles up, and he decides to try to "hitch" a ride to the next town not realizing he has jumped aboard a circus train.  From there he meets many characters who will forever change his life.I found myself falling in love right along with him, hating the villain with a fiery passion, and cheering for a quirky elephant named Rosie whom Sara Gruen describes so vividly that you can't help but smile.  Sara Gruen manages to create a scene so well you can imagine yourself there, but she never loses you with too many details.  Personally, I am torn whether or not I love this story.  In the first half of the book when she is setting a scene she would add some explicit details that weren't necessary. Since she had already masterfully created her setting and by adding those I can only assume she was after shock value.  I did enjoy the story, but I have a hard time swallowing adultery, I guess I have just been married too long.  I can understand why the characters were drawn to each other and why she would cheat on her husband, but I don't personally enjoy it.  In my opinion she could have used something else for her characters to over-come.  It's not like they didn't have three or four other obstacles to surmount. All and all I couldn't put it down so I suppose I can't be too harsh.
5 The story moves cleverly between the world of 90, or possibly, 93 year old, Jacob, in a nursing home, as he tells the story of his life, the Depression era and the circus world.He was twenty-three and almost ready to take his final exam, when he receives word that both of his parents were in a car accident and did not survive. There was no money as he sat to take his final exam to become a veterinarian.  Feeling desperate Jacob jumps on a moving train instead.  Having no idea he has jumped on a circus train, he decides he has nothing left and starts working with the circus. He meets a beautiful woman, Marlena, but finds out quickly she is married to a mad-man. However, she returns the attraction and a great love story begins.Water for Elephants is a compelling story that tells us all about growing old, corrupt management, animal cruelty, wonderful animals, kindness and loyalty between people and between people and animals in a world where indifference and cruelty are common.The author's obvious extensive research of history and circus life added so much interest to the background of a wonderful meaningful, love story.This is such a wonderful read and well worth your time!
4 Found story very interesting.  My dad traveled  with the circus five years when he was young, When I was young we went to every circus within 50 miles and I got to spend time in the back where most people do not see, Loved seeing and petting all the animals.  We stayed until cars were all loaded on thetrain. At that time the horses brought the cars to the tracks and then the elephants pushed them upon to the train. My Dad saw all but 2 of the states. I miss the real circus , The ones today are only so so.
5 I bought this book on a whim at a bookstore at an airport while waiting for my flight.  I couldn't be more pleased with my purchase.  I am generally not a fiction reader, but this book was so "real" that I couldn't put it down.  The author tells the story from the viewpoint of a 90-something year old man from start to finish.  A young 20-something almost done with veterinary school's world comes crashing down when his parents are involved in a freak accident that causes their death.  Not knowing what to do with his life, Jacob signs on to work for a traveling circus.  Not only does this book paint an accurate picture of its protagonist, but it paints an accurate historic picture of life with animals, traveling with a circus, and the time period in which the book is set.I recommend this book to anyone.  It is an easy and quick read that will impress you start to finish.
5 I could not put this book down!!!  Loved it.  Wonderful story, written beautifully, highly recommended.  I don't usually tell my husband about the stories I read, but I kept telling him about this one.I don't understand some of the negative reviews I've read about this book.I truly enjoyed it and wish there were more like it.
3 I appreciated the back and forth of the book, 93 year old Jacob, and then back to 23 year old Jacob.  I must admit that I appreciated the old man's story in the nursing home more than the kid on the train, but that's just me.  The one thing I noticed right off the bat is that this writer took very seriously - "don't tell, show" and show she does in sometimes tedious plodding, even disgusting detail.This can actually become tiresome.I was surprised because my favorite author is a "show-er", and I love to read her work, but maybe it's the fact that she has never written something as long as this.In anycase, I have not gone through the thousands of reviews there are, but there are over 1500 5 star reviews, and I can't help but wonder - if the protagonist was a woman, and what happened to Jacob that night he drank entriely too much had happened to her - would it not be considered a rape or sexual assault of some kind?  Has the definition changed since I was younger?  I just have a big feeling that if it was a woman who was drunk out of her mind and two overly friendly men thought they would *welcome* her to the circus at that very time in her state of no mind - it would be all hell and high water in here - not 1500 five star reviews.  I dont understand why it's different.  Is that why if a man is raped, he would rather suffer in shame than speak up?  Does he wonder who will take him serously?  Who will care?You know what else gets me?  When you take away the wordiness of this book, the premise, plot and story of young Jacob is so painfully simple it's not even funny, there is NO development of the relationship between he and Marlena.  *Spoiler Alert*  It all boils down to boy meets girl, boy falls in love with girl, girl gets beat up by her abusive husband, boy hates husband, husband gets miraculously killed - boy runs away with girl they have tons of kids and live happily ever after.  The story of the circus was quite honestly just alright I dont understand the utter praise for this book. Is it because we are shown the innerworkings of a long ago circus, is it because its ending seemed shocking?  Is it because four of the characters we get to know are sacrificed in the closing chapters?  I have no idea - something has happened in our society where things that are just "ok" are slapped with excellent and pushed ahead with "mind blowing".  The same thing happened with "The Help"  - I actually saw someone refer to that one as a "classic" - seriously?  You compare this to Frankenstein and Pride and Prejudice and Portrait of the Artist - really?If It weren't for 93 year old Jacob's nursing home story, I would not have given this book 3 stars.  I'd be down there hated with the ones and twos.Proudly hated with the ones and twos.
5 Could not put this book down. Eye opening and very well written. A must read for all book lovers.
5 This review refers to the audio CD.  I have listened to perhaps 50 audio CDs and this voice is the best!  Some audio CDs I cannot get through because I find the reader's voice too irritating.  This speaker is clear, easy to listen to, and does an outstanding job mimicing the characters.  The story itself is one of the best I have heard or read in a long while.
5 I've rediscovered my love of reading and this book helped in this effort.  It's one of the best books I've ever read.  It was very creative, well-written, and funny and serious at all the right times.  The characters were vivid and believable and I could envision the traveled landscape.  I highly recommend this one!
5 I adored Water For Elephants when I read it the first time, but it was on my second reading that I realized the extreme skill Gruen exhibits on every page and in every scene. Her prose is crisp and exacting, and her characters are so vivid, they leap to life in this story that grabs hold of you and  doesn't let go. I was literally transported to another place in time. I can't recommend Water For Elephants highly enough. This book deserves all the praise it's received and then some. What a beautiful novel--a treasure for all who curl up with this gem!
5 Secrets that we keep. Don't all of us have them? And will we ever tell? This story, told by the aged narrator skips back and forth in time, but never loses the reader. We get a fabulous behind the scenes look at the old days of the circus world woven in with Jacobs secret. This one is definitely a keeper!!
5 I was hesitant to read is book, because the storyline, setting, and time-period we're not what I usually read. I was surprised at how much I got into this book and could barely set it down. You really MUST read this fantastic book, you will not be disappointed!
4 This book is a great read. Very enjoyable to learn about circus life. The author did a lot of research about the circus so it makes the story very real. I couldn't help but cringe sometimes with the story of the animals, but there is always a dark side to everything. Highly recommend it. An overall great book.
4 Water for Elephants came highly recommended from several friends but it fell a little short of great.  The writing is good, but the love story is a little lacking.  In my opinion, Jacob and Marlena did not have enough scenes together for me to truly believe that they were falling in love.  I know the title is "Water for Elephants," but there was a little too much about the animals in this book and not enough about the people.  I know it was about the circus but I guess I'm the type who likes a better-developed love story if I'm going to "buy" it.  I don't want it to sound like I disliked this book.  I didn't.  It just wasn't a story that blew me away.  It's a nice enough read for people who like sweet, well-written books.
5 This is up on my top ten list of books. I loved this book when I started it I couldn't put it down. Even my daughter who is not a reader per say read this book in one day. This is one I plan on rereading this book.
5 I was hooked from the beginning and looked forward to coming back to the story each time I had to turn off my Kindle.  Coming of age in a circus might seem cliche yet the insiders view of the social dynamics that existed within a circus really put context around the whole "running away to join the circus" thing; although, in this case, it might be more apt to describe this as "stumbling into the circus".  Regardless, while I felt the end of the circus component of the story was somewhat predictable, it didn't spoil the story for me.  A truly remarkable story that I will enjoy again and again.
4 If you read a summary of the plot of this book, it's a little hard to swallow, and frankly, when my book club picked this one for June, I was a little less than excited.  Luckily, I was pleasantly surprised.OK, so I read this book on vacation, on the lovely island of Maui...any book might be great in those circumstances.  Still, I found myself thinking about it often when I wasn't reading.  Even though the plot is romantic at the bare-bones level, I never really felt like I was reading a romance.  Gruen does a wonderful job descibing the details of the circus, and I was more interested in the day-to-day details of train circuses than the romance.  I thought the interaction between characters and the historical element complimented each other well.If you read this book, be sure to read the interview with the author (at the end of the paperback edition).  Interestingly, Gruen admits that she had never been to a circus (never been to a circus???) before writing this book.  I see that as a testimony to the quality of her research and her writing.  I also love the way she integrates real stories that she has heard from circus folks with her fictional tale (all explained in the interview).Honestly, I thought the "prologue" was kind of a sell out.  This story doesn't need the mystery the prologue tries to introduce.  If you skip it, you'll get just as much or more out of the book.Overall, definitely worth the read.  One of my favorites so far this year.
5 Loved this book - hard time to put it down. Gives alot more insight than the movie, although the movie was very well done.
3 I got this book because it had such good reviews and it was recommended in my school library.  I liked it but I wasn't grabbed by it.  It's not horrible at all but just not my favorite.
4 A story based on facts about a depression era circus.  Story follows a vet and others he befriends in one of 100's of traveling circus's of the time.  A love relations develops, but the main theme is the cruelty and hard life the crew and performers must endure who are essentially endentured servants.
4 Sometimes you just have to read a good story or, in this case, a very good story.  You don't need a lot of depth or socially redeeming value, just a real good story with a very good narrator/character.  This is that kind of book.The main character flees his final vetinary exams in a panic and joins the circus, rather accidentally.  There, in the midst of the Depression, he meets an assortment of interesting characters from roustabouts to sideshow attractions to performers to evil owners and animal trainers.  Of course, being the vet, there are also the circus animals.  He also falls in love.The characters are terrific, especially the narrator, who is introduced as a 93 year old gentleman reflecting on his past in the circus.  There are brief snippets of him in the nursing home that touching and humorous.  Beyond the characters that her narrator meets, Ms Gruen also captures the flavor of the traveling circuses hanging on by a thread during the Depression and the financial desperation of the times.  If one were to seek depth, this book observes the dichotomy between the roustabouts who will work without pay just to have a job and prospects of pay and the owners who eat and live well on the burdensome work or others.  But still, it's mostly a very good story.Although this book has been reviewed as a "romance", there is much more here besides the romance and more depth to classify it denigradingly as a chic book.The book is well-written and the characters all very good, especially the main character/narrator.  He is an everyman and a keen observer of the world and people around him.  Highly recommended.
4 Found this to be a very entertaining book to read.  Enjoyed the way the author took the main character from the present back into the past and back and forth.  Also a good education on circus life during the time of the depression.
3 I thought the setting and milieu were much more interesting than the characters and their development. The background was interesting but the characters were not. They lacked depth and seemed cast as types rather than developed as characters who are realistic in their setting.
5 This is an excellent, well writen book that takes the reader to a world that is seldom encoutered by the average person. It is a well researched account of the USA circus of 1929, including the good and bad. It was a glamarous facade hiding unimagined cruelty to animals and people.
3 A nice, simple story.  Entertaining, but not great literature.  Good circus anecdotes.  Reasonably well researched, but I noticed a few inaccuracies.  Overall, I was glad I read it.
4 I bought this on the strength of the movie, and because I wanted to read something on my new iPad mini. It took me to a different time and place, and it was a good, quick read. If you enjoyed the movie, you'll appreciate the added detail that the book brings. The circus pix were a nice touch too.
3 So I read this book WELL before the movie came out. I was intrigued by a story that had a backdrop in a circus.But I was left really disappointed. I can't quite put my finger on it, but I just didn't connect with the story at all. It may have just been the timing was wrong for me to read this story, but I was not into it (and I find myself rarely disappointed with books). I think there wasn't enough magic in it for me. I didn't see the basis for the romance. Maybe I need to try to pick it up again, but I was left so disappointed that I really don't want to.
5 I couldn't put this book down.  The characters are well drawn and the details of circus life are fascinating.  I got pulled in and hated for it to end.
4 Water for Elephants is a terrific, light read about depression era circus life in the USA. Now of course, this type of circus is almost extinct due to the cruel treatment of both animals and those that they marketed as "freaks", but there's no doubt that almost as much action and adventure happened outside of the ring as inside. The "Greatest show on earth" was just as good a description of life on these itinerant circuses as it was to the events shown to they paying public. In the US, these great circus extravaganzas travelled by rail, and the collection of desperate workers, preening performers and animals ensured an interesting mix.Sara Gruen's tale begins with a wonderfully touching portrait of a 90-ish old man, Jacob, now left to live out his days in a nursing home. But in his youth, he was employed as a circus vet (although unqualified) and what a tale he recalls. Incidentally, the name Jacob is clearly intentional as there are a number of references on the life of the biblical Jacob from Genesis - although they are subtle and only add, rather than distract from the story.Gruen has clearly researched her subject in great depth (the addition of vintage photos from the era before each chapter that is devoted to the past is a nice touch) and there's a suggestion that at least some of the stories included either did happen or are rumoured to have happened. Just occasionally her explanations are a little clumsy, but they are needed to explain some of the terminology. But most importantly, she manages to get a sense of the faded grandeur and charged atmosphere of these great circus trains.At heart, this is a love story with a list of characters that include a grumpy dwarf, a drink-sodden old timer, a beautiful performer, a naiive vet, a mad director of animals, a toothless lion and a charismatic elephant. What's not to love?A movie is due out shortly, but although not having seen it of course, it's a fair bet there will be some Hollywood style sugar coating of this tale. The book includes both some steamy scenes as well as some gritty and potentially disturbing descriptions of animal conditions - and it's all the better for that dark side - so read the book at least before seeing the movie.
5 Sensitive and moving story with some real insight into the aging mind as well as historical view of the old circus. A book both to entertain and learn from. One of those books you are sorry when it is over
5 I missed the movie, so I bought the book.  I read reviews, both movies and books and am anxious to read this book.
3 There are good stories and then there are good stories that are well-written.  This novel is the former.  It delves into uncharted territory by putting a story to what it means to "run away with the circus."  It's an interesting and creative topic. Like a lot of mass-market "trade" paperbacks these days, the book is high on emotion and light on character development. It also exhibits a modern-day trend of reading more like a screenplay than a novel. Events occur seemingly scene-by-scene (it's helpful the train moves from town to town) and the story is narrated by the older version of the main character, offering up a voice-over to fill in where the dialogue is thinly written. The characters are also thin. The main character is one of the few whose past is somewhat explained (cliche alert: he experiences a tragedy then just happens to jump on a circus train speeding down the tracks).  There is very little to go on about why choices are made. For example, we are told how the characters are feeling through adjectives at the end of dialogue rather than the dialogue itself revealing what's going on in a character. She said hesitantly, knowing some people who read these reviews tend to click the negative button if anything critical is said. But, she said happily, anyone who loves character transformation projected onto animals will find this a winner. And everyone else should find it a good weekend escape.  After all, the good people (and critters) live happily ever after.
5 It is hard to find a book that can be described by these four words: Brutal, Moving, Honest and Surprising.  But Water for Elephants is just that novel.  It is not for the faint hearted, and the cruelty and squalor depicted rival some of the works of Dickens.  But also like Dickens there is a sheer honesty and redemption to be found, and as for the ending ... well I will not give anything away except to say that I did not see it coming.  An outstanding book by an outstanding writer.
5 I like this book it is well written, has an input to  what it was the life in a cirque decades ago. Its the story of a young man with a sorry story that turns for the right way and falls in love. Deep characters and a well developed story.
2 The movie was okay but the book was very sexual and this was assigned for my daughter to read. Not happy
5 I have had Water for Elephants on my wish list for quite some time now...when the movie came out I thought I better read it before someone gave the ending away. As soon as I started reading the first line I couldn't stop. I caught myself hiding my kindle under my desk so I could read the next few lines and holding my breath while doing so. This book is so brilliantly written I don't even know how to review it. Sarah G. is so passionate about the animals and the characters in this book that you will find your heart breaks at certain turns and you cheer out loud for the loveable Jacob. I was so incredibly sad when it ended that I immediately ordered another book from Sarah G....The Ape House and I have to say I'm equally enthralled by it.
5 Truth be told, I was not interested in reading Water for Elephants. The subject matter, a memoir of a 93 year old former circus veterinarian, was not interesting to me. But this book got such rave reviews on Amazon that I decided to pick it up. And am I glad I did! The book grabbed me from the first chapter. The author gives life to some very interesting characters and the reader gets a true behind the scenes look at the citizens who made up a circus during the depression. The narrator of the story is Jacob, who runs away to join the circus after his charmed life takes a tragic turn. He gets a real life education. So did I while reading this book. I shed a few tears too. I could not put it down, and didn't want it to end. I will highly recommend this book, and I'm so glad I read it!
5 You will be glad you read this book before the movie, even if the movie is true to it in detail.  Few movies do their masterpiece books justice, and this book is a masterpiece.
4 With 5,438 reviews, including this one, most of what could have already been said about WATER FOR ELEPHANTS has probably already been said. But that's not going to stop me from trying, because I have confidence and determination and I often find myself in lineups where I'm the one who appears out of line. And when weirdness and eccentricities are encouraged, it tends to work better than Miracle-Gro and direct sunlight and watering.Jacob Jankowski proves more than a little odd beneath his shirt collar. He has flashbacks to his circus days where he spent all of his time shoveling excrement and smashing watermelons and filing toenails (Rosie's) and hopping on trains and off trains and carrying knives between his teeth and chasing after married women and chasing after elephants and shoving his hand in a tiger's cage and waiting for the flag to drop and speaking Polish (most of which I didn't understand) and training elephants and speaking more Polish. But I could relate rather easily because I spend much of my time staring at white space and filling it with Times New Roman font and pretending that people actually think I'm witty and charming and wonderful when my reviews and novels are placed in avid reader's hands. Because if Jacob hadn't skipped out on one life to chase after another and I couldn't pretend I was someone else for hours at a time, the real world might close in faster than a mushroom cooked in a skillet.But I wasn't blissfully ignorant after this tale, though. Finding out many of the antidotes contained in this story were at least partially, or in some cases whole-heartedly, based on actual events with the names changed to protect the guilty proved a rather outstanding addition. Since, on occasion, I do like the prospect of getting smarter, especially when I can have fun while doing it. And this was a rather enjoyable tale with Uncle Al and Rosie and August and Marlena and Kinko and plenty of other secondary characters with full-fledged personalities who proved to be more than just a series of caricatures thrown in for good measure to make the main character look pretty and exciting and interesting.Set during a rather depressing time in our nation's history, this story wasn't the least bit depressing, although men were tossed from the train faster than shot glasses tossed back at a bar by some guy with antelopes for arms. While that might turn folks off, I was rather pleased with the thought of bubble gum and candy corn and candied apples. If I want to feel dejected and disheartened, I can find plenty of reasons to sit in a corner with my head pushing against my ankles, thank you very much. I don't need it from a vessel that I like to use as an escape hatch from the real world where fairies and wands and cooch tents and sexy sheer night gowns and six-dollar smiles and two-dollar whores can be had whenever the mood strikes.If I didn't end with more than a few words on Barbara, though, my world wouldn't be complete. She commanded center stage at the cooch tent with her foot long breasts and feminine wiles and brown nipples the size of paper plates and painted expressions, as she danced and swung her hips like a supermodel down a runway. Her happy sacks increased in width at the end and her smudged lipstick and smokin' tobacco and sexy sheer nightgown where I could literally see and hear her bare breasts slapping together. All of which resulted in a totally titillating experience from which I shall never be the same.As for this novel, it proved to be a rather entertaining escape from reality.Robert DownsAuthor of Falling Immortality: Casey Holden, Private Investigator
4 This book was highly recommended to me, but it took a couple tries for me to get started.  Once the circus train has left the station, however, it is a very engaging narrative.
5 I almost exclusively read nonfiction, with perhaps one or two novels a year thrown in for a diversion. This book was given to me and came with highest recommendations, so I started reading it on a plane trip. I am normally not especially captivated by fiction, but suffice it to say that I read the book over the course of one day because I enjoyed the characters so much. The book is told in flashbacks by a 93 year old man, and addresses his years as the vet on a circus train. I found the wraparound scenes of Jacob useful for the introduction and the wonderful conclusion, but if there was one thing I would have changed about the story it was the incessant excursions to the present sprinkled throughout the story which really don't advance the plot other than to explain some issues about senior care in an assisted living community.The book begins with a delightfully deceptive prologue, setting the reader up for a surprise at the climax. I must admit that I had my suspicions about the murder in question, but found the execution to be more skillful than I had imagined. The victim, August, is a megalomaniac with a temper and forms one point in a love triangle with the protagonists, Jacob and Marlena. The circus, run by slimy vermin "Uncle Al" is well fleshed out with interesting characters and terminology that Gruen incorporates flawlessly into the book. I found the character of Walter (Kinko the Clown) to be the perfect complement to play off of Jacob and their relationship was one of the most interesting parts of the novel for me.Gruen handles difficult situations well, even delving into dreams vividly, as when she relates Jacob's nightmare of struggling to get back on the train while pursued by malevolent animals ("Behind us, a wall of badgers. In front of us, a dozen alligators.") Her turn of phrase and tendency to sly understatement is notable throughout, and adds to the story as much by omission as by overt statements. The pivotal murder is one of the most brilliant ever concocted, and the subtlety of its telling, particularly in contrast to the version in the prologue is exquisite: the wording was changed very slightly to enlighten the reader to a plot twist that may or may not have been expected, but nonetheless was wonderfully executed. The ending of the book was likewise unexpected inasmuch as the reader is so focused on the story of Jacob in the circus, they aren't giving as much consideration to the 93 year old who is actually narrating the book.As I mentioned before, there is more narration here than is absolutely necessary (but then again I normally read technical nonfiction), and as an animal lover the cruelty to animals is appalling (even if it's fiction, and despite it being historically based) although admittedly necessary to develop the plot. I mention this as the book may not be suitable for some younger readers for this reason. I found Gruen's choice of the name Jacob, and the obvious Biblical references to Jacob found in Genesis compelling and one of the things that separates this book from most contemporary fiction.Although light reading on one level, this book also deals skillfully with difficult issues, has excellent character development, and a couple of great plot twists. Also included are interviews with the author and a set of book group discussion questions, which were not written by Gruen, and which I found contrived and dull."Water For Elephants" did what a good novel is supposed to do: it captivated my interest from start to finish, and I couldn't put it down. I recommend it without reservation for anyone wanting to read a wonderful contemporary novel about true love, murder, and reflection.
5 I was at a bookstore a couple of years ago holding "Water for Elephants" when someone came and told me that this book was depressing. Since I never liked circus and I was not in the mood to read about circus in the first place, I took that comment as a cue to not read this book.Since then, the number of 5 stars reviews has been growing and growing...I spotted "Water for Elephants" recently at the public library and decided to give it a shot. That woman that told me a couple of years ago that this book is depressing couldn't be more wrong. And this is not a book about circus either. Sure enough, the circus is on the background but this is basically a love story during the Great Depression/prohibition, a time in our history that we should never forget.It is very well written, with the right balance between characters development and action. It is, above all, good entertainment made to the contemporary readers.
4 This is a very interesting read because it describes, in great detail, a segment of life in the US that is not often known and was experienced by relatively few people. The story revolves around a traveling circus and the many characters who live with and work for the show. I will not go into any detail about the story other than to say that it is very well written, in a style that allows the reader to really see what is going on. Without giving away anything, the story is told from the perspective of the main character as he recounts the events that happened so many years ago. What happens to him at the very end is what generated the discussion. Was it a realistic ending or just a romanticized but unrealistic conclusion to the story? I urge you to read it and post your thoughts here.
5 Was an awsome book , best I've read would suggest it to all my friends, Diffrent than I have read but very ,very good
4 I enjoyed this book for the most part, particularly the characters and the tales of circus life. I would have given it 5 stars but thought the ending was weak. Also, the jumping from nursing home to circus and to nursing home was distracting.
5 What a fantastic read. I had seen the movie and I wanted to read the book as well. I am so glad I did. Though the movie followed it very well, the book gives you more in-depth information that leads you along, their thoughts and some of the behind the scene activity that the movie could not show.Sara Gruen is a marvelous writer and so descriptive with her writing. You could almost smell the sweat of the men, the hay, the booze. You could hear the music and feel the drums pounding as the animals entered the Big Top.The story was so well told that it made you feel what Jacob felt both as a young man and as a 93-year-old man.I highly recommend it to anyone!
5 We meet Jacob in a nursing home with the story weaving his current existence and tribulations with his past life as the 'vet' of the Benzoni Brothers Circus at the time of Prohibition ; his love for and ultimate marriage to Mailena and finally the story finishes with a most unexpected chain of events.
5 This is the absolute best book I've read in a long time. I only wish it had been 1000 pages longer so I could have kept reading it for a longer time.  The characters were well developed and the story was fantastic.  Great escape.
5 I don't normally read books based in this era, but I found it to be very interesting and it was hard to put down.  This was my first E-book downloaded onto my Kindle and it was great!  I especially liked the pictures of the circus that Sara Gruen included in her book.  It was very easy to picture the characters while reading.  Well done!  Now I may rent the movie to get another perspective.
4 I just love it when the circus comes to our town and when I read "Water for Elephants" I was impressed with Sara Gruen research into several topics: the circus life and the great depression. I'm not sure how Ms. Gruen, managed to get herself into the head of a 93-year-old man but I loved the old man that narrated the story.The story is a mysterious and historical tour of behind the scenes of circus life. The deception and downright cruelty takes place. As far as I was concerned, Rosie the lovable elephant was the star of all the animals' maybe it's because I just love elephants.I won't go into detail about the story because other reviewers have already done a terrific account of the story. I would like to add that I found myself still thinking about the long suffering of the animals long after I finished the book. In summary the romantic scenes were weak but still a great story.
5 The book was better than the movie.  Characters seemed real.  Liked the detail about the animals and life on the rails.
5 So many reviews have already been written about this wonderful novel, so I'll just say that I enjoyed it very much.  In fact, it is one of the best novels that I've read in the last 5 years.  The construction of the novel is clever, the characters are well-drawn, and the plot is very compelling.  Gruen made two wise decisions in structuring the story: a) starting with the big event that the rest of the story retroactively leads up to, and b) having Jacob Jankowski narrate the story long after the events as an old man in a nursing home.  These choices give the story extra tension, poignancy, and depth; they're the novelistic equivalent of adding 3D to a movie.  Gruen obviously did extensive research to capture what it was like to work and live in a depression era travelling circus.
5 I loved this book. Cleverly written after detailed research by the author. Scholarly, well-woven storylines gives a wonderful look at those magical olden days of the dark side of the depression and the people who attempted to escape into the private world of the traveling circus.
2 I found this book very slow and hard to get into for the whole first half, then when things started moving along it seemed to end so quickly and violently.
3 This novel flows smoothly. It is a linear type of story line, once one gets into the past. What I did not like about this novel is that the author is a female, while the protagonist is a male. One of the things we studied in literature was that a female author cannot truly portray a male character. And in this case I agree. Jacob is more girl/boy than man. He is cowered by Marlena's husband all the time. He is unadventurous when it comes to sexual escapades; he is just too shy, too immature to appeal to me. Also, the love story was not developed well at all. There is no palpable attraction. Marlena is created into the damsel in distress, stuck with an abusive husband, and Jacob is thrown in to rescue her. I think this damsel in distress aspect has been over done. However, it may have worked had the author actually spent a bit more time on developing the h and h's attraction, relationship.However, I did enjoy all the author's research. She did a good job transporting me on that circus train, living the way those people probably did.
1 This book was over-rated and extremely boring!  The characters were not relateable and I had to stop reading half way  through.
5 Wonderful fast paced read. Not once was I bored with this story! I laughed, cried, and was angrered in some parts, but this is what the best books do. This will start filming May 22nd starring Robert Pattinson, Reese Witherspoon, and Christoph Waltz (Inglorius Basterds). Read this book!
4 Sara Gruen has created an engaging memoir narrated by the nonagenarian veteran and veterinarian of a depression-era circus.  Her research into the caste hierarchy and politics of train circuses reveals a world which, much like HBO's Deadwood, had its own laws of lawlessness and morality of immorality.  Into this world Jacob Jankowski is unwittingly dropped, and the recounting of his evolution from inheritor of his father's veternary practice to circus vet to aged resident of an assisted living facility is almost always convincingly told.  While Jacob may be the hero/narrator, it is most definitely Rosie the elephant who steals the show and wins your heart.  Like the rubes who paid their nickels and dimes to gawk at the freaks, I felt my $14.37 was well spent for a 332-page peek behind the big-top.
5 I never wanted this book to end.  It was so interesting to read about living with a circus. One never knows what goes on behind the curtain and this story reveals the characters and their personal lives during the era of the 30's.  I want to go hug an elephant after reading about Rosie.  This book is a real page turner.  It would make a great movie.
5 All children with old parents should read this book.Could not put it down. Would like to read more  books by this author.
1 I never found a book that so accurately portrayed growing old and how you are treated. The story begins with life in the circus,
5 I enjoyed this book from start to finish.I'm not sure what it was exactly but it very much reminded me of Life of Pi which I also enjoyed.Jacob appealed to me as a character and I became genuinely interested in the fates of both rosy and the circus people.I preferred the chapters relating to Jacob's memory over those where he was an old man but this doesn't take away from the overall quality of the book. Although it is a fiction story I like that it was grounded with research and a combination of true stories which made the book feel more real.After reading the book I also watched the movie but as many people always say when they make a book into a movie, it wassnt half as good.
4 This book is a captivating potrayal of circus life during the depression years.  I believe that the author missed an opportunity; this book could have been longer and still held our attention if she had told more about the llife of the protagonist between youth and old age.  Perhaps there is a sequel that could be written.  The characters in the book are a fascinating mix and the author successfully describes the mix of good and bad characteristics that exist in all of us.
5 We choose Water for Elephants for out bookclub by recommendation from one of our member's husband.  He is not a fan of reading and said he could not put the book down.  I must say he gave us an excellent book to read, for I could not put it down either.Going back and forth from present to past was seemless and spellbinding.  A great read for a book club or for just one's general enjoyment.
5 As an animal-lover and not a fan of the circus, I felt a little wary of the setting and subject matter when beginning to listen to the unabridged audio version of WATER FOR ELEPHANTS. But soon I was totally hooked by the two narrators, young and old voices of Jacob, and by Gruen's evocative language and masterful storytelling. Like another reader/reviewer, I was reminded of family stories about the Depression--and of all we can go through and live through.
5 I read the entire book while in the air on a round-trip cross country flight. It is a real page turner! The action was so captivating that it was hard for me to hear the flight attendant ask if I wanted anything to drink. The violence was difficult for me but I managed to skip over most of it. I loved the many good and happy surprises in the end.
3 Jacob Jankowski is 90 or 93 (he can't remember) and living in a skilled nursing facility.  One day, the circus comes to town.  This triggers a flood of memories, because when both his parents were killed in an automobile accident, he fled his senior year as a vet student at Cornell and hopped a train for... anywhere.  It just happened to be the train carrying the equipment, performers, and beasts of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.The owner of this circus finds out Jacob is "practically a vet," and signs him up.  Thus positioned, Jacob observes how property, animals, and people are treated by the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.  Hint:  don't lose your horse, drink the lemonade, or fall asleep as the train travels over a river.The book starts off with a terrible circus "accident."  I deduced the nature of the accident immediately, and the perpetrator soon after the character was introduced.The final reckoning of life for Jacob occurred at the end of the book.  I did enjoy this unexpected twist.  Good for Jacob!As circus-themed books of fiction go, A Son of the Circus, by John Irving (The World According to Garp), was more thorough and complex.  In Water for Elephants, there was a clear distinction between the good and the bad.I'd rate this book PG-13 for the few explicit references to sex.  The big themes for book club discussions?  Aging, the exploitation of circus animals, and the exploitation of people.The other books I kept thinking of as I read this one were, in addition to A Son of the Circus, the Life of Pi (Yann Martel) and Recessional (James Michener).
1 The book is worthy of the praise it has received and its position on the Best Seller lists.  The film is a total travesty from screenplay to cast.Why trash the Kindle edition with a terrible cover? Even if no one sees the cover on their Kindle, viewing it online is a reminder of how badly Hollywood butchered the book.
5 This is a book that you can't put down. The characters are great, and the plot is interesting. I loved it!
4 I really like all the stories in this novel.  The characters are people I would like to have lunch with and get to know.
4 First of all, this book was waaaaay more sexual than I thought it would be. If you are getting it for a friend because they like elephants and the title has "elephant in it" DON'T DO IT (long story). This was a crazy story: funny at times and also sad at times. The story was told by switching between the past and the present, which was confusing at first, but made sense later. This style of writing kept the story moving; the shift from the old senile man to the young eager man developed the main character in such a way that it was difficult to put the book down. I enjoyed reading this book and I reflected on it for a while after I finished reading it.
5 A wonderful adventure, colorful descriptions of life in a Depression-era traveling circus, and characters that will touch your heart. What more could you ask for ?!
5 I read the book at a friends home and decided I needed it for my own bookshelf. This book is about growing old and how the memories do not.
5 I enjoyed reading Water for Elephants with it's many mini stories throughout. The characters were believable - Jake as the 91 (or 93) year old and his remembering of his life as a 23 year old. Anyone who has been to the yesteryear circus will recognize the descriptions of the circus coming to town and the excitement of the residents. There are funny incidents and sad ones that make up this book and the usual good and bad characters we all encounter. I admired the 91 year old Jake for his spunk when he took charge of his life as I admired the 23 year old Jake when he did the right thing for the animals of the circus. A great story that is heartwarming too.
4 Water For Elephants is a remarkable accomplishment, a wonderful book with colorful, unforgettable characters. It is by turns heartwarming, heartbreaking, exciting, and horrifying--with an ending that took me by surprise. I enjoy circus stories and have read several, none as good as this one (with the exception of Gus the Great). If you're old enough to remember the film The Greatest Show on Earth, this is it but without the slick DeMille romanticism. Water for Elephants is raw and realistic, one man's life in a circus and in a nursing home. There are other reviews here that give details of the plot so I won't repeat what they've said.There is a lot I loved about this book--the character of Jacob, the circus atmosphere,the story itself. It has many remarkable elements.One of the most remarkable is the nursing home part of the story. The author appears to be fairly young, several decades too young to know what it feels like to be elderly, to know you are failing physically, to be afraid you're failing mentally, to remember vividly when you were young and know you will never be young again. Yet she very convincingly shows you the heart and mind of a feisty old man. All in all, it's one of the best historical novels I have ever read. I wish I had written it.The above was the text of my original review and I stand by it. However, something vauguely bothered me about the book. Then, following a discussion I reread it and did a little research of my own. Now I know what it was. She is several years too early in her use of "paranoid schizophrenia". By the time the old man is TELLING the story it would be in use, but certainly was not in use at the time she has a character using the term, and this seems like insufficient, possibly sloppy research. The other thing was the slaughter of several horses by cutting their throats. Horse people I know questioned it. A horse is big and powerful and would be frightened, not likely to let it happen unless he was heavily medicated. It seems done only for the effect of the gore. A properly placed gunshot would serve and be more merciful, more logical.However, I still think it's an outstanding book, even with the flaws, and I still wish I'd written it.
5 Much better than the movie. A short read and, if you're an animal lover, you will never want to see a circus again.
4 If you've ever had to write a resume, you've come across the dilemma; which counts for more?  Experience or degrees?  The answer, of course, is experience, the real question being how one describes that crucial intangible.  Water for Elephants is the story of a man's youth, the experience he gains in a short period of time.  Essentially, it begins with him walking out on his final college exams and jumping a circus train almost accidentally.  This book is actually structured as a series of flashbacks, with the main character in roughly the present day, bracketing each chapter with comments about his current situation in a nursing home as contrast to his past adventures.  The main action takes place during the Great Depression, making for a fairly historical novel.Water for Elephants may feature a fairly original character with some serious common sense deficiencies, but Sara Gruen clearly did her research in terms of depictions of the period, inclusion of trade lingo, and depictions of animal behavior.  The adultery will probably keep it off high school reading lists, but I found it a pretty good window on what it depicted of the world outside of the circus.  This particular copy of the book also includes some commentary at the end regarding real circus history and anecdotes that were included in with the fiction.  Other than that, I know too little about life under the big top to comment on the depiction of events, other than to say that trains often did go slow enough to jump back then, even in the countryside, unlike now.I read this novel in less than a day, finding it to be a very compelling read, with a plot full of twists, even though the most climactic scene is also presented as the hook in the beginning preface chapter.  I would generally recommend it to everyone, even if you think you would have a problem with some aspects of it.  Try to give it a chance.  The main character is a vet, for example, and while animals are harmed in this circus, he doesn't like it any more than you.
5 I loved this book! Honestly the only reason I picked it up was because of the movie with Robert Pattinson (yes, I know...I rarely justify the reading of a book with an actor).  I really enjoyed the time setting for this book and the behind the scenes look at the life of a circus worker back then.  I also liked how the entire book wasn't just a love story and how nicely it was framed within the overall novel.  This is definitely a book that I would recommend and read again! And just as a side note, the move was awesome as well!
3 I have to admit I enjoyed this book - the settings were very interesting, and the main character, Jacob, was very likable.However, I was incredibly disappointed by the love story that takes center stage. If you're looking for a book with  a female lead you can root for, this is DEFINITELY not it. Marlena is the main star of the equestrian act and loves horses and for that - and that alone - you are supposed to love her.The two of them - Jacob and Marlena - bond over their shared passion for animals (he's the circus vet) and hiding from her crazy husband, but there is no real spark between them to latch onto as a reader, and their whole relationship leaves something to be desired. Actual chemistry, maybe?In addition to that, the storyline is often incredibly contrived, to a point where by the end I couldn't bring myself to buy into any of it anymore.An amusing read, just the same, but I didn't find it to be all it was cracked up to be.
4 I enjoyed reading the book immensely. Learned a lot about the circus life through the book. I would recommend  to all!
4 This is an interesting book.  It's well paced and the story keeps pulling you along, although I can't think of a single thing that makes it stand out.  It's not mysterious or adventurous and has very little romance in it, yet you keep reading.  Maybe it's just plain good story telling.
5 I just simply loved this book! The unfavorable comments posted here did not impress me in the least, as I thoroughly enjoyed it. Does every writer have to  conform to the same old-same old standards? The atmosphere of the circus came through as though you were there! I will be reading her other books.
5 I got this book because I absolutely adore the movie, but I think the book was just slightly better. The movie is still worth watching but the book seems sow ell put together. It has a wonderful amount of information that's accurate and the book is entertaining us more romantic readers. Fortunately there is so much more in-between, it's also beautifully written.The novel is based around Jacob our narrator of the past and the present. One moment he is a cranky old man who's not sure of the year, the next he's a veterinarian for the Benzini Brothers circus.  Where he is falling in love with his wife and taking risks to get to her and protect her before she is even his. Then he old alone and in a nursing home.  It seems Mr. Jankowski's life will forever be with the circus.At times the book was a bit tedious, over describing the circus scene and it's acts or just bombarding us with useless information.I loved the flawless flow from past to present with our narrator; every time it feels like we're jolted from a nap the same way Jacob is when we're back in his present.
2 If you like adventure, romance, suspense, and excitement... read the last third of Water for Elephants. The first two-thirds set the stage for a thrilling ending, but that's all. Although Gruen's style of writing is rich with varied vocabulary and description, the elements of the first part of the plot evoke little to no emotion in the reader. Even if the author didn't spend a hundred pages building the back-story, the strange sexual elements that rear their ugly faces every few pages completely ruin the enjoyment of reading this book. If you want to spend 300 pages wondering why you're reading this story, then pick up Water for Elephants and enjoy the most boring story you have ever read.
5 Gruen pens an all-encompassing story of intrigue, heartbreak, and hope with "Water for Elephants." It's 1931 and Jacob Jankowski is preparing to take his final exams in veterinary science when he receives the shock of his life - his parents were killed in a traffic accident. With no home to go to, he travels the rails until he hops onto a circus train.Camel Joe takes Jacob under his wing and ensures the young man gets a job. Jacob soon becomes the vet for the animals, but it's his interactions with August, Uncle Al, and Marlena that challenge his convictions. When Rose the elephant joins the circus, Jacob is put to the test. Will he follow his heart and stand up for his beliefs or walk away?Gruen's writing is easy to read. She's done her research and it shows. I especially liked how she used pictures to frame each chapter. The storyline is interesting. Jacob is coming-of-age and has to make decisions that aren't easy. The story alternates between old Jacob and young Jacob, and while not linear, Gruen pulls on the reader's heartstrings with the challenges old Jacob faces.  When a modern circus comes to the assisted living facility, old Jacob feels the tug of circus life, bringing the story full circle.For me, the best part was going on the emotional journey with the characters. They are very real with strengths and weaknesses that touch the reader's emotional core. The supporting cast is just as endearing.The book's plot is original and interesting. The setting is American circus life in 1931 and Gruen does a wonderful job making the reader believe the authenticity of the setting.The novel is mainstream fiction and while I was a bit hesitant to initially read a story about a circus, Gruen quickly sold me on the novel. I couldn't put the book down. "Water for Elephants" will resonate with readers long after they've finished it. I highly recommend this book.
5 Fantastic book! I would recommend it to anyone! I love all the detail the author puts into each character. It's a great love story as well.
4 Jacob Jankowski runs away from his ivy league veterinary education when his parents die in an accident and joins a circus on impulse. His training serves him well and provides him a place of esteem among the performers and the workers, an odd position which spans both groups. He falls for the lovely Marlena who performs with the horses, but she is married to August, a violent but charismatic animal trainer. The story culminates when the circus purchases an elephant named Rosie whose intelligence hides behind her thick skin.Some of the best scenes in this book are those in the nursing home when Jacob is an old man who can't remember if he is 90 or 93. The writing is sensitive, believable, and these moments are some of the most emotional snippets from the book. That is not to say that the rest is boring. Gruen has written a real page turner, and although it is not entirely original, it is incredibly entertaining.
5 Wonderful book. Very sensual at places and in others action-packed. It was nice how the author gave the differing viewpoints. Great depression-era book. I highly recommend it.
5 I took this book with me on a recent trip to South Africa and was delighted to have something to read that was so engaging that the time passed quickly. The story grabbed me from page one. It's an unusual story, beautifully written and with well-drawn characters. Although going back and forth between the past and present day was a little disorienting, I enjoyed getting to know Jacob as a 20-something and as a 90 (or 93) year old man.I really liked the device of using the prologue later in the story. And I loved the ending - it was perfect for the story, even though it's implausible and unbelievable. Sometimes that just doesn't matter. Sometimes it works anyway. Everything about this book worked for me.
4 While I recommend this book, the slow up-start did little to urge me further. However, by the time the key players are in place, the plot picks up and makes for a fascinating love story with a gritty kick. My only real complaint is that the main character felt foreign to me throughout the book, but he seems to come into his own by the conclusion. This book will make an excellent movie.
5 Water for Elephants is an amazing book.  The author took my mind into places I just did not want to go, into what it means to be a person at the end of life, still coherent but old and sick and living in a nursing home.At the end of your life, is that all that's left to hope for, that you end up in a nursing home with kids younger than your grandchildren bossing you around and moving you back to your room against your wishes after an argument with another nursing home resident?  Is this what the end of life means, an adult becomes a dependent child who must be bossed around by others, even if that person's mind and intellect are still intact?  Wow.  Of course I know these things happen, but never in fiction have I seen the final years of a person's life etched to the pages in such an emotional and moving way.
4 Water for Elephants was recommended to me by a co-worker, and I was really surprised at how much I liked it. A book about a circus didn't necessarily appeal to me, but I figured it was worth a shot.This story is great. I really enjoyed the way the story alternated between Jacob in present day and Jacob's memories. In both times, he was heartwarming and sincere, even if he could be a bit cranky in his older age. :)The characters were great--well-developed and dimensional, even the ones you didn't particularly like. The whole circus feels very vivid, and I just loved Rosie to death.Overall, it was just a very enjoyable read with enjoyable characters (well, mostly, unless they weren't supposed to be). One thing that I found unexpectedly interesting was the circus dynamic--the cruelty, the hierarchy, the crazy characters. All in all, this is a very well-rounded novel and I would recommend it to anyone.
5 This book was better than I expected.  The ending was happy but not cliche; my favorite kind! An easy, quick, entertaining summer read!!
4 This book was an excellent way to spend my time. I learned so many things about the circus that I did not know before. Although, you do not need to be interested in the circus to enjoy the book. It does not bog you down in unwanted details. It gives you enough to paint the picture for the background of the story. It helps you to identify with the love story which unfolds before your eyes.
5 "Water for Elephants" is another of those novels that I somehow managed to miss reading when it was at its peak of popularity, this time by well over two years. But I'm here to tell you that, in the case of Water for Elephants, it is definitely better late than never.Even in Depression-era America, Jacob Jankowski is doing pretty well for himself. He is a Cornell-trained veterinarian who only needs to sit for his final exams to make it official. He thinks he is in love but his lack of experience with the ladies means that he is more likely to be in lust than in love. For him, life is still pretty good.But things change sometimes when one least expects it, and for Jacob change comes in the form of a tragic traffic accident that claims the lives of both his parents. As bad as that is, it gets even worse when he learns that he has also been left destitute because his parents mortgaged everything to pay his Cornell tuition, and Jacob finds that he cannot sit still even long enough to finish his exams. Wanting to get away from it all, he hops the first freight train that comes along, avoids getting thrown back onto the tracks, and soon enough finds himself a member of Benzini Brothers traveling circus.Sara Gruen lets Jacob tell his own story by alternating the first person narrative of ninety-something-year-old Jacob, now living in a nursing home, with the voice of twenty-three-year-old Jacob as he experiences his summer with the Benzini Brothers. And what a story it is because the Benzini Brothers circus is not exactly The Ringling Brothers show and only circus owner, Uncle Al, tries to pretend that it is. Everything about the Benzini Brothers is second rate: the ragged animals in the zoo's menagerie are badly treated and lucky to eat once a day, the roustabouts and other workers are not paid consistently, the freaks are usually fakes or not all that freakish in the first place, and the girly show performer has been known to take paying customers after show hours.Jacob manages to catch on permanently with the show even with his incomplete veterinarian credentials and all goes relatively well until he falls in love with two ladies: Rosie, the elephant who joins the circus after he does, and Marlena, the beautiful young equestrian performer unfortunately married to the sadistic August, a man who beats both Marlena and Rosie.Gruen paints an unforgettable picture of life in a small-time Depression-era circus, an environment filled with filth, underfed animals and humans, cruelty, alcohol abuse, varying degrees of crime, lust, and callousness. Jacob, appalled at what he sees and what he learns about August, Marlena and Uncle Al, fights to maintain his sense of decency in a world he never knew existed, but his love for a married woman and his guilt at not doing more to defend Rosie from the beatings she suffers at the hands of August has him doubting himself.Surprisingly, as intriguing as the young Jacob's story is, the nursing home predicament that the older Jacob finds himself in is an equally touching one. The audio version of "Water for Elephants" (10 CDs and 11  hours long) is read by David LeDoux, as the young Jacob Jankowski and John Randolph Jones, who turns in an absolutely brilliant performance as Jacob, the old man. Frankly, both of the worlds created by Gruen are somewhat horrifying and both will linger in my memory for a long time."Water for Elephants" is, however, a tiny bit blemished by its unlikely ending even though it is the kind of fairy tale ending that I personally would have wished for Mr. Jankowski. Some things, though, are just too good to be true - or to ring true in a novel even as good as this one.
4 What more can be said about this beautifully spun mans life that has not already been said by the other reviews.  Quick synopsis: Jacob joins a circus after he learns that his parents have died and they have nothing to thier name even though his father was a great vet.  Once in the circus he learns they are very different rules that he must abide by or pay the price, something he learns very quickly after joining the circus.  From here he is made vet of the circus and falls in love with the supervisor of the animal's wife, which is a huge NO NO, all leading up to how to deal with this latest predictament....This is a novel told from Jacob who is 91 or 93 who has been forgotten by his family while he lives his day at an old folks home.  The ending of this novel is PERFECT and I didnt realize till I put the book down that I was smiling, something that is rare when I read.  If you want an amazing book that is well researched in its history and well written this is definitely for you.....Enjoy....
5 Absolutely loved the book (audiobook actually).  And I have more than a 6th grade education.  Go figure.Not having ever been in a 1930's circus (especially since I wasn't born until 1953), I can't say whether or not the characters were true to life.  I do know and have read extensively about cruelty to animals and am not surprised this sort of thing could happen in a 1930's circus.  It was a believable story to me and loved the ending.I listened to the book on audiotape on my morning walks and I intend to buy a hard cover copy of the book because it is one I will reread again and want to keep in my library.
5 Neat way to get a glimpse into circus train life, the depression era, and life in an assisted living home.  This story was so well done weaving in and out of the past, and the characters were just wonderful.  I can't think of a thing I didn't like about this book!
5 This book keeps you on your toes!  Sometimes can get confusing because you do not know if the character is in a dream or living in real life.  But all in all an easy book to read, and one that will keep you wanting to read on!
5 "Carried water for elephants indeed. Do you have any idea how much water an elephant drinks?" These words of Jacob Jankowski open this well-researched, fascinating novel about circus life. This story is told by ninety-something Jacob as he vacillates between the present and the past, reflecting upon an incredible life that was not always easy, but was satisfying.Jacob finds himself in a nursing home, his mind still active and questioning the meaning of his existence. Reminiscing about his life, he searches for meaning in the bland nursing home food and the fellow nursing home occupants, most of whom have surrendered their logical minds. As he remembers his life following the death of his parents when he was in his early twenties, he marvels at how every event led to the life he had.Well-researched and accurate, many incredible facts of circus life are divulged in this story. To add to this realism, there are actual photographs from circus archives. This is one unforgettable book!
5 I listened to this while driving to and from school and I thought it was very interesting and entertaining. I liked hearing about all the different animals and their personalities. The old mans voice for the audio version is not very pleasant, at first you can hardly understand him.
5 There is no need to repeat the outline of the book again; the editorials have already told you that.  Jacob Jankowski has had a colourful and interesting life with the Benzini Circus.  Jacob, now ninety or ninety-three, he can't be sure, retells his adventure from a retirement home.  His style and sense of humour are witty and snappy.  He may be an ageing senior but there is definitely nothing wrong this man's spunk and mental abilities.The most difficult part of the book to read was the cruelty to the animals, the filth and unbearable living conditions.  If you are an animal lover, this will tear your heart to pieces, but many of us already believe a circus in not a happy home environment for animals, or people for that matter. There are also many strong points to the book, i.e., Gruen's skillful and graceful flow of words.  The characters were extremely well developed and the plot left the reader feeling "you were there."  The book evokes a mixture of emotions:  sadness, joy, awe, hope, inspiration - you name it, the feeling will come to the surface.  What more can you expect from a dynamic book. "Water for Elephants" is destined to become a classic.
5 I've actually purchased this book for my Kindle a year and a half ago but didn't read it until this past week. I usually enjoy reading a good mystery or suspense which is why I had hesitated so long. What a mistake that was because this is one of the best books I have read in a very long time. I so enjoyed this book and felt all the emotions throughout it that I am sure the author tried to achieve. I learned a lot about the train circus from many years ago and what were some of the things that had gone on.I completely related to Jacob, the main character because I remember hearing stories from my parents regarding memories of their youth but now that I am in my mid sixties I too tend to think back of what was. There is somewhat of a sadness there of what was, good or bad and this is definitely what I can relate to. For me those memories that Jacob would tell us about and then bring us back into the present are profound. It is something I think we can all relate to especially when one ages.I love animals and hearing about the animals in the circus atmosphere way back then gave me both pleasure and dismay. My heart went out to Rosie the elephant.If I were to recommend one book this year to my friends and relatives to read, it would definitely be Water for Elephants.
5 If you love the circus and love a great, star-crossed love story, this is the book for you. The author takes us back to the days when the circus arrived by train. She pulls no punches conveying both the magic and the horror of that world. Better than the movie and highly recommended."
2 I decided to finally read this book after hearing all the "hoop-la" about the movie.  And, it was exactly what I assumed it was after reading several non-Amazon reviews.This book is interesting for this time period because of its subject matter,a love story set in a circus in 1930's USA. This subject is unusual for this time because circuses are rarely written about anymore.  I enjoyed the author's inclusion of some research she'd done on the history of circuses.  However, I didn't feel that any of the characters was developed enough to catch and hold the reader's interest such as is found in the "I couldn't put it down" genre of books.  Also, I felt that the story being told by a 93 yr. old man, in the first person, was distracting in its flipping back and forth in two time periods.  I couldn't understand what the need was for the old man in the story unless it was for the bitter-sweet, totally unrealistic end.This book should be advertised by Amazon as a book for young adults.  It just does not have the depth and dedication to story as those of more experienced, and more interesting, writers.
5 After reading the novel, I saw the movie and without reading the book first, there were several scenes that I would not have understood.
5 Jacob is a student at Cornell University studying to become a veterinarian to join his father in his practice.  When his parents are killed in a car accident Jacob returns home to learn that they had nothing left.  They were in deep debt and had mortgaged everything to keep their son in school.  Jacob  falls apart and leaves school.  He jumps on a train only to find out that it is a circus train.  he is hired first doing odd jobs and finally as their veterinarian. A major catastrophe at the circus shuts the circus down.  All of this action takes place in the prologue.In the first chapter we realize Jacob is in a nursing home.  He is seated at dinner with a newcomer to the home.  When conversation turns to the circus that will be visiting their town, his table partner mentions to the ladies at the next table that he used to work for the circus carrying water.  Jacob calls him a liar and is removed from the table and taken back to his room.  This is the beginning of our introduction to Jacob's memories of circus life.  This was a great book.
5 Riding Lessons: A Novel,Flying Changes: A NovelSara Gruen's gift for drawing her characters as complex, whole, fully real persons is what makes Water for Elephants and her other books achingly wonderful to read. She so skillfully sets up the reader for the crest of each wave of the plot, that one is rooting for a positive change, a win for the character, while at the same time feeling the reverberation of their flaws and weaknesses.The book reads very much like a memoir, making it is easy to forget that it is a work of fiction. And, in order to sketch such a complex setting, I know she had to spend a very great amount of time researching the complexities of a circus on the road. I immediately bought and read her two other novels and found them excellent reads while seeing how she has developed her skills with each book.
4 This was a very interesting story within a story. A story reflecting back on the life of a man who is now in his 90's  in &#34;Assisted Living&#34;. We learn much about living a life in the Circus, especially back in the 30's....it was no picnic!! Along with tragedy we find adventure, humor and romance. I would have given the book 5 stars but for the swearing and sex content. I didn't expect that. It didn't have to be so explicit, so in my opinion the 4 star rates it a very good read!!
5 An easy read and wonderfully descriptive.  One seems compelled to continuing reading this story, hard to put the book down once starting.
4 I just read Water for Elephants for no reason other than the movie trailer looked pretty good, and I wanted to be able to say, yes, I read the book, if anybody asked after I saw the movie.  I could not answer in the affirmative after the Harry Potter movies or the Percy Jackson movie or the Inkheart movie.I have been tired of being the movie-going reading teacher who didn't much go in for reading books, so I have been setting myself right.  I am glad I did with this one because it had me asking the same questions The Hunger Games had me asking. (Maybe I'm destined to read books witht his theme until I figure out an answer or something like an answer from these texts.)The questions:  Why are people cruel? and Why do people put up with cruel people shaping their lives by maiming their lives?  In other words, why don't we naturally insist on freedom and peace?Water for Elephants author Sara Gruen has main character Jacob Jankowski, a Cornell-educated veterinarian who has not yet sat his exams because his parents died in a car crash shortly before he was scheduled to take them, working with a carnival during the Depression.  His cross-country train journey with the carnival takes him deep into the world of self-loathing, disappointment, betrayal, convenient friendship, and back-stabbing like there's no tomorrow.  At the center of that world is the woman named Marlena who becomes the love of his life and an elephant named Rosie who understands Polish. Both these ladies suffer beyond belief at the hands of August, Marlena's husband, the equestrian manager of the circus, and a paranoid schizophrenic whose physical and emotional abuse of anyone and everyone is terrifying.Only reluctantly did I put the book down whenever Rosie or Marlena became August's whipping posts. I wondered when Jacob would protect his women.  It wasn't enough he felt bad later for not standing up for Marlena or Rosie.  When would Jacob live up to his potential and do right?Which situation led me to wonder why some people are cruel and why so many others put up with them.  No answers yet. I'll keep reading.Gruen paints a world within a world when she draws the Depression-era carnival with her words. Its a tough place with a strict social order and very little hope for more or better. People are not diminished for holding onto what they have but for holding on at all costs. Time and time again, this novel shows that this kind of holding on is not worth it. Nevertheless, the hopelessness spawned by the Depression make moral compromises seem reasonable, logical.Water for Elephants is Jacob's memoir of his circus days. A nursing home inmate whose spirit refuses to be shackled to the home's waiting for death raison d'etre, he recounts his story 70 years or more after the fact, beginning with his nursing home experiences to a very sympathetic audience.  Life is not over for Jacob.This is a story of personal freedom that asks what price a person is willing to pay for it.  The price really is nothing alongside the cost of enduring abuse
5 What a wonderful and delightful book! This is a look thru the eyes of a 93-year young man of his experiences with the circus mixed with today.  What an experience he had in years gone  by; what we do to our elders now because we are too busy with our own  daily lives. This has an absolutely magnificent ending...something quite unexpected and heartwarming. I hope there is a circus in town when I get to Jacob's age and my family is busy with their life. I think I would make a great ticket taker.
5 Written in the first person perspective, this story explains the life of an circus worker back in the old days, before any regulations were ever thought of.Rough and rugged lives wherein the guy with all the power hasn't much thought or care to the value of life - be it animal or human - but Karma wins in the end!Well written, kept my attention enough to loose sleep so I could keep reading it.As always, the book is better than the movie.  Read the book first and you will most likely understand the movie better.
5 This book was hard to put down.  This powerful story brought the pain of well developed characters to life.  Sometimes I was afraid to read on knowing what I would read would be tragic but this story was told with such beauty I had to read on.  The story is told as a life history of a gentleman living in a nursing home and the description of his days being cared for in the home are so real.  The story of the circus performers, manager and all the tragedy was gripping.  I just had to keep reading - then the ending was a complete shock.  This was one of the best books I have read recently, but I can't think of seeing the movie.  I want to remember this story as I envisioned the settings and characters while reading.  It was a great book.
5 This book is great start to finish. I didn't want it to end. I will miss these characters. The writer does such a wonderful job of painting such a poignant setting. Loved every second of it.
4 This is one of those books that is so good you don't want to put it down. The book was way better than the movie. I would suggest anyone who enjoyed the movie to go back and read the book.
5 This book was so interesting! I didn't know what to expect, but I was so impressed. It was like joining a community that is nothing like my real life and seeing the good and the bad of it. I was so interested throughout the entire book, and I particularly liked the photos from circuses in the past.
5 i loved it.  could not put t down. i defy you to ead two chapters and not HAVE to finish.
5 I loved this novel.  I am disappointed in the reviews that say the characters are too far fetched and the romance was unrealistic.  Its a fictional novel that explores a vet-school drop out, Jacob, who joins a circus by chance and falls in love.  The story he tells about life in the circus was thrilling and had me wanting to read more.When the chapters skip back to elderly Jacob, we see how he has gone through a lot in his early lives.  I love that he lives at an assisted living and tells his view of his life.The ending made me so happy and I couldn't stop smiling.  WELL worth it.  I might skip the movie because I am fearful that it will not give me what the book did!
5 Every emotion is conjured up in this book-- love, humor, horror, disgust, relief, etc. I loved the historical aspect and the gritty, eye-opening of that era and lifestyle.
5 This is such an amazing book! Didn't really know what it was about before I started it but it turned out to be a really great book.
5 So beautifully written. It draws you in so quick. Beautiful story. Can't wait to watch the movie now. Love it
3 I finished this book only because I felt like I had to. I suppose it was well researched and written because I felt the same way about reading it that I feel going to a county fair or local carnival: a little grimy, a little ashamed, a little grossed out. It's not a glamorous life and it wasn't a good time, economically speaking. The writer definitely gets that across. The content was just a little disturbing to me. But for those who like a dark and somewhat gritty story, this is probably really enjoyable. Just not for me.
5 To me, the mark of a good book is when you don't want to see it end. And when it does end, you can't stop thinking about it. That's how this book was to me. The characters were so richly drawn that I actually felt like they could be real people. When some of the injustices happened I had to remind myself that this was fiction. Sara Gruen writes this amazing story against a backdrop of the Great Depression and that adds so much to the story. I can't say too much about it without giving away important plot points, but I did not see the big twist coming. I'm surprised I didn't, as all the signs were there, but I was just so engrossed in the story that I didn't put them together. This is a book I will read again and again.
4 It was a wonderful story. I can't wait to see the movie to compare. You really start feeling for the main characters
5 I am in love with this book.  I could not put it down.  I love that the author switches back and forth between the young Jacob and the older Jacob.  At the beginning the two versions of Jacob seem so drastically different in how they view life, but once you near the end you really understand the character and what his life was like.  I truly enjoyed this not so typical love story.
4 Okay, I'm going to be brutally honest... I didn't want to read this novel because Robert Pattinson plays the lead male in the film adaptation. There I've said it. That horrible bit of judgement being said, Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen was a great novel that I would have been sorry to miss, had I not given it this chance.93 year old Jacob Jankowski is living in a nursing home when the circus comes to town. With the circus' arrival, Jacob begins telling a series of memories from his own life as a circus veterinarian.The story swiftly becomes a love story between Jacob and Marlena, who works with the horses and elephant. Marlena is married to the head trainer, August, who is abusive and brash. Jacob refuses to allow August to treat the animals or Marlena with such little respect!A sweet love story with great characters. I generally don't enjoy novels involving infidelity and since Marlena was married when she and Jacob fell in love, I was torn between being happy for them and being furious that she wouldn't leave her husband before allowing her love for Jacob to blossom. Everything happens the way it is supposed to and I found myself reading through this novel fast... I didn't know what the outcome would be. Definitely worth checking out!-Sarah[...]
5 "Water for Elephants" is, first of all, a love story--a love story of humans and of animals.  It is also a story of aging and mental illness, of people taking care of one another and of people out simply for themselves.The setting is a small, struggling, traveling circus during the Great Depression.  All of the ills of the times are reflected in the microcosm of Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth: the lack of jobs, companies that don't pay their workers, the terror of the weak, the hand-to-mouth existence that goes on day after day. The circus, which is the escapism dream of many people, is, in reality, a harsher existence than the world outside.  The author delivers scene after scene to define the often cruel life of the circus.  And within this small world, she has created wonderful characters that deal with the problems in their lives in their own heroic or cruel ways."Water for Elephants" takes your emotions on a roller coaster ride.  There are moments of beauty and moments of real tragedy.  The ending is somewhat a surprise, but a testament to the circus credo:  the show must go on.
1 This was a frustrating, truly awful book. While it started off interesting (a boy's parents dies and leave him nothing, and he gets caught up with a circus), it quickly became transparent and painful. He "falls in love" with a girl he hardly speaks to, who is married. He reacts when he should hold back and holds back when he should act. And there are far too many random, explicit, and unnecessary sex scenes. Perhaps if the author spent less time on graphic sex and more time on character development, this book would have been more tolerable. And the ending, which I was hoping would earn the book some redemption, was terribly disappointing and infuriating.My faith in the NY Times bestseller list has been ruined.
3 Jacob Jankowski is an elderly man living in an assisted living home who recounts his youth spent on a circus train. After his parents death, Jacob uits college and finds work as a vet aboard a traveling circus, with the violet Uncle Al, who owns the circus, and the sadistic August, who is the head animal trainer. All seems to be going well, until Jacob falls in love with Marlena, August's wife who has a special relationship with horses and is the circus's star performer. Numerous secrets are uncovered: Uncle Al has a penchant for tossing unnecessary workers off the train at night, and August seems to have severe anger issues. He knows he is not safe on the train, but his love for Marlena forces him to stay.The interesting thing about this book is the elephant Rosie, who Jacob loves dearly but can't seem to understand simple commands, until Jacob discovers the language barrier. She is a metaphor for all things innocent and pure, even going to enormous lengths to protect Marlena during the book's climax. I loved August in this book. Yes, he is cruel and terrifying, but he is a wonderfully complex character. HIs dualism is brilliant in its confusion. However, Marlena seemed a bit stupid in her naivete. She never truly seemed to grasp the extent of Uncle Al's and August's cruelty. Overall, the book was an entertaining read, but parts of rather were rather difficult to believe and the conclusion was unfortunately corny. I'm a sucker for bad endings, and this ending wrapped things up just a little bit too nicely.
5 Why am I seeing so many reviews that say this book was a disappointment?! I finished this book in one week. I looked forward to picking it up and finding out what happened next. I told my family and friends about it. Read this book and you won't be disappointed. :)
3 I bought this book out of curiousity and the big hoopla over what a "sleeper hit" this story had become,I love animals,so I gave it a try.One of the other Amazon customer reviewers said that the main character was talking to a reporter. No, he's not talking to anyone, just us, but I was bothered HOW he was communicating to us.Since everyone else has synopsized the plot ad nauseum. I'll just report the weaknesses in this book.First of all, very little elephant!!! Not Water For Elephant(s), but Water for ELEPHANT, ONE elephant. And very little elephant. Whatever research she did on these animals was tiny, miniscule. I could have gotten more into the mind of pachyderms by watching a Nat.Geo or Animal Planet special.As for his being a veterninarian. I too own horses, been around them and vets for nearly 5 decades. What little circus animal veterinary work Ms. Gruen describes in the book she probably got watching a cable TV station animal special.I also concur with the veterinarian reviewer on the slaughter of the horses. If a horse is forced to watch the other beside it die violently, most likely when it smells all that blood, you can bet the ranch it would break its' halter or rope and be nine miles gone.I also found it very distracting the numerous referrals to minute body languages while the characters talked. Also, even though the story started pretty promising, once Jacob got established as an employee in the circus, it bottomed out into nothing but petty bickerings and jealousies among all the circus employees. Yawn....It was fast reading, but I started hoping the thing would end soon. And, yeah, the animal stampede at the end I wasn't buying. I think Ms. Gruen could have just watched Nat. Geo or Animal Planet replays of elephants gone bonkers on video in circuses and let Rosie the elephant just get even by squishing those who had abused her.
5 I was a bit skeptical about this book before I actually sat down and started reading it.  Immediately, I was drawn to the story and I couldn't put it down.  Marvelous tale of love, hate, betrayal and triumph during the great depression.  An excellent look into circus life, and the story wrapped up beautifully.  Highly recommended!
5 This book was in my recommendation queue for weeks and I continuously passed it over for other books. I guess I was not totally wild to read about a circus during the great depression, but I finally caved in. I am so glad that I decided to read this book! I wouldn't go as far to say that it's the best book ever, but I enjoyed reading it immensely. The story was so unique from any other story that I have read; it was utterly captivating.This is obviously a story about a circus in the midst of the depression. Really, this book has multiple stories running at the same time and each one is fabulously crafted. From Jacob's story, a young man finding himself, the amazing animals and the absolute and total love and loyalty animals, especially Rosie the elephant ... WARNING, there are sections in this book that were very difficult for me to read, and will be for any animal lover. I have a VERY difficult time reading about animal cruelty, and Gruen spared little in her descriptions of how some of these animals were treated... the crazy Uncle Al, the even crazier August, and the enchanting Marlena, a young woman finding independence, all written to perfection.I was worried about how the ending would come to be, as I was so involved with each character. I was afraid that Gruen would just stop, but she tied up everything so neatly and painlessly. It was so beautifully done from start to finish. I strongly recommend reading this book.
4 This one took me a while to get used to, since the circus doesn't appeal to me naturally. I enjoyed the chapters narrated by the 90, or 93 year old, he made me laugh every 5 minutes. As the plot thickened during the cirucs era, my interest peeked and I can honestly say I enjoyed the rest of the book, and may be open to reading another book about the circus.
3 I liked this book a lot.  And there were parts where I couldn't wait to find out what happened.  The book went back and forth between the 1930's and present time.  And I couldn't wait, sometimes, to see what the next part was.Then, I went to a book club and the people fawned over the book -- especially the incredible research, the way the employees and animals were treated and the shocking ending.  Well, that made me like the book less.  I don't care how wonderful the research is, if it's not written well.  And a lot of the things that the author wanted you to feel sympathy for, I just didn't.  I'm sorry that Camel got Jamaica giner paralysis, but he was a horrible alcoholic and addict who would drink anything to get a buzz.  Something was bound to happen.  And the way the employees and animals were treated -- was that really a shock to anyone?  Did people not know that?  Animals were always abused and it was the depression -- not paying someone and throwing them off a train is not unexpected.  And the "shocking" ending.  Gee whiz -- a 4 year old could see that coming.  ***SPOILER NEXT*** From the moment the author mentioned that the circus was in town and that Jacob's people always came on Sundays, I knew they woulnd't show up.  ***SPOILER ENDS***.So, I liked the book, I liked the story.  I didn't like people all ga ga over facts that should be common sense.  This book should be read as a work of fiction (as it is) and just enjoy it for that.
5 A wonderful romp back in time to the golden age of the Circus!The narration is non-linear and chock full of twists and surprises of a circus life not for the weak!The transitions back and forth in time enhanced the story by letting the whole picture emerge at a slower pace.As the story opens, Jacob is trapped in aging body, though his mind, at times a bit confused, is mostly quite perceptive and quick witted. The frustration with this battle between body and mind is poignantly revealed as we watch him testing the limits of his mobility and self-perseverance. Most of the time his `cantankerous' behavior is met with unsympathetic results.It's easy to understand how eating a steady diet of tediously bland and mushy foods when one has the teeth to chew on a cob of corn or a piece of meat could make one somewhat cranky!Had he been in his own home or cared for by relatives, the result probably would have been different....he'd have gotten a `real' dinner instead of visit by the Home's Psychiatrist with a diagnosis of geriatric depression followed by an unwanted dosing of Elavil.By alternating back in forth in time, I was able to be more empathetic with the 90 (or 93) year old Jacob. Seeing his youthful tragedies and how this angst over the sudden loss of his parents forces his life in a totally new and unexpected course is pivotal.He flees to survive.... and survive he does.... in a very gritty and cut-throat environment.There is no "safety net" under this circus act and it's every man for himself. Given the time (depression-era) and situation, the harshness of this existence becomes quite credible.I think that this tough past, in part, helps the reader to understand why he's not very comfortable being coddled and restricted within the sanitary and ordered life of the Nursing Facility.He is left unchallenged and bored without much support from his dutiful, albeit rather distant children and grandchildren. He misses the unpredictability and excitement of his former Circus Life and of course the love of his life, Marlena.The different voices helped to move the story along and not keep the reader too long in any one place, while allowing the story to unfold with some genuine surprises.Highly recommended!
5 This book was very entertaining - wish it was longer though.  I thought it was well-written, no complaints at all from me.  I would love to read more from this author.
5 Water For Elephants grabbed me from the beginning and kept me captivated through its entirety.  I had a difficult time putting it down.  It was well-written, entertaining, and made me laugh and cry.  I highly recommend it.
3 I think that it was very slow to start and had a lot of places that the story line crept to the point that I wanted to put the book down.  The last 1/3 of the book was excellent.  I would have liked to seen the first two thirds of the book to have been faster moving.
5 This is one of those fine books that you never want to end.  I can't complain about how it ended, however.  I just wasn't ready to leave the characters and story behind.  I recommend this book to anyone who loves reading.  Let's hope Ms Gruen writes another one like this.
5 The story generated lots of good discussion.  The juxtiposition of the main character in youth and old age benefited both story lines, neither of which would have been as compelling without the other.
5 WOW. Put this book on your MUST READ list. I bought this book because I was told my father-in-law, who recently passed away, had run away as a 13 yo child to join the circus in Europe.  He would have loved this book - he was exactly like the old, cantankerous Joseph, and probably the young one too. (Sara - did you know him?)From the moment I started it, I read straight through until I was done. I cannot remember the last time I did that.  It was just an awesome description of circus life AND the life of an old man.  It was two intertwined stories that made for a fabulous book.  Enjoy.
2 While it kept my attention for the most part, I was over all disappointed.While heavy on circus life, dismal on veterinary facts.  Portrays a man whom is thinking with his penis and not his brain, a insult to men in general.For a title of "Water for Elephants"  don't expect him to be sympathetic to them.He is more concerned about his love life, then the cruelty to the animals under his care.
1 I couldn't read this book all the way through.  Using GD all the time and the main character lusting after a married women. YUCK!
4 I love animal stories, but I always read them bracing for the sad ending.  This book was a mixed bag.In the first part of the book, terrible things happened to both people and animals.In the latter part of the book, the angels practically came down to sing.  Everything good that could happen, did!  I'm not opposed to that.  It just seemed a bit much. Too simplisic.  Even the ultimate solution for old Jacob was just strangely perfect and therefore hard to believe.A logical question that bugged me about the plot was why did Uncle Al not get rid of the schizophrenic August?  And how in the world did August get to be in charge of the animals in the first place? He wasn't good with them.  Jacob or the other Polish worker would have been much more effective training Rosie.  If Uncle Al had ditched August, the inflammatory situation between him, Marlena, and Jacob would have been defused.When Jacob was scooping up Rosie and the liberty horses, I was silently pleading 'Don't forget BoBo.'  And he didn't.  Like I said, just too good to be true.
4 Growing old is not fun, but this dear character had an exciting life, as you go back with him. Warm and emotional, funny and exciting. You really need to read this one.
5 'Water For Elephants' is one of those books that is so good it's hard to write down how deep your feelings for it are.  Jacob Jankowski is now ninety three years old and in an "assisted living" facility, when the circus comes to town.  This brings back startling memories of his early life, when his world fell apart and he found himself on a circus train heading into his future.On the brink of passing his final exams for veterinary school, Jacob is informed that his parents have just died in an automobile accident.  Adding insult to injury, their house and practice were mortgaged to pay for his school and there's nothing left for Jacob.  He walks out of his final exam and keeps walking, until finding himself beside a railroad track.  Jumping the next train, he later realizes it's a circus train.  An old man named Camel helps him out, and gets him hired on with the show as the veterinarian.Jacob winds out bunking with a recalcitrant dwarf named Kinko and working for a man named August who's married to Marlena, a horse performer and a beautiful woman.  Marlena is off-limits, but Jacob can't help but admire her from afar.A twist of fate bring Rosie to the scene, an elephant abandoned by another defunct circus.  It seems Rosie is useless as a performer, and left under August's brutal treatments, until Jacob discovers that Rosie responds to the Polish language rather than English.  Once the language barrier is broken, Rosie becomes a star.  I could keep prattling on but I don't want to ruin the book.'Water For Elephants' is a beautifully written tale.  Switching back and forth between Jacob's current situation in his nursing home and his memories of the past, there's never a slow moment in Gruen's perfect prose.  The story is rich and well researched, the characters practically sparkle with life, and I could smell the animals and feel the train lurching beneath my feet.This is one of the best books I've read in a long time.  I suppose it helps that I love circus books and freak show books, but 'Water For Elephants' is more a book on humanity, and what sometimes lurks beneath the smiles and happy faces of troubled minds.  It's about greed and cliques, its about the depression era job desperation, its about abuse, and most of all its about the human heart.  Don't miss out on this 10 star tale.  Enjoy!
3 An interesting look at the life of members of a Depression-era traveling circus. The story revolves around Jacob, a Cornell trained veterinary student who drops out suddenly before his final exams after the loss of his parents and joins a circus traveling by train across the country. The story is split into two perspectives: the story of 90 something year Jacob, now suffering from dementia (and struggling with the loss of his dignity) in an assisted living facility, recounting his youth as the circus veterinarian in flashbacks. Overall, I enjoyed the book. It is obvious that Sara Gruen put a great deal of research into circus life, which I found fascinating. I had an extremely difficult time reading about the animal abuse, although perhaps this was necessary within the plot to enhance the reader's hatred for August and Uncle Al (as if the redlighting was not enough!). My biggest criticism: I did not like the ending at all. Without being a spoiler, I will just say that it was completely unbelievable. But overall, a good and quick read. Rosie the elephant was, without a doubt, my favorite character.
5 Gruen has all the elements for a terrific novel - the circus, the Depression, a love triangle, a bitter old widower reflecting on his life ... but ultimately this is nothing more than a mediocre summer distraction for those of us who really don't like to read.I wouldn't write a review if not for the fact I was so let down by its strong premise. Other than the fact this quickly becomes a cheesy romance after promising so much more, I couldn't get passed thinking that one of the main characters, August, was trying to be Nathan from Sophie's Choice.Another problem was Jacob, the novel's main character and narrator. The problem I have is that despite the name - Jacob - and despite the fact he's in love with a beautiful woman, and despite the fact that - I don't know - he urinates standing up, the main character really is a woman who the writer calls a man. This is a problem I have with a lot of male writers when they write women (Wally Lamb is a rare exception). Jacob's behavior, thoughts, actions, words, everything, are those of a female character. So when Jacob and Marlena finally get together, well...If you're sitting by the pool or at the beach and there's nothing else to do or read, go ahead and read this one. It's not a terrible novel, just a disappointing one.
5 This book was part of my wife's book club. The club loved it. So, I finally picked it up and started reading it. As a quick note subject matter for a book does not matter to me. I care about good stories with great characters and this book has it from cover-to-cover.Logically, I can't think why I would want to read a story set in the 1930s about the circus, but there I was reading it night after night. It's a fascinating story with superb description that is slippery-easy to read.I don't know what your hesitation is...read this book. There are tens of thousands of worse ones out there.
5 Historical Fiction at its finest.  Don't miss this one.  A well developed story with wonderful characters.
5 I'm not an advocate of circuses, what with the animal neglect, so for Rosie to get the last laugh made me happy. The characters really jump off the page and you can really see what a hard life it must have been on the tracks.
5 We listened to this on a road trip out west and I loved it! The story itself was a great leave from my everyday, but the voices were fantastic! I loved hearing cantankerous 90 (or 93..) year old Jakob tell his tale. If you enjoyed reading this book, I'm sure you will love it more hearing the tale from the two Jakobs. If you haven't read the book, there is a good chance you will be drawn in by the storytellers and end up loving it. We sat in the car after we arrived home for the last 10 minutes of the book we were so enthralled.Get this and listen to it!
5 Excellent book.  Have recommended to so many people. Couldn't put it down!! Stayed up way too many late nights wanting to read more.
5 ... and man, I wish I had read it when people first recommended it! This is the most compassionate, thrilling, historically detailed fiction ride I have ever been on. You MUST read this book; I was covered with goosebumps MANY times while reading it, and especially at the end.
4 This book was a pleasure.  It is meaningful enough to warrant the time to read it and yet it is still fun and engrossing enough for a good poolside read while on vacation.  The protagonist's world is shredded near the beginning and he does what readers of this review would dream of but never do.  He hops a circus train and enters that most bizarre of American sub cultures of the depression era 1930's.  Read this and live vicariously in the circus from the comfort of your hotel's patio furniture.  You'll be glad you did and you'll feel more literate than if you read most of the trash you see at other chairs around the pool.
5 Gruen has woven meticulously detailed, fascinating fact into well-crafted fiction- this is a very enjoyable book! I never cared one whit for circuses before reading it, but now I think I have to go to a circus museum...
2 This book is okay if you like fighting, bickering, jealousy, adultry, and just plain nasty acting people. The circus did not play that big of a role in this book. The book concenstrates more on Jacob's personal life and his lust for the bosses wife. Jacob, now an old man, begins the book by going back into his youth to the time he was attending vet school.  Tragic events turn his life upside down and he decides to run (literally).  He winds up with a circus and becomes the circus vet, although, he rarely spent any time with or working on the animals. He just stood and watched animals be slaughtered and then felt bad that he did not do anything. I did not like Jacob. I thought he was a spinless whimp and coward. His only concern was the bosses wife and how he could get her. I must say, however, the ending was terrific! That probably was the highlight of the book. I do not see what all the excitement was about.  If you want to read a life changing book, read "The Shack".  Water for Elephants, in my opinion, is mostly garbage.
5 This is one of the best books I've read this year.  A very engaging story.  You won't want to put it down.  It is a very quick, but highly enjoyable read.
5 I loved this book.  It was breath-taking alive - as if I could smell it, taste it and feel it.  It was like I became lost in the Great Depression era.  I so wanted it to end so that I could hear the conclusion of Jacob's life with the circus, but I didn't want it to end because it was such an enjoyable book.  I liked the way the story was narrated by Jacob as a young man and as an old man.  It is hard to believe that this was not an autobiography.
5 I loved this book!  It was refreshing,well written, a real page turner.  I would recommend this book for anyone over 15 who's looking for a good read.
5 I read to learn and to be entertained.  Some books are more one than the other.  It doesn't matter as long as I'm fulfilled in some way.  I came to this book after I couldn't get past page 90 of one of the most boring books I have ever attempted to read by a contemporary highly regarded female author whose last name starts with P.  Maybe anything would have been interesting after that.  I found this book to be very entertaining and I even learned something.  I have never been to a circus or much cared about going to one.  Still, I was intrigued by the setting, the characters, and the story.Reading bestsellers can be a c*ap shoot.  I can't imagine what made "The Lovely Bones" or "The Memory Keeper's Daughter" bestsellers or why they were even published.  But books like this one and "The Kite Runner" deserve their bestselling positions.  Then, there are other books like "The Memory of Running" that deserve more attention than they get.  I guess what you like depends on your perspective.  I ran into a woman the other day who enjoyed "The Lovely Bones", but she said it's because her daughter died recently and she liked to think her daughter was in a heaven like that one.
5 OK - so I'm not an intellect....but I found this book to be absolutely wonderful.  I listened to it on CD as I travelled to and from work. It was well written and absolutely held my interest from beginning to end.  If you want John Steinbeck, then read John Steinbeck (as suggested from readers who don't share my enthusiasm).  In the meantime, enjoy this wonderful story and cry and laugh, as I did.
3 With its spotlight on elephants, Gruen's romantic page-turner hinges on the human-animal bonds that drove her debut and its sequel (Riding Lessons and Flying Changes)--but without the mass appeal that horses hold. The novel, told in flashback by nonagenarian Jacob Jankowski, recounts the wild and wonderful period he spent with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth, a traveling circus he joined during the Great Depression. When 23-year-old Jankowski learns that his parents have been killed in a car crash, leaving him penniless, he drops out of Cornell veterinary school and parlays his expertise with animals into a job with the circus, where he cares for a menagerie of exotic creatures[...] He also falls in love with Marlena, one of the show's star performers--a romance complicated by Marlena's husband, the unbalanced, sadistic circus boss who beats both his wife and the animals Jankowski cares for. Despite her often clich&eacute;d prose and the predictability of the story's ending, Gruen skillfully humanizes the midgets, drunks, rubes and freaks who populate her book.
5 This book was amazing.  It was very different from the books that I've been reading lately (thrillers, science fiction) and I would recommend it to anyone.  You got to know the characters, even the animals, and ended up feeling as if you were hearing a story about somebody you knew.  She did such a good job, and I hope that her others are just as good!
5 Being a born horse-lover, I have read Sara's previous books about horses.  I loved them.  When I heard she had written another book-I just had to read that too.  Her writing style is very readable.  You become immersed in the characters.  "Water For Elephants" is a book for all generations.  I had both my daughters read it.  We all fell in love with the main character, Jacob.  I can't say enough good things about this wonderful heartwarming book.  Highly recommend!
4 I do not like the circus. Although it did seem like an interesting book,  I passed on it the first few times it came up on a search. Finally, I gave in.  I am so glad that I did.  This is an excellent book. I still will not go out of my way to get to a circus, but I do think of this book every time I see an elephant.  Thank you for a great read.
5 I read this book in one night--couldn't put it down. There was so much to enjoy: the details of the circus, the story of Jacob, the suspense of the plot. It all drew me in and I was riveted until the end. My copy was a digital download from my library but the download was from Amazon. It included pictures from historical archives that really added a nice element of historical verisimilitude to the reading.There are several reviews on here with summaries of the book so I won't add another, I will just say if you're looking for a historically based novel that is well written and original, then this one is for you. Enjoy!
5 Loved this book!  I'm hoping to encourage my book club members to read it too so we can discuss together.  One of those stories that keep you engaged and encouraged to keep reading to see what happens next.  I enjoy a book that makes you feel for the characters and this book does just that.  Plus, there were enough twists and turns that I didn't exactly know how it would end.  Great read and would recommend to other readers!
5 I am glad I read the book. I still havent seen the movie, but the book was a good read.
5 What a haunting cast of characters, true voices, detailed descriptions that went on just long enough, plot twist at the end... I devoured this book in just 24 hours. I keep thinking about Jacob and Marlena and August, and even Rosie. How wonderful that the author did so much research into the history; it really came alive for me. I can't wait for the movie! One of the best pieces of fiction I have read in some time.
5 What an amazing adventure this book takes you on! I was one of the few that did not read it during the time when it seemed like everyone you knew was reading it - sometimes I stupidly buck what is making the rounds and have to come back to it of my own accord.  I am so glad I did with this one.  I originally didn't know if I could get into a story about circus performers during the depression era, but Sara Gruen does an amazing job of bringing the train circus and the characters to life, so even if you don't wanna, you care!Jacob Jankowski is left to live out his years in a home, and like so many elderly today, is left thinking no one really cares and there's nothing really to get up for anymore.  People mistakenly think that just because you get older, you no longer need to "live" but you do, even at 90-something years old.  Getting off of that horse before it bucks, I loved Jacob.  He's fiesty and perpetually in a sarcastic, bad mood.  He made me laugh, cry and scream with frustration toward those who were making him feel like less than a human.  As Jacob tells the story of his early 20s: the untimely death of his parents, his ivy league veterinary education put on hold, a random desparate act of hopping a circus train, coming to terms with his own self & sexuality, learning to fight for what is right; all during the height of the depression and prohibition, you become enthralled. I loved the characters he encountered, the awkwardness of his younger self as he figured out life, love, and passion, and of course the animals he cared for.  Rosie, the intelligent, beautiful elephant ... well,  you fall in love with her right along with Jacob. This was one of those occasions where you love the book so much as you're reading, that the closer you get to the conclusion, you get really scared that the author is going to drop the ball. Even though I experienced that fright, the ending Gruen gave for Jacob and co was absolutely perfect. *hugs*Complaints? I think the character of Marlena could've been developed a bit more. You cared about her, but only through the glimpses Jacob gave of her. Other than that, I don't really have much to complain about. Yes, I'm reaching...Water For Elephants is just one of those rare books you want to snuggle with and talk sweet nothings to; you want to beg it to come back and stay, stay forever!  Sara Gruen brought to life an amazing world; it seems rare to love a book this much these days, but she made me a believer, and she's got a new fan for life.Now let's just hope the movie version comes anywhere close to how great the book is!
5 I found myself reading so many parts of this story to my husband they were so funny! This is definately a great book to read. A great story and a fast read, I loved it!(heard it was nothing like the movie though)
1 WOAH, I'm not sure why this book is so highly rated but I couldn't even continue reading it. Very draging and boring to me. Made it to chapter four and had to stop.
5 I felt that this book was a good read...kept me wanting to read more the entire book...can't wait to see the movie, although the movie probably won't be as good:)
5 I loved this book it was hard to put down once I got used to the changing of times. ill probably read it again later.
5 Great read. Even if I like a book it usually takes me a month to get through because I always end up falling asleep when I start to read, but I finished this book in 5 days tops!Sara Gruen's research and imagination paid off. I was impressed by how vividly I was able to see and feel all her characters. I have never been interested in the circus before, but this book wants me wants to read more.
5 Very easy to read and very enjoyable. I could see the characters in my mind .Thanks Amazon Prime. Like the Arthur.
5 This was a fabulous book.  It kept me spellbound and I simply could not put it down.  I would highly recommend this one
4 This story was interesting in the fact that it was told as a memory of the main character.  Provided a look into life with a circus.  I have not seen the movie and not sure if I will.  Wouldn't want to movie to ruin the book by not following the story line.
5 Being  an animal lover  I truly  enjoyed this book. I could understand their feelings working with animals as I raised, trained horses for close to twenty years.
5 I enjoyed the format of the story switching from past to present. I would recommend it to readers who enjoy history with their fiction.
5 Perfect finale.  Loved every chapter.  Can't wait to see the movie!This book terrified me.  I loved it, but it really scared the *beep* out of me.  Starting off with total devastation, Jacob sets off into the great unknown following the rails.  Hungry and desperate, he jumps a train and discovers it's the circus train.  I know it's a love story and a mystery and a tale of brutality in a dangerous time in our history for men, women and animals!I love getting Twitter messages from Rosie (like my husband said, you know things are going to be OK when an elephant just tweeted you...)
2 I didn't like this book...I found it depressing and the whole thing just one big sad story. One thing it changed was I will not be going to any circus anytime soon.
4 I really didn't ever plan on reading this- I saw it several times in walmart, and never really put a thought to it- but then I ended up getting it anyway one day when I went to my school library.It was actually very good, save for the fact that halfway through the book,  i felt like a part was missing.The book basically tells the story of young man, Jacob, who joins the circus after his parents die. Since he's college educated in vetranairy science (save for the fact he never took the final exams) he becomes the circus "animal doctor". Soon he falls in love with the hot headed circus director's wife- and finds himself at odds with a uncontrollable- but loveable- elephant.The book is interesting, funny, and smart, but it definately wasn't perfect. First, it seems like a part was missing, practically. At the beginning of the book, the dwarf that Jacob rooms with, Walter, basically hates Jacob's guts. Plus, he meets the girl of his dreams, except that they don't really spend that much time together. Then, before I knew it, Walter and Jacob are best friends (and no reason to be) and Jacob and his girl (i forget her name, it's been a few weeks since I read it) are in love (but don't want to admit it because of her husband, August.)If you can get past these few things, the book is pretty good overall. Quite enjoyable.
4 Learn a lot about the circus life.  Book holds your attention.  Interesting story being told through the eyes of a 90+ year old
5 Beautifully written!  This is a moving glimpse into small-town American life and how the circus played an important role in America's coming of age.
3 I had heard a lot about this book and was excited to read it. It may have suffered from too much anticipation but I wasn't enthralled. I thought it was okay. I found it patched together and in need of a little relief. From old age home to parent's dying to hardships of circus life, I just felt weighed down.
4 I didn't realize this was such a controversial book until I came to write my review. I liked the book. It is fast paced and an easy read. I did not like the explicit sexual scenes; I don't think they added anything, other than showing Jacob was nave, which we knew anyway. I didn&#8217;t like the animal abuse, and the fact that he was a vet and didn&#8217;t do anything about it, but if he would have he probably would have been red-lighted. The author did a lot of research about the circus in that era and it was interesting to read about some of the things that really did happen.
5 This is not usually the type of book that I read but after hearing a lot about it I decided to give it a whirl. I was not disappointed!
5 I read this book based ( embarrassingly) on the attraction of the trailer. however, upon reading the book, I have to say that it outperformed my wildest expectations. I loved the characters, their imperfection and their depth.  Gruen's Narrative is vivid, exciting, passionate, and at times heartbreaking. the personalities of the animals and their role in the main characters interaction (and livelihood) in and out of the circus; are really moving.  I also found it refreshing that the main character's reasons for join the circus are not the norm. I did find the leading lady a bit flat at times, and the summation at the end left a little to be desired, but the ending was still perfect.
4 The story held my interest since I had an uncle who was the front man for the circus.  The story line  took the reader through this man's early life and into old age with ease.  The characters come to life and before the book is finished one can smell the popcorn and the big top.
5 couldn't put it down. my husband would yell at me b/c i was keeping him up at night! Easy read!!
5 The first half of the book has interesting details about life with a circus train along with some suspense, then the suspense increases.  Alternating between the old and young main character was great.  I love the way this was written.
5 This is such a beautiful story. I enjoyed the story line and the characters and I felt that it was well researched also.
5 This book is keeps you turning the pages after page. I did have some trouble getting through the abuse of animals as I am a lover  of all animals.
5 I could not put this book down! Well done, Sara!Sheri Lyn SchwarAuthor of "Vasculitis: Sick and Tired of Being Sick and Tired"
3 It was a pretty good book, but  I had no idea there would  be so much foul language and  sexual material in it. I was pretty disappointed in that.
5 This book is one of my all-time favorites because I loved the main character and the woman he fell in love with, but most of all, I loved the adventure of the traveling circus. Gruen had to have done a major league amount of research to learn what the circus was like in the 1920s. And my guess would be that she really did meet a man like the main character. Otherwise, how could he be so believable and so lovable?I have lent this book to several people. I know the author prefers to hear that everyone bought their own copy and I get it. But "Water for Elephants" is a book everyone should read.
5 It was a very exciting story. I loved the way it went back and forth from now to yesteryear. The characters seemed to real. Loved it.
5 When I first read the title and the back of this book,  I wasn't the least bit interested.  However --- two of my sisters, my daughter,  and my niece were reading the book at the same time --- and all four of them loved it and recommended it highly.  I had to get it --- and I had to agree with them!  Its a great story!  One that is amost impossible to put down!  I highly recommend this read!  I just hope the movie doesn't ruin it.
5 Water for Elephants: A NovelThis was a wonderful book. Written from the prospective of an old man as he dreams of his life in the circus, it is a good insight into those of us who get older, live with our memories and our loved ones have no idea of our past lives. I really loved the ending. Very fitting! Newfmom
5 Liked this book a lot even after watching the movie found more entertainment in the book . The book is more for mature eyes as was the movie.
5 In Water for Elephants, the reader is treated to views of very different worlds. One is the present day, real-life existance of elderly residents in an assisted living facility. Their story is told through the eyes of a "90-something" year old man recuperating from a broken hip. At the same time, this character, Jacob we learn is his name, regales us with  life as a member of a circus from the past. Both stories are filled with such strong detail that we as the reader, are drawn back and forth from the past to the present in gentle surprise. We are introduced to the emotional roller-coaster details of a young man's life, many of which he is not a willing participant. However, we learn that he has a depth of character and courage that carries him through life's troubles when many of us today would want to give up. We find him using those same character traits to overcome some "curve-ball throws" that at "93", life is still pitching his way. Ms. Gruen has done a superb job of blending the past and present, and even gives us a hint of the future of this gallant man's life. Her book is so well researched that the reader might begin to feel it is a biography rather than fiction. This book will hold your interest throughout, especially the tales of the circus from a by-gone era and even the unfortunate activities of life in elder-care facilities that haunt us today. However, she does not leave us feeling sad and remiss about a touchy subject, but instead gives us a surprise ending that is upbeat and hopeful.By: Sherry M. Airey
5 the story was amazing and I found myself completely identifying with an octagenarian who ran away with the circus! A little unexpected for this 40 something mom. Read this. You will be transported.
5 Loved this book!  The author really engaged my interest in the characters.  Such a great story and hurrah for the ending!!
3 I enjoyed this book, but did not find it to be the "home run" I expected or was led to believe it would be. The most moving, authentic passages were delivered by 93-year-old Jacob Jankowski. You just gotta love this elderly gent. The chapters in his voice gave me a new understanding of what it means to be old and alone; the fact that Gruen could craft such a believable male character, to my way of thinking anyhow, redeems many of this book's other flaws.I read numerous positive and negative reviews on amazon, and I agree with several other reviewers that Jacob can sometimes be a bit frustrating, in that he fails to take appropriate action when it seems most called for, and at other times gets all up-in-arms and confrontational over far lesser infractions. But to me, this makes him a human and believable character. Haven't we all "lamed out" when we should have taken action, or overreacted when we shouldn't have? What I hate even more is when a character is always ready, willing and able to jump through impossible hoops to save the day. If I only wanted that in my literary characters, I'd stick to James Bond novels. I do, however, agree with many other reviewers who pointed out that some dialogue is a bit too pat and unbelievable for both the era and the circumstances in which this story is supposed to have taken place.But what I simply do not get is why so many readers are up in arms about the so-called graphic sex scenes. They were neither numerous nor particularly offensive, but I guess sensibilities are wide-ranging where sex is concerned. I suppose the sideshow scene with Barbara and her magnificent boobs could be characterized as somewhat sexist, but so what? It was provocative and engaging. And while that scene and Jacob's "initiation" could be labeled both gratuitous and graphic,  I would argue that any graphic sex scene is gratuitous. Writers always have the option of "panning to the flickering candle" rather than telling us what the heck is happening. I give an author points for taking the risk of telling me. Besides which, I'd consider the absence of raunchy performances and sexual hanky-panky in a book about a traveling circus to be an inauthentic, gaping omission. So while I could have taken or left these two particular scenes, I believe they were well written and have their place in this story.All of that said, my biggest complaints about this book are Marlena's shallowness, and the mounting melodrama as the story nears its (preposterous) ending. Though Marlena is perhaps the second most important character in this novel, I found her to be vapid, insipid and uninspiring. I thought Rosemary (the assisted-living home nurse) was far more endearing and believable, for as minor a character as she was. True, the villains (Uncle Al, August) were likewise a bit "canned," but I can forgive a lack of character development for certain secondary characters because, after all, an author has but so many pages in which to tell her story. But Marlena, as the circus's star performer and Jacob's love interest, should have been better developed.  And I suppose I simply must accept the ending for what it is--something of an outrageous letdown.Despite these shortcomings, I enjoyed Water for Elephants. It drew me in enough to hold my interest, and it certainly has its strong points. For example, I thought the author did a fabulous job bringing the animal characters to life as sentient, unique beings. I loved the aged Jacob, and liked his young counterpart only slightly less. I will admit, I expect more from (and am therefore harder on) traditionally-published books than self-published ones so I gave Water for Elephants three stars rather than four. If a writer is lucky enough to get published, then I hold him or her to a higher standard than schlubs like myself who try to put a good, thought-provoking product before the public without the benefit of editors, professional cover designers or national distribution networks. More power to Sara Gruen for being among the fortunate few to land a publishing deal.
5 You will NOT be disappointed in this book; a real page-turner that you cannot put down! The characters and story are wonderful; I cannot wait for the movie.
5 It's clear why this unusual work wound up on the NY Times Bestseller List, because it will appeal to a mass audience. It captures a time and environment that stirs the curiosity of young and old.  Who wouldn't be interested in exploring the dysfunctional dynamics of the circus family, during the perilous era of the early 30's. It allows you to finally be able to, run away to the circus, in the comfort and safety of your easy chair.  And, as intriguing as some scenes might be, it makes you just as glad you never did.While written simplistically, the messages run deep.  The cruelty that existed during those hard times and the effect on man and beast, were heartbreaking.  It was particularly difficult to envision the animal abuse and neglect, but it was so integral to the story that you had no choice.  It was a reminder, that left unchecked and unsupervised, that the weakest amongst us will frequently be delegated the scapegoats.  It was also a reminder of the evil that can be unleashed by man when faced with desperate times.Visiting the Senior Jankowski was particularly delightful.  A mere "90, or maybe 93," as he frequently chimed, his struggle to retain dignity and independence was inspirational and beautifully drawn out.  Gruen also did a great job moving seamlessly between the Senior Jankowski and his youthful, 23 year old counterpart. Sometimes I wouldn't even notice, even though decades separated the characters, when we'd moved from one to the other, which is not easily accomplished.  They were both struggling with the angst of the past, the ugliness of the moment and the uncertainty of moving forward.I've read reviews where some took exception to using Schizophrenia as an excuse for one of the characters cruelty and explosive episodes, as his behaviors were not typical for Schizophrenia.  And, they definitely weren't!  However, in the 30's Schizophrenia was not well understood and likely frequently misdiagnosed, becoming a catch-all for describing many signs of mental illness. I don't believe this should detract from the story.My grievances are few, but I did have some issues with the ending, which I found unrealistic, although I'm not sure we were intended to interpret the ending so concretely.  If you take it beyond face value, the ending can have some very deep meaning.  I think it depends entirely on the reader to decide for themselves.
5 A really good read. A peek into the workings of the old time circus life along with memorable characters and storyline. Love the way the auther potrayed Jacob as a crochety old man. Couldn't put the book down.
5 I really enjoyed it.  The insight into the circus world in the depression was very interesting, and it was well written.
5 I just loved this book, it has one of the best endings i have read for a long time.  The writing is so good you feel that you are part of the circus, and that it was all true and not fiction.
5 I felt like the elephant was almost a person.  I really enjoyed reading this book.
5 Loved it!  This is a book you remember long after you have ready it.  Highly recommend.  It is a very moving book.
5 i like the description, plus the reviews from the buyers are quite fantastic, so by the end of this month im going to buy this, im thinking though if i can wait for 3 weeks or just buy it on a bookstore nearby..hope i can find it if ever i will buy it from a store! so excited!
5 Water for Elephants is a wonderful love story that takes place during 1930's America on the circus route.  The story is funny, historically factual and touching.  Animal lovers will enjoy Rosie and Queeny and all the members of the menagerie and the feel good end of this tale and its hero, Jacob.
4 I had a little trouble getting into this book, but I kept reading because my best friend loved it so much. After the first few chapters, I was hooked. I couldn't put it down, and I was sorry when it was over. Except for the slow beginning, it would've gotten 5 stars from me.
5 Just captivating....I found it incredibly easy to get wrapped up in this story and I fell in love with Jacob immediately. I look forward to more from Gruen.
5 Great book...I loved how it was told by a 93-year old man in a nursing home....very good detail about circus life.  A very difficult life for circus folks.  The characters are ones you won't forget....some because of their goodness and others because of how awfully they treated others.After reading some of what goes on at a circus, I don't think I will drink any lemonade or eat any of the prepared food at a circus. :)
5 Take a glimpse into life in the circus in the 1930's with this wonderful piece of fiction.  The characters will captivate you.
5 This enticing circus tale was spectacular. It made me laugh and fall in love, evicted anger and softened my heart. Truly lovely.
5 Couldn't stop reading this book. i finished it in one day. hope the movie is as good as the book.
5 Water for Elephants is a fresh engrossing tale told by a ninety something year old Jacob Janowski,who was a vet at a 5th rate circus for a summer in 1931.He meets a lot of interesting people at the circus ,one is a much picked upon depressed midget who is also a clown whose only friend is his dog, a goofy drunk hobo,named Camel and the beautiful Marlena,the secret object of Jacob's affection.Marlena performs some of the most amazing stunts with her elephant and horse act along with her physically abusive husband, August who is a paranoid schizofrenic and not above snuffing people out that get in his way.Jacob also paralels the way the circus life was with his present existance in a nursing home.He has recently lost his wife,and his kids are elderly too and cannot take care of him either.He makes friends with a nurse who just gets him and doesn't treat him like an invalid,& goes out of her way to make him happy.If you like a good story,with detailed,colored, stop my review immediately and please go get this book
4 I read this book as one of the monthly selections for my book group.  We all loved it.  It is a human love story, an animal love story, a novel about a young man who overcomes terrible loss and a tale of survival.  As a child of parents who grew up during the Depression, I was interested in how the history of that era played a role in the plot.  I found the descriptions of the social hierarchy of circus performers, their relationships with the animals and the perspective of how they function as a sub-culture especially informative.  The author makes us, the readers, really love or hate the characters, and there were a few times when I found myself wishing I could step into a scene and protect or stand up to some of the characters.  Although the ending didn't seem quite realistic, it does fit with the hopeful dreams we all conjure up when we visit the Big Top.
5 I loved this book. It was so sweet in an adult fairy tale sort of way. I enjoyed the characters, the description of the animals, the whole premise of the story. Long after I had finished, and recommended it to everyone I know, I still think about the characters, and miss reading about them.
5 This is such a different setting than anything else I have read in the past.  It was refreshing.  Yeah there is a love story, but it doesnt take over the book.  I really enjoyed it.
5 I have read this book three times over the past three years. The story is not only compelling, it is a very real look at what life 'B' circuses was really like. I had a great-uncle who worked in 'B' circus troops who told his stories of life in such  traveling troupes to my father who re-told those stories to me. I could not find one flaw is this re-count of circus life in the 1930s.
5 Loved it, loved it, loved it.  Gruen 'feels' what it must be like to retain a facile mind but be trapped in an aging body.  What do we have left?  Our memories--the 'pictures' we have made through life that are filed away in our memory banks.  Props to Gruen for her obvious deep research into the time period, especially what circus life was really like during the depression (and beyond).  Her characters are engaging and true to form, and she uses them to weave a wonderful tale.  A great read.
3 It got slow in the middle.  The ending made the book worth reading.  It was very sad to read how animals are treated by circus handlers.
5 I really enjoyed this book. I never really had any interest in the circus, but this book has me wanting to go now. I love how you find out what is going on in the characters life now.
4 This is a very good read. Circus life isn't a subject I know much about so from the historical perspective it was very interesting. I like that the story incorporates so many different sociological issues and is such a good argument for animal rights...especially circus animals.
5 This was an easy, entertaining and informative read.  I was enjoying reading this so much that I had my mom and a friend read it too on their kindle and they both loved it.  I wanted to read it for entertainment but ended up enjoying learning so much as well through the story.  I did not see the movie but now I might just to see how much justice they did to the book.  Plus I read it free from the Kindle Lending Library but it would have been worth buying!
4 This is a good book. Its not the best I ever read but it was a nice easy read. I would read it again! Has a sweet story to it.
5 I picked this up not knowing a thing about it except the blurb, so I was pleasantly surprised to find this story of love and betrayal under the big top one of the most engaging tales I've read in a long while.  I'm not much into romance, but this is so much more than that so I couldn't pull myself away.  As a bonus I learned about the dark side of the circus industry during that era.  Gaslighting, where they throw the circus hands off the train in the middle of the night to avoid having to pay them, was a new term to me. Despite the cut-throat world they live in, the young veterinarian protagonist and the circus star he has a crush on, try to rise above it all at risk of life and limb.What tops it off is the story has one of the most satisfying endings I've encountered in a long time.  I've passed my book along to my mother and it has since gone through the hands of three of my sisters.  They all loved it.  I'm a big fan.
1 My book club read and discussed this book a few years ago. All but one of us hated it. I knew then that it was written---or edited---for easy adaptation to film.Ta da!!The overall skeleton of the story is not bad, I just wish that another writer fleshed it out. This is minor literary fiction, at best.
5 What a great book.  When it was done, I wanted so much to have more to savor.  The detail and descriptions impressed me in this book; they were so nicely done, without having boring detail. Covering two differenttimes of Jacob's life - as a young man, then as an older gentleman.  Both funny and sad, and an enjoyable read.
5 Once you start you can't stop! I devoured this book as fast as I could. Even when I wasn't reading it I was waiting until I could again. Fantastic story.
2 With all the positive ratings I had high hopes for this book. But, alas, I couldn't help wondering what all the fuss was about. I found the story fairly boring and eventually couldn't wait to be done with it. It's another romance, set in a circus. The characters were not that appealing and the book could probably have been condensed to half the verbage. Suffice it to say I didn't like it.
5 This book was captivating from page 1.  The story kept a good pace and is one of those books you just don't want to put down.  I really connected with the main character and felt his emotions as if they were my own.  Other characters were both likable and despicable, but all the while intriguing.  A very interesting story and enlightening as well.  I can imagine life on a circus train during the depression and realize now that it was not all it was cracked up to be.  Highly recommend!
5 Sara Gruen is a truly gifted writer. Water for Elephants follows a young man (Jacob) during depression-era America after he loses his entire family to a car accident. Soon after dropping out of vet school following the deaths, Jacob jumps a train that turns out to be a circus. The story is his coming of age story, with romance, violence, hilarious adventures and mystery. All set against the canvas of the larger than life traveling 'menagerie.'The story is told by Jacob as a 90+ year-old reminiscing about his days in the circus when one comes to town across the street from his retirement home - dredging up long-forgotten memories. I absolutely LOVE the ending where Jacob 'escapes' his retirement home on yet another adventure! Cheers to Gruen - I will look for more of her books. This one was superb!!
4 This book was recommended to me and I'm glad I read it.  It is not something I normally would have read but I did enjoy it.  I knew nothing about the circus and so was fascinated by the story.  I usually read family saga type novels so found this one not as easy to read.  It is, however, an excellent book and well worth the time and effort.  Very interesting.
5 I like getting lost in a novel.  That is, to get so involved in the storyline, I forget about my immediate environment.  Authors can achieve this goal by producing actions that borderlines the plausible.  When actions are too plausible, the novel becomes trite.  As a consequence, a reader will lose interest.  When the actions totally lack plausibility the reader becomes aware of one's immediate environment.  Within this scenario, the author forces the reader to assess the logic of the actions and the flow of the storyline is disrupted.  Somewhere between plausible and implausible is best for a storyline.Although Gruen is a talented writer with a rare command of the written word, her description of flunking out of Veterinarian school was too implausible.  EVEN Cornell professors would give a second chance if a student's parents died prior to comprehensive exams!  The implausible wrinkle forced me into reality throughout my reading experience.  It wasn't until the chapter 23 (page 314) when I realized that Gruen skillfully left out some critical information.  Thus, what seemed too implausible at the beginning became reasonable at the end.  We reach borderline plausibility.Yet, the novel doesn't end there.  A second storyline that Gruen skillfully weaves throughout the novel emerges into a second borderline plausible event.  The novel ends with an unexpected double whammy.WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is a wonderful story.  It can best described as quirky with several unanticipated twists and turns.
5 This is one of the best books I have read in a very long time.  A story that grabbed me and kept me wanting more.  A story of right and wrong, of revenge with a special twist.
1 I did NOT expect this graphic brutality when I bought this book; circus animals killed because of lack of food or just laziness on the part of the handlers. The story starts off in an engaging way, Jake the old man in the nursing home was entertaining. But there were too many instances of animals being abused/killed that I could not finish this book as it seemed to become the main focus. Too many animals in life are mistreated as it is and I do not need this information shoved in my face via a novel. This book should come with a warning to potential readers right on the front cover.
5 I was worried at first about reading this book because I hate to read about any animal cruelity and I imagined there would be some. My fears were partially  realized but I must say there was no gratuitous violence. Most of it was mentioned but not "shown." That being said, I absolutly loved this book. The characters were portrayed in such a way that you could feel the emotions and physical triumphs and pain. Poor Jacob loses his family in an accident and then learns his parents have no money.He in the meantime, is unable to finish his schooling for vetrinarian school.  My sheer coincidence he ends up being a vet for a circus. All of this is recalled in flashbacks by a 92 year old Jacob who lives in a nursing home. His wife is long passed away and his children have more or less deserted him. Without me giving too much of the book away, It is amazing how the reader can almost feel the dirt on their skin and the physical pain of the work all done for the purpose of putting on the best circus show ever.  The gossip and segregation of the performers were a sign of the times(during the early 1920's)  and how this could bring about chaos among workers all the way up to the performers. It is abook I could not put down and I read it in two days. I highly reccommend it!
5 I didn't want to put it down. I could feel his misery as he sat in the nursing home. Behinds the scenes of the circus were great. It was easy to get to know all the character and care about some (hate others).
5 After reading this I had to watch the movie. It was a great book & I would read it again & again
5 I wasn't sure if I wanted to read this, but I picked it up at a garage sale on the cheap.  The storyline was completely engrossing and I couldn't put it down.  I know nothing about circus life, so I can't comment on whether or not the circus elements are factual.  I do have experience both working in and visiting nursing homes and the descriptions here sadly ring true.  A review on the cover described the book as gritty and sensual and it is certainly both in a very entertaining way.  One of the few books that I immediately wanted to read again as soon as I finished it!
5 This book is awesome. I usually like to read the book first, and then see the movie. In this case I saw the movie first. So happy I still read the book. It captures so much more of the characters' essence.
4 An enjoyable three ring circus!  With many acts and clowns (both more ways than one.)  The reader participated... in sights and sounds!  This multi-layered book was a high flying wire show!  Bravo!
5 A story about doing the right thing and protecting those who can't protect themselves (animals or people). This novel had me hooked from the beginnning. Your heart will swell and break and swell again, but you won't be dissappointed.
5 Great book. Kept my interest to the very end. Love the details about the circus. The ending was great. It was not the endingI expected.
5 This book is one the best books I have ever read.  I read a lot of books. This was a very good story.
2 The best part of this novel is the portion in the present day when the main character is an elderly man.  His flashbacks tell a story of an impetuous and hard-to-sympathize-with attraction to a married woman and his painful experiences working for a circus under a couple of bad guys, including a sadist who abuses animals and people alike.  Throw in a fantasy-like description of an elephant's intelligence and abilities, and you can decide if it's your type of story.I read some of the good reviews to try to figure out what the draw is from this book, and I still don't get it.  It was a chore to read, and the only reason I finished it is because it is so popular I assumed I would finally appreciate something about it.
5 I loved every moment of reading this book with the exception of the last 5 pages or so.  The ending, in my opinion, was forced, rushed, incredible, and slightly ridiculous.  To have this wonderful, beautifully written story end in such a way really did the story an injustice.  I still recommend reading it, because it was a beautiful story, and was fantastically written, but the ending left so much to be desired.
5 A beautiful piece of fiction that you almost wish was true.  An uplifting story of love and redemption, a story of hope.
4 Awesome story. Very captivating and well written. Thank you to editor of the book as well. Always nice to read a well written well edited book!
5 I bought the book at Costco, and didn't have time to read it. So, when I saw the audiobook at the library, I immediately checked it out. It kept me enthralled through every minute. Loved the characters -- human and critter. And I found the story poignant and moving. The characters are very realistic, the era is intriguing, and the story will capture your heart.
5 usually thebook is better than the movie but the movie was so wonderful.  It was one of the best I ever saw,  I can't recommend it enough.  It wasn't bloody.  It was wonderflu
5 The book is so amazing and detailed that the movie may ruin it for you. This is a true adventure story of the circus life which really brings you in, makes you love the characters and have fun. You will not be able to put down this sexy, colorful and exhilerating novel. After reading, you will miss and want more of the story ....this is a fabulous must read for anyone looking for a spectacular story.
5 The depth to which you become attached to these characters and the story,and their stories, is remarkable. I read this book in 2 days, which is a big deal considering I have a full time job, husband, and a 7 month old. Definitely recommend this book!
5 Really great book. The characters are interesting, particularly our hero Jacob. The setting is vibrant (a circus during the Great Depression.) The plot moves at a great pace, and the material is really well researched. All of which comes together under some excellent writing that provides just enough detail to make everything real and interesting without banging you over the head with it. Throw in murder, sex and a big elephant wearing pink sequins, and you have a fab book. The very end is charming too. I highly recommend it
5 In a long list of critical praise on the first four pages of the paperback edition for Water For Elephants, The Chicago Tribune is quoted as saying the novel is "so compelling, so detailed and vivid, that I couldn't bear to be torn away from it for a single minute".My sentiments exactly.Water For Elephants is one of the most engrossing novels I've read so far this year (another is Khaled Hosseini's A Thousand Splendid Suns) and now that I have finished it in what seemed a whirlwind of time (I stay at home with two small children and I still read it in three days!), Sara Gruen is among my list of favorite authors.  I look forward to the debut of her fourth novel Ape House scheduled to be released in October of this year.The Canadian-American author doesn't waste any time putting the reader in suspense.  The novel starts off smack dab in the midst of a cacophonous stampede of circus animals (lions and tigers and bears, oh my!) and someone's impending doom.  Want to find out what happened?  Read the book and I'll guarantee you won't stop `til you reach the end.  The engrossing tale is told in flashbacks from the mind of Jacob Jankowski, a man who is encroaching the end of his life at an impressive ninety years of age ("...or ninety-three.  One or the other.").  Jacob resides at an assisted living facility and is the consummate old fart, crotchety and bitter about the black void of his current living.  It isn't until word that the circus is coming to town that something inside of him stirs and memories of his youth from the furthest recesses of his mind float to the murky surface.We are suddenly thrust into the past at the inception of the Great Depression.  Jacob is twenty-three and a student in his final year at Cornell University working towards a degree in veterinary sciences when he is pulled out of class one day in 1931 to earth-shattering news - his parents are dead after a sudden and fatal car accident.  Left with little to fall back on, Jacob takes a short leave and returns to school to finish out the year but his grief over the loss of his mother and father shadows his professional goals and he walks out in the middle of his final test, the integral exam that will earn him his degree.  Having committed career suicide, Jacob goes walking aimlessly for an entire afternoon and inexplicably jumps a passing train in the night.  Little does he know that this one small act has just changed his entire future.After being roughed up by a car full of "working men", Jacob learns that he has just boarded the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth ("You done landed yer ass on a circus, boy"), a big top rivaling the Ringling Brothers and headed by tyrannical ringmaster Alan Bunkel, dubbed "Uncle Al".  It isn't until he lets loose that he's a Cornell-educated vet that he gets placed in the menagerie working with all the animals, in particular a bull elephant named Rosie.  Jacob grows fond of Rosie as well as the other animals but his heart really belongs to a woman named Marlena, a resplendent young performer who is inconveniently married to an emotionally unstable man named August, the equestrian director and superintendent of animals.  As Jacob's love for Marlena grows, so does his hatred of August as he watches him grow ever more suspicious and ever more brutal.  His violent streak spills over onto Rosie, who is rumored to be "dumb as rocks" and disobedient ever since she was acquired and August makes her pay for her insubordination with recurrent vicious floggings.To make matters worse, Uncle Al constantly shafts his workers and performers by docking and/or refraining to pay them for their work and when someone's authority is unduly challenged, people mysteriously disappear in the dead of night.  Jacob's unwavering morals suddenly pit him in a dangerous situation and with a love triangle rapidly brewing and a wild animal reaching its breaking point, the thunder will crack loud and hard before the storm.The book flits back and forth between the past and present and the transition is fluid - there is no confusion between the youthful Jacob and his ninety-year old self.  The descriptions of the circus are vivid, particularly the behavior of the animals within the menagerie.  Being an avid supporter of numerous animal and wildlife charities, this isn't a surprise coming from Gruen and it's some very interesting character development indeed.Her human counterparts in the story don't suffer from this, thankfully.  Jacob is a well-written character, the youthful version brimming with naivete and conviction and the older of course wiser but still resolute as ever.  Gruen shows with Jacob that even after the utmost disastrous of events that time can reign down upon a life, some things about our character ultimately never change.  The unpredictability of August is also queerly fascinating - with expertly written passages of steely smiles, cold gazes and passive-aggressive undertones, the reader will feel just as perplexed and wary of him as Jacob does.Along with extensive research on the subject of circuses during the Depression, Gruen included 17 black-and-white archival photos of circuses throughout the 1930's; the photos are prominently featured at the beginning of about every other chapter and lend the story some great visuals to feed upon.Bottom Line: A superb novel, well worth the time and money to read.  With a movie deal in the works, pick it up now before the film adaptation spoils it in either the best or worst way.
5 I don't even know how to begin this review.  This book is so wonderful, and so very different from anything that I've read, that I still can't believe it.  Sara Gruen has written a book that is so carefully researched and so well-written that it puts the reader right into the story which is Depression-time circus life.  Jacob is a character that is so real, both as he's portrayed at a young age, and as he is portrayed as a 93 year old living with his memories in an old aged home.  The story is poignant and also sad.  It is quite heartbreaking to think of the way the animals lived that travelled with train circuses during this time.  And they had all manner of animals, from elephants to apes to zebras to horses to the big cats like lions and tigers.  They even had polar bears if you can imagine!  This book is dark in its portrayal of circus life circa 1920, but it's also heartwarming in Ms. Gruen's portayal of the many kinds of people that also travelled with these circuses.  These train circuses were an entire community and everyone in them was part of the family, including the animals.  The story is also a love-story that is so beautifully depicted amongst this varied kaleidoscope of characters and the wonderful animals.  And what about amazing Rosie?  She is an elephant that I will never forget!  A totally wonderful reading experience that I didn't want to put down, and that I'm now sad that I've finished.
5 Change after a life disaster drives this wonderful tale of Jacob and his life for several months thereafter.  Jacob tells the tale himself as a nonagenarian some seven decades after the fact.  His final exams to end his veterinary medicine degree, and his anticipated life following graduation, come to a crashing halt, and leave him wandering aimlessly.  Without considering its consequences, and noticing no details of the train, he stows away on a passing one.  Having hopped a circus train, Jacob initially faces some ugly hardships before his training leads him to his responsibility in the show.  Along the way, Jacob encounters challenges and loyalties, well-meaning others and some with decidedly despicable intentions and/or means.  The characters, the lovely and good-hearted Marlena, who is the star of the show, and her husband August, who is volatile in many unappealing ways, as well as Kinko/Walter, Jacob's initially disgruntled roommate, are reasonably strong secondary characters,  This reader wishes that Marlena had been fleshed out better, but that's a minor complaint.  Jacob is terrific, flawed as Gruen says she wishes of her characters, and a good man placed in difficult circumstances, a circus where the rules don't make much sense, particularly if one holds egalitarian views of one's co-workers.  This reader found the practice of redlighting to be totally repugnant, and frankly a bit upsetting.  Jacob's interaction with the members of the Menagerie, the animals, repeatedly shows his appropriateness for his career.  Several of the animals' personalities stand out.  Jacob in his youth adapts sometimes well and sometimes badly.  Gruen handles Jacob as an old man nicely, making him whole and believable with the challenges of his age, but still generally holding onto his faculties and sense of independence.  Rosemary, one of his nurses, is a lovingly and warmly portrayed woman.  Without spoilers, the ending is terrific, too.  The pacing and flow of the writing help move this gracefully.  Wonderful reading and I've already been looking into more Gruen.
5 I have seen Water for Elephants  at all the popular bookstores for the last year.  It never appealed to me, so I always passed over it.  This month, it was choosen as my book club's choice and I was pleasently suprised.  It was a true page turner and I finished the book in one weekend.  Gruen captured the time period and the secret world of circus people during the Depression beautifully.  It made me want more and to know more about the people of that era who worked on the circus trains.You won't be disappointed.
5 I can see why so many were talking about this book.  It is a wonderful story, with such rich character description you feel like a character in the book.  I loved it and would recommend to all my friends.
5 Just don't try to read too much into it. It's a fantastic idea and the ending is a bit too romantic and incredible, but it's a great book that really makes you think over human nature and love.
5 I am an animal lover and elephants are my favorite! Reading this story I laughed, cried, smiled and grew angry. Makes me rethink supporting circuses
5 I enjoyed reading this book - it was hard to put down. It is a lovely love story with several twists and turns.  I loved how it showed the emotions of the elephant, which made me fall in love with her even more.  It reminded me a lot of the &#34;Notebook&#34;, going from present time to past through the main character's memory.  This is definately a must read for the romantic at heart.
4 Difficult to put down, the story stayed with me even after the book was closed. The basic string of the plot: a young man, Jacob,  so overcome with grief that he runs away with the circus.  Sounds like a cliche, right? Yet Gruen creates a rich world full of gritty people with lives that figuratively walk a tight rope.  The traveling circus was a roller coaster of success and disappointment - Gruen brings to light the many fascinating facets of this unusual lifestyle.Cliches abound and the plot a little predictable, but it did not distract from the interesting tale.  I would have liked to have seen a little more depth form the main characters. And there were a few unbelievable aspects - leaving an Ivy League education in the final hours, knowing what their family sacrificed to provide it,  just to try and forget their grief?  It would have been very disrespectful and irresponsible to do so.  But, without this selfish act the story would not have moved forward... My favorite aspect was the animals.  I cringed at the cruelty, which I am sure was common place for circuses, but was uplifted by the triumphant pachyderm. Even the common dog was spotlight worthy. Overall, a well told tale about grief and  love wrapped up in a childhood fantasy.
2 I know several people who have read this and loved it.  I just could not get into it.  It is a good story, but that is about it.  I expected a lot more depth to the story based on all of the hype is was receiving.  I was very disappointed in the end.  It is not something I would recommend to others.
5 This is a book that grabs you from the beginning. It's a fantastic story that keeps you interested the whole way through. And it's a quick read. I just loved it so much. It's something for everyone, from the historical interest in the life of the traveling circus people during the depression, to the descriptions of old age in a nursing home. I actually insisted my husband read it when I was done. He's not an easy man to please, but had to admit how much he enjoyed it as well. I purposely don't want to say too much about the story since I enjoy reading books "fresh" without too much advance information. The only negative I would say is that the ending was bit unbelievable to me. But by that time everything else was so great, I didn't really care. It was as though the author was all done and didn't know how to end it. But I can forgive that.
5 Outstanding!Refreshing new topic, new ideas, utterly wonderful.A dark comedy, love-story about a circus during the Depression. The characters are developed and strong. The plot not missing a beat. And the animals, gotta love the animals and their personalities!Jacob is in vet school, until he drops out suddenly. He leaves his exam and walks all night until he no longer can manage another step. As he rests, a train comes down the tracks, in the middle of nowhere. He runs as fast as he can and jumps the train. It's all over as Jacob discovers he is on a carnies-train! He befriends "Camel", a circus hand who recruits Jacob to join.Interesting, dark, and wonderfully full. They style and measure by which M. Gruen writes is so welcoming and it is evident by her comments that she paid attention to details in her research.Would definitely read again!5 out of 5
5 I don't read a lot of fiction these days because I don't havethe time, but I picked this book up from my Mom over my summervacation...And boy was I glad I did. Some books do more thancapture your mind; they create a certain feeling or emotionthat captures your heart too. This is one of those books.The author's voice has a certain cadence and style that sucksyou in from page one. And what seems to be a simple tale ofdepression-era circus life with an obvious outcome soon takesunexpected twists and turns to a surprise ending that had melaughing and crying at the same time.If you read one novel this year, I'd highly recommend this one.It ranks right up there with many of my all time favoritebooks.
4 This book had a bit of everything! At first I did not think I would be interested in reading about a circus, but that quickly changed!!!!
1 I read about the first chapter or so, I just could not get into this book. I was no impressed and just couldn't do it. Waste of money for me.
4 I really enjoyed this book.  I usually like to read a book vs seeing the movie.  The book is usually way better.  This was a pretty good book. Loved the elephant. She was very smart in the end.
3 This book was a very easy read I will say that. It was very accurate with the  time frame an  all the  language used. Other than that the story wasn't very captivating. There was no twists or anything really interesting. I wonder if the movie is actually better than the book.
5 Loved it! This book had everything! Villans, heros, romance, monkeys and elephants. What more could you want? I loved how the story was weaved between past and present times. It was beautifully written and helped capture a part of our American past that I had never been exposed to before. I literally laughed and cheered (embarassingly) along the way, and talk about a grand finale!
4 I liked the information about traveling circuses. This book was an easy read. I especially enjoyed the time period and the first person accounts of life in a circus. The action in the story was unpredictable. I will be looking to read some of her other work.
5 This was very different from the books I normally read but I was unable to put it down. It's an easy fun read.
5 I enjoyed the book. It was captivating and entertaining start to finish with some creative twists along the way. Can't wait to see the movie now.
5 I really enjoyed this book! It took me back to watching the circus train go through Devils Lake State Park when i was young. Great job by the author in educating herself on circus life and history.
4 This is certainly an entertaining piece of work, one that will keep you occupied for the 4-6 hours that it takes you to read it.  Definitely not heavy lifting, but amusing and well worth the time.The story revolves around Jacob Jankowski, a 93 year old nursing home resident who "flashes back" to his early adult years spent in the Benzini Brothers circus.  The circus backdrop provides the opportunity to introduce numerous colorful characters and anecdotes (many of which are historical) that keep the story moving along at a good pace.The book opens with a prologue which is revisited near the end of the novel with an extremely well devised plot twist and puzzler.  I thought this was extremely well done.  The end of the novel, involving the 93 year old Jacob, was also very satisfying.All in all, a light, entertaining and easily consumed piece of work.
5 What a delightful book. I was hesitant at first to pick up, but so very glad I did.  It had me in it's clutches on the first page, and I couldn't put it down until the last.  What a wonderful cast of characters, both good and evil. I have recommended to many, and hopefully they will read as well.  Thank you Sara, for such a good time!
5 I loved this book and was so sorry when I finished it! I liked the characters and they were very life-like. It was one of the best books I've read in a very long time and is way at the top of my favorites list! I will read it again and again!
5 What a wonderful balance between how an older person in declining health must feel, with all of its frustrations and grief and loneliness--and the exciting story of a young man and a circus and love and passion and jealousy... the animals are portrayed with sensitivity and the "freaks" are shown in all of their humanity.  An excellent read.
5 The details about circus life were brought to life and were enthralling.  This book was a page turner and I emensely enjoyed it.  Finished it in 5 evenings.  Only downside was that there were 3 or 4 "raunchy" scenes that we could have done without.  I found myself just skipping over these pages.  All in all, loved the story.  Felt like I was a spectator at the real thing.
2 I did not like this book at all...I thought it cruel..even in fiction ...i do not like reading about people who torment simply because they can...i couldn't finish this novel...
4 I really enjoyed reading this book.  It was a page turner and very unique.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a quick, good read.
4 What an enjoyable story! At 65 I have memories of seeing small circuses as well as Ringling Bros.  I also find myself wondering about the future ... will I live to a ripe old age ... & will my family still care about me. This book was very well researched & written.
4 This is a different story line than I'm used to reading but it was very interesting.  I read it in about a week.  I then gave it to my mom to read and she enjoyed it also.  Interesting take on circus life.
5 Every now and then a story comes along that leaves a lasting impression.  This was one of them.  I loved the story, the story-line was good and the character development was great.  I'd definately recommend this book to anyone.
1 Okay, first off, I had to think about this review long & hard before posting it.  Here goes...I feel cheated.  This book was so hyped up & I'm sure it had to do with the movie, which I refuse to see...but that's another story...I like the story.  I love the start & the end & for those that actually read the book...you know what I'm talking about.  For those that haven't read the book, I won't give it away.So what didn't I like?  SPOILER ALERT...stop here if you haven't read the book & plan to do so....I didn't like that the love story never really evolved.  It was just like Jake likes Marlena & she likes it...boom...now her husband knows they are in love.  WHAT?  When did that develop?  I needed more detail about their relationship & it just wasn't there.I did enjoy the history of the circus life & the life during the Depression.  I thought the Polish elephant was a riot.  I thought the old pictures from circus life back in this time period was a great addition to the book.But I really can't get over the story developement for Jake & Marlena.  Come on?  I can't be the only one who was expecting more on them??  Can I?Overall, the hype around this book was set too high.  I would not recommend this book to anyone.Guess I'll donate the book to the local library....
4 I had no idea what circus life was like, & found this story to enlighten me. Cruelty to the animals is tough to read, but reality is sometimes difficult to face.  The interesting day to day life of circus employees, plus the dramatic differences in how workers vs performers were treated was dramatic! The relationships between the characters were interesting. I enjoyed this book in spite of the cruelty to animals & some vulgarity.
4 I did enjoy this book. It was interesting to see how the circus used to be in the past. I thought it could have been better written and the plot seemed to fizzle out. But with a good imagination you can read more into the characters than the book discloses. Overall I am glad I read the book!
5 I read this book before seeing the movie.  The book, of course, is much better than the movie.  Everyone wants to run away and join a circus right?  Well I wanted to when I was younger!  I love this author and her style of writing.  She draws you in right away and you feel as if you really know her characters!  Even if you saw the movie...Read the book!
5 WOW. It's been a long time since I read a book this good--I was so sad when it ended!  I kept wishing I could share more of Jacob's amazing life--and the ending, what a boffo finish.  I would have NEVER guessed that one! This is much beyond a good "summer read"--how is it this book did not hit #1??  I love historical fiction, and I am usually very 'into' the time period and the 'feel' of the era...this one was particularly evocative; you could swear you smelled the animal cars, the greasy scent of the carnie food, the whiff of the stale sleeping quarters.  I could almost feel sweet Rosie's pain at the hands of the cruel August; and when he met his fate, I cheered Rosie like she was a hero (she's an ELEPHANT).  What a rich read--if you begin it, make sure you don't need to sleep that night!
4 It's a very imaginative story that you don't want to end. My only complaint would be that the bad language is a bit much.
3 It was just not what I thought it would be. I'm sure it's a good book, just not for me.
4 Jacob looks back to memories of love and his time with the circus when he was a young man.  He needs them now more than ever to get him through the declining life he lives out in a nursing home. The story portrayed a difficult, sad, evil circus environment where animals were mistreated by men who mistreated each other as well, I guess to survive the depression.  I wanted more from the story than its hopeful ending.  I wanted throughout to be lifted above its base struggles. I want more vivid descriptions of scenes and increased depth to the characters. What Jacob, like so many in nursing homes needed most was the comfort of family, friends, and staff to listen, to care. A well written book with depressing undertones.
4 A wonderful depiction of life in the circus world as seen through the eyes of a man who worked in one during the great depression. This story comes to life more strongly with every turn of the page! Gripping!!
5 I purchased this book per recommendation and thoroughly loved the book. Great storyline and an enjoyable read, it has become one of my favorites.
5 Really interesting!  Read this book--you won't be sorry!  Loved it, quite unique and kept my interest well.  Give it a try!
5 This was a very romantic and sweet book.  In the beginning I found Jacob to be very real; moving and sympathetic.  Ahh, but then the circus comes to town and we're back to his youth ...The travails of working in a traveling circus are real and riveting; the details seem accurate.  At times I thought the author lost her voice but for the vast majority of this book, I enjoyed it a great deal!
5 Great premiere book from this author. I thoroughly enjoyed the read. It gives a ringside appreciation for life in the traveling bigtop.
3 This was an interesting one for me.  I've had this book on my "to read" shelf at home for over a year and never picked it up until now.  I have no idea why.  I was excited when I bought it and then never did anything about it.  Now the movie is coming out and I wanted to read the book first.The old man telling the story really pulled me in and came to life for me.  I really felt for him!  And laughed at him because he is quite funny.  He is flashing back to his youth when he joined the circus and fell in love.The author has amazing talent.  She really paints a vivid picture.  Unfortunately, too well at times.  There were some really nasty, crude scenes that set the tone for the book and the train life and the depression, but they were way too much for me.  Very disturbing. If you don't like books with sex scenes, then avoid this one!  They paint a picture that you would rather not have in your head.Once you get past all that crude stuff, then the book comes alive.  You get sucked into the life of this cute elephant and of the love story between Marlena and Jacob.  Unforgettable, that is for sure.  Moved me almost to tears at a few points with the elephant.Because of the crude stuff I would have to rate this just 3 out of 5 *'s.  If some of that would have been cut out, then it easily would have made 5*'s.  I hope some of it is cut out of the movie!
5 excellent---sorry I waited so long to read it  never saw the movie yet either!Guess I'm just late with everything
3 This book was well written but I have to admit I had difficulty getting through some of the elephant torture passages, in fact I am still cringing thinking of them, (not that some humans didn't face some awful abuse as well in this book)...
5 First, let me say that the book is somewhat graphic compared to what I usually read so if you're something of a prude, put it back.  That having been said, I LOVED this book!!  I loved the character of Old Jacob and the treatment of him as an old man - how true to life and how we all wish it wasn't really true, but it is.  I felt the characters were adequately developed over the course of the book - this may irk some reviewers because they want to know everything about everyone in Chapter 1 - well, I say, read on and you'll find out what you need to know to empathize with them.  The only thing I felt wasn't fleshed out was what Camel had done to his family that he didn't want to go home to them, but since it wasn't pertinent to the story line, I'm OK with that.  The character of Young Jacob was somewhat "victim" rather than "victor" but I felt that was accurate based on the circumstances in which he found himself, and I appreciated his feeling of impotence at changing his circumstances.No, this is not literature, folks, this is a highly enjoyable story that is riveting, engaging, and gives us a glimpse into another era and another lifestyle.  I highly recommend it!
3 This book is so-so though it seems to be very well researched in terms of both circus lore and the depression.  I can understand anyone with a passion for the circus or the 1930's getting excited about it but for the average reader it has nothing special to offer so I am shocked by the positive attention and time on the best sellers list this book has generated.  Without giving any spoilers away let me say the book is very cliched and predictable and the leading human characters are all undeveloped and quite stereotyped.  The animals are perhaps given a little more rounded personalities.  The circus portion of the story ends in a fantastic and unbelievable manner and the other story in which our hero is now an old man in a nursing home ends in just as unlikely manner.  Others have commented on the great cover and I wonder if that is responsible for the surprising success of this book.  THE CIRCUS IN WINTER by Cathy Day which came out a couple of years ago is a much better written book and is just as well researched with a very similar setting.
5 I must confess I had to listen to the audio version of this because I'm not allowed to open my Kindle until Christmas.  Either way, this was the best book I've "read" in a very long time.  I think I could understand Jacobs feelings about being in the nursing home since I had to deal with my mom being in a nursing home.  His description about sitting in the dining room was so real.  Do yourself a favor and enjoy it.  Also, it has a great ending.
5 Went into this with an attitude because of the over-exposure it was receiving, but my reservations quickly faded and I was actually flying through the pages to an unexpected, heart-warming ending.
5 This was a very entertaining book.  I never would have guessed I would like a book about a circus.  But I loved it.  When I first started it, I didn't know how it was going to be, but I never stop reading a book without finishing it, so I read on.  The storyline sucked me in deeper and deeper, until I was hooked, and by the end of the book, I was not  ready for it to be finished.
4 I haven't seen the movie (I usually prefer the books anyway), so had little knowledge of the plot. I really enjoyed the history of how the country was during the Depression and how, basically, lawless the country still was, where people could come and go and even disappear. I enjoyed learning the levels of "society" within the circus and the behind the scenes look at the life of performers and workers. Life was hard in those days with no government assistance to fall back on. Aside from the window into a different time and place, the plot was interesting too.
5 This is easily one of the best books I've read in the past five years--and that's high praise, because I read constantly, and I've read some amazing books. What sets Water for Elephants apart is not only the incredible quantity and quality of research that went into it, but the way Gruen employs her pool of researched knowledge to craft her plot, characters and milieu.In lesser hands, a story or book that relies on heavy research can hit the reader over the head with it, to the detriment of concentration and enjoyment. Long explanatory paragraphs; tedious but unnecessary details; the sacrificing of the Big Picture to sideshows--these are sins that are distressingly common in historical novels. It's like the author has taken all this trouble; you've got to see what he dug up, like it or not.In Gruen's case, not one detail is out of place. Not one fact is gratuitous. Everything fits; everything moves the plot along or enhances the characters. The picture develops fully, in living color, without clutter; the settings are so true, you can smell the young hobos and their fire and touch the sweat on the horses. The most unbelievable bit is believable, because you trust Gruen as a storyteller. She is that good a writer.I hate to review a book when so many have, and god knows my opinion won't make a whit's difference in the sales of this book or its success. But it was just so good, I felt compelled to weigh in. To say, Beautifully done.Long may Water for Elephants ride on the Best Seller list.Susan O'Neill, author:Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Vietnam
5 Just finished this wonderfully colorful novel & I was not disappointed.....Once I started reading,I could NOT put it down...Loved the circus setting,strong characters and animals...Now I cannot wait to see the movie...One of the best stories I have read all year....And the author very realistically portrays what it actually means to get older...I'm not as old as the elder Jacob yet but each year that goes by,I can tell the difference in the physical abilities....If you are looking for entertainment,this book will provide it.
5 I had to read this book twice, that's how much I enjoyed it. Then I saw the movie. Great, heart wrenching story, great characters . . . I won't soon forget this story.
5 Since acquiring my Kindle, I've started playing a new game.  I download "samples" of all kinds of books.  If I can get hooked in the first few chapters, well clearly the author deserves the book sale.That is exactly what happened with Water for Elephants.  Almost immediately I was completely drawn into the story.  Ms. Gruen uses an effective framing device for her tale.  Nonagenarian Jacob Jankowski is telling his story in flashbacks from his present in a nursing home.  And it is the story of his first job out of veterinary school.  The year is 1931 and the country is embroiled in the Depression.  Tragedy sends Jacob fleeing his orderly life.  Without trying to, the young man winds up running away to the circus.Water for Elephants is a coming of age novel, a buddy tale, a period drama, and a love story.  It's one of those rare novels that seems to captivate almost all readers.  I came late to it, but I was as entranced as all those who have raved before me.  Gruen's prose is strong, but it's her characters and setting that capture the imagination.  I haven't been to a circus in decades, and have no particular interest in that life.  But Sara Gruen is a fantastically gifted storyteller, in the most elemental sense of the word.  I will be grabbing future novels upon publication.  Highly recommended to all who crave a great story!
5 I have yet to watch the movie and I kept picturing miss Reese Whitherspoon throughout the novel. It was great and it made you think of the world from a different point a view. I never realized it...you forget the viewpoint of the story and how it is being told your are sucked right in. It is a great love story and I think the movie will be fantiasticly bold and beautiful.Movie and book are masterfuly mirrored. First time I can say both are in tune with each other.
5 I put off reading this book, even though it was recommended by friends. I thought I had no interest in a circus book. I was wrong. I am glad I read this story, and learned from it as well. Like others have said better than I, it is brutal, real, historical, entertaining, with a dash of romance thrown in. You don't have to be a circus fan to like this book, it's message will linger with me.
5 I have no idea of why I waited so long to read this book....maybe it was because I couldn't imagine finding a book about the circus appealing. But this is one of those books that literally grabs you from the first page and will not let you go until you finish the last.Other reviewers have covered the plot outline. I would like to discuss what enthralled me: the author's ability to capture a time (the Depression Era in America) and a place (the circus) and the people that inhabited that world both within and without. I loved the characters she created, I cheered on their triumphs, and bit my lip at the touching, sometimes quite sad moments as well.Gruen moved Jacob, the main character, seamlessly back and forth in time. And our caring for him grew throughout the book, to the very touching and happy ending.I can see why this book has remained on the best seller list. It's place is well deserved, a lovely book.....I'm donating my copy to my local library so that they'll have another one on hand to check out.
5 Excellent read.  One of the best books I have read in a long time.
5 When veterinary student Jacob Jankowsi's life is unexpectedly torn asunder, he escapes by hopping aboard a passing train. It turns out to be a circus train.  The story alternates between the few months Jacob spends with the Benzini Bros. circus during the Depression and the current day, in which Jacob is 90+ years old and an unhappy resident of a nursing home.  Although most of the story centers on the circus years, the author does an excellent job of showing the loss of companionship, the loss of independence, and the loss of dignity that accompany old age.  It's these passages that ultimately make this a sad book for me.  No matter how the circus portion of the story turns out, we know how unhappy Jacob is at the tail end of his life.Although Jacob falls in love with Marlena, the unhappily married star of the equestrian act, the love story wasn't the main focus of the story for me.  In fact, that aspect of the story didn't pick up steam until fairly late in the book.  It was more of a coming of age/adventure story.  The author did a wonderful job of researching Depression-era circus life and making the reader a part of it. And what a brutal life it was:  the horrors of poisonous bootleg liquor, prostitution, terrible treatment of both animals and staff members, lack of pay, and &#34;red lighting&#34; - throwing people off the moving train who had fallen out of favor or were simply no longer worth the expense.  If they were lucky, they were thrown off near a town.  If they were unlucky, they were thrown off a trestle.  But it's also a story of survival and caring among both the animals and the people.  It's a fascinating story and I highly recommend it, even though I found it to be a bit sad.
3 Water for Elephants... what can I say?  The characters were all a bit sad and depressing.  The story was not at all uplifting and left me feeling a little down.  What is good is that you get a great insight into the travelling circus, training around spending one night in each location.  Poor workers had such a hard time of it.  Worth reading but don't expect a happy little love story with this one.  Oh and I thought the ending was quite unbelieveable.
5 I loved this book!  It was different than anything else I've ever read.  I didn't want to put it down at all.  Just the right amount of romance and intrigue.  There were times that I actually cried, its been a long time since I've read anything that moved me to tears!  Highly recommend!
4 I found this very entertaining. I enjoyed the story and found the whole (based on actual history) idea of Depression-era people running off to join the circus fascinating. The love story itself is a bit cliche, but this is a good read and better than many books I've read.
5 The main character I can sympathize with and can appreciate. You can really imagine what it would be like to be in his shoes in this book. It does a great job of explaining what that particular circus was like back then. I couldn't really picture it until I was able to read the book. Im glad I read it. No complaints! Especially if you love animals!!!
4 This view inside the life of  people in a traveling circus is not like anything I have ever read before.  Since a friend told me it was her favorite book, I decide to step outside my mystery craving and try it.  While some of the situations are a stretch, the character development and especially the relationships were worth the read.  It tends toward darkness at times, so if that bothers you, this isn't the book for you.  If not, you might enjoy it.
4 If you were a kid and experienced the train arriving, the parade of elephants, and the setting up of the big tent, this book will inform you of what went on behind the extravaganza!  I saw the performers outside with their buckets, but who would ever imagine what their lives were like?  I went to the side shows, ate the cotton candy and this book brought it all back!  This is a great novel with circus history that I fully enjoyed!  A perfect ending to those who wonder about Jacob's future!
5 From the first page to the last, I was hooked on this book.  I found the juxtaposition between the past and present fascinating and the peek into the tent of circus live mesmerizing.  I read this book in one setting and loved every page.  Highly recommend!
4 This is a fast, easily read, and entertaining book. A must read for animal lovers and circus lovers alike. Kudos.
4 Author Sara Gruen has given a wonderful, sad, and hopeful picture of circus life and of the life of a young man who joins the circus at twenty-three.  Jacob Jankowski begins the story of his life when he is a very old man living in a nursing home where he is less than happy.  The story goes back to his young life when he is a veterinary student and suddenly loses his parents in an auto crash.  After the funeral, Jacob plans on going back to school and returns, only to be unable to take his exams, writing nothing and walking away from his years of education to join the Benzini Brothers circus. Because of his veterinary knowledge, Jacob is assigned the care of the animals and their problems.August, the animal trainer, is married to Marlena the elephant-rider and beautiful star of the circus.  Jacob's mistake is falling in love with her, because August is a brutal man, both with his animals and with people.  Often an elephant named Rosie gets the brunt of his anger, and so does Marlena, and eventually Jacob.  The rubes suffer under just about everyone in this circus, which has a long way to go to even give Ringling Brothers a thought about it.What I enjoyed most about this book is the very colorful and accurate information that Gruen researched well and delivers about the circus.  The acts in the ring, the different people who make up the circus and the pecking order among them makes for an excellent story.  I found the ending fairly predictable, but I was glad I was right.  Water for Elephants may make you angry, it may make you nostalgic, but it will certainly entertain you and keep you reading until the last page.
5 Sara Gruen's prose is straightforward and simple, her research of Depression-era circus life impeccable.  With a gentle hand, she transports the reader back to a time and place most of us could never imagine. Along the way, her rich characters--Jacob, the young protagonist whose world implodes as he readies himself for life as a veterinarian, Marlena, the beautiful circus performer he falls in love with, and August, her psychotic husband and head trainer of the 'Worst Show on Earth'--leap off the page.  Water for Elephants is a rickety train ride into the dark, seedy, melancholy world of the 1930s circus performer.  But it's a trip worth taking.  Your final destination is not a place of misery and despair but one of love and hope.  And the ending is guaranteed to soften the hardest of hearts.Salmon Run
5 This book is amazing! I couldn't put it down! Not much more to say except wonderful writing and absorbing story line. Also, it's great that the Kindle edition is under $4.50.
5 First the title, Water for Elephants is quite interesting. It catches my eye and has been since I saw it on the bookshelf. Finally with a copy of my own, Sara Gruen's writing style is quite detailed and specific but she has abundant of information and allows the reader to understand Jacob Jankowski, the widowed 90 year old man. In writing about the loss of his parents, he writes how he discovered that his parents mortgaged their home to send him to Ivy league college, probably Cornell University. He drops out and finds himself working at the circus by providing water for elephants. We know he was married for 60 years. The sccene in the lawyer's office discovering his parents' lack of estate was heartbreaking and typical depression era story. The fact that the great depression and stock market crash of 1929 is still relevant in today's literature. Sara Gruen makes accountability for explaining the details of Jacob Jankowski's life.
5 i loved this book it brought tears to my eyes. growing up you visit the circus but very rarely do you consider the pains that it took to get to that happy place. the love story mingled in with the tales of the circus it is a shocking ending that most wont see coming.
3 I really wanted to like this book, I really enjoyed learning some of the slang and history of the circus.  I like the circus and I was told I'd fall in love with the animals and the characters of this book.  The fact is I hated the raunchy descriptions surely we could do without those.  I felt the book to be dark, twisted and weird.  I did indeed love the animals but didn't like the characters.  Honestly - I only read half the book because of these things.  Too bad.
1 boring! can't understand why so many people enjoyed reading this book, I read 1/3 of it, and just couldn't make myself to read any longer.
5 From the first few pages of Water for Elephants, you can sense that this is going to be more than just a good book; it's going to worm its way, subtly at first, and then more fiercely, into your soul and hang on long after the last page closes. You're going to want to gulp it all down quickly but be advised that you will not have time to savor the rich writing and brilliant characterizations unless you slow down and absorb the tale.Water for Elephants is set in a traveling circus in the early 1930s.  The narrator, Jacob, is set to finish veterinary school and join his father's practice when tragedy strikes, leaving him an orphan and penniless.  Unable to cope with his change in fortune, he wanders off aimlessly and finds himself somehow attached to the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth, tending to the animals and developing relationships with performers and regular workers alike.  Gruen gives us some of the best characters in this novel:  Marlena, the beautiful horsewoman trapped in a marriage she no longer wants; Walter the dwarf who is forced to share a sleeping berth with Jacob; Camel, the old drunk who meets with an unfortunate turn of events; and Uncle Al, the devious, sinister mastermind behind the circus's success.  As brilliant as these people are, it is also the animals who must be lauded:  Bobo the chimp, Silver Star the dying horse, Rex the lion who is afraid to leave his cage, and Rosie the elephant, who shows more intelligence than many a human could hope to possess.Told in chapters that alternate between the circus life and Jacob's current existence in a nursing home, this story is marvelous.  It has it all, and it will definitely find a place on my keeper shelf.  Excellent writing and excellent storytelling.  Highly, highly recommended!
5 I just finished "Water for Elephants" and would recommend it to anyone who wants a good read with compelling characters and engrossing storyline.  I just couldn't put this down which is unusual for me.  I loved both stories - the old man reaching the end of his life and the young vet who joins the circus out of desperation during the depression.  You can't go wrong with this one.
4 This is my second review on Amazon.  I seriously have a lot of catching up to do.I love books about animals as I am such an animal lover myself.  The read was cool, which hotted up at the end, although a little slow moving to begin with.  In the second half I couldn't put it down, I had to know the ending as I was on tender hooks all through the time.  I guess part of this story was very emotional.  Well worth a read despite the slow beginning.
5 Such an engaging story!  I fell in love with the main character.  If this is an accurate depiction of circus life, I'm so glad I never joined the circus!!
5 Never saw the movie but truly enjoyed the book. I think every kid (especially two generations ago) wanted to run off and join the circus. Seemed like such a glamorous life on the road, wearing glittering costumes, etc. This book gave the child in me a behind the scenes look at life on the road with the circus. And I can empathize with the passion Jacob has his memories. Quick read.
5 If the first few paragraphs can't hold my interest, I can't read a book. I couldn't stand to put this book down! I could visualize throughout the entire story. I hated for it to end.This book far exceeded my expectations.
5 This just became one of my favorite all time reads. It is super easy and fast but such a great story of the depression and the very (who knew) interesting life of a circus. Inspiring, a great moral to the story on how to look at life as you grow old.One of those books that you almost feel sad finishing because you love the story so much.
5 This was an incredible book. I thoroughly enjoyed it. Every time I sat down to read this book, it transported me back to the 1930s. I would read it again.
5 I always know that the book is better than the movie, but as I saw the movie first, sometimes I get a little bored with th  book. Not in this case, I saw the movie and have to say I loved it. And the book of course was just as good, yes better. I couldn't put the book down. Wonderful read!!!
5 This is one of the few books I purchased one hundred percent based on customer reviews. The sheer number of perfect five star reviews is a great indicator of the quality of this wonderful story. I love paranormal stories and adore mysteries so, this type of book isn't what I normally read, but the story was so captivating that I was totally drawn into this fictional memoir. I loved that I never knew what was going to happen next and the surprise ending clenched the deal for me. This book is a keeper! I have already loaned it to my  best friend and my mother as well as recommended it on facebook. Now, i'd also like to recommend this book to you too!From the beginning, we are pulled into Jacob Jankowski thoughts and soon after, his memories, starting when he says: "I am ninety. Or ninety-three.". I don't believe he ever does quite remember his age, but for a certain period in his life as a young man, he lived a very exciting and dangerous life. He basically wondered away after the tragic death of his parents into the nerve wrecking, hectic and sometimes deadly world of a circus vet. I love the story of Jacob Jankowski and the resulting romance with a woman he meets in the circus  and I think you will too!
3 This was an easy read but too much sex and a depressing theme.  It did have a surprise ending.  I will compare it to the movie
4 Not the most amazing book as far as plot/meaning/intellectual mind blowing goes. However, "Water for Elephants" is an extremely entertaining tale-- a fast paced fun ride of a read. I couldn't put it down and had it finished after three days.
5 This novel is a great read-- I found it impossible to put down, from the very beginning. The characters are wonderful, and the sub-plots involving Walter (the dwarf) and the main character really make the whole story exciting. I honestly could not tell how the book was going to end until the last dozen pages, even though the first chapter contains quite a bit of foreshadowing-- I was still second-guessing my assumptions until the very end. I didn't know what was going to happen to the characters that I loved, or if there was going to be a happy ending, or whether it would be sad. I just wasn't sure.I love it when great books keep me guessing. Absolutely one of the best books I've read all year.
4 Was curious about this book and decided to purchase the Kindle version of it and check it out.  Throughout the course of the  book you see Jake in the nursing home and Jake in the past.  Jake in the nursing home is looking forward to seeing the circus which has come to town.  But first he has to deal with a couple more days until that time comes and you learn a little bit of what his like is like in the nursing home.  He's not too happy and he every once in awhile starts to reminisce what it was like when he was much younger and he became part of a circus.  Since he had been in veterinary school before stowing away on the circus train he ends up being put in charge of the animals.  One of which is an elephant.  The elephant is not treated well at all and Jake even becomes frustrated with it until the day he realizes that the elephant doesn't understand commands because he learned them in another language.  Once that barrier is broken he and the elephant end up developing a close relationship as he's about the only one who actually treats the animals with any compassion and care.  He also falls in love with Marlena who is married to the very temperamental ring master.  Considering the time period of the book, it's quite possible that her husband suffered from manic depression as the man's mood swings go from very happy to incredibly abusive and destructive.  Over the course of the book we find out more of what happened between Jake and his elephant and also what happened with him and Marlena.Throughout the course of the book you learn a lot about what circuses were like back in the thirties.  Sometimes a bigger circus would acquire a smaller circus and combine the two.  A lot of times the workers went a long ways toward being paid.  And sometimes the owners of the circus would scramble from opportunity to opportunity in order to have enough money to keep the circus running.  And the performers traveled from city to city by train, which would have not only been hard on them but as the animals as well.  If you like animals this can be a difficult book to read from time to time, but it's a fascinating look at circuses that I enjoyed the book very much anyway.  Someday I may get the sequel to find out more of what happened to Jake both past and present.
5 Someone asked me the other day to list my favorite books of all time...this book definitely ranks in the top 10!  Gruen charmed me with the characters and made me want to go back in time to the depression era circus. I really wish I had read this unforgettable novel years ago.
5 This is one of those books that, when the end comes you want to flip it over and start again.  It begins with a scene from the climax of the book - a real page-turner.  A fantastic hook!Action bounces from "present day", then back to the 30s, then back again. Both settings appear to be thoroughly researched and are written with authority.  The author IS a 93 year old man AND a 20-something circus vet - even though she is a young woman.You will NOT be able to put this book down.
4 A good friend of mine who is a Veterinarian, recommended this book to me several years ago. Based on her review, I purchased the book and it sat on my bookshelf for three years!! I considered reading it several times, but it was always passed over in favor of other novels that sounded more intriguing. Once I started seeing trailers for the movie adaptation of the novel with Reese Witherspoon and Robert Pattinson, I finally extracted the book from its place in the bookshelf and read it. THANK GOODNESS I did! Water for Elephants is a brilliantly written account of a Veterinarian student who loses his parents in a car crash and ends up joining a circus in a chance encounter. The author clearly depicts what circus life was like in the 1930s and builds larger than life circus folk whose personalities bounce off of the novel's pages. I highly recommend Water for Elephants, it's a story of loss, love, animals, circus shenanigans, and betrayal. It's a fun romp with a great ending that you'll thoroughly enjoy.
5 This was a great book, the only problem was I finished it too quickly because it was so good!
5 This is a wonderful book. One of the best I have read. You will love it..such realistic characters. great story.
5 Really a great read...Enjoyed it very much.  After completing the book read the back to find out was based in part on actual events from the past!
5 I am so glad I read this book, it really gives you the real picture of what goes on behind the world of the people who are part of the &#34;BIG SHOW &#34; This was another book that you can picture all that is going on, it was fantastic.
5 I admit I bought this book after reading the great reviews and because Robert Pattinson is currently filming this movie and I really enjoyed the story. So much I am reading again. I am so looking forward to the movie when it comes out next year. I recommend this book.
5 I'd been seeing this book pop up on amazon as a recommended read for such a long time and kept resisting reading it. I didn't watch the movie either. I finally gave in to see what all the hype was about and I couldn't put this book down! It was one of the best books I've read in a long time! It kept me on the edge of my seat wondering what was going to happen next. I loved it!
4 I enjoyed reading this book mostly because I am facinated by circuses.  I also would continue to read it because I was interested to learn what would happen to the lovers in the book.  I recommend.
5 What a fun read-although gritty and gruesome in places- this book really takes you into the lives of the characters and is a satisfying and enjoyable read.  I loved the ending! I was rooting for Jacob to get to the circus and so glad no one stopped him.  Since I am a nurse it made me cringe a little at the nursing home treatment of the elderly and it reminded me to always remember that every patient has their story.
5 Shame on you if you ever look at an old person again and don't remember they were once young and had the world by the tail.Jacob is now ninety or ninety-three, he can't remember, and is living out his last years in a nursing home treated as belligerent and cantankerous.He sits a lot and while he sits, recalls his life in the circus.  It is an amazing and fantastic story. And so I don't write a spoiler I will simply say, I couldn't put the book down!
4 This book is the saga of Jacob Jankowski and the unplanned course his life takes as a result of the untimely death of his parents. One exam away from graduating from Cornell with a degree in veterinary medicine and a partnership with his dad, his world is thrown into a tailspin after losing both parents at the same time to an auto accident. Jacob is devastated beyond belief and just starts to run away from everything, finding himself following a train, unbeknownst to him, a circus train. The author takes us on an incredible journey within the travels of the Benzini Circus during the years of the Great Depression. Let's not forget Rosie, the amazing elephant that endears herself to Jacob and becomes the star of the show.  Read on to learn the special secret that makes Rosie a star and the bond that develops between Jacob, Rosie and Marlena (the wife of the head ringleader and a very troubled man). This is a story you won't want to miss - the movie was good but the book is the very best.
5 . . . who kept looking for at least one sentence about Rosie's long life and how it ended? The author wrapped up everything else so well ... but the last we hear of Rosie is on page 327 ... "Rosie was getting on in years."I loved the book and will give it a proper review soon, but I just finished it and am still wondering ... How Rosie died? Did she love the Jankowski children? Did she live at the Chicago zoo? Who was with her when she died?Great story. Well told. Brutal in some parts. Bleak, too. But that was life in the Great Depression.*********************************************************************************It's 1931. Jacob Jankowski, 23, has the world by the tail. He's ten days away from final exams at Cornell University's School of Veterinarian Medicine. After graduation, Jacob plans to join his father's practice back home in Norwich. His life is neat and tidy, with only blue skies on his horizons.Jacob's carefully plotted-out life begins to unravel when his parents are killed in a car accident and he finds out his father had lost all his savings in the bank failures of 1929. Not only is the money gone, Jacob discovers his father has left huge loans he cannot possibly repay. Jacob can't eat. He can't sleep. And, because his parents mortgaged everything to send him to college, he can't even keep the family home.After the funerals, Jacob returns to school "because no other options occur to me". Forty minutes into his final tests, he suddenly stands up, walks out of the room, off of the campus, and out of the town of Ithaca, New York."I walk until my legs hurt and my feet blister. And then I stop because I am tired and hungry and have no idea where I am. It's as though I've been sleepwalking and suddenly woken to find myself here."Jacob hops the first train that passes by and soon discovers he's landed right in the middle of the Benzini Brothers circus, a second-rate traveling show that crisscrosses the country, usually just one step ahead of local law enforcement.Jacob gets hired on as the circus vet and spends a long hot summer tending to the circus' animals and learning about the underbelly of life.Gruen, the author of "Riding Lessons" and "Flying Changes," tells Jacob's story in the first person, using a series of flashbacks to move from the 30s to the present.Jacob is now ". . . ninety. Or ninety-three. One or the other." He's staying in a nursing home, recuperating from a broken hip. He's not at all happy about his circumstances, but he's enough of a realist to know he can no longer alone.A circus is setting up near Jacob's nursing home, creating quite a stir among the residents and agitating Jacob's long-hidden memories."I don't talk much about those days. Never did. I don't know why - I worked on circuses for nearly seven years, and if that isn't fodder for conversation, I don't know what is.Actually, I do know why: I never trusted myself. I was afraid I'd let it slip. I knew how important it was to keep her secret, and keep it I did - for the rest of her life, and then beyond.In seventy years, I've never told a blessed soul."In the Author's Note, Gruen said she spent "four and a half months acquiring the knowledge necessary to do just to this subject. . ."Gruen uses her impressive storytelling skills to give her readers an unblinking into the rich and sometimes brutal history of the American circus, freak show and all.Long after the last page is turned, Jacob's story lingers. Good guys - and their loved ones - sometimes do finish first.
5 From the very beginning of this book I found myself being pulled into the story. The writer's style is easy to read and the vivid pictures being painted are like watching a movie. If you can not get beyond the fact that the love affair is an adulterous one, then you might not like that part of the story, but I haven't met anyone who has read it that couldn't get past that detail to be able to enjoy the great story. I was able to buy this one while it was on sale, but I wouldn't have been disappointed at twice the price. If you are not sure yet, then get the sample and see for yourself what a great book this is.
5 I loved this story. The film prompted me to purchase it and I'm glad that I did. It didn't garnish rave reviews, but I think the film did the book justice.
5 I LOVED this book!  The three parts I loved the most were the beginning, the middle and the end.  Great books are far and few between and I am always happy to find one I can't put down.  If you want to get to bed early or get your house work done, don't read this book.  If you don't mind drinking an extra cup of coffee in the morning and putting the dishes off until later than by all means read this book.  Soooooo good.
5 Great summer read! Never saw the movie, but really enjoyed reading the book. Fell in love with the main character.
5 I can read about any subject if the characters are compelling, and I am amazed at the rich characters in this novel. Historical fiction at its finest!
4 An enjoyable read, with colorful characters that tug at your heart, but I deducted a star because the ending seemed somewhat unnatural and didn't quite fit in with the pace of the novel. Overall, this was still a good story, highly recommend it.
4 This book did an amazing job of transporting me to another time and place. Reading it, I really got a wonderful sense of the times during 1931 as well as the brutal daily way of life for people working for a traveling circus. I loved how well the characters were developed.I would have given this book a five star rating however the main love story felt a little too obvious and tired. The underlying love story is how the main character falls in love with the circus and, more importantly, an elephant.
5 The author has obviously done her homework, because this book contains the argot, the excitement, the turmoil of a down-and-out circus during the Depression.  One can smell the sawdust, the animals, and the people in this graphic story of a young man who runs away with the circus.  It is told through the eyes of a nonagenarian, and although the ending is predictable, one keeps reading for the final denouement.  It is inevitable that there will be a disaster and that Rosie, the elephant, will cause it.  The narrator's desire to once more be a part of the circus is understandable, but its happening is a little far-fetched, considering the way nursing homes are run.  However, the ending is happily satisfctory, and we will not drink lemonade the next time the circus comes to town.
1 There should be a warning on books like this! With all the good reviews I thought it would be a good book, so I checked it out from my library. There are porn scenes in this book, so I stopped reading and returned it right away. I do not want to read stuff like that.
5 This is a definite must read. i loved the way the author  protrayed the real lives of circus socity. recomended for young adult to adult
4 I enjoyed this book and was eager to finish.  A good light read and unique story.  I enjoyed having the past and present features.  Now I want to see the movie.
5 It's not always that a popular novel lives up to the hype...but this one absolutely does!What I most enjoyed about this book was that it was unique from most other books that I've read.  I was transplanted to a place and time that I'd never been or really thought about before...a LIFE I'd never thought about.  It was really fascenating and I learned quite a bit about the circus, although some I didn't want to know.  I will caution that this book has some very graphic animal abuse scenes.Overall the story kept me reading, the characters and their lives were interesting and dynamic...even though some were not likeable.  The time passed quickly as I was reading, I was curious to see how it would end.  I dare say this was one of the better endings to a novel that I've read, I'd put it up that high for sure.  Full circle.
2 Water for Elephants presents the memories of a 90-something circus veterinarian about the events leading up to his marriage to a star of the show. The novel's language flows beautifully from start to finish, making it an easy vacation read. Circus industry vernacular sets the story persuasively, though other reviewers have noted implausibilities. Determined fault finders could ponder why the author downplays the relationships of circuses with the locals, railroading lore, and depression era culture. But at some point these details would get in the way of telling a good story.While the ending is touching, the climax proceeds from one wrong note to another. The protagonist woos a married woman, uses her husband's outrage for justification, and undertakes an attack too far out of character. Most of the protagonist's friends are conveniently written off as the author describes 'redlighting' (health care we can all afford without the dad-burn gummint) where sick people and their friends are thrown under the train in the dark. The antagonists are killed off the next day, in even more unlikely "Acts of God" executed and covered up by various animals. The speed at which the plot moves here may carry a movie viewer, but I found myself thinking "I can't put this down right now, not because it's great, but because there won't be a plausible place for me to pick it up again."Memories are notoriously convenient, self serving, or over dramatizing. So others might give this book more stars for its portrayal of the geriatric mind. Killing off most of the actors resolves the plot within the time constraints of TV or movies, at the cost of satisfying character development. Those who write from outlines will feel cheated that the author didn't plan ahead.Injustice distresses casual readers. Extreme events in near-immediate retribution for evil motives will jar readers who seek plausibility. Unpunished sins of the protagonist claw at the human desire for balance. But the fast transition back to faded memories of the next few years does imitate an older person's memories. So when the book reaches its touchingly implausible conclusion, lots of readers may finish feeling satisfied.
5 Wonderful characters bring this story so completely to life I couldn't put it down.Excellent imagining of circus life and unexpected plot to boot.
5 I'll defer to the others who have praised this book, and will skip the details. Basically I cannot say enough good things about this book.  The less one knows about the plot going in the better it is.There was one phrase Gruen wrote that was absolutely brilliant.  Referring a group of circus patrons, she describes them as "a swell of rubes."
5 I loved the book and watched the movie after...a fabulous story. Excellent job of incorporating the depression and historical references. A tale of love, friendships, growth and death.  Awesome!!!!
5 This book was awesome!  I really couldn't put it down...one of those books where I try to get somewhere early just so I have time to read while I wait.  I bought it because I saw that the movie was coming out...and I always like to read a book before the movie.  I was NOT disappointed and now am anxiously awaiting the movie release.  I loved it how it went back and forth between Jacob's time in the circus and his life at age 94.  A wonderful love story...but it was much more than that! I highly recommend!
5 I won't belabor the readers with a blow by blow of the plot; it is ably covered by other reviews.  Know this--that this is a great book, rated a 6 on a scale of 1 to 5 and far superior to the ordinary fare out there today.  If you are middle-aged or older, this will bring back memories of the old circuses and carnie-shows; if you are younger, this is a history lesson.  Regardless of age, you will thoroughly enjoy this book.
5 I loved every minute of this book! I was surprised that I actually laughed more times than I thought I would.  Old-timey Jacob Jankowski is ten times funnier in the book, than he is in the film (I own both). I was able to appreciate the differences between the book & movie, and think that both are equally sturdy in entertainment value.  I loved the bonus features of the book which included actual circus pictures & an interview with Sara Gruen, discussing her writing process, in the end.  The only disappointment I had, was that the pictures were really small on my Kindle, so you couldn't always see them clearly.  I have no idea what they look like in the actual book, but it would've been nice (for the Kindle version, at least) to dedicate one full page, or half a page to the circus pictures.  This book also got me a lot more interested in the ins & outs of the circus industry in the 1930's & 40's... I also wonder if any of those  same practices & rumored practices continue today.  This book was very thought provoking & entertaining. I didn't want the story to end!
5 I've seen the book from time to time, but the cover never intrigued me enough to actually buy and read it. Now I wish I had picked it up the first time I saw it! It is a delightfully different story of a 93 year old man who tells his story of his years in the circus through flashbacks. The topics are obviously well researched and that adds something special to the novel. It is a very engaging read and I would recommend it for anyone looking for a lighter, different type of book.
4 Good story line and intersting characters.  Not a "change your life" type of book, but a good read overall.  I have recommended it to several friends and they have enjoyed it as well.
5 This book was a great read. It's simple to follow and very descriptive. I will admit that I bought the book to read once I heard a movie was being made from it, but it surpasses the movie in great lengths! The movie was sorta like this book but not completely. I recommend this book to anyone and everyone.
3 I felt that some mention should have been made of the large amount of sex and violence this book contained. The story line was interesting, and I enjoyed the surprise ending.  In a good book, with a lot going for it, I don't see the need for graphic sex and violence.  Maybe that's what sells, and picks up movie contracts.
5 This was an excellent read - well-developed characters in both past and present - could actually see the people and the scenes automatically as I read.  Very hard to put down and I wanted more when it was over.  I have added more to the story in my own mind, but would have been very happy to read the authors version of a continued story.  This was one of the better books I have read in recent years.
3 Liked the two time frames but it was a little confusing at times.  Overall it was a good book with timeless themes.
3 The book gives a different picture of what goes on behind the performance.  Some parts are very hard to shallow and hope they weren't remotely accurate.
2 Combine research into the American train circus, a prose style that is about as sophisticated and threatening as Velveeta cheese, utterly one-dimensional characters, and a storyline that does move steadily along, and what do you get?  A best-seller.
5 Sometimes a one line summary that says very little can be rather enticing. For me, this is the case for WATER FOR ELEPHANTS. THE NEW YORK TIMES bestseller list summarizes the book by saying "A young man and en elephant save a Depression era circus." It made me want to purchase the book just to see how it happens. One could argue as to whether the one sentence summary is an apt description of the book, but whether a reader agrees with the summary or not, most will agree that WATER FOR ELEPHANTS turns out to be a novel well worth exploring.The book tells the story of Jacob Janowski, a young man with a promising career ahead of his as a partner in his father's veterinary practice. Jacob looses everything upon the accidental and sudden death of his parents. Not sure of how to proceed, Jacob decides not to take his veterinary exams and wanders. He finds himself on a train and before he knows it he's put to work. He soon discovers he's now a member of the crew with the Benzini Brothers' Circus, a rag tag outfit that claims to be "The Most Spectacular Show on Earth" and has a true hatred for the far superior "Greatest Show on Earth Ringling Brothers. His credentials are soon discovered and the circus owner sees that his medical skills are put to good use. As he travels from town to town he gets involved in the inner workings of the circus, falls in love and develops a number of friendships both with circus members and the animals, most notably "Camel," a man severe alcoholic, Walter/Kinko, a performer, the lovely Marlena and her husband August, as well as a chimp named Bobo and an elephant named Rosie.The book is more than a story about a young man who runs away with the circus. When we meet Jacob, he's not a young man.  He's in his nineties and living in a nursing home. His body is failing but his mind is sharp, but few people notice because it's assumed by many of the staff of the nursing home he's like the other patients, most of whom have Alzheimer's or some form of dementia. He's lonely and knows that no one would understand or believe his story.Juxtaposing the older Jacob with the story itself is where we see author Sara Gruen's gifts as a writer. Her telling of the young Jacob's adventures is storytelling at its best. We feel as if we're traveling with the Benzini Brothers' circus and the situations that occur and the people who populate the story are real. Yet we also feel for the older Jacob, a man who is truly trapped, perhaps with the best of intentions by who love him, but none the less trapped. Readers do become emotionally involved in so many sections of the book.  You almost want to find out where this nursing home is, go and visit Jacob, take him out for dinner and drinks and make him tell the story. He's that memorable a character.The hardcover version of this book did well, and the paperback version seems to be following suit. No doubt it will be a favorite for book clubs across the country, and no doubt it will move readers for years to come. While it may be clich&eacute; to say so, this is a book that will not easily be forgotten.
5 I loved it! The cast of characters and the details ..awesome. I could almost hear the circus music and see the animals.  I give this book  five stars and recommend it to anyone who loves animals and loves a good old story.
5 I had heard mixed reviews about both the book and the movie and was a little wary of both, but when prime gave a free month subscription I figured it was worth at least trying the book.  I loved it!  I found it to be very witty - I absolutely fell in love with the 93 year old Jacob, and the historial aspect was very interesting... I never knew the history of the circus before reading this or what a great competivie market it was back in its hayday!  I will never look at the workers of a traveling show the same way again. I thought the book was a little slow paced for my taste but well worth it.  I even went ahead and watched the movie and found the book to be far more superior in context.  Great read!
4 This book held my attention from the start with wonderful characters and an engrossing story.  Grim at times, but probably true for the time.
5 I loved this book. Regardless of what others have said about the authors writing, she did fabulous. Great story line, great characters. A little graphic is some scenes but wonderfully written. Can't wait to watch the movie even though I know it won't be as good.
4 Water for ElephantsBy Sara GruenIn the experience of this reviewer romantic books of any kind are generally written for those with a sentimental heart, and a genre that I try to avoid. Who doesn't like a good love story now and again, but the modern romantic drama or comedy seems to be written for a specific audience. Without trying to be presumptuous or overly sexist modern romances are a genre mainly written by women for women. So when Water for Elephants was suggested and then selected to be read by the Super Cool Facebook Readers Club I assumed it was a book that was written for the opposite sex and one I would find hard to enjoy. But as it is warned so often not to make assumptions and hardly ever heeded, I found that my assumptions about Water for Elephants were incorrect. Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen, a bestselling author and book is a romantic drama that can be enjoyed by all readers.Water for Elephants is a story about an aged man, Jacob Jankowski who we discover in a nursing home and through his memories we are taken on a dark and romantic journey to his youth as a veterinarian in a traveling circus. Jacobs past comes rushing to the front of his mind when a circus arrives and sets up next to the nursing home he resides in. In Water for Elephants the reader gets to experience a forbidden love between Jacob and one of the star performers of the Benzini Brothers circus, Marlena. The whirl wind romance between Jacob and Marlena is both suicidal and heart melting. The reader also gets a good dose of violence and sexual content as the traveling circus life during the depression era of the 1930's is unfolded for us in dramatic fashion by Sara Gruen in Water for Elephants. Add in an elephant who understands only the Polish language, a masturbating midget and his dog Queenie and an untold number of corrupt acts and you will discover why Water for Elephants is a romantic story that can be enjoyed by just about any one.Although the idea of a nursing home has been used by other authors as the stage for telling a tale about ones past it does not hinder the story. Sara's creative writing abilities and her knowledge about all things circus keep the nursing home in the background of the readers mind until the very end. And if there is anything that could be considered a hindrance to the book it might be the end itself. The end of the story, where  Jacob, 90 years young rides off into the sunset with the traveling circus that was set up next to his nursing home, creates more questions than can be answered by the novel.All things considered Water for Elephants is a well written novel by Sara Gruen. The work of literature has the ability to capture the attention of both men and women. Water for Elephants is a unique romantic drama that will capture your attention with heart melting romance, intense episodes of violence, graphically detailed sexual acts and a traveling circus. Water for Elephants is an unforgettable and exciting novel that will have you talking about it long after you have read it.(written on 7/10/2011 by the administrator of the Super Cool Facebook Readers Club, based loosely on the  discussions held by the club about the novel Water for Elephants.)
2 I did not find this book as good as other readers. I would not have read it if it didn't get the great reviews.  T was disappointing.  The love story and some of the historic events of the circus were interesting.  found the descriptive animal abuse very upsetting.  I'm definitely not interested in seeing the movie.
4 Love reading historical fiction that has been researched. Amazing. I would recommend to my adult friends that love to read the same
5 Circus life is hard. I was very happy with the book and the movie that came after. They kept to the book for the most part. Very enjoyable
5 The story is unique and mesmorizing.  Though some parts are uncomfortable and heartbreaking, this author brings you through the misery with an assurance of better things ahead.  Ms. Gruen truly has a gift.  I look forward to reading more from her in the future.
4 Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is a gripping story filled with both the sadness and the joy of life. Hope and regret thread through the pages gripping the reader in a heartrending but mesmerizing journey. Filled with characters struggling to choose right over wrong as well as those who are selfish and greedy, the reader will alternately lament their choices, feel their pain, sympathize with their struggles, and cheer their successes. Animal lovers beware there are some fairly graphic depictions of the way circus animals have been treated over the years. Gruen's unapologetic descriptions of circus life for all involved, the workers, the performers, and the animals strips away the romanticized idea that running away with the circus could ever be the answers to one's troubles in life. All the while, Water for Elephants also grounds us in the reality of aging and reminds us that perhaps we should listen a little and "do" a little less. Gruen's writing immerses the reader in a world so real the reader feels compelled to remind one's self it's fiction.
4 Water For Elephants follows Jacob Jankowski who is either 90 or 93, he can't remember, as he reminisces about his days during the most trying time in his life.  He was about to graduate from Cornell with his degree in veterinary medicine when he gets word that both of his parents have died.  Not only that, but he finds out that because of the economy (during the great depression) his father's veterinary business was so far under that their house is taken and the business is gone.  He has nothing left but to take his final exam and somehow start a new life completely on his own.  In the middle of his exam he breaks down, runs away and hops a train out of town...  but it's not just any train, it ends up being a circus train for the Benzini Bros circus and they don't like stowaways.  This begins a roller coaster ride that will last 3 1/2 months with a crash course in taking care of large animals, understanding business, befriending a grouchy midget and learning what love truly is.Passion, hatred, murder and even a wild animal stampede add to the delight I found in this book. We see glimpses of the 93 yr old Jacob living in a nursing home feeling helpless followed by wonderful tales of his life on the circus train with Rosie, Walter and the lovely Marlena.  I found it to be extremely well written and it flowed nicely always making you want to read on and see what will happen.  Sara Gruen did a great job of switching back and forth between young and old Jacob and keeping the story just as interesting while in either time.  I was just as attached to and invested in 93 yr old Jacob as I was in the young handsome veterinarian with morals and principles from Benzini Bros Circus of 1931.I definitely recommend this book and will probably read it again once I make it through my summer TBR list.
5 This  was one of my favorite readings.  It is well written, humorous and clever and never left me with the feeling of wanting more. Each section that was written in the present had me eagerly anticipating getting back to the past to find out what happened next and the ending was exactly as it should have been!
3 I liked the book by all means and it is a good quick read. I guess it didn't grab me like it did others though. The circus theme was a bonus and very different.
4 Great story with colorful characters.  The author obviously did her research.  It was great to see some of the pictures I remember from a childhood visit to Sarasota.
1 i totally don't understand why so many people loved this book. i earnestly tried to read it the whole way through but couldn't. the main character is completely unbelievable, and the dialogue is terrible (i find it hard to believe people spoke that way in the year this novel took place). the prose in this book had zero imagination. when i read books like this, i feel like the author is more interested in finishing than developing the work.the litany of things i hated about this book would take all day to write. i suppose if you were ever interested in read this tripe, go for it, as it seems like tons of people loved it. i hated Water for Elephants, however.
5 This was one of the better books I've read on Kindle!  It was funny, sad, brutal, mean, and funny again!  It is told through the eyes of a 90 or 93 year old former circus employee.  He just can't remember how old he is at the time he is telling the story.After living through tragedy after tragedy while growing up, he finally finds himself befriended by a travelling circus crew who convinces him to tag along.  He does so and ends up caring for the animals as a veternarian even though he hasn't yet set for his final exams.  However, he did attend a pretty good school, so who cares about a piece of paper?  Once there, the story of a love affair, and friendships developed, and life as a "carny" takes you through some pretty rough territory before it ends in such a way, it leaves you laughing again at the very end!  (including a little tear in the eye as well)Well written and well researched.
5 I couldn't wait to read this book, and I was certainly not disappointed!  It was extraordinary and wonderful. I couldn't stop reading it.  The characters just about leapt off the page with their intensity.  I loved it so much! The movie couldn't do it justice after reading the book.
5 Very good book I totally enjoyed  it.  I would highly recommend it to anyone looking for a great book to read.
5 This book was out of this world. We have a story that goes back and forth between past and present, sometimes a present that he can't remember much of. Our hero is twenty-three and almost ready to take his final exam, when he receives word that both of his parents were in a car accident and have passed away. Leaving no money and feeling desperate Jacob jumps on a moving train. Having no idea he has jumped on a circus train, he decides he has nothing left and starts working with the circus.He meets a beautiful woman, but finds out quickly she is married to a mad-man. However, she returns the attraction and we have a great love story, combined with their love of animals. This story was so rich with character details I just couldn't put it down.When the book starts, it made me think Marlena brought the stake down on August's head, but that isn't the case. Just wait till you find out who did! What a book. Took my breath away with a great story line. A true weaver of stories, thank you Ms. Gruen.
1 Dreadful.  Judging from the first paragraph, this novel had the potential for being absorbing and a good holiday read.  I was soon only making my way through it because I had nothing else to read and I kept thinking it must get better since it came highly recommended.  If only I had had something better than this time waster: lazy plot that never seemed to go anywhere because it went in too many irrelevant directions, little firsthand knowledge of the circus, low-level vocabulary.  A waste of time on a good topic.
5 I enjoyed reading this book.  It kept my interest and I learned about the world of the traveling circus. I had no knowledge of this world.  It was a very hard life for these people.  Working so hard day in and day out and not getting paid.  I knew elephants were very smart animals but Rosie was wonderful.  I liked her spunk. I thought the story going back and forth from the present to the past kept the book interesting.
5 A friend recommended this book for me. I got the sample yesterday morning for my kindle and bought the remainder soon after and finished it today. What a great book. So refreshing.
4 a very enjoyable story. the characters were colorful and the writing really captured the circus carnival atmosphere behind the scenes.
5 A hard book to put down. Enjoyed every single minute of it. If you are an animal lover of any kind you will enjoy.
5 I loved Water for Elephants. Author Sara Gruen managed to place herself in the head of both a ninety-year-old man with Alzheimers in a nursing home, and a twenty-three-year-old man who had a great life ahead of him until tragedy struck. She swung back and forth between the character's present drab life to the unpredictable depression era circus of his youth so naturally that I was amazed how often I forgot I was reading a book. I was so entranced by the scenery and story that it just flowed along like I was watching it, or more accurately, living it with the characters. It's not often storytellers do this good a job in our generation. I have recommended this book to many people. Gruen is a writer to watch.
4 There is not much more I can add to the numerous reviews this book has already received except to say that I loved the book and thought that it was for the most part an original story and was very pleased with how the story progressed and ended.As original as the story was, I did find that there were some predictable plot points, but these didn't detract from the story in any way.  Also, I believe that I read another review in which the reviewer indicated that this was more of a book for kids and pre-teens.  While I don't agree with that, I do think that written a slightly different way (taking out the minor sexual content) that yes, this could have been a very good book for kids.  Nothing wrong with that. I'll give this one a 4 1/2 star rating.
4 In her excellent novel "Water for Elephants," one can see how much time and effort Sara Gruen put in to recreating what it was like to work for a travelling circus during the depression.  There is no romantic vision here: conditions for workers and animals alike were harsh and even brutal.  Workers and stage performers were at the mercies of greedy owners and managers whose only concern was profit.  If workers weren't needed, they might even be tossed off the circus train at night.  And the animals were treated even worse.  Jacob, the main character, finds he can't finish veterinary school due to certain tragic events, and takes a job in a travelling circus, where he's treated somewhat better than the average worker because of his healing skills.  But he falls in love with the wrong woman, and begins to fear for his own life.  Fortunately for him, there are co-workers who though mistreated, still have that spark of humanitarianism remaining."Water for Elephants" is a riveting story that does not shy away from acts of brutality.  However, I did have two quibbles with the book.  First, the realization that the elephant, who quickly becomes the star of the circus, possesses a rather extraordinary knowledge of a foreign language (as opposed to English) seemed a bit hackneyed to me.  Second, there was too much of a disconnect between the easy-going humane young Jacob, and the old bitter nursing home resident that he became.  Even though Jacob experienced the horrors described so vividly in the book, obviously the circus got into his blood, and he seemed to have led a relatively happy and comfortable life afterwards.  Why then did he become so bitter and unhappy?  It was as if the author forgot to write a bridge between young and old Jacob.  Even so, Gruen has written a remarkable book that will be on many "must read" lists for years to come.
4 This novel is really interesting in that it explores the world of circus performers in the post depression era of the U.S.  The details are amazing and it is obvious the author took great care to create an authentic feel for the time period and life of circus performers.  A passionate love story is revealed that will capture your heart.  The reflections of an old man in the story tie it all together with wonderful sensitivity and charm.  I thought the title was really creative. I became immersed in the circus world with ease while enjoying this engaging novel.
5 Ok so I admit. I did watch the movie first; but this book is AMAZING! Way better then the movie. I had a very hard time putting this one down. Also, there was so much more in the Book then the movie. It makes me wish that the movie had reflected more of the book then it had.
5 I love when you open a book and start reading, and you visualize yourself right there.  Not only do you see things, you can smell the aromas in the air, and you are stopped just short of touching.  You stand there witnessing the events going on around you.  You can not stop them, you can not change them, but you are feeling the feelings of everyone there.  I did not want this book to end.  This book had me emotional from the beginning to the end, and even beyond.
5 I'm not sure how to do this book justice except to say it is the first novel I've read cover-to-cover in a single day since my baby was born a year ago. Frankly, I wasn't sure it was even possible to read a book in a day with an infant in the house. But if the book is good enough (and the nap schedule cooperates) - rest assured, it can be done.Water for Elephants is told by the curmudgeonly Jacob Jankowski, whose miserable monotony of mushy peas and callous nurses is interrupted when a traveling circus sets up outside his rest home. The sight launches him into a reverie of his post-college days as a veterinarian in a depression-era circus. Gruen's gritty, visceral descriptions of circus life - the downtrodden animals, the sleazy side shows, the glamour of the big top - are matched only by her honest characters (who are imminently lovable and hate-able) and her fascinating behind-the-scenes glimpse into what has been - at one time or another - a dream for most of us...to run away and join the circus.
4 I made the rookie mistake of watching the movie before I read the novel. Read about it in my review of Water for Elephants:  [...]
4 I had never heard of this book until I saw the trailer for the movie.  My wife is the true reader of the family and wanted to read the book before seeing the movie in theaters.  I downloaded it for her and found myself sitting around bored and started reading it myself.  I was instantly hooked.  The reason I wasn't interested in it was because I thought it was a romance book.  And, I guess, in a way it is.  But for me it was more about a romance with the circus.  Who doesn't love the circus?  Especially, the old train circuses.  I spent the first several chapters totally oblivious to my surroundings as I read about Jacob and how this whole journey started for him.  I loved the chapters devoted to him as an elderly man and how the author enveloped me into his frailty almost to the point that I felt like I was jerked away when the story switched back to his time at the circus.  The characters are so colorful and the descriptive writing helped fuel my imagination of this world.  My only minor complaint is that the story felt rushed towards the end.  Everything wrapped up in a few quick chapters.  Maybe it was just me not wanting to leave just yet, but it just seemed too quick.  I highly recommend this book and encourage other people, men I'm looking at you, to not be put off by the cover with the stars of the movie on it and think it is a mushy romance novel.
5 I really enjoyed this book.  I think that no matter what type of genre of books you're into, you'll probably like this one.
5 This book was so fun to read!  The stories he tells takes you back to the circus as a kid - yet it still has the love story and villians.  I can't wait for the movie!
5 I really enjoyed this book.  If you've ever attended a circus, it makes you wonder about the lives of the performers and people behind the scenes.  The main character is interesting and sometimes sad.  However, the ending is great!
4 Although I wasn't sure I'd really care to read a book about the circus, I was pleasantly surprised to get a bit of circus "history."  Although it is a first novel by this author, the writing is captivating.  It goes back and forth in time, from the viewpoint of an elderly man (in an assisted living facility), and tells a story of his life on the road with the circus in post-Depression years.  Quite nice ending to the book also.
5 I loved this book.  It has history, suspense and a romance all in one!
4 After recently completing a 750 page, current best seller, hardcover sleeping pill, I needed something that wasn't going to tax me too much. This fit the bill perfectly! I escaped to the circus!I had my doubts in the beginning when we are introduced to Jacob, a 90 something (he's not sure anymore) "character" in an assisted living facility. I braced myself for anxiety but that was unnecessary. What I was introduced to was a feisty gentleman telling his story about a journey of a fascinating period in a young man's life. I never gave a single thought about train circuses of the past, but have found an interest in them now.Jacob's journey starts with how he unwittingly wound up with the traveling circus. It covers his duties of caring for the animals, his friendships and his untouchable heart throb. Jacob may not be the most controversial character you will ever read about and does lack some spunk and fortitude, but he's a good guy in the story and you'll be rooting for him from start to end.Some of the animal situations are disturbing but realize it was reality of the time. I am thankful there has been a good deal of enlightenment since then. The animals, incidentally are a huge part of the story and I found them every bit as interesting, if not more so, than the human characters.This was a well researched, well written look at a bizarre lifestyle. My biggest complaint is I kept wishing there was some type of lexicon or glossary because I did not have a good understanding of some the jargon, and the terms weren't described well enough. With some effort, I guess I was able to put it together enough to have a vague understanding of the situation but it was a distraction for me. Other than that, the book kept me entertained through the final page. Escape to the circus, and enjoy!
2 I didn't feel any of the connection between the characters in this story.  It seemed like an escape from their present situation more than true love.
1 My previous review disappeared, and even though it's been years since I read this garbage, I'm still so angry about the time and money wasted, I feel I must add my voice back into the mix.  I do remember being taken aback by brazen antisemitism that only one other reviewer referenced. I agree with every other 1 star reviewer and I tried to figure out how to give it 0 stars...
5 Great book! Never read a book like this before but it really brings to life the [train] traveling circus experience from an insider's 'learn as you go' POV during the Depression era. There is such an ominous feel throughout the entire book that I never expected an ending as such... I actually thought it would be more depressing, but I'm not disappointed.
5 You can also read my review here: [...]WOW! This book has been sitting on my bookshelf for longer than I care to admit. Something about it drew me in enough to buy it but there always seemed to be something else that I would rather be reading so, it sat and sat and sat. I am so glad that I finally challenged myself to read it because it has to be one of my favourite books in a LOOOOOOONG time. What a great story.While I know that the book is a work of fiction, it really did feel like I was right there, in the circus, with Jacob, Marlena and August. I could see each of them (and of course Jacob was as yummy as Edward ~Robert Pattinson~), I could touch the animals, hear the music and feel the crunch of the peanuts beneath my feet. I loved that each of the chapters started with a picture showing the history of the circus because it brought me to the right time frame in my mind. The movement between Jacob as a 90 (or 93) year old in a nursing home and Jacob as a man in his early 20's were seemless. In some novels past, the 'current' story seemed forced and very out of place but here, it was a welcome part of the story.Overall, I feel like this is a book that anyone would enjoy. Whether you are an adult, a child, a tween, a senior, this book will delight you! It is a fast, fun read. Please pick it up and spend some time aboard the train with the 'Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth'.
5 Certainly there's a spark of magic at the circus. We felt the under vibes that freely flowed in our youthful visits to the show. In a generation that had various cartoon animals create the circus for our amusement we knew there was meore to the real ways circuses magically came together for that one night.Go on a journey to the real circus.Am so excited that this was on kindle lending. Huzzah to the writer for taking us to the real show!!!!!!
5 This was a great book! Once I started reading it...I could not stop! The story is so interesting especially for those my age, in the twenties. Sadly...I feel as though there are not as many circuses out there so learning about the circus life was pretty neat!I also really liked the flashbacks from current times to the circus times. Great story!
5 I enjoyed this book so much.  So much, in fact, I was sad when it was over.  Definitely worth the money.
3 Presented through a series of flashbacks by a cantankerous nursing home patient, the story begins as Jacob Jankowski is confronted with the death of his parents.  Hastily, he drops out of school and flees to the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.  After a fair amount of drama, Jacob is offered a position as vet with the traveling circus.  What follows is, well... a circus - especially when Rosie shuffles into town...Honestly, we could go either way on this novel.  For some reason we are drawn to the enchantment of the circus, so the setting was interesting enough to keep our attention.  We thought the novel captured the spirit of the traveling circus and pulled the curtain on some of the more sleazy aspects of the business.  The treatment of the animals was at times appalling as was the practice of chucking circus workers from moving trains.In many ways, the characters were almost as entertaining as the circus.  Jacob was complex and real.  The lovely Marlena was just as intriguing and provocative in real life as she was in her animal act.  The head animal trainer was pretty much a complete jerk-bag throughout.  Rosie the Elephant was incredibly enduring and a formidable animal character.  And the bearded lady... yeesh.So why didn't we love this book? We're not sure.  It just felt like something was missing.  Maybe there was too much bitterness and anger in the narrator or maybe the relationship between Jacob and Marlena could have been developed more or maybe a high flying monkey act should have been incorporated into the performance.  Whatever the case Water for Elephants was a good book, but not great, and definitely not in our top 10 for 2011.  Finally, with Christmas right around the corner, can we please have a ginormous protective and lovable elephant for Christmas?  You can keep the hippopotamus!
5 This book is one of the best books I have ever read!  I would recommend this book to everyone and have already passed it on to my Mother who also LOVED it!!  This is one of those books that stick with you and even when you've moved onto other books, you'll find yourself thinking about it still.  I will NEVER look at an elephant or a circus in the same way.  I laughed and cried several times and just can't say enough good things about this book.  It is one of those books that I don't think I will ever forget, it touched me very deeply.
5 I was really surprised how much I enjoyed this book. From the opening line on Chapter 1 all the way to the end, you are hooked.A young veterinary student loses is parents tragically during the time of the depression. After having his family house repossesed by the bank and no prospects, he winds up working in a circus.As stated in other reviews, there are some shaky transitions and predictable plot points. But there is a sincerity to the book that works and unique setting that makes one easily forgive the story's few shortcomings.And it's the setting that I really liked about this book. It brings back the circus of old and it made me miss it. The smell of animals and hay. The popcorn and cotton candy. The acrobats with the sequined vests. You get a wonderful "behind the scenes" insight to a peice of nostalgic Americana. Combined with classic dramatic elements and a motley cast of characters, this is a great book and I'm glad I got it.
5 This is by far one of the most entertaining stories I have read in a long time.  I was unable to put this book down from the very beginning.  The author places the reader into 1931 on the train with Kinko, Camel and Jacob.  I highly recommend this book.
5 A believable rendetion of a time gone by.  Kept me reading late into the night.  Thanks for such a enjoyable read.
4 I read this for book club, and I think it was a great choice for that environment.  The book itself was a very entertaining read, and I was really able to connect with the main character.  I thought that mixing the stories of the elderly and young Jacob was a very clever way to enhance his character.  There were parts where I laughed out loud, and parts where I teared up.  And just when I was losing hope for a happy ending, the little plot twist wrapped the book up perfectly.The reason that I'm giving this 4 stars instead of 5 is because there was nothing in this book that blew me away, whether it be the plot or the writing style.  In addition, I felt like Marlena was a bit too one dimensional.  I was never really able to feel connected to her as a character or the love story between the two of them.  That said, it is definitely worth reading, and was a great choice for book club.  Everyone liked the book and it naturally lends itself to discussion without needing to have an overly structured approach.
4 First off, the imagery in this book is amazing. The pictures painted by words are so vivid that I felt like I was watching the action on screen.The story is set in the 1930s and follows Jacob Jankowski, a vetrinary school dropout, and the few months he spends working for a circus (Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show On Earth). Jacob is exposed to the harsh lifestyle of a travelling circus. He meets Marlena, who is a performer, and falls in love. The only problem is that she is already married to August, the equestrian director (who hired Jacob in the first place).The central element of the book however, is the circus itself. The reader gets a look into the inner workings of show, the characters that work for it and this is done in a very dextrous way. Gruen makes the reader understand the technicalities of circus terminology and life without spelling out definitions. Her insight into the characters (with a few exceptions) is also very interesting. I found the beginning part of the book fascinating as the 90 or 93 year old Jankowski reflects on how things change with age.The criticism I have is that certain charcters are somewhat faceless. I found this to be true of Marlena. This makes her relationship with Jacob seem contrived and their interactions cliched. The dialogue between them towards the end is predictable. Also, the character of August, I felt, could have been better developed.Overall, this is a fine book and I had fun reading it.
3 Predictable read. Better that nothing, but would not recommend to anyone who seeks adventure in a book. Rather boring. Sorry
5 What makes a book alluring to you?  If you're like most of us looking for a "great read" you'll find Water for Elephants has what you need:  a unique backdrop, moving plot, alluring characters, and "can't put it down" feel.  A rare find.
3 This book is well written, well researched, and overall an interesting story. That said, without a doubt I would have closed it and never finished it due to the abuse of the animals, but I read until the end it because it was a book club choice. This is not a book for animal lovers and I found it to be incredibly painful. Those who torture animals are the scum of the earth in my opinion and I don't enjoy reading about them. Nothing personal Sara Gruen, you are a good writer.
5 I'm not a regular fiction reader, but decided to get this one on my Kindle.  I could hardly put it down once I started.  Author weaves a compelling story involving life in the 30's, animal abuse, circus life, and growing old.  I recommend highly.
4 I won't give away too much information, but my take on this after reading it was that we are exposed to some wonderful characters, an interesting, albeit a bit slow plotline, a romance and a themes prevalent to me are that true love will survive, animals have feelings too, never say never, life is cyclical (circular) and we are never to old to do anything.A beautiful story, brought me to tears once or twice.
5 I decided to read this book solely based on the fact that it was recommend by Amazon under the "Customers who bought this item also bought" section on just about every book that I've read this summer. I didn't know what to expect since I hadn't read any reviews about it, so I picked it up, and was not disappointed. I hate looking at other people's reviews before I read a book since they all give away so much of the plot and that irritates me. I like to discover what's going to happen on my own and I detest spoilers. In the end, I'm glad I took Amazon's advice because what I ended up with was a very accessible and entertaining story.I'm not saying this book is perfect by any means. I actually debated over whether to give it 4 or 5 stars, and I ended up going with 5 based almost exclusively on the fact that it was just such a unique and entertaining story. The author, Sara Gruen, colorfully illustrates the world of Depression Era circus life, while weaving in a distinctive coming of age type story, even if it's a little late in life for the main character, Jacob. Coming of age doesn't always have to mean "teenage years" and in fact can be about any time in a person's life where their life path drastically changes direction. This is absolutely the case for Jacob as he endures a huge devastating crisis that leads him to essentially run away with the circus in his early twenties...something kids across the country and all through the years have dreamed about on particularly hard days when things were just not going quite right for them. However, this particular circus in those particular times did not exactly embody the romantic idea of escaping the harsh reality of the real world, and in fact the result of Jacob's decision landed him in more trouble and heartache than he probably ever thought he'd encounter in his life.I think what I enjoyed most about this particular novel is that I actually learned a lot from it as well as was entertained by it. I don't know about you, but I didn't know too much about circus life in early 1900's America and I always find facts about the Depression and Prohibition life really interesting. Gruen incorporates a lot of circus and era terminology into the prose and even weaves a few true stories into the plot. Most interestingly, she includes amazing real photos of circus life at the beginning of most of the chapters. Between those visual aids and all the beautiful details in the writing, I could really picture everything from the sequined costumes the performers wore to the strangest freaks in the side show attraction to the inhumane treatment the roustabouts and animals had to endure to make the whole thing work. How ironic that they all had to suffer through such a harsh and unforgiving life to bring such a glitzy, fun and care-free show to a different town nearly every night during a horrible time in America's history where people desperately needed that kind of distraction in their harsh and unforgiving lives.I saw on one of the discussion forums about this novel that it has been optioned for a feature film and I am very excited to hear it. I read a lot of books, and I love it when I'm getting into one and I can just start to SEE it in my mind. I start casting it and think about which director would bring the best vision of it to the screen. I really hope that whoever ends up making it does it justice. There's so much potential to bring this to life using an exquisite color and texture palette, and I also hope that the studio doesn't compromise the author's vision of this world by watering it down do appeal to a broader audience. I can just see some ridiculous exec somewhere taking out characters and situations that aren't P.C. so as not to offend Middle America in order to raise ticket sales. That kind of censorship makes me sick and is exactly why so many good novels are turned into crappy movies nowadays.Without giving too much away, I'd just have to recommend this novel to anyone who's looking for an easy "historical fiction" read with a good, gripping story. There are times when you'll laugh, times when you'll feel uneasy, times you'll be sad and times when you'll be outraged. If you have serious problems with violence against humans and especially animals, you might want to think twice about reading this. Gruen states in the back of the book that she did extensive research to include many accurate portrayals of Depression Era circus life, and that means that often times things weren't pretty behind the scenes. There is also a fair amount of crude language and a few depictions of graphic sexual situations. If this were a film, it would most likely have an R rating for language, sexual situations, alcohol abuse and most especially violence. However, I like my stuff gritty and realistic, so it worked for me.
5 Vivid descriptions transport you to the front row of the circus.  I loved this book.  Light reading yet colorful in detail.  Everyone I know who has read it loved it.
4 Water for Elephants was probably one of the most action-filled novels that I have read. Every chapter was vital. The circus (or carnival) life was a new area for me. It was grimy, brutal and had some of society's misfits... yet there was humanity,loyalty and tenderness,too, thank goodness. I felt it was a well-researched and crafted story.
5 After reading both of Khaled Hosseini's astonishing books, I worried what next read would hold its own after that. Water for Elephants was an excellent choice - unable to put it down, I read it in two days! Gruen did her research (even tells you about the book's research background at the back), I learned about the circus during the 1930's, and enjoyed a believable, clever, and ultimately triumphant story.
5 I was hesitant to read this book since it felt like everyone I knew who raved about it was a middle-aged lady and I didn't think it'd have enough action to keep my attention.  To my pleasant surprise, the writing was just brash enough to make me want to keep reading, often laughing out loud at the bizarre pseudo-autobiography.  I recommend it as a quick, easy, summer read.  Yes, a bit on the chick-lit side of the spectrum, but very good just the same.
5 This was a gift to my 92 year old father for his new Kindle.  He loved it & could relate because it was about an old guy reminissing & so many things were happening that it it kept him very interested. He read it in 2 or 3 days.
4 Started off very slow hard to get into the book. Kept persevering and it got better and when I finished found i could have kept reading it.
5 The title does not come close in describing the book. I did not expect to be reading a book I could not put down. It was sad yet it was filled with hope. I was cheering the  characters onwhen they met with some negativity in their lives. I could place my self in this book and ride along in the train. I loved then ending, it was better than I thought it would be. Great book, easy read. Thank you
5 Really a good book.  I had to read it after I had saw the movie.  The movie was good.  The book was even better.
5 If you prefer to read books that are hard to put down, Water for Elephants us for you!  The love interests, the humane treatment of the elephant and the insider look of what it's like to be part of a circus are very intriguing!
3 I really wanted to like this book.And I did enjoy the circus parts.But part of the book was told from the perspective of the main character as a nursing home patient. That part was a real downer.It gave me the same feeling as reading "Julie and Julia".
4 I kept seeing my grandmother in this story, not in the experiences, but the frustration with her body failing to last as long as her mind. She has all the spunk and none of the ability. She questioned the care and cost, as she was struggling to survive a health scare recently. The wisdom that comes with old age is now often disregarded due to the loss of physical ability,
5 I loved Water For Elephants. I loved how the story was told in flashbacks and dream-sequences. Jacob Jankowski is a nintey-something year old man who has been abandoned by his family in a retirement home. One day Jacob sees a circus come to town through the windows in his retirement home. This circus coming to town forces his aging and forgetting mind to remember a time in his life when he had lost everything and ran away to escape it. He ends up jumping onto a circus train and joining the Benzini Brothers as the circus doctor. On his journey he meets many friends and enemies. The story then alternately goes from present day to depression-era 1930s. While he is working for the circus, the ringleader Uncle Al picks up an elephant from another circus who has just gone broke. I absolutely adore the relationship that forms between Jacob and Rosie (the elephant). Anyone who knows me knows how deeply I care about animals. To see this character stand up and take such responsibility for an elephant in the 1930s was nothing short of heartwarming. This is a book that I recommend. This is a book that I was able to breeze through and I was so sad when I turned to the last page. Speaking of the last page, I adored the ending of this book. It was uplifting and it told me that no matter how old you are, you still have room and time to continue chasing your dreams.Something that I noticed at one point in the book was how parallel Jacob's geriatric life was to Rosie's circus life. There was one quote in particular that I wanted to recall, but it was a library book so I didn't dare mark in it and I returned it prior to writing this. It had something to do with Jacob being friendless, in his nursing-home cage, being poked and prodded. The quote that I selected to open the post with also shows that relationship. This was said to Jacob by Rosemary the nurse. However, this could be also said to the awful August who continually expects Rosie to do the tricks that he wants without giving her any indication whatsoever what those tricks are. I'm sure that with a second reading I could pick up on many other things as well.As I was reading about the book online a lot of people had made comparisons to the HBO series Carivale which I never saw. I'm not sure that I could. I found several of the scenes of animal violence hard to read. One scene in particular still haunts me. In this scene two horses throats are slashed very violently.I am intrigued to see what this time period in the circus did look like which is why I am excited for the movie to be released. I am so excited for Hal Holbrook to be the olde Jacob character and I'm a big fan of Reese Witherspoon however, I do not quite agree with Robert Pattinson being cast as a young Jacob. When I read it I imagined more of a James Franco character. However, perhaps R.Patz can step out of his brooding Eddie the Vampire mode and do an excellent job. We shall see...This review was originally published at bookjackets.wordpress.com
2 I simply don't understand the fanfare.  Every bit of this story was heartbreaking.  The animal abuse (especially Rosie), the human abuse (Walter and Camel, especially), and all of the heartbreaking things that happened at the hands of certain men.  What was there to enjoy about this story?  Revenge at the end?  Ok, so I liked the last 3 pages.  But those last 3 pages didn't make up for my sadness throughout the whole of this book.  I wish I hadn't read it.
5 If you ever read circus books when you were a kid, you'd enjoy this one (well, even if you did not, you may still enjoy this book.)  The meticulous research on the book results in an interesting panorama of circus life where class divisions (i.e., performers don't sit with the roustabouts, clowns don't share their train car with others, etc.) eventually lead to internecine warfare at the end of the book.  There  is also jealousy, a three-way love triangle, prohibition, and oh yes, animal husbandry and abuse.  The picture the book paints of a prohibition-era circus train is vivid: smuggled moonshine from Canada, various misfits that magically come together during under the big top, the behind-the-barn striptease shows that went on in such circuses (funny, no one told me about that part when I was a kid reading about circus books!)  The namesake of the book is Rosie, the elephant that apparently only understands Polish.  Until that little nugget is unearthed, Rosie regularly receives the brutal end of a bullhook.  The only person between the bullhook and Rosie is the protagonist, Jacob Jankowski, who suddenly finds himself ripped from an Ivy League university to a circus train when his parents die in an accident.  Fortunately, Jacob was studying to be a veterinarian and was only one examination shy of a degree.  But that does not matter to Uncle Al, the reprehensible circus owner who never saw the back of a head he could not hit.  The book has a 98-year old Jacob in contemporary settings reminiscing about his early life in the circus.  Jacob's "escape" back to a circus towards the end was a bit preposterous, I must admit.  But besides that, the book makes for a very interesting reading.
4 This was one of the most memorable novels I have read in the last few years.The narrator, Jacob, is "ninety or ninety-three" and lives in a nursing home. The arrival of the circus next store leads him to reflect on his experiences working on a circus during the depression. I have never been to the circus but Gruen makes the days when the circus was still a big event come to life.Several things make this story stand out. First, instead of the usual format where the elderly person only appears to introduce a flashback, in Water For Elephants, the story alternates between Jacob's present life in the nursing home and his life as a young man in the circus. In the audio version, there are separate narrators for the younger Jacob and the older Jacob. This makes it easy to tell where you are and adds to the realism.At first I found myself wanting to get out of the nursing home and back to the circus, but by the end I cared as much about what was going to happen to the elderly Jacob and I did about learning the secret of his past. Even so, I thought the writing about the circus was especially powerful. Gruen's ability to evoke the world of the depression-era circus reminded me of Ann Rice's ability to make me feel that I am in New Orleans. She puts you in the menagerie with the animals, and Rosie, the elephant, is a character you won't soon forget.Finally, there is a surprise at the end, which leaves you feeling happier than you expected.This is a relatively short book that I think anyone who loves animals will enjoy.
5 I really enjoyed reading this book and would recommend it. It is an interesting story about life in the circus circuit and its hardships. I found it to be very interesting.
5 What a wonderfully written book.  The research and details are amazing.  It really leaves you feeling like you've gotten a peek into the life of a traveling circus.
5 I'm going to be short and sweet about this book. It's wonderful. I couldn't put it down. It's one of the best enjoyable reads I've had in a long while.
4 The only complaint I have about this wonderful book is that it ended too quickly. It was full of intensely interesting characters who had real depth and texture. I felt that I was part of the story, and it was a real pleasure to read this great book. Amazing ending. I loved every page.
5 I began reading this book and couldn't put it down.  The characters lept from the page as I imagined every scene in technicolor. I will look for other books by this author because she knows how to put pen to paper!
5 Unusual subject matter enlightened me about a topic I knew nothing about.  The characters sprang to life in an era when the circus travelled by train and the lives of the performers were creative in their means of existance.  Hard and cruel, tender and loving, I fell in love with the characters including the elephants!  A great read.
5 I absolutely loved this book. I don't often read a book more than once, but I read this one two times!
5 I loved this book.  I am 59 years old yet - which is a constant surprise to me. I can SO identify with a 93 year old who still is young inside.  This book has definitely made me rethink how we treat the elderly.
5 This is a great vacation read.  The book is engaging and easy to read.  The author has paralleled the story of Jacob into a depression era love and life story that takes place in a circus.  In Water For Elephants, Jacob steals the love of another man's wife.  The man is cruel and probably mentally ill.  Jacob's heartrending moral dilemma over his love for Marlena amid all the circus characters and their individual tales forms the struggle in the novel. While the novel is character driven, it has plenty of action.  I agree with another reviewer that this book would make a good movie. I gave this 4.5 stars.  It is good not great literature.
5 Wonderful novel about the circus, circa 1930's.  Gruen is a great storyteller.  Heartfelt, funny, and a real page turner.  Highly recommended.
5 I really enjoyed this book. One of my all time favorites. After reading it, I became interested in circus/ carnival documentaries. I entertained myself with this subject for about 3 months. True carny people really love the life. Fascinating.
5 This is such a great story!  Made me want to join Jacob & run away with the circus!  The characters are so real!  I could not put it down, and I would recommend this book to anyone.
2 I'd rather not try to pick thru profanity to get to a story.If it wasn't so vulgar, it might have been a good book.
5 I really enjoyed this book. It was a departure from other books I've been reading and I enjoyed it so much. It was interesting to read how circuses were run behind the scenes and how people got involved in them. The story was very compelling and I loved the ending!
5 My daughter got me to read this book. I wasn't too sure I would like it. But to my surprise once I started it I couldn't put the book down. I was on the plane flying back home and I was reading the book and crying. When I met my husband he said you must have been reading a good book as your eyes are red. And I started telling him what I read and I cried AGAIN. Loved the book.Wanda
5 This book by Ms. Gruen is truly wonderful literature, not simply a story.  The story is wonderful, but the methods she uses to weave the human existance into it is simply breathtaking.  If you do not like to cry after reading a book, I recommend you avoid it.  The bittersweet human connection in this book is outstanding and she has truly captured circus life in the depression years as no other book has ever done.  A truly wonderful read.
5 The title of this book attracted me; the cover blurb sounded good; and who can resist an elephant as a character in an adult book?  So even though I was not famliar with the author, I bought this book, and oh how glad I am that I did.  What a magnificent read!  The characters are delightful.  The author's tone and pacing are fantastic as she seamlessly moves you from the present to the past, never leaving you wanting at the end of either time period as she moves her story relentlessly forward.  At the end of this book I had a strange and wonderful reaction.  I actually hugged it to me and just sat there for a minute or so thinking about how good I felt and wondering what the main character might be doing now.
5 A 90+ gentleman (sharp as a tack) in a nursing home watches from the window as a circus comes to town.  He takes us back in time to his own "carny" days as a veternarian for the circus animals.  So far sounds boring as heck, doesn't it?  Well, this is one old gent you come to really like.  We learn a lot about the shenanigans behind the scenes of the circus as well as the plight of those during the depression.  Again, sounds boring.  But this author makes it a story you can't put down.  This is a testament to a great writer.  I believe she could make the phone book interesting.  JUST READ IT !!  You won't be disappointed.
2 Fortunately, I didn't pay full price for this book; I borrowed it on my Kindle through my Prime membership.The author found some interesting true circus stories but wove them together poorly. The book read like a treatment for a screenplay, in that it seemed less like a novel than an attempt to sell a script to Hollywood. The characters all sounded the same, and the dialogue was too modern for the time period of the novel. I have not seen the movie, but I think it would at least be visually interesting to distract from the plot. The love story is barely believable and the villains are archetypes--you've seen them before.Not very deep, but the animals are interesting. Much more so than the people.
5 I had no interest in reading this suprisingly beautiful book.  The title was weird and I really had no interest in "circuses or elephants" in general.  I picked it up when I had nothing else handy and couldn't put it down.  The descriptions of Jake's old age slips and deterioration are priceless. They gave me a better understanding of why and how we get cranky as we age.  Priceless!  The authors transition from his old age .. "90 - 93?  Who cares - What's the difference?" is so descriptive and real .... His passages through his aging and how his family "sets him aside" and forgets about him; how his friends are long gone; and most important he has lost his soul mate and loving wife after so many years.  He says he has little to contribute to gatherings as no one is interested in his old stories.  It's heart wrenching. This book should be a must read ... not for the circus stories and they are priceless - but for the insight into the art, gift, horror, sadness, delight, and every other emotion of getting old and remembering a life of joy and sadness, love and hate.  The author has a very remarkable talent and Jake is a love.  As for Rosie?  I now love elephants!
5 Spellbinding novel. I found the story line kept you in suspense as well as wanting to read on and not put the book down.
5 This is one of those books you'll want to share.  Well written and very interesting as well as entertaining.
5 A friend loaned me this book and told me it was one of the best she'd ever read.  Then she said, in a voice just above a whisper, "It's about the circus.".  To be honest, that didn't intrigue me at all.  But right from the start I was hooked and finished the book in two days, then re-read it a couple of days later to my husband.  This is a book I will read over and over again just because of the beauty of the characters and the fascinating facts about the depression-era circus.
1 This book was for the most part far too sad. It was also so cruel firstlyto the people who were treated worse than, being starved, being murdered, having no human rights. The animal cruelty was unbearable and inhumane. I am so glad I didn't see the movie. I wish I had never read the book it was nightmarish. Although we know that these things happened its just awful to read it and feel such pain AND sorrow. I woulsnt recommend to to anybody, ever
5 I am a nurse.  I love working with the geriatric population.  This story was amazing.  The author hit the nail on the head with the way that elderly are often treated and forgotten, but can have so much to offer.  They are a wealth of knowledge and entertainment.  Very very well written!
4 This was not Harry Potter or Twilight by any means, but still a great read!  I couldn't wait to pick it back up the next night and start reading again.
1 This is a disgusting book in my opinion. The author is way too graphic in descriptions, just not necessary. That and the profanity seems to be the basis for the book, no depth in it. Would not recommend.
5 FINALLY a book that Amazon recommended that I just LOVED! It was so interesting, wow! I had NO idea what went on behind the scenes at the circus back in the day! I devoured this book within two days because I just had to know how it would end!
5 When the ending of a book makes me laugh triumphantly and yell, "Yes!" with tears in my eyes...that's a great story.What a great glimpse into what life must have been like in a time we've begun to forget. Loved it.
4 I found this to be quite entertaining.  I was a huge fan of the sections where Jacob is an old man.  It had a fantastic ending which is where so many books fall short.
