3 The author does a nice job of setting the environment. I loved the town of Avalon and getting to know the people who live there.But...I was somewhat disappointed with the overall experience. Part of this is the author's structure. She waits so long to make her reveals that I began to lose interest in the characters. For example, I liked the story of Tess and Cashel but the author waits until near the end of the book to let us know what kept them apart all these years. After all that time apart and all the misunderstanding that went on between them, I wanted to see them together for at least a little bit.In addition, the plot points she wraps around the characters don't feel nearly as deep or emotional as the author makes them out to be. I understand that Danae is grappling with the guilt brought on by being a battered wife but the author doesn't delve deeply enough into Danae's emotional difficulties for us to become engrossed in her story. (When we learn about her broken marriage to the abusive Antonio, we do so through reading her diary entries and from Mara's point of view rather than seeing Danae's growth from the experiences that have paralyzed her for so long. This removes the reader from the woman's emotions.) Tess, likewise, seems apoplexic over her broken marriage. Why? Fifty percent of all marriages end in divorce; what is it about HER separation and divorce that moves us?Meanwhile, I felt like Suki belonged in a completely different book! Her presence in the story was distracting.Bottom line: nothing really pays off in this book. I wanted to like it more and I'm disappointed that I didn't.
5 Brilliant - could not put my kindle down. as Always Cathy did not disappoint.You will not be disappointed with this read!
5 I love Cathy Kelly books - they have a bit of everything, romance, intrigue and drama! I've read nearly all of her books and The House on Willow Street is another excellent read. Make sure you read this one if you are a Cathy Kelly fan.
3 This wax a nice book, the twist for one of the main characters which isn't really out their till the funeral was unexpected. The end of the story seemed to be a bit rushed and therefore predictable.
1 Abrupt unsatisfactory end. Suddenly Suki's book is a big hit. No resolution of what happened with the piece of jewellery. No resolution about the biography being written about the Richardsons. What happened with the antique store? Did Danae meet the wood carver? Did Cashel decide to keep the house? Not Kelly's best work.
3 I didn't think this was one of Cathy Kelly's best reads but I still found it a reasonably good story.  I think there were maybe just too many characters needing their lives fixed in this one and overall it just wasn't as uplifting as some of her other books.
5 I love Cathy Kelly and think she can now claim the title of "Queen of Irish Authors".  This book is the story of a village and its people.  The two sisters and their past loves, the village postmistress and her hidden past and her niece who arrives in the village after having had her heart broken - but still manages to pull the people of the village together with her delightful madcap attitude.  A most enjoyable read which takes you into the heart of an Irish village.
2 I am an avid reader and a fan of Cathy Kelly books, so much so, that I ordered the hardback version of her latest novel, without waiting for the paperback release. Unfortunately, I was disappointed with "The House on Willow Street." The pace of the novel was off, Kelly continually provides you with references to secrets of the characters for 200 pages, and then fills you in on one of them. The rest of the secrets are revealed in the last thirty pages. The novel focused on four characters, but only one's story was fully developed. The other characters were fragmented. Kelly frantically tries to close up the novel in the last five pages, and fails. An epilogue would have been a nice was to resolve this issue, providing the reader with a more developed conclusion as to the characters and the fate of Avalon House. You can tell that Kelly really struggled with this novel. I'm surprised that an editor sent it to print without further revisions. For first time readers of Kelly, I would suggest avoiding this one and trying any of her other novels.
4 The House on Willow Street is a great book to curl up with on a cold winter's night. The characters are great and they epitomise all that you would want in a group of friends and family. I loved the feel good story line and way dsccription of the beautiful countryside was woven into the book. A must read if you are after an escape from the harsh reality of life.
5 CATHY KELLY BOOKS ARE LIKE SLIPPING INTO A WARM DRESSING GOWN AND FLUFFY SLIPPERS ON A COLD NIGHT. THIS BOOK DIDNT DISSAPOINT. LOVELY STORIES THAT MAKE YOU FEEL GOOD. CHARACTERS YOU CAN RELATE TO SO EASILY. A VERY EASY COMFORTABLE READ.
5 Once again another great read from Cathy Kelly, it is magical how she makes you feel that you are a character in the story, highly recommend
2 Tried really hard to get some Maeve Binchy out of this because that's who they liken Cathy Kelly to but that's such an outrageous statement. Half way through the book I realised I was reading a Mills and Boon type novel where one always knows what's going to happen as the chapters fly by without much interest. The only two characters that kept some interest for me was Tess - by that time I realised how and who she'd end up with and of course Danae, unfortunately I was also pshychic with her future part in the book too.So sorry I spent my money on this - in fact, I never bothered to finish it.
5 Footprints In The SandByMary Jane ClarkMy &#34;in a nutshell&#34; summary...Florida...sun...sand...and...murder...actually more than one murder.My thoughts after reading this book...Hmmm...there are tons of interesting characters in this book...and I suspected each and everyone of them while I was reading.  And can I just say that every once in a while I love books  with lots of really short chapters?  Yum!  This book had the best short chapters ever...each one made me suspect someone new.  I truly did not suspect the real murderer until the very end...and just so you know...it was the very last person I would ever suspect!Let me briefly tell you what happened.  This is what I would call a light hearted mystery so I will not be revealing anything major...it would spoil the fun of this delightful book!  Piper...the Nancy Drew character in this book...is in Sarasota for her cousin Kathy's wedding.  A friend of Kathy's disappears and this starts a progression of horrible events.  Murders...mayhem...alligators...and...Puffer Fish!  It is just fun and entertaining and well written.What I loved about this book...In a word?  Everything!  There are tantalizing food descriptions and beaches and wild life and quirky characters and mysterious characters and again...I suspected everyone.  I loved it!  I love the kind of cozy mystery where a supporting character makes a really bad choice and you know ultimately...it's curtains for them!  Great fun!What I did not love...There is a recipe for Aunt Nora's Siesta Key Lime Pie in the back of the book...easy, no baking,  and now I am forced to make it.  Fictional Aunt Nora says it's the best.Final thoughts...What a delightful fun book this was.  I have not read a Mary Jane Clark book in ages...she has written tons...but I loved Piper.  I need to check out more of these books.  If you love a relaxing cozy suspenseful mystery...this is an amazing one to choose.My copy...publisher via NetGalley via Amazon.  Thank you everyone!
5 It was a lovely book to read about characters you cared about. I like most of her books and this was a great one to read.
1 I had read one previous novel by this author &#34;Homecoming&#34;, and thought it mediocre, but this one is a complete dud.  Descriptive to the point of idiocy and repetitive enough to make the reader nauseous,  I gave up halfway through this novel of drivel and will not bother with this writer again.
4 I love Cathy Kelly books and have read them all. The characters in this book are all believeable and regular type people that we can relate to in some form.I think the storyline wasnt her best but still very enjoyable easy to read and relazing.I'd recommend it for a weekend read, curled up with a box of chocolates in front of the fire.
5 A big fan of this author, I don't just read her books I devour them, so I am biased and I admit it.As usual Kathy Kelly tells a great story, loved every bit of the book except the very (to my mind) abrupt ending.I felt there was more to be said on a couple of the story lines involved, an epilog would have been good, just to tie up some of those ends left hanging.Regardless, I still loved it and will read again as I do with all her books.
4 one of her best for ages, really enjoyed this book, nice and light and breezy, with the typical irish storyline
4 I've always enjoyed Cathy Kelly's writing style, but this time around I feel the book needs a sequel .... while the ending did offer some closure, I'd like a better and mor3e detailed explanation.
2 Although I have always been a fan of Cathy Kelly&#34;s books, I did not enjoy this one.  I found it rambled and was actually rather boring.
5 I found as usual it was an excellent book written by Cathy Kelly, she always writes from the heart great reading.
5 This book was wonderful it touched on so many small irritations that we all face and managed to lift the reader into a wonderful new world where problems can be solved and life can be rich again even after losing your husband,
5 Cathy Kelly just keeps getting better! As always, this book has a strong array of interesting characters and engaging story lines. Her life-affirming approaches to struggles and deep faith in the healing power of community were very uplifting.
4 It is an easy read of family trials and tribulations that most people deal with at some time during their lives. Typical Cathy Kelly
5 Cathy Kelly draws you into life in a rural Irish village in her own inimitable way.  Her characters are as usual a mixture of happy and sad, downtrodden, upbeat and madcap people, who come to know each other and share their loves, lives, troubles and joys throughout the book.  I just love Cathy Kelly books, and she truly is the Queen of Irish Women's fiction.  However, the only problem I had with the book was the title.  I thought there would be more of bees and beekeeping, but this really only popped up once or twice and again at the end.  However, that should not detract the reader as the book is a joy to read.
4 Follows same formula of three friends which become intertwined in one another's lives. Good read in front of the fire
4 A good story. You think you know where it is going but you still enjoy it and you come up against a few surprises.A light read but nonetheless quite addicitive.
5 I loved this book....highly recommend.  Didn't want it to end.  I wanted to know more.  What happens next?  What does Lillie do when she gets back to Melbourne?
5 Without giving anything away. This book is Cathy Kelly at her best. A great read, many layers that unfold in a well written captivating story!
5 I love Cathy Kelly! I have read all her books. I was first introduced to her works by accident. There was a &#34;buy one, get one free&#34; table at the bookstore. I couldn't find my second book, so just randomly grabbed one of hers. She is now my favorite author. This is a book in her usual, comforting format. We meet several women struggling with life's choices and family dynamics. We get to see their growth and change. One of the things I love best about her writing is the women and the friendships they develop. Age and socioeconomic status are never barriers. It is women supporting women. While there are always men (and they sometimes are a catalyst for the women), the main stories in her books are the relationships between the women. This book did not disappoint. Do not let the title fool you, it has nearly nothing to do with bee-keeping. It is a great book to curl up to on a rainy day. As are all of hers! It is a fantastic read.
4 good read
4 Have to say it was hard to put down and stop reading. I really did enjoy this book will  recommending.
5 one boys determination to stay with mom finds out that foster care can make some positive changes in a childs life ....this book is a great read for children ages 10-18
4 Quick read, but heart wrenching. A great story for those who like to read real life memoirs. I enjoy reading Cathy Glass's stories. She has such a knack for bringing her foster kids to life. You feel their story, their pain, their misery, and all of their emotional struggles. Great book, with a happy ending.
5 This is a very good book alittle sad but has a happy ending. Cathy writes great books. I have read almost all of them.
4 Cathy Glass is one of my favorite Non-fiction writers. I have read many of her books and they have all been good.
4 I have read all of Cathy Glass' books, and this was very sweet - and more upbeat. Recommended for a quick read. It is very short though
5 I have read other books by Cathy & are excellent reads. My Dads a Policeman was emotional & some of it broke my heart. Such a happy & positive ending. Keep up the great work Cathy, with the foster children & your great writing.
4 this one will break your heart another page turner that you hope will end with a happy little boy. make believe world is better than no world.
4 I love Cathy Glass' books! This one is a little different,  written from the child's perspective. It always amazes me what some kids live through.
3 This book was very predictable. Characters did not seem well developed. Not an interesting read. Other books by this author are much better.
4 I have liked all of the Cathy Glass books I have read.  I am stuck on this author.  She is so tuned into children and their needs.
5 Wonderfully written and very interesting glad to have taken the time to read the story love her books so far
5 That was one lucky family that finally got their act together. How many kids that don't know their dad have dreams of what there dad does Kids really need something to hold on to it was a book that I couldn't put down.
5 Great story. Writing keeps the reader enthralled in the story and makes it very hard to put the book down.
4 This was a sad but realistic story that had a hopeful and encouraging end. Well written and a nice positive read
5 i had no idea what this story would turn out to be.  I had chosen it on a whim from the Kindle Daily Deals and didn't read it for  a while after the purchase.  I was delighted to discover Cathy Glass and her stories and look forward to reading more of her work.  I felt as if I knew the characters and cared about them, which for me makes the best reading scenario I can ask for.  I loved it.
4 Was a good book and very touching. Makes you realize how lucky we are and how others have nothing in life.
5 Another sad and tragic story of the abuse that is allowed to continue today and the red tape that binds the hands of those who want to help. Cathy is amazing yet again.
5 As always, I love Cathy's stories but this one is especially touching.  Definitely a quick read and enjoyable tale in her series.
5 Perhaps it's the title which has resulted in this book not getting the success of less good short stories in the Quick Reads series.  I have to admit, I read over 40 other Quick Read titles before I even picked this up, simply because I initially assumed it was a non fiction book about some little kid's account of what his dad does for a living and maybe how this affects him in some small town or London suburb.  Of course the actual story is nothing like that, and it's a fictional tale, not non fiction as I wrongly assumed. And what a great fictional tale it is, one of the best through the eyes of a young child fiction stories I've ever read, in either short story or novel length.My Dad's a Policeman is part of the Quick Reads series of stand alone published short stories. If you're unfamiliar with the Quick Reads initiative, they are books published to increase literacy levels by encouraging those who don't like to read beyond magazines and comic books, to try fiction through cheap priced (current Quick Reads all sell of the rack for under two pounds in the UK) short story length fiction and non fiction.  This book definitely achieves the goals of the initiative, anyone reading this book would be eager to check out other Quick Reads short stories or even try full length novels.There are some other short stories in the Quick Reads series which are written through fictional kids eye's dealing with life as as a result of either a deadbeat alcoholic parent or a parent that puts their own needs first over the child.  They areJack and Jillby Lucy Cavendish,The Dareby John Boyne, andThe Tanneryby Sherrie Hewson.Anyway the basic plot of My Dad's a Policeman picks up with 12 year old Ryan defending the father he's never met in a fist fight, after another council estate child ridiculed his claim that his dad is a policeman and maintained he was just like him, a boy without a father.  No one knows who Ryan's dad is, his mother was too drunk and out of it on drugs when he was conceived to even know what he looks like.  Ryan doesn't even really have a mother, he does but she's just a woman who lives in the same government funded house as him and his five year old brother. She's an alcoholic, and is pretty much only alive because Ryan looks after her and saves her from herself.  Which is what he did when she set herself on fire from her lit cigarette after passing out drunk.  Social services have finally decided to act.  He and his 5 year old brother have been placed in separate foster homes (to protect his brother from his influence, as he gets into a fair amount of fights and trouble with the police which he wrongfully assumes is why he's been taken from his mother).  Ryan is having none of this, he loves his mother and can't see why he they can't stay with her, after all if he's not there who will look after her and what incentive will she have not to drink. He's determined to escape from his Foster home, rescue his brother and start a new life with him in mainland Europe while his mum gets back on her feet and they can sneak back and live with her.The story works because you as a reader know Ryan doesn't have the ability to turn his fantasy into reality.  With aspects such as he sees McDonalds as the cheapest way to get food with a supermarket never entering his mind, you are hoping he won't be successful in even the beginning of his plans. You of course know the dangers that he and his brother might run into, which he of course doesn't know the full extent of. The author Cathy Glass is a real life Foster mother bringing authenticity to the foster carer house scenes, as well as social services chapters.  Glass is usually a non fiction author of similar tales, this is her second work of fiction followingThe Girl in the Mirror.  This short story was so well written, I'll definitely be checking that one out.At the back of the book Glass also provides a link to her website where she provides an encore couple of paragraphs update follow on to this story where you learn of what happens to Ryan up to the age of 22.  It is worth checking out and is good because it is realistic and not a fairytale happily ever after type ending.
4 The book may be a tad predictable and I wondered how realistic it may be.  however, i did enjoy and wanted to read more on what happens to the boy in the next book
2 The book has few surprises, with characters that are neither interesting or individualized. There is the good-hearted, drunken mother, her two nice sons, the kind foster family. For some unknown reason, the mother realizes she can't care for her boys, encouraging them to accept the kindness of foster caregivers until she can take care of them. End of story. Not much of one though as there is so little unexpected or made individual enough for the reader to care about.
4 Good book.Wish it was longer.Too short.Would have liked to see if the brothers got back together with their mom.
5 I was so happy to read that things are sometimes scary but you can rise above it and become a better person.
5 Cathy does it again with this short story of a boy desperately seeking the love of a father figure in his life as he searches for his brother and trying to return to his alcoholic mother when his Mother finally gets thru to him that foster care is just what the family needs to help them thru a difficult time while his Mum gets help with rehab. I was hoping for a part 2 so I could read more about how things turned out for Ryan , Tommy and his Mum ..
5 If you've never read a Cathy Glass book and you love kids, then I'm sure you would love this, I'm well and truly hooked on her books and have yet to read one that I haven't enjoyed.  She's a great writer and a wonderful person.
3 It was okay for a quick read. I always feel for the children who are abused while growing up.Karen
5 This was an excellent book was clearly showing foster care responsibility and influence on children in their care. The story of Ryan was very interesting showing the need for foster care and giving a knowledge about the overtaking of responsibility of caring for and showing love for others.
3 This was a very good book however Ryan wasn't actually a foster child if Cathy so the story wasn't as involved as others of hers that I've read.
1 All I can say is I've read it and don't really have much to say about it really it's an ok read
4 Cathy Glass is a foster parent, so she writes this story based on experience.Ryan never knew his Dad, but he has to tell people something, and that something is in the title. It transpires that his mother may not even know who his Dad was, as he and his much-loved brother, Tommy, were both conceived during drunken one-night stands. His mother is almost ALWAYS drunk.Ryan is taken into care, and is separated from his brother. He makes plans and runs away. His best friend takes a risk to harbour him.The pace is fast, and it is easy to read the whole story in one sitting.I liked this even more as there were reflections of my own childhood. No, my mother was not forever drunk, and I was not taken into care. But my parents split up when I was very young, and I was forever running away. I like to think that those experiences enhanced my education.This is a good story, and it could easily have been extended to show what happened to the various characters in the following years. Perhaps Cathy Glass will write that story some day.
5 I have read all of Cathy Glasses books that I could get on my kindle.I have Loved all of them I would recommend it to anyone. It is a interesting, inspiring There is a lot of love and sadness.
5 I enjoyed the story. It was short, but it was a good little read. I like how Cathy Glass writes and I think this was the first story of hers I had read.
5 Sad but good.  It gave both sides of the story and came out with a positive ending.  A lot of foster families do great things and should be recognized.
2 It was a real sad book ! I don't even remember why I wanted to read it maybe the price ? Any way too bad I cant get a refund ???
5 This book  shows how life can be cruel.The young boy tries his best to make things right in his own understanding. He's love for his mum is warming even though he knows nothing as what we call normal.wonderful outcome.
4 Good book very short wish there had been more but good anyway would read more by author. Good price book
5 This is another great book by Cathy Glass! I have just started reading her books and I am really enjoying them! I read this one in about 2 hours!
3 Really enjoyed the story line and loved the author's ability to relate this little boy's feelings, as well as his fears and ability to love.
2 I was very disappointed in this story.  This story was told from the kids perspective, Cathy is not even the carer in the story.It was very short.  The first book I read by Cathy had me rivoted hoping for a happy ending and Cathy's experience in dealing with a brokenchild who was let down by a system that failed her.  TheThis one just told how a kid who had a bad temper and a drunk mother ended up in foster care and how he reluctantly stayed. Just a sad story.On a neglected kid and how he wanted to stay with his mother but she couldn't care for him.  Fast read.
5 So many children so few good foster parents.  Cathy Glass is the best.  So caring and really loves the children she fosters
5 The story in My Dad's a Policeman is not by Cathy Glass.  It the personal account of a young boy whose mother was an alcoholic hitting her bottom, and the boy climbing out to a new life.
5 A lovely story told by the child. Its heart warming to read how he survived but more importantly how he realised that the authorities are not all bad and can help if only you let them. I was a bit disappointed that it ended so soon, however it is a short story so I suppose it should be expected. Well done to Cathy another winner.
5 Even though the story is very sad, it is a good ending book that makes  you feel like you can still have faith in some people!!Highly recommend reading this book.
4 It was good but shorter than the rest of her books. Good storyline though, tells story from the childs point of view not Cathy Glass's, or the carers view. Great story- something different from the usual Cathy Glass style of writing.
4 It was quite a good book. It was easy reading and not too long. I enjoy reading Cathy Glass novels.
3 Interesting at the start and in the middle, but finished too quickly and without enough detail.  Did the mother ever conquer her demon and get her boys back?  Has Ryan been happy while waiting for his mom to get better?  What about Tommy?  And I want to know more about Wayne!
5 Sad story. I feel so sad for children who don't have their own family and thier parents can't take care of them. We are tested for our drivers license but anyone can give birth.
3 This book had an interesting premise.  I thougtht it was interesting how Mercy  had to take over Carmen's body.  And maybe that's why I didn't really connect with her.  She seemed aloof and just distant to me.There was a big mystery in the story.  The twin sister of the boy who Mercy/Carmen is staying with as part of an exchange program was kidnapped two years ago.  Their parents believe she is dead, but Ryan feels that she is still alive.  And Mercy wants to help find her.  Unfortunately, this story was predictive in the fact that I pretty much knew right away who the kidnapper was.  Without saying too much, I feel the ending was too quick.  I felt that there needed to be more action there.But there is still more to come from Mercy.  It will be interesting to see what body she takes over and what happens to her next.
3 This book was just an okay read for me. The beginning was confusing, vague, and I had no idea what was going on! But once I realized that Mercy was a spirit/angel occupying the body of a teenage girl named Carmen, everything clicked into place. I loved the initial concept of the book but I found the story to be a little lacking. There were underdeveloped characters, and the storyline was somewhat repetitive. There was a great mix of mystery, romance, and friendship, but I felt that the end could have been a little more "dramatic." Overally, this was an alright book. Nothing truly impressed me, but this series definitely has potential!Visit me and my book reviews @ [...]
4 Mercy is a lost soul. A drifting heart who doesn't seem to remember who she is or where she's going. More importantly, Mercy is an angel who has been exiled from heaven and is doomed to remain forever on earth, living out the lives of different people, but without exposing who she really is. It's not the life she wants -the relationships with family, friends and others can't be real in this type of life, and Mercy may never know when she'll be ripped out of her current life and placed in another without any explanation of who she is or what's going on.In Mercy, the first novel in a new series, Mercy takes on the persona of Carmen, a young girl who attends a prep school and sings in the school's choir. While trying to adjust to her new life as Carmen, Mercy meets Ryan, a boy who is also a member of the choir. Mercy develops feelings for Ryan, even though she can't show him her true self. As their romance thickens, a girl is kidnapped and it's up to Mercy to rescue her.Not sure where to start with Mercy -the overall concept is fairly interesting, but, I was a little disappointed that the plot never really thickened much or got past a basic teen romance with a few other elements thrown in to try to keep it interesting. I suppose I was hoping for more, since that's my personal preference, but this is the perfect approach for certain readers, who would enjoy the simplicity of Mercy.Mercy is also a very short, quick read. Not a bad thing at all, since this forced the pacing to stay up virtually the entire time without much room for pointless fluff. I also enjoyed Mercy as a character. She's very unique and her reactions to suddenly being thrown in a strange new persona with no knowledge of what is going on. I would have liked it if she was a little but of a stronger protagonist, and if the other characters in Mercy, like Ryan, had a little more of a chance to shine.Ideal for teens who enjoy a good, simple romance with some light paranormal elements, Mercy is a quick read that's worth the time.
4 Mercy begs the question of what a person would do when thrust into another body in another life with nothing to go on but instincts. This is the only life that the character Mercy has ever known and it's was interesting to read a novel about a character who was as unsure of things about herself as she was about her hosts. Coupled with a twisting plot and incredibly vivid writing, it made for one excellent read.I found myself drawn to Mercy because of her confidence. She wasn't some shy young girl. She was an older soul and had had plenty of time to figure out who she was. At the core she was an honest, tough-as-nails and funny because it of. It was interesting dealing with a girl that didn't even know her real name but she still had confidence in herself. It was really refreshing to read a character who knew she could do anything and proved it constantly. She helped not only herself but also the bodies she fell in and those around her.Being a chorus nerd, I loved the singing angle and the way the author described the music, the mechanics of sining and the elation the character felt was just gorgeous. It felt as familiar as being home and wasn't so techinical as to allinate other readers. I thought the plot was fasy paced and worked to highlight what Mercy is good at. Her connection with the uber-cutie Ryan was undeniable and I really liked their relationship. Mercy repeats quite often that Carmen isn't anything to write home about as far as looks but Ryan is able to see inside and falls for the person Mercy is. I also loved the twin connection between Ryan and his missing sister.The reason I'm not giving this is a five is that I found some bits of dialogue a little confusing. Someone would respond to a question that was never asked or I'd have to re-read lines a few times and still couldn't understand what the character was trying to say or describe. However, the author was particularly skilled at describing people in unique ways.Mercy is one of the books that really utilizing a confident voice and plot to make it the best it can possibly be. Though it's relatively small, it packs a powerful punch and is a breeze to get through. I'd definitely let Mercy slip into your life for a little while. I don't think it's a story most will regret living in!
3 I was excited to start Mercy since I saw the beautiful cover revealed. Angel books can really be hit and miss for me, and so far this year I've had really good luck with debut angel books! Unfortunately, this one was only so-so.My main problem with Mercy is that the Angel element of the story was completely confusing and never explained. I also felt like it wasn't needed, and actually ended up taking away from the story instead of adding to it. Instead of being weaved into the story all the way through, it was thrown in randomly and in a way that left me more confused than satisfied. I hoped that by the end I would have more understanding of, but I was left even more dissatisfied than when I started.The plus, the actually bulk of the story was the mystery of the kidnapping of our handsome lead male Ryan's sister, Lauren. Carmen (aka Mercy) is helping him solve his mystery and I really enjoyed the writing and the storyline of this part. The mystery was well written, I didn't know who it was until almost the point that it was revealed, I had guessed it at one point, and then it threw me off the trail again.There were several great characters. I loved Adam, our male lead. He was loyal, and devoted to the search for his twin sister. He was also smart, and sexy and charming. Yum. There was also a lot of great side characters. Like the super jealous fremeny that you can't help but hate, and the creepy over helpful teacher that gives you the chills.Overall, I would have liked Mercy a lot more if it had just stuck to the mystery and not tried to make it a paranormal mystery. The paranormal parts ended up leaving me so frustrated and confused that it took me several days to read.  I ended up with a so-so feeling overall.
3 Also appears on The Screaming Nitpicker.For Mercy, it's normal to wake up and have no idea who she is or where she is. She's cursed to souljack the bodies of teenage girls for a reason unknown to her and not knowing what else she can do, she tries to help the girl she is possessing. This time around, Mercy is now Carmen Zappacosta, an eczema-afflicted soprano with a gifted voice. On a trip with her chorus group to Paradise, Mercy rooms with the Daley family and discovers their plight: Their daughter Lauren disappeared two years ago and hasn't been seen since. Her brother Ryan is desperately looking for her and believing this is part of why she's here, Mercy helps him. The key to it all is the music they hear; will they find Lauren before something worse happens?Right off the bat, I came to like Mercy. Hardened by the many hardships she's lived while possessing other girls and all the time that has passed, she has to rely on her own strength to get by and do as she thinks is best. She doesn't let romance and hormones cloud her thoughts and even when the man she loves tries to tell her what to do, she doesn't let what he says dictate what she does. Her almost single-minded drive to find Lauren keep the pacing of the book from slowing down too much and becoming boring. (This may just be me, but I always have a soft spot for heroines that know their sarcastic quips well the way Mercy does.) For people tired of the trend in young adult paranormals where the heroine puts her guy above everything else, then Mercy is the perfect heroine for you! We need more girls like these in the genre right now!However, I didn't like the way Mercy's strength as a heroine and a woman was emphasized by the weakness of the supporting female characters. There were only two other girls that got semi-regular page time: Tiffany and Brenda. Tiffany is jealous of Carmen and constantly puts her down; Brenda's got a one-track mind on her ex-boyfriend Ryan and at one point says to Mercy/Carmen, "Maybe you're not such a waste of space, after all." This is NOT OKAY, okay? It is possible to create a strong heroine without turning all the girls around her into evil little harpies. It always disappoints me to see such a great heroine and then be let down by the way other girls are characterized. A strong female novel is defined by all of the girls in the story, not just the heroine.The descriptions of the town of Paradise are understated and work perfectly, keeping the novel from becoming overfluffed with unneeded description. Sometimes, this isn't always for the best; a few scenes needed rereads just so I could figure out what was going on there. The high points are definitely the descriptions of Mercy/Carmen's chorus/choir practices, the way everyone's dropped jaws and amazement are described while Mercy and Carmen's combined voices soar and sound downright (excuse the pun) angelic. Something knew what they were talking about or at least had some fun with it!Tired of romance overtaking a fresh plot in young adult paranormals? Mercy ignores that stereotype too. Romance is so far on the backburner that forgetting about it wasn't hard. Ryan isn't always a sweetheart and I wondered what Mercy saw in him sometimes, but I came to like him by the end and the ending just about broke my heart. In general, I'm not a big romance girl. I read young adult romance more than is probably healthy, but I rarely ever care about it because love is not a concern for me. I love coming across books that make me care where their romance goes, but I'm not sure I see them lasting in the long run. We'll see how I feel after further thought.Hints are dropped throughout the book about who took Lauren and narrows it down to one specific group, but it's hard to pin down exactly who did it. Every single one of them was good at acting suspicious and for a while, that kept me guessing. For some readers, it will keep them guessing until the very end but for me, I got it a little over halfway through the book. Normally not such a Nancy Drew like that, but I guess I'm getting better with time. Even knowing who it was, the big reveal was a shock to me. And the other little inklings of plots in why Mercy has to souljack people and who the Eight and Luc are? They aren't heavily touched on, left to be covered in the next two books, Exile and Muse.This book almost gave me hope for the angel genre, but I've decided now that I'm an one-hundred percent through with angel books. I'll keep following this series to see how everything ends and discover more about Mercy's situation, but no more new angel books for me. No more! But I look forward to seeing Mercy, Ryan, and hopefully Lauren (I want to see how she recovers and acts in the outside world after what she's been through) again when Exile comes out on... Well, whenever it comes out in the US. Anyone looking for a young adult paranormal not ruled by romance and constantly-boy-minded girls might want to check this out.
5 Mercy by Rebecca LimHyperion, 2011269 pagesYA; Paranormal; Suspense5/5 starsSource: Received a free e-copy via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.I had no expectations for this book going in, nor did I look closely at the cover so I had no idea that this was an angel book.  It starts with "Mercy" waking up in an unfamiliar body, knowing that she has taken it over and that the other person is still present but being able to overpower it.  All she has are memories of the two previous bodies she has resided in and the beautiful Luc who calls to her.As Mercy settles into the body of Carmen, she discovers that she has a purpose there.  Two years ago Lauren was taken from her family's house and her body was never recovered. While the rest of the town thinks she is dead, her twin brother Ryan maintains that she lives and he has committed his life to finding her.  As a visitor to the town and staying with Ryan and his family, Mercy approaches the case with fresh eyes and a believing heart.  She juggles controlling Carmen's body and her beautiful soprano voice with investigating the disappearance of Lauren.  Mercy also attempts to puzzle out her history, helped only by brief glimpses of Luc and the mysterious Eight.Mercy goes through a great transformation over the course of the book.  She starts out sarcastic and strong with walls built up high to keep people out but she becomes interested in Ryan romantically and attempts to give Carmen more of a backbone.  Attachments are formed and her interest in rescuing Lauren becomes the main focus of her life.  These all infuse Mercy with more human characteristics and make the ending quite heartbreaking.Personally I was caught almost completely by surprise by the kidnapper.  I had started to suspect him/her but his/her actions moved quicker than I had anticipated.  The showdown reveals more of Mercy's powers, confirming that she is definitely not human but that she is compassionate and brave.Despite the cover, it is never explicitly said that Mercy is a fallen angel, although the goodreads summary and this cover support that explanation.  That resulted in more intrigue for me while reading because I wanted to confirm what she was and find out her history. I think Luc is supposed to be Lucifer but I still have so many questions.Although this is a trilogy, the book as a whole is self-contained, leaving me wanting more without a big cliffhanger.  It looks like the next book has Mercy in a new body but still searching for answers with Luc and Ryan making appearances.Overall: A fast, thriller with a great MC and just enough paranormal and romance to please me: the complete package!Cover: I've seen a lot of different covers for this book and I *think* this is the US cover being released by Hyperion.  Personally I like some of the other ones I've seen more but this does make the angel theme obvious and I like the color of the title.
3 Mercy is a mystery through and through, and kept me guessing the entire time.I read the blurb first, but it took me awhile, even longer than Mercy as Carmen did to figure out what was going on. I enjoyed reading it, and it was a great story but I was confused a lot.There are great characters, either that I could relate with and love like Carmen and Ryan, and the characters that were wonderfully written to make me hate them so bad.If you like mysteries and want a new twist on angels, this is the story for you.
5 Mercy is an angel who doesn't know what she's done to be living in this limbo called her life. She is doomed to return to earth repeatedly, sliding into someone else's life in order to fix a problem. Mercy doesn't remember much of the previous lives, all she knows is that the girl's she leaves have ended up in a better place.When Mercy wakes up on a school bus bound for a small town called paradise where Carmen, the girl she's taking over is participating in a combined school choir she doesn't know what she's in for. The family taking her in while she's in the town has a sad past. Two years ago their daughter was kidnapped without any trace. Almost everyone has given up on finding her alive, except for her eighteen year old brother, Ryan. Mercy knows she has to do something, that this is the reason for her being placed in this life. But can Mercy find the missing girl without putting Carmen in danger or making her life worse for when she wakes up?Rebecca Lim has created a very unique angel story. Mercy is very confused about who she is and why she has been placed in this life, but she is also a strong and believable character. And as Mercy fumbles to get a grip on this new charge and understand everything about Carmen, this allows the reader to get even closer to her as it really feels like she's experiencing everything for the first time.There is enough twists and turns to keep the pages turning and heart racing as Mercy discovers more secrets and lies that the family and town has. This book not only has one mystery about the missing girl, but also the mystery surrounding Mercy's past. She is searching for her soulmate and answers as to why she's living these girls lives, and it's hinted throughout the novel, but as the first mystery is solved there are still those questions that makes me want to read the next in the series just to find out more.Mercy is a perfect book for any angel or paranormal fan. I look forward to reading the rest of the series.
3 Mercy definitely was not what I was expecting. My expectation was that it would be another of the paranormal fantasy wave, something about angels, judging from the girl on the cover. While the paranormal stuff is there, it's mostly just an afterthought, though. What this book is, more than anything else, is a mystery. It is about the search for Lauren and her captor and/or killer.It was so much about that actually that the paranormal gifts that helped Mercy accomplish everything seemed like a bit of a cop out. She can read people by touching them and has powers appear to help her out of tough scrapes.As for the characters, I do rather like Mercy. She's brash and strong, says what she thinks, even when it's inappropriate. It should come as no surprise that I like that in a heroine. Most of the supporting cast did not interest me at all, especially Mr. Dream Boy Luke. He can just gtfo. I am much more interested in Ryan and am really wondering whether he will make a reappearance in the series or if this will be episodic, with Mercy in a different body and dealing with different people each time.Mysteries aren't my genre of choice, but the story did keep me reading. The novel was a bit uneven, too, but I am still curious to try the next book in the series to find out what's going on. I am also curious whether it too will be a mystery or something different.
4 I absolutely loved the concept of this story and Mercy's character.  It was very easy to forget that she inhabited the body of a girl who was described as having the body of a ten-year old with eczema and crazy curly hair, especially when there were any whispers of romantic feelings with Ryan.  Mercy didn't retain memories of the bodies she'd been in for long, but she always tried to leave them in a better place than when she'd dropped into them.  What they did after she was gone was up to them, but getting them out of abusive relationships or cleaning them up felt like her duty.  I think the concept just provides endless opportunities for stories while still maintaining the core characters - I had an impression that Mercy was a bit like a paper doll.  She was the same doll, but you could hang different people on top of her for each story.  It seemed fascinating to me (and I had a zillion paper dolls when I was a kid, so I just had to have that in my head).Since this really is Mercy's book, Ryan felt more like a half-character.  His obsession with his sister's disappearance felt almost creepy sometimes and while I believed his friendship with Mercy, when I thought of him with "Carmen," it just didn't work.  I liked Luc more, I think because there was so much about him that was left unexplained.  There already was a relationship between he and Mercy before the story started and Lim captured that feeling of intimacy very well.The mystery of Ryan's sister's disappearance was well-done and I didn't find the tie-in to Mercy hard to believe at all if it's possible she can be dropped in certain places for certain reasons.  There was a little Scooby Doo feeling to Ryan and Mercy's wrap-up of the case, but it was still suspenseful and it worked within the context of the story.This story occasionally suffered from a case of too many characters muddying the waters, but I still thought the mystery was well-played with the central characters.  I really like the idea of a soul being dropped into body after body, with the question left open that each time there might be something Mercy needs to do - but she doesn't know if that something will lead her closer or push her away from Luc.  I desperately hope the author doesn't try for a continued love triangle but instead lets Mercy and Luc's story continue to play out on its own because that's the one I'll continue to pay to read.
5 "Here are some ARC's I had laying around and somehow missed to review. I loved each one and here is a very simple review list.  Each one of these I rated 5 stars I loved them!!""*I received a copy of this book for free to review, this in no way influenced my review, all opinions are 100% honest and my own."
5 The book was awesome except the part where Paul kidnapped Mercy or Carman. The part that I liked the best was when Mercy  grow 7 feet and dropped Paul. Then mercy helped Jennifer and Lauren escape.
4 There were some mis steps in the writing. A little difficult to follow but overall the story wad solid and good. Worth the read
4 I woke up again. But this time feels different. The girl whose body I'm currently occupying, Carmen, isn't anything special, but somehow this time just feels unlike those other times and those other girls.I wish I could remember more about them. I wish I could remember more about me. I know that I'm not this petite, or this plain looking. It feels strange occupying the shell of someone so much smaller than I know me to be. And I know I'm not as shy and awkward as I can sense this girl is.This time it seems I'm headed to a small town called Paradise. Something about the name triggers a memory, but I'm confident I've never been here before. Well, as confident as anyone who doesn't really remember too much of her past.There's a reason for her, this Carmen, to be here - some kind of singing event. Do I even sing? What's my reason for being here now, with this girl? Carmen isn't like those other girls. I don't feel that same sadness. I don't sense any threat to her. So, why am I here? What has changed this time around?If only Luc would just tell me. The dreams I have of him offer me no insight into what's happening to me and why. His words only leave me with more questions. His visits bring me no closer to knowing the truth. But I do know, with everything inside of me, that I want to find him.Maybe my time with this Carmen, here in Paradise, will finally give me the answers I need.***Mercy is a superbly written and rather unique paranormal mystery. The main character, Mercy, knows little of who, and what, she is or the reason why she's being made to take over each of these girls, again and again. She is forced to move from one to the next when her time with them is up, with no notice of each departure, and only a vague recollection of where she's been.This first book in the trilogy begins when she "wakes up" as Carmen Zappacosta, a soprano, headed with a bunch of other students to Paradise to prepare for a performance.Mercy slowly gains awareness of what has happened, but with only an inkling of she who really is. What she does know is that she must figure out her purpose for becoming Carmen and surmises that it has little to do with Carmen herself, but rather the Daley family who Carmen is staying with in Paradise.As Mercy tries to solve the mystery of Lauren Daley's disappearance she is also determined to find out just who she is.While little is revealed about Mercy in this first installment, enough of a glimpse is given to tease readers into wanting to find out more. The mystery behind Lauren's disappearance is the focus in this story and is both engaging and heartbreaking as Mercy tries to find answers to help this family who is torn apart by the not knowing, the mistrust and their loss.Mercy is a story that starts out somewhat unconventionally, but settles onto a path that is easy to follow and will keep readers engaged. Once the backstory is established, the pace picks up and the tension builds as it heads toward a climactic finish with a cliffhanger ending.Author Rebecca Lim's writing style is beautiful, but may not be one that all readers will connect with at the outset. But as the story continues, the cadence of the author's writing makes sense and works in harmony with the storyline.There are several characters who remain a mystery in this first book, but will likely play a larger role in subsequent books. And while Mercy starts out as a very difficult character to relate to, she ends up being one who is very likable and sympathetic.Mercy is a great beginning for a trilogy that promises an even more elaborate mystery, a real battle for Mercy to regain what she once had, and a heartrending love story.
4 I loved this. The writing is five stars, the plot three. The plot seemed simple, and maybe a copycat to some tv show of the 80's I can't remember. Even the reason of the missing girl could be copycated, from Kiss the Girls, and other movies. It seems impossible these days to not copycat something. Still. I really enjoyed this. It was light, very clean except for some dirty words B***h. It had humor in the choir. The main plot of why Mercy is why she is, is never answered, so I hope it's answered later. I also hope the sequel or series brings back the male lead in this book. This story while simple, was very well written. She could write book after book of Mercy fixing people's lives and people would buy them. I'm not really a fan of Angel books, but this one is my favorite. I think it was Unearthly that I liked also. It had a better plot, but wasn't writen as well.
5 I loved this book. I don't review a ton of books on amazon but when I do it is usually because I LOVED the book and want to tell everyone to buy it. Mercy is such an amazing character who transforms throughout the course of the book. Excellent read, I finished it in one sitting.
3 As we come to understand, Mercy is a fallen angel.  She recalls very little of her "previous" life or how she ended up as she is. She gets impressions of doing something forbidden, of a love with someone forbidden and somehow that lead to her inhabiting host bodies. (Think "Quantum Leap".)She now wakes up in the body of a young, talented singer named Carmen.  She must now try  to piece together what little of Carmen and her own memories she can access.  She learns that she is staying with a family whose daughter disappeared over 2 years ago. Her twin brother, Ryan, is the only one who believes that Lauren is still alive.  Carmen/Mercy is torn between helping "Carmen" attain success as a singer and helping the damaged but irresistible Ryan find his sister.Truthfully, there were things that I liked and things that I didn't.  I liked the characters; from non-angelic & determined Carmen/Mercy, broken but lovable Ryan, pain in the ass "frenemy" and creepy, overly-helpful teacher.  They were diversified and interesting.  I particularly enjoyed the mystery of Ryan's missing sister, Lauren and the serious curve we were thrown for at the end.  The mystery was dark and very well-done.  I was also very impressed with the quality of Rebecca's writing and music-related research. The words and descriptions flowed smoothly.Where I struggled quite a bit is with the paranormal element of the story.  It stands to reason that because Mercy knew so little about her past, so would we.  However, I felt that the gaps were too wide to even get an inkling of who she really is.  She would have flashes that made little sense and conversations that made no sense.  I was left with more questions than answers.  I say this with all due respect to the story, but at the end I felt that while it was a good story, it needed more "meat on it's bones".My understanding is that the following books will reveal to us more about Mercy's past (and hopefully a future with Ryan) so I fully intend to continue along for the ride.
3 This was an interesting read. It's different from other paranormal books that I've read and I'm really curious to see where it goes from here. I loved the emphasis too on the musical aspect because it seems like real life things seem to fall by the wayside in most paranormal books.However, it was a book that took a while for me to get into. Not a whole lot happens for most of the book and then there's an action-packed last hundred pages. Because of this, I didn't really go through the book quickly; I didn't feel any compulsion to read on.I enjoyed the way Lim presented her characters though and everyone acted pretty realistically. There was a good handle on teenage dynamics, particularly between girls who share a bit of a rivalry. I also liked Ryan- he's a good kid.Overall, a slightly above average book that starts off a trilogy. I am eager for the next book but mainly because I want answers (and, ok, because I like Mercy too).
2 When reading this book, I was confused. Very confused. In the book, Mercy doesn't know anything about herself or why her soul jumps from body to body, but that just makes it all more confusing to the readers. Some mysterious lover of her's, Luc who she can only see in dreams, is supposedly the love of her life. Yet when she talks to him in her dreams (which only happened like twice in the entire book yet the summary makes it seem like he should be in the entire book) there is no real connection or even explanation of how he can see her or even what they are. I guess they're supposed to be fallen angels (after reading other reviews) but I didn't get that at all when I was reading it. What I did like, though, was the whole mystery that Mercy (in Carmen's body) and Ryan are trying to solve together. They follow leads and try to find Ryan's missing sister after everyone else gave up hope. The problem with this part of the story was that there were so many new characters introduced in Carmen's life that when it was finally revealed who was behind the kidnapping, I had to look back and remind myself who it actually was. So with all of these mishaps, I feel like the book took way too much thinking and effort on the readers part to actually get through. Some parts of the story were good and interesting, but the execution of the mysterious life of a fallen angel just didn't work out. Great unique idea about angels, it just wasn't all that fun to read.
4 First Sentence (from a galley - may be different in final copy):  There's something very wrong with me.Mercy doesn't KNOW exactly who or what she is.  All she knows is that she never knows when she will wake up in someone else's body-in someone else's life.  Today she is Carmen, a talented high school singer who is living with a host family while a number of area high schools come together to practice for a regional performance.Lauren, the daughter of the host family, was also a talented singer; she has been missing for two years.  Rebecca, unaware of this, feels the father's deep grief when she touches him.  She teams up with Ryan, Lauren's brother, the only person who still believes Lauren is alive.  Together, they search for clues, hoping to find out what really happened.This is a very good read  - there's  wonderful mix of light romance, high school rivalries, suspense, well-written characters and a mystery that keeps you guessing right up until the very end, all twined around glimpses and clues of Mercy's true identity.  Billed as YA (ages 13 and up), this would also appeal to many adult readers who like a good mystery.  Who and what Mercy actually is does not get spelled out for us, but from some of her dreams and visions, the reader is able to formulate a good guess.  This first-in-series ends with a bang as well.QUOTE (from a galley - may be different in final copy):As I look down at the grey and dark weave of the skirt I am inexplicably wearing, I wonder what disaster I am headed for as I try to figure out who the hell I am supposed to be today.Book Rating:  3.75 out of 5 stars
4 Mercy, an angel in exile, is kept off balance by the knowledge that on the whim of a higher power she can be plopped in any human body of any age at any time in history.  The only common thread is that a blindingly bright being, Luc, offers her guidance in her dreams.  As an angel, Mercy is expected to observe but not interfere in the course of earthly events but her strong sense of justice prevents her from abiding by that mandate.  Today Mercy finds herself inside the body of Carmen, a talented but socially awkward teenager with the best soprano voice in the region.  Tiffany, whose voice ranks second, takes every song as a personal competition and, followed closely by her snobbish posse, intimidates Carmen at every turn.  Their high school choir joins three other area choirs in the sleepy town of Paradise for a cultural exchange that will culminate in a concert intended to challenge even the best voices.  As part of the exchange, each teen is a guest at the home of a host family.  Carmen (Mercy) is placed in the home of the dreamy but deeply frustrated Ryan whose twin sister has been missing for two years.  Through Mercy's paranormal ability to see into the life of anyone she touches, she discovers that Lauren is alive and being held captive somewhere in Paradise.  Despite Luc's strong warnings Mercy is compelled to help Ryan find Lauren.  As they search for Lauren another singer is kidnapped.  The author offers enough red herrings to keep readers guessing as to the abductor until his identify is finally revealed.  Mercy's instinctive response to that revelation will pleasurably surprise and startle readers.In "Mercy", Rebecca Lim takes on the difficult challenge of writing in the intimate first person point of view.  She struggles in the early chapters as Mercy tries to introduce herself without being fully aware of her own true identity and as Mercy awakens and tries to get her bearings in yet another human body.  Once Mercy becomes immersed in her new mission the author's struggle ends.  Readers will reach a point where "Mercy" cannot be put down.  Reluctant readers may be encouraged to push through the beginning if they consider it to be Mercy's profile page on a social networking site where self-promotion and the copious use of "I" is conventional.  The ending will leave readers eagerly awaiting the sequel.NOTE: I requested and received a copy of this title via NetGalley.com but made no commitment to review it.
5 What an amazing story! From the very first, when we wake up with Mercy on a bus going to a music program and in a body unfamiliar to her, we are sucked into this first person story and learning along with Mercy. She has done this before. She drops into other girls' lives, stays a while, and then moves on. She doesn't know how or why. The only consistency in her life is that when she sleeps she meets with Luc who is urging her to find him and to stay away from the eight.Mercy's new body belongs to a sixteen-year-old girl named Carmen who is hanging around on the outskirts of the popular crowd but who has an amazing voice. The bus is on the way to a musical exchange program. The girls will be staying with host families and performing a work by Mahler. Carmen's host family is suffering unbelievable pain. Two years before their daughter Lauren was snatched from her home and no trace of her has been found. Lauren's twin Ryan is convinced that she is still alive and has put his life on hold to search for her. Carmen (Mercy) feels compelled to help him. She has the ability to touch someone and take a look at their soul.The story revolves around the search for Lauren and the choir rehearsals with all the attendant jealousies felt by young performers. Because Lauren was a gifted soprano, Mercy feels that someone who is practicing for the musical event knows something. Is it the retired choir director? The mousy director who wants to give Carmen special lessons? Or the beautiful Paul Stenborg who all the girls have a crush on?Along the way Mercy also tries to figure out what is happening to her. What is she? Who is she? Why is she going from life to life?This was an excellent, page-turning story. I didn't want to stop reading until I had reached the stunning conclusion. I very much look forward to the sequels that will be following this one. I recommend it to young adults who enjoy paranormal mysteries. I think they will be as enthralled as I was.
1 So I'm excited and yet disappointed to be the first to write a review with one star...~CarmenOkay, for starters why doesn't Carmen have parents in this book? She's staying at some families house who's daughter was kidnapped. AND the town thinks it was the dad and/or the brother. If I were her parents not only would I be calling ALL the time, but I'd be raising HELL for her to stay somewhere else. Actually, I wouldn't want her in that town at all. Also, what happens with her? It seems like she screwed up Carmen's life hardcore. Now Carmen has to some how grow a pair to live up to what Mercy made her into.~EndingThe ending... totally guessed that. SPOILER: It was Paul. If you started reading this and HAVEN'T guessed it... well then that's just sad. I mean come on...~Love triangle?What about Luc? What the crap is up with the whole Luc thing? Was there suppose to be a love trangle? If so how can Luc stand around while she's with different guys in each body she's in? And why wasn't Luc mad when she told Ryan, "I'm just imagining what you'd be like in bed."~MercyShe likes beautiful things. We get it. She's a slut, now stop going on about hot guys already!
5 Not knowing what to expect with Mercy, what I got instantly drew me into an intense story that I couldn't pull away.From the start Mercy and her crazy story, the journey of finding out who she really is and what need to happen in the life she now found herself in.Mercy was a strong character with a strong personality that knew what needed to be done and wasn't afraid to do it.  Her relationship with Ryan was compelling yet mysterious adding to the story.  There was clear growth and development between their relationship without them falling instantly in love with each other.What stood out for me within Mercy was the plot.  The suspense and intrigue was just as compelling. Taking on a ride I didn't know what would happen next and who it would happen to. The story was filled with edge and drama.  Also with the classic mystery elements of Who'd done it? and missing person rolled into one.Ms. Lim's writing was clear and uncomplicated. Even with the dual stories being told they somehow worked together.Overall, Mercy was an amazing read, filled with a balance of great characters and even greater story.  The ending was like the cherry on top. Leading to a start of an engaging series that I can't wait to read.**************************************************************Originally Posted On Blog LiteraryCravings.comReceived from publisher for honest review via Netgalley
5 Rebecca Lim had me from the first sentence to the breathtaking last.Mercy is (we're left to guess) an angel who is thrust from one life to the next, ostensibly to make the life of those around her better in some way. Each trip helps her learn a little more about herself even though she eventually forgets most of what has happened when she is thrust into the body of another person who's life needs help. Mercy needs to figure things out on her own as she goes, with no hint at first of why she is somewhere and in someone's body.In this story, Mercy is thrust suddenly into the body of a small, shy girl named Carmen - a girl with a stunning soprano voice. She is on a bus with her chorus mates on the way to a small village where she will sing amongst other schools in a concert competition. All that is thrust into the background as she becomes part of her host family, the Daleys - people who have lost a daughter near her age to a kidnapper some two years prior to the opening of the book. I won't spoil the plot further by telling much more, but I can reveal one thing that you know from the very beginning of this book - Mercy can see things (like "a [bus] driver who is consumed by the black fear that his wife is about to leave him for another man") and can feel things when she touches people (like with her first encounter with Mr. Daley where, when they first touch hands, Mercy feels "a sensation like liquid grief, a kind of drowning ... let loose in the car, a wordless horror, screaming for attention."This literary young adult novel is most definitely a book that adults can also enjoy. It builds suspense as the plot slowly unfolds and pulls you in as each breathtaking stroke is revealed until the shocking end. I was very fortunate to be afforded the opportunity to read this as an ebook through NetGalley.com and enjoyed it so much that I'll be buying a hardcover copy as a keeper for my shelf.
5 This was a real surprise and pretty different from the other angel books I've read so far. The mystery had me hooked, and I enjoyed how the romance wasnt insta-love or creepy. I read this in one sitting and I am looking forward to the next one.
3 Mercy is a fallen angel who has the ability to take over someone's soul for a certain amount of time. In doing so, she doesn't remember much about the previous soul she took, nor does she remember much about her own true identity. With each soul she's sent to takes her further from her true self and her long lost love she won't stop searching for, which is one of the things that drew me to the book. One of the things I liked about the story was Mercy's quest to find herself, her long lost and piece together the importance of each soul she was sent to and how she helped them.Her newest soul is Carmen, a choir exchange student who's sent to live with her host family the Daley's. Mercy/Carmen is an interesting character, especially since they're two different individuals molded together for a time. I was intrigued by the concept that Mercy is still herself though she also becomes Carmen, and the character development makes more sense once you get more into the story. During the day Mercy allows Carmen to be herself, trying to fit in at high school, dealing with drama and attending choir and at night she helps the completely broken, good looking Ryan Daley look for his missing teenage sister. There were times I had a hard time with the dialogue, and it does get confusing being from both Mercy and Carmen's perspectives, but as the story progresses it was easier for me to follow along.I really liked the paranormal touch Rebecca gives her story with Mercy's character and her ability to see things humans can't through her contact with them. It helps her in her quest to uncover Lauren's disappearance and gives her a hint about the twist that Rebecca throws into the story. If you're a fan of fallen angels, paranormal, a mystery with a twist and a bit of romance, than I'd recommend picking up Mercy. It's a unique read that will leave you wanting more, especially with it's ending. I'm curious to see what's in store for Mercy next. There is mild language through out the book and I'd recommend this to readers 14 yrs & up.
2 I have mixed feelings about this book. Unfortunately, I wanted to absolutely love it, however, I did not.Mercy is fallen and she tends to inhabit people's bodies and live their life for them while she is borrowing their "shell" per say. She does not remember whom she has "borrowed" before and does not know where she will go next.In this book, she is living the life of Carmen whose school choir is getting ready to put on a huge concert that incorporates other schools in the area. While practicing for this concert, she is staying with the Daley family. The Daley's have lost their daughter, Lauren. She has been missing for a long time. Mr. & Mrs. Daley have taken the advice from the counselor to just let go and keep on living. However, Lauren's brother, Ryan cannot. He believes that she is still alive and will stop at nothing to save her. Mercy/Carmen decides to help Ryan because she too believes that Lauren can be saved.I was not keen on the writing style of this book, it tended to be very confusing. You really had no idea that the main character's name was Mercy until almost the end and even then, it was fairly vague. I still am not sure whom "Luc" is, even though, he seemed to play a major part in the book?I did, however, enjoy the storyline and the one point that kept me going to finish the book was finding out what happened to Lauren. I just had to know the who done it??? And, if she was still alive.Rebecca Lim had a great idea for a storyline, the writing was not one of my liking, but I was still pushed to read the book to the absolute end.*Thanks to NetGalley for the opportunity to review this book!
4 Ok this book has been sitting on my shelf for 5 months so last night, yes LAST night I picked it up to read for the first time. I am now wondering WHY it took me so long to get to this book because it was truly AMAZING. I am an avid reader but also a mother of 3 kids, small ones at that, so the fact that I read this book in less then 20 years should speak volumes on how much I loved this book. I am afraid that if I say too much I will ruin it or giveaway something important. I will say that I love Mercy. I love the mystery surrounding what she is and what her abilities are. I love how she is to the point and wants to help. Oh and I love how Ms. Lim leaves me hanging at the end, cliffhanger anyone? I really do love those. So I say read this book. It gets a solid 4.5 stars from me.
2 This is supposedly a book about fallen angels, but the only time I ever heard about that was in the extended summary.  I thought I'd give it a read because I hadn't read too many fallen angels books after I got burned with the truly ridiculous Fallen series and it seems that my luck continued to be lacking.  I decided to read it on a whim as I lay in wait for other books to be released - I even have them in order of release date on my Goodreads TBR list.  It was actually quite short considering what it was supposed to entail and I finished it rather quickly even though I wasn't chomping at the bit to read it.While the plot of the book was actually solid, it was the writing that completely turned me off.  Lim offers very little background on Mercy - only that she is some kind of transient being that possesses others bodies for some unknown and uncontrollable reason - that's all well and good, except that I never felt like I got to know Mercy.  She was kind of moody and acted differently all the time.  The love interest, Ryan, in particular didn't capture me at all.  I did find the character attractive, but I couldn't really feel the link between Mercy and Ryan.  They interacted but it never ever seemed more than friendly to me...not once.  It seems that the plot was written out and planned very well - kidnapping with a twist of divine intervention - but it's the characters that lack that je ne sais quoi that brings a reader into the book.  To me, it was as if we were getting flashes of the characters without getting to know them at all.  And the only reason that I figured out `who dun it' was because it was predictable and clich&eacute;.I wouldn't bother with this one - I think the tacky cover speaks for itself.
3 Mercy has grown accustomed to finding herself inside a new body with no knowledge of who the person is, or why she is there. She is a fallen angel with no memory of why she fell in the first place. She inhabits the person's body for a few days and then moves on. When the book begins, she finds herself inhabiting the body of an awkward, eczema-stricken girl named Carmen. Carmen is part of a school choir and will be spending a few weeks at a host school for a joint choir presentation. She has been assigned to live with the Daly family. The Daly's daughter went missing almost two years ago, and while they are trying to move on and accept that their daughter is more than likely dead, their son, Ryan, is convinced his sister is still alive. Soon, Mercy (Carmen) finds herself caught up in helping Ryan solve the mystery of his missing sister, and in the process, risks revealing who (or what) she is.This book was an interesting read, and I liked parts of it, but I couldn't help but feel there were too many stories going on. The mystery of the missing girl was intriguing, but I found myself wondering why the story of the fallen angel was mixed in with the missing girl story. I get that Mercy is a fallen angel, and she is sent to help people, but I felt the story would have worked just as well without that element. Perhaps it is because there were still so many questions surrounding Mercy at the end of the book that I felt it was incomplete. All in all it's a good read, I just felt it was lacking in answers, and had too much going on to make it truly cohesive.
4 I really liked the concept of this story. it was a fast read and had a lot of interesting action. my only complaint was when it went into the technical details of the singing. i thought that got alittle wordy and confusing and i dont think the story would have suffered if some of that extra stuff was left out. other than that, it was a good read. i look forward to reading the next ones.
3 Overall, this was an average book. Nothing in it really stood out to me as amazing. What I did really like about the book was that Mercy "wakes up" in a new body, not really remembering who she is. I wish the novel was more about Mercy figuring out who she was and why she is this way then trying to fit in in her new body.I did really like the character Ryan in the book. He was willing to do anything to find his twin sister and I really liked that part about him.This book was not really for me, but I might give the second book another chance!
4 I have only read on other book like this and I like it. I like the plot, the characters and most importantly how the story flows. A person or soul going from body to body, using them as a host until the find a new one. And in each body it's a different life, different place.Mercy traveling from body to body just intrigues me so much! I just love to see how her encounters not only change her life but the life's of the ones she taken over temporarily.  I really enjoyed the plot. I thought that way it was written and told was perfect. I like how as the reader, we get clues to her past, but also what is happening right in front of your eyes. We see Mercy trying to piece together the disappearance of finding Ryan's sister.The love interest is rather funny! At first Ryan was mean to Mercy. He told her off. But what I like was how well Mercy responded. She put him in his place real fast. I really enjoyed her giving it to him. It was funny because he never really expected her to act like that. I knew that they fall for each other eventually. It was just a matter of time.Mercy is great, non-stop mystery. Filled with lots of anger and hurt, Mercy goes on a great adventure to search not only who she is, but who she is to become. This is an angel story like no other that you will definitely enjoy!
4 Mercy marks the beginning of a series that holds the promise of being very exciting. Plus there are angels, so you know I'm happy.I got the feeling while reading Mercy that Rebecca Lim was still finding her writing feet with her debut. But she definitely ends the book with them planted on solid ground. The pacing of the story was generally good, but there were some sections where I felt that more could have been made of the atmosphere and action. Lim does a good job of keeping the reader guessing through the mystery of the disappearing girls. The mystery storyline provides the solid backbone for the book and while I would have liked to see other aspects, such as Mercy's angelic background, handled with as much confidence I was left feeling satisfied once I finished the story.Mercy is an intriguing character and I definitely plan to read the next book in the series to find out more about what is hinted at and suggested in Mercy. I really liked the concept of Mercy repeatedly finding herself in a new life and a new body. I tried to put myself in her situation and realised how incredibly lonely it must be to make connections only to leave that life and have to start over again. There is a suggestion of this loneliness in Mercy and it does motivate some of her decisions and actions. I also really appreciated Mercy's discovery of her love for music and her ability to sing - angels are, after-all, often referred to as the heavenly choir. The music formed a lovely connection between Mercy and her human "host", Carmen. I hope that Mercy gets to meet Ryan again in future books because the growing romance between them was interesting. I do, however, not trust the mysterious Luc who appears to Mercy in her dreams and I hope she stays the hell away from him.Overall, Mercy is a good start to a series that I will happily be following. Rebecca Lim's writing grows in confidence through the book and I am sure that she will continue to bloom as a writer.
4 Mercy is a book that I found considerably boring for the first half of the story. Rebecca Lim's writing style did not really manage to hook me in. Nothing much seemed to excite me except for Mercy herself, and the singing. Being a soprano myself, that was the only thing that kept my eyes on the book. Once I got to the second part of the story, however, the pace picked up and things started to get uber-exciting!! The story ends with a cliffhanger, so it's a good thing that the second and third books are already out!! Lim's writing style eventually did not get on my nerves anymore during the last parts of the book. I will be eagerly devouring the sequel as soon as I get my hands on it!If you want a new take on the angel genre, this is for you. Just be sure to get past the first half of the book (;
4 4.5 Stars'Mercy' is the first book in a series that follows a girl named Mercy who was exiled from Heaven and can't fully remember who she truly is. She is thrust into a different human form each time she "wakes" and she must assume the life of the person she has taken over. Her only solace comes at night, when she is visited by her soul mate in her dreams. Things are different when Mercy wakes this time as a teen girl staying in a host home whose daughter, Lauren, was taken and never seen from again. Lauren's brother - Ryan - is different than most people Mercy has met and they feel an instant connection to one another. Mercy finally feels she has a purpose in this body - she is going to help Ryan find his sister. As Mercy and Ryan close in on the person behind Lauren's kidnapping - more girls begin to go missing and it seems that Mercy has found herself the newest target. Will Mercy and Ryan be able to find and save Lauren in time? Has Mercy finally found her true calling while being trapped inside these bodies?This was an absolutely mind blowing novel that went above and beyond any expectations I had for it. Mercy is a unique main character who only has bits and pieces of her true memory and identity and is constantly searching for her soul mate. She inhabits the body of a seemingly random girl and assumes their life until she is jarred out of that body and wakes in a new one. Mercy is a strong female lead who exhibits courage and bravery along with compassion, sympathy, and love. We get to glimpse a bit of her true origins in the book and it really intrigued me. The history and story behind Mercy and the others like her was captivating and I'm really hoping to read about it more in the other books in the series. Towards the end of the book, Mercy comes into her powers and is able to do amazing things. I loved that she finally is able to tap into her natural form and help others. The way that these supernatural occurrences are described in the book are vivid and incredibly detailed. I'm really hoping to learn more about Mercy's history, her soul mate, and her purpose on Earth in the following books. The plot was really intriguing and original. It was also fast paced and had me turning the pages as fast as I could to see what would happen next. The book was a blend of fantasy, action, adventure, and mystery with some romance thrown in for good measure. I loved how the author easily mixed genres together to enhance the story. This was a captivating and enchanting first book in a series that promises to have readers devouring every page. Highly recommended for fans of YA fantasy and paranormal fiction!Disclosure: I received a copy of the book in exchange for an honest review.
4 Oooohhhh boy, this book was good. A little off putting at first because I had no idea what the main character was going on about, but once I got past the opening chapter and really delved into the story, I could not put Mercy down.I literally don't think I've read anything like this before. Sure, I've read books about angels - some great, some mediocre, but the author took the idea of angels, merged it in with something else completely (I don't really know how to describe it, honestly) and then made it so it wasn't even really about Mercy being an angel at all. The storyline was so dark and complex and twisted and full of "who done it?" than I could have ever expected.And oh jeez, the ending. Like, really? REALLY? It was so good in a satisfying sort of way but also made me really, really want to read the next book ASAP. Because I had to find out what happened to the characters, what Mercy did next, what Ryan did next.Speaking of the characters - you would think, because Mercy wasn't even her own body, she wasn't herself, that we wouldn't really get a sense of her character, right? At least, that's what I'd assume. And I'd be seriously wrong because the author still managed to convey a sense of Mercy at the same time she showed us the character of the girl Mercy was inhabiting. Talent, I'm telling you.And the covers, the covers are gorgeous, really. I picked up a UK copy of the book while I was studying abroad in London, but really, I want to own all three versions (the US, UK, and Australian ones).Anyway - seriously. Do you think this is just another angel book? Because it's totally not. Mercy is actually very dark and creepy and intriguing and I definitely recommend picking up a copy and giving the book a shot.
5 The fallen angel calls herself Mercy, and for all she knows, Mercy might actually be her name. She is tall with brown hair and brown eyes; with her perfect vision, she "can see for miles, through sunshine or moonlight, rain or fog." And she's searching for something or running from something --- but she's not sure what it is.She is continually reborn and never knows in whose human form she might awaken or where her new life might take her. When she inhabits a human, she takes on his or her appearance. The only constant in her life seems to be Luc, who "walks like a sun god." Luc appears in Mercy's dreams and warns her of the eight who seek to destroy her. When she wakes up, she is sitting in the back of a noisy bus full of gossiping girls wearing school uniforms. As Mercy struggles for control over the body she will inhabit, Carmen Zappacosta, her 16-year-old host, fades into the background.As her body is being overtaken, Carmen is heading for a singing competition in the city of Paradise with other students from St. Joseph's Girls' School. Upon her arrival, Carmen is assigned to stay with the Daley family. As Mercy tries to fathom why Carmen has been chosen as her host and what her role in this city is, she becomes aware that all is not well in Paradise --- or in the Daley household.Mr. and Mrs. Daley are consumed by grief as the two-year anniversary approaches of the night their daughter Lauren, another gifted soprano, disappeared from her bedroom. The only person who believes Lauren is still alive is her darkly handsome twin brother, Ryan, who refused to give up hope of finding his sister. Mercy's presence in Carmen brings to light Carmen's angelic voice and thrusts Carmen into a dangerous spotlight. Mercy joins Ryan in his belief that Lauren still lives and helps him in his quest to solve the mystery of her abduction.After another gifted singer disappears, Mercy fears that Carmen might be next and begins to realize her purpose for being sent to Paradise. She must unleash her powers and discover the nature of her true self to save the gifted singers with the heavenly voices from a hellish life of terror.In MERCY, Rebecca Lim has penned an intelligent, supernatural mystery with touches of romance and suspense. The characters are unique, fully formed and fascinating --- especially Mercy, the fallen angel on a journey of self-discovery and redemption. Lim's first-person, present-tense writing style created an aura of intimacy and breathlessness that kept me turning the pages. The only misstep in her gracefully written prose occurs during a brief tense shift in the middle of chapter six. Despite that minor stumble, MERCY is one of the best books I've read in a long time. It's the beginning of a series that I predict teen and adult readers will embrace and find themselves wanting more.--- Reviewed by Donna Volkenannt
4 The only suburbs included in this book are fictional (as far as I know), and there's no reference to country, state or whatnot. The author is based in Melbourne, by the way. But because the series has already sold to the US, UK and Canada - as well as Australia - the story feels like it could be set anywhere. And that's not a good thing. I need certainty! Not vagueness in order to appeal to all countries equally! Internationals aren't put off by Australian novels, right?But enough of that particular rant...We need to talk about marketing - particularly MISMARKETING. The publisher seems to be targeting fans of Becca Fitzpatrick's Nora Grey series, but this book is really best matched to readers of Kim Wilkins' Gina Champion series. Remember that one, or am I being esoteric? Anyhoo, the summary (Australian edition) refers to "angels, mystery and romance". Well, the middle one is correct. I don't think angels are ever specifically mentioned in the novel, but we know what Mercy is. As for the romance...maybe that develops over the series (three or four books), but doesn't really feature here, except for mentioning how good-looking some characters are. That's not romance - that's angel horniness. Splitting hairs, eh?As for the "host of angels out for Mercy's blood", they're very minor here. Really, the antagonist is human, I'm pretty sure. So what is the story about? A missing girl, petty bitchiness between choir members, and singing.Oh, and Mercy glows in the dark. Just thought you should know.But for all my ranting, MERCY is actually rather readable. It's a short, fast trip with little-to-no character development for our narrator, but is still a fun little venture. The publisher may be pushing it as "major", but the story's really quite laid back.
4 mercy is hard for me to describe without going too wordy. The best way to describe mercy is that it is a mystery wrapped in an even bigger mystery. Similar to Veronica Mars as she solves smaller cases while chasing after that BIG ? that won't get solved until the very end. That is how mercy begins for us, and Rebecca Lim delivered such a strong "small" mystery that will get you hooked into the series!Mercy is such a fascinating character. I mean, here is a girl who does not know who she is, but knows that the body she's inhabiting is not really hers and has to share with the original person. A potentially complicated dynamic, but Mercy has the upper hand and keeps the other person in check. Which is weird considering that throughout mercy the other person stays present, somewhere, somehow. Mercy doesn't even know how affected Carmen will be after this current ordeal. I'm curious as well, but I don't think we will ever know.The only aspect of mercy that threw me off is Mercy's dream encounters with strange men who seem to glow in the dark. Yes, it alludes to the larger mystery of Mercy's identity - but his doom-and-gloom premonitions seemed out-of-place when it showed up during the small mystery. Rebecca Lim dances around Mercy's identity with careful but deliberate steps, and unknowing readers like myself will delight in following the breadcrumbs to an unknown but surely grand finale.mercy gives a story unlike any other - and it will draw you in very carefully and then pounce for keeps as you become invested in the characters - Mercy and Ryan, especially - and realize that the current mystery has ran its course. I don't know about you, but I am definitely in line for exile when it gets released!
5 This book's blurb grabbed me as soon I found it on goodreads a few months ago, so I knew I just had to read it. Thankfully, netgalley to the rescue once again! An e-galley fell into my lap, and so I happily dug in.From the first page, this book sunk its claws in and never once let go. Lim has an extraordinary talent of retelling the oldest of tales and making them new again.  Girls getting kidnapped combined with an amnesiac angel in a pseudo-war with archangels and her lover, Lucifer? All of this rewiring of the old has made my head spin, but I enjoyed every single second of this book. I can't wait for the US release of this first book, and the second book will be released in Australia next month. And should I have any extra cash, I might just import it. This series does what "Hush, Hush" hasn't been able to, and what "Fallen" has been able to do only halfway (in terms of the mortal-angel-amnesia love triangle) - and that says something, seeing as "Fallen" was my favourite in the genre so far up until I picked up this series.Definitely refreshing for this genre. I seriously can't say enough good things about this book (except the ending felt a bit rushed, but seeing as how there are two more books on the way, and compared to how the book began, it fits). Highly recommended, one of the best of 2011 so far!(original review posted at my book blog: crossposted to librarything, shelfari, and goodreads.)
4 As a rule, I am not a big fan of books where the `main character' inhabits another body. In fact, I don't normally read books about angels and/or devils.Having said that however, I have to admit that two things attracted me to the book Mercy. Firstly, I fell in love with the cover which I find to be whimsical and actually perfect for the storyline. Secondly, I have heard some very positive things about the book and it made me want to find out for myself just how good (or bad) it was.While the basic storyline of the Angel Mercy who finds herself, from one second to the next, inhibiting the body of Carmen, an average teenager with one great sill - signing, might seem, at first glace a tad predictable, what really endeared me to the characters was the fact that Mercy now finds herself (for better or worse) having to live Carmen's high school life - and it is really not as easy as one might think.This makes the reading of this book fun and at times touching, with its funny moments and its less funny ones where Mercy/Carmen try to navigate through the sometimes difficult waters of being a teenager. If this wasn't enough, the author chooses to add an odd plot twist - in which a missing person adds some intrigue to the plot (not sure this was actually all that necessary as I would have been happy reading about Mercy/Carmen's daily interactions and struggles) but, nonetheless, it did add some "spice" to the storyline.Overall, this book was quite good. I thought the author tended to go on longer than needed in some instances, which made me want to skip a few pages and, to be honest, although it was a fine read, I wasn't quite sure what all the fuss was about in the end.If you are looking for a book that is entertaining, with a message aimed at young adults, then you will want to pick this one.
3 I received this book for review on NetGalley. I have to admit, I was drawn to the cover - I love it. I didn't really connect too much with the book though, so I'm a little disappointed. I actually thought the book was kind of strange, and I'm still trying to make out what I thought of it. The synopsis mentions that Mercy is a fallen angel, however, there is no mention of that in the book. Mercy knows she is different, but she doesn't know who or what she is. Every so often, she wakes up in a different body. It's like she possesses a body, but she doesn't know why or how she gets there.In this book, she wakes up in the body of a teenage girl named Carmen. She realizes she is in this body for a reason - to help a boy named Ryan search for his missing twin sister who is presumed dead. I didn't really care for Mercy though. I'm trying not to spoil the story, but the first thing she says to Ryan is pretty inappropriate and the timing of it is awful. It was just hard for me to warm up to her after that. I also didn't feel as though I really knew anything about any of the characters.The premise of the story is actually interesting and original. The synopsis mentions a romance, though there really isn't any. There is an opportunity for it, and maybe it will happen in the next book. There are so many unanswered questions though, I felt unfulfilled. I'm looking forward to reading the next book in this series - hopefully it will better explain what is going on.
5 Mercy starts off a bit confusing, and I was a little put off by it. Then as I read I realized that the author's unique writing style and first person POV are done so well that your reactions are directly connected to Mercy's. When she is confused, so are you, when she's smug, so are you. It was a great reading experience, and I quickly found myself falling in love with the book.Mercy is struggling to piece together her memories and dreams to discover  who and what she is but that isn't the main theme in the book, she's also trying to helpRyan find his missing sister who everyone else believes is dead. It's a really intriguing murder mystery. There are so many seemingly plausible suspects and almost nothing to go on, besides Ryan's faith andmercy's determination to help a girl she never knew while trapped inside the body of another girl she doesn't know. It's a pretty gripping set of circumstances.Mercy is an inspiring character, she sets aside her own personal issues, which are great and many to help people in need. She shares tidbits of information from past possessions and always seems to improve the lives of her host, despite it usually meaning she's kicked out of that body and into a new one once she accomplishes it.Ryan is just a big, broody mess, but sometimes through it you can see the guy he used to be before he lost his twin sister. Once he warms up to Mercy a bit you get to see he has a sarcastic streak and he's very loyal. I loved them both, and I'm really hoping I get to see more Ryan in the next book.Overall it was a fantastic, and I can't wait to read Exile, 5 out of 5.
4 Mercy (also the name of the MC) is an angel who does not remember who or what she is. She has fallen short of heaven&#8217;s glory for a misdeed we are yet to uncover. Despite that, there are strong hints of what took place, especially since the name of the man that frequently visits her dreams is called Luc. But at this point she is destined to jump from one body to the next, with no memory or even inkling of why she is in any particular person&#8217;s body, She is as likely to end up in the body of an heiress as she is a street urchin. This has been going on for at least 1000 years.When we meet her she has just been ripped out of her last project and wakes up in the body of a non-descript, tiny, extremely shy and bullying prone teen named Carmen.I enjoyed this book a great deal. I am a slow reader but finished it in three days although I have to admit the font tends to be bigger than on most novels. If the average font size is 11 then I think this would be a 13.What really got my attention in Mercy, was the writer&#8217;s colorful writing style. She has an uncanny ability to create incredible imagery with words. When she gives a physical description of a character, they are so clearly etched n your mind it feels like you could pick them out in a crowd. And of course there is much course to drool.When she describes the music and orchestra that Carmen is part of you feel part of the experience. This was really amazing to me because she did not downplay in anyway the singing abilities of the other choir members but when Carmen sang with Mercy sharing her body, you could imagine the experience to be transcendent.This book though is not all sweetness and light. This &#8220;angel&#8221; has some real deep and dark human issues to deal with. I was extremely disturbed by the family of Lauren (student) who are left behind  in their own version of hell after her abduction. It was very interesting to get what might be an angel&#8217;s perspective of our pain and struggles. The suffering that is unspoken of but is so present it eats away everything around and within us to the point of changing both tangible and intangible things. I liked how this was explained from a kind of spiritual perspective, it being that of an angel.I am almost persuaded to believe that this is perhaps what we do look like to angels when we are suffering deeply over prolonged periods.This whole story just worked for me. From the smooth flow of the plot, its steady pace, colorful characters and creative writing, it is beautiful.Is it a romantic love story or one of redemption because a different kind of love?I&#8217;m not sure, it has a bitter sweet quality of romance in the ending and I really can&#8217;t wait to read the next one to see how the loose ends are handled.This is the first book in a series and if the rest is like the first&#8230;..its a must read.Source: Bought at a local book store in paperback here in South Africa
5 Oh, my gosh. When I first read the synopsis for this, I thought it sounded pretty good. Getting into the first few pages, I was wondering what the heck this story was about. It seemed very strange at first, and the voice did that thing that usually annoys me where it talks right to the audience. But I kept going, and I'm so glad I did. The voice is one of the elements I love most about this story.Mercy is an unbelievably authentic character who reminds me of me sometimes LOL She's sarcastic, but not in an annoying or prissy way, but in a relatable way. Many times I found myself nodding along agreeing with everything she said or thought. She's strong and although she's over dealing with things she doesn't understand, she can't help but get involved because she wants the underdog to come out on top. This made me love her immediately. I normally don't get too attached to characters or stories written by British authors, it's rare when I do, they seem to just have this weird vibe that I don't connect with. But I loved this story. Even though words or phrases were different than my own, the author wrote them and used them the way any teen or young woman would, no matter what country she's from.Ryan is an awesome guy lead. The fact that he's searching for his sister and refuses to believe she's dead and his passion to find her--he's intense. His character is so well crafted. He's got some competition from Luc, though, and to be honest, I don't really know which team I'm on from at this point, I love them both. The plot was very well fleshed out. Elizabeth Chandler is one of my favorite authors, I always get lost in the mystery of her books, and Mercy's `who did it' theme reminds me a great deal of one of her stories, but with its own unique twists and voice. And I love the twists! This is a wonderful story and I completely lost myself in it. I can't praise it enough. Lovers of mystery, romance, and the paranormal will devour it. Check it out!
5 Story line filled with many plot twists make this book enjoyable from beginning to end. I highly recommend this series.
5 Great for young adults and adults, too! I am a 45 year old author myself and devour these books as quickly as she writes them. My 15 year old son enjoyes them, too - and that says something to get boys interested - actually - EXCITED about reading. THANK YOU for such great books. Keep them coming -
5 The fascinating tales of the Seven Realms continues in The Exiled Queen, sequel to The Demon King.The Exiled Queen follows the paths of two characters: seventeen year-old Han Alister and Princess Raisa of the Fells. Han leaves his life of thievery to travel to Oden's Ford, where he can learn about the magical arts. However, Han is made fun of by most of the others at the academy, and is forced to make a pact with a mysterious wizard he meets in the dream world. Though the wizard agrees to help Han, the price is higher than Han had bargained for. Meanwhile, Princess Raisa has fled from her arranged marriage from Micah Bayar, and is traveling to Oden's Ford so she can receive a military education and become a better ruler, unlike her mother. While in Oden's Ford, Raisa and Han's paths cross, and are drawn together.Cinda Williams Chima is one of those authors who gets better with every book, and The Exiled Queen is no exception. It's filled with thrilling action and great character relationships all spun together into an epic adventure that's impossible to put down. The world, especially, is highly engaging and well-constructed, so readers are completely enveloped into the world of The Seven Realms and don't want to leave it. Luckily, The Seven Realms series has been expanded from a trilogy to a quartet, so we have more great adventures to look forward to.Though not perfect, The Exiled Queen is an exciting adventure that's some of the best YA high fantasy out there. It was a quick, easy read that was an just fun to read. It was easy for me to just let go and enjoy the story as it wove together and edged toward a thrilling climax. It's books like this that remind me why I enjoy reading.
5 The characters are wonderful. The plot is wonderful. I could not get enough of this book (or series) and have recommended it to every one!
4 Haunted by the loss of his mother and sister, Han Alister journeys south to begin his schooling at Mystwerk House in Oden's Ford. But leaving the Fells doesn't mean that danger isn't far behind. Han is hunted every step of the way by the Bayars, a powerful wizarding family set on reclaiming the amulet Han stole from them. And Mystwerk House has dangers of its own. There, Han meets Crow, a mysterious wizard who agrees to tutor Han in the darker parts of sorcery--but the bargain they make is one Han may regret.Meanwhile, Princess Raisa ana'Marianna runs from a forced marriage in the Fells, accompanied by her friend Amon and his triple of cadets. Now, the safest place for Raisa is Wein House, the military academy at Oden's Ford. If Raisa can pass as a regular student, Wein House will offer both sanctuary and the education Raisa needs to succeed as the next Gray Wolf queen.Everything changes when Han and Raisa's paths cross, in this epic tale of uncertain friendships, cut-throat politics, and the irresistible power of attraction.Blurb from Barnes and Nobel.com4 out of 5 starsA stunning continuation to a beautiful beginning. In this book, the two main characters, Han and Raisa, were a lot closer. Just across the street acually, so that made the book a lot more intresting.I'm not very good at reviewing books that aren't the first in the series, because there is more I know, and less that I want to tell you, because I don't like to give away spoilers. So yeah.I would definitely read this series if I were you, great for fans of high fantasy, like Eragon and Graceling, which are two of my favorite books. You'll probably see review for them around here eventually. :)This book had a pretty mean cliff hanger, leaving both character riding on their horses to places I'm not going to tell you. I'm glad I've got the next book!Happy Reading Everyone! :DIf you would like to read more of my reviews, please visit my website.[...]
4 The Exiled Queen follows Han Allistair and Princess Raisa as they spend the year in the academy in Oden's Ford. Han Allistair, together with his friend Dances With Fire, goes to learn how to use his magic. They are joined by Han's old friend Cat, who swears fealty to Han and goes to the music school there. Things aren't easy for Han because the Bayars want to get back at him for stealing their amulet, the principal wants him to be party to overthrowing the Wizard's Guild, and a mysterious man named Crow wants to teach him magic with a more sinister plan in mind. Meanwhile, Raisa, along with her personal guard and childhood friend Amon, attends the soldier school where she intends to get an education that will prepare her to rule. She must keep her identity and presence secret, which would be easier if the Bayars and Han weren't in the area too.Sometimes Raisa's boy-crazy behavior makes her a little hard for me to relate too. Not that I doubt it is a real representation of a teenage girl, but it's just not how any of my friends and I were at that age. Mostly, I found her inability to settle on just one person and her inability to control herself mostly annoying.Han was not above some terrible decisions of his own, though he seemed to have a little bit less of a choice in the matter since everyone else was desperate to control him. He got caught between so many different people that it was hard to tell how much of his life he had control over. Perhaps the most intriguing aspect of his struggles were the Bayar twins themselves, as it seems that Fiona, despite being part of the same family, does not share the same goal. Or at least, not quite. She's as power hungry as the rest, but she doesn't see why her brother should be the one to rule instead of herself.There is so much scheming going on that you can't help but wonder how the kingdom hasn't collapsed already. There is hope though. As bad as Raisa's decisions sometimes seem to be, it is clear that she intends to be and will be a strong queen. If she can avoid getting herself taken by Micah. I can't help but wonder what her mother is thinking in all this, if she has been bewitched or just beguiled. How much of this is her conscious involvement and how much of it is magic? Can Raisa trust her mother? (And until she's sure she can, why would she go to the queen?)
4 This second book in the series is a good follow on and quite involved.  The author has done well to keep it moving as there are so many different characters in the story...
3 Again, majorly slow and I didn't understand why all this extra, unnecessary side stories?! ok she MUST be building up for something big cause again I had to chug through this book!Again Raisa/Rebecca was nothing but annoying to me, just not an interesting character. She falls in love with guys like it's a daily habit of changing your underwear! she is one of those heroines who thinks that the world revolves around her and whose sense of self-preservation borders on extreme. Her relationship with Amon is tiresome, they keep going back on forth over their relationship which we know won't ever happen and we know why so it's rolling of the eyes to listen to their overwrought melodrama. It is even more tiring to listen to Raisa's inner monologue on Amon's qualities and all you want to do is punch her! hahaAmon, I'm still trying to understand his role in all this and what's the point in the melodramatic relationship that can't happen with Raisa. If it can't happen whats the point in putting it in there? was it an attempt of a love triangle? poorly done in my opinion.Han. Was pretty much the only thing that kept me going and the only reason why I was able to finish this book. I like the whole magic practice and the  whole who he is trying to serve and the improvement of himself. I liked him a lot and I think he is just cool!Crow-interesting, and I read somewhere a theory that he might be the Demon King...interesting. I know he isn't gone so he is an interesting character that I want to know more about.Dancer-I liked him too, and feel bad for him but I wonder what his role will be in this series.So overall it was good (in my opinion) because of Han. The rest was just fluff that I wanted to get through so I could go back to Han and his story.Violence: mildLanguage: mildSexual Content: mild
4 This second book is my favorite one out of the 4 part series (with another gorgeous book cover).  Raisa has fled the Fells, poses under her past-used guise of Rebecca Morley, and enrolls as a cadet in the military academy of the neutral educational and training facility known as Oden's Ford.  There, she hides out from the turmoil and danger descending upon the royal court and at the same time takes steps towards getting an education in military sciences and leadership, intent on learning skills to make her become a better queen.  Han is also at Oden's Ford, in the hopes of learning how to master his newly discovered magical abilities.  There is great buildup and anticipation in the beginning portion of the book for when these two characters' paths will inevitably cross.I really enjoyed the friendship that sprouts up between Raisa and Han when they do finally meet again.  What I didn't like was the romance that develops later.  Chima just did the Raisa-Amon relationship too well, and I was not ready to let it go.  I didn't like how quickly Raisa was able to move on from Amon to Han, even though it was obvious from the beginning that those two were meant to be each other's main love interest.  But I couldn't get into their romance and would have preferred them to just remain friends and allies who care about each other.  But hey, that's just my opinion and I know I'm probably alone in that one.I liked the whole academy setting, and once again, the supporting characters are extremely well developed  - Amon, Cat, Dancer, Micah and Fiona are all interesting in their own rights and are each dealing with their own personal issues which nicely add to the plot.  The book ends with a cliffhanger, but the next book is already out so go ahead and pick up this next book in the Seven Realms series!
5 What an amazing sequel to this saga can't wait to start the next book Cinda you are extremely talented with the detailing in this book can't wait to continue on this journey with you.
5 This was a great book, well written. Cinda keeps the story moving and you intrigued with what next is going to happen.
5 I enjoyed the entire series. The characters are great and the story was fast moving and always interesting. I was pleased with the ending. I think I have read all of Chima's novels and have loved them all. She does a wonderful job with making the character lovable or love-to-hate!
5 I love this book nearly as much as I loved the Heir series.  I wish that she would hsveelaborated on Crow a bit more,though.  I really loved how she had Han find Cat in here.  She is one of my favorite characters.  Too bad she tried to kill Han, though.
5 The seven realms series is one of my favorite series and Cinda Williams Chima has become one of my favorite authors.I've recommend this series to many people especially if they are looking for extremely well developed characters that you can connect with, a clear well thought out plot, suspense and great action, and of course a page turning romance. Each character has their own strong story that keeps you on edge waiting about their next big adventure.Whether you are into war/fighting, heart throbbing romances, or betrayal and cover ups, the Seven Realms series is definitely a book I will read again and again and of course suggest others to read. I cannot wait until The Gray Wolves Throne comes out.Well done Cinda Williams Chima !! Five stars
5 Like The Demon King, The Exiled Queen is chock full of fantastical awesomeness. Chima has a way of writing that makes the Seven Realms both sit in the background yet be full and lush, enveloping you into its world. Like Sab (YA Bliss) said in her review, I want to live in this world. It just feels so real, like something that could exist on an alternate plane that if you could just tilt your head the right way, you'd see it.The relationships between Amon, Raisa, Han, Dancer, Cat, Micah and Fiona are flourishing, some for the good and some for the bad. They're multidimensional in this book compared to the last. I feel like what I got in TDK was just a scratch in what these characters really are. And I'm so rooting for Han and Raisa. I can't wait to see just what happens between them in the next book. And Raisa and Amon for that matter.Speaking of, I think one of my favorite parts of these books is the way Raisa views courtship and romance. She really is a helpless romantic but the facetious way she talks about kissing this boy and that boy and this other one, and then this one in dark corners, it's just a relief. There's no guilt. No one chastises her for how she acts. It's just normal. I guess it's refreshing seeing how normal Raisa is in her dating life considering everything going on around her.The issues between Han and Micah are coming to a head and man, I'm just waiting for it to burst. But I truly pity Han. He's stuck in a difficult spot and is basically nothing more than a tool for people to use. It's hard not to think that they're using him not only for his talents but because of the very fact that he rightly has nothing left. No one will miss him should he get gone. But really, that's not true.I just can't help but absolutely love the world that Chima created. The more I read her books, the more the world just fits into my normal. It's both intricate yet understanding. You can feel the dangers that the cadets face traveling to Oden's Ford. The way she wrote about the mist reminded me of some horror story where the mist was alive. And it might as well been here. I feel the pain and anguish and joy and love and hate that every single character feels; from Raisa herself right down to Cat, who, right now, is little more than a blip on the greater radar. You can feel the grime that covers them, feel how tired they are, the pain they feel after training. It's such an exceptionally written book that it's hard not to get sucked in completely.It's funny because the book is a little long. I'm sure it could have been chopped down, that some parts were overdrawn. But if you ask me what could be cut, I couldn't name a single thing. I loved it all and every sentence in the book now makes it all the richer. I really can't say much more about The Exiled Queen without completely fangirling it and I really don't have any complaints so I'm going to end this here. Just read it and join me in my pain of waiting for the next book.
4 If I could give his 4.5 stars I would. I thought it was stronger than the first (which I rated 4 stars,) but not quite a 5 starer for me. I actually enjoyed this quite a bit, and aside from a few small things, it was a fabulous read. However, as I said in my review of the first book in the series, there were a bunch of coincidental meetings that weren't readily explained. Also there were some definite similarities to the Wheel of Time series and to a lesser extent, Harry Potter. BUT I thought the author told an exciting story, and I read it in a very short amount of time (just a few days.) I'm eager to go pull the third book off my bookshelf.
5 I loved all the books in this series!  How could you not love a story that included medieval times, Indians and sorcerers?
5 Originally posted on The Canon! {[...]}The first book in this series, The Demon King, was simply irresistible. It was recommended to me on GoodReads, and it's been one of my top reads so far this year. I fell in love with Chima's naive yet goodhearted princess and her rough streetlord. The Exiled Queen goes above and beyond the standards set by its predecessor.Want a glimpse at the first novel? Check out my review here.THE CHARACTERSHan and Raisa each grow substantially as characters throughout The Exiled Queen. Han must learn to go beyond the streetlord he has been all his life. It's a skin he has worn long and it fits him well. The catastrophic events at the end of The Demon King force him to rely more on his mind and skills, playing what he would call "the blueblood" game instead of using the rules of the streets. Despite his new surroundings, there are still flashes of the streetlord I came to love; his simple joy in the simple things, such as owning his own horse or having his own room at the school show that he hasn't evolved out of the streetlord mentality.Raisa has grown beyond the naive princess wanting to save the world and evolved into a gorgeously strong character that is completely unaware of her own strength. She stands tall against circumstances facing her, making me admire and cheer for her all at once. Throughout the story, she realizes her own life has been more of a facade than she knew, forcing her to learn to rely on herself (a lot like Han's own transformation). Although she feels certain of her identity, her performance as down-on-her-luck Lady Rebecca Morley forces her to question herself as Raisa, the princess heir.THE PLOTI'll admit it: I'm not a huge fan of love triangles, but this one has me completely enthralled. Personally, I'm thrilled that the characters aren't using others' affections for their own advantages; more than once, Chima's characters express their frustration about being locked in. I loved the scenes between Raisa and Han...I've been waiting for this since The Demon King. There's a sense of right, of two interlocking pieces clicking together into a whole when I read their scenes. Yet all the tension simmering around in the love triangle (well, actually the whole plot) makes me wonder how on earth this will all end.Amon's revelation to Raisa in the middle of the book...oh my gosh. It stunned me. The whole plot turned sideways on its head (that particular plot element, anyway). And I thought I had this series figured out...Oden's Ford was an interesting scene change, but it left me a little mystified. The weird unspoken truce that settled over the Bayars and Han felt a little too forced - The Demon King left off in such a state of tension that it was hard to believe they would cease all-out fighting just because they were in new territory...The series storyline of the queendom, or "the fragile house of cards" as Raisa puts it, was fascinating. The queendom is slowly falling into danger, but all the characters feel powerless to stop it, even those in power. It was fascinating.THE WRITINGMost of The Exiled Queen is written in a third person limited narrative, switching between Raisa and Han's perspective. I'm a huge fan of this particular narration because it allows the characters to explain their motivations while letting me, as a reader, watch them evolve. It was especially engaging in this particular plot, letting all of the side plots and stories take center stage at least once.I loved the addition of the chapter titles! It was a great addition, letting the little quips foreshadow what was coming next.FINAL THOUGHTSAll the time I've been writing this review, I've been thinking about where I've left Raisa and Han off and yearning to pick up book three The Grey Wolf Throne to keep going. The Exiled Queen carries on the fabulous storytelling and strong characters that I'm learning to expect from Chima.
4 The reason I rated The Exiled Queen a four instead of a five is mainly because of the beginning of the book. The first 100 pages were about the two main characters traveling to Oden's Ford and it was tedious to read after a while. The author also dumped a lot of information on you, which caught me off guard since she strayed from doing that in the first book, The Demon King.When Han and Raisa reach Oden's Ford, the story becomes far more interesting and better paced. There were quite a few new characters and I enjoyed meeting and learning about them. Chima didn't throw them in your face which I find a lot of series have a habit of doing when they want to introduce you to a new cast of characters. The story really kept you on your toes and it had a lot twists and turns, I really wanted to know what would happen next! Han and Raisa were both interesting to read from. However, I found myself preferring Han - he's definitely my favorite character, I loved reading about him! The author portrayed his character very well.I felt Raisa fell in love way too easily in such a short amount of time. The whole romance aspect of this series seemed nothing but shallow to me and it's definitely not the reason I'm sticking around. Though I admit Raisa went through the most character development and she's definitely not that whiny spoiled princess she was in the first book. But the author is overusing the overrated storyline of a stubborn princess who doesn't want to frolic around in dresses.The first book was an introduction to the characters and the Fells. The second book is more about the rest of world and the countries, the politics and the war that's threatening the seven realms. The whole book is set outside of the Fells and mainly in Oden's Ford, an academy that teaches students from all over the realms - which was a really good setting and I really enjoyed reading about it.I'm a bit annoyed that this series turned from three books to four. I'll definitely be reading the next book, The Gray Wolf Throne though, because I of course really want to know what happens next! And probably for sure the last book - The Crimson Crown. I'm a bit sad that there aren't much YA fantasy book lately since so much authors are mooching over the popularity of paranormal but I really encourage people to give this series a try, a great series even if your not a hardcore fantasy reader!
5 I love her writing!! Love the story line. I was enraptured from the first couple of paragraphs. I have since read the series twice and both times was very enjoyable, I'm preparing to read again!!
5 My stepdaughter read this series and suggested it to me and I am so glad she did! This is a very engaging series with great character development. We are both anxious for the 4th book!
5 As the second book develops, it becomes clear that things are heating up. Chima has worked her magic again, creating a web of characters whose conflicts of interest create the perfect battlefield. I'm proud to have this in my collection.
4 For the record, if I had aspirations as an author* I don't think I would ever read Cinda Williams Chima's books. Her world building is so superb that I would be intimidated. Seriously, the woman is amazing.The Exiled Queen doesn't lose any of the momentum created in The Demon King. We pick up with Han, Dancer, Raisa, Amon, and the crew as they are all making their ways back to Oden's Ford. I was so excited to see where this book would lead and I was not disappointed.I love that we still get to see what is going on with the different characters from different perspectives. It was interesting to meet knew people and learn more about those I was already attached to. Micah still confuses me and I am 100% team Han. I adore that street lord turned magician! Seriously. His charm oozes off the page. You can't resist him! Still, my favorite person has to be Raisa. She just seems so real to me. I love her courage and strength and compassion. Such a great female lead!If you like high fantasy I cannot recommend this series highly enough. Just don't get mad at me because you have to wait for more (book  three coming later this month... it's incredible!)*I so do not! I would write the most unoriginal and terrible stories. Like, they would be the kind to show up on "Can you believe someone submitted this crap?!?!" type sites.
5 Wow, what an amazing second installment for the Seven Realms series. Cinda Williams Chima has left me hanging onto every word she's written, once again. In this second installment, we find our heroes villains in school together. Though I was very skeptical how she planned to make this work, after reading the book, it made perfect sense.Once I started reading, I couldn't put it down, and now I am disappointed that I have to wait months for the next installment. I must know what will happen to our unlikely hero, our princess, and even our cast of misfit wizards....And I still haven't figured out Crow, so Cinda, if you are reading this, we expect to know more about this character in the next book.If you like books like Harry Potter, you love the Seven Realms series, although it is much more detailed and involved. Think J.K. Rowling meets George R.R. Martin set in the world of Shannara and you'll have a slight glimpse into the Seven Realms. Better get started on the series to catch up before the next release:)
4 I've read all of Chima's books and I have to say that I believe this to be her best so far. The characters are very well developed and the world very detailed. Though there are a few loose ends that never get tied up, I was very pleased. Chima paints a very wonderful world in this book.
4 The world painted by Cinda Williams Chima is complex and well-imagined, with lots of political intrigue, romance, and fun magic.  I especially liked the characters of Raisa, Amon, and Han.The story starts with a heavy dose of action, adventure, and danger, before sinking into a more mundane pace in what is essentially a contemporary university environment set in a fantasy world. The denouement was, on the whole, unsatisfactory, as Chima seemed more intent on starting the next novel in the series than on finishing this one. Still, I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys YA medieval fantasy with strong male and female characters -- and who is ready to commit to a multi-novel series, as this book was not written to stand on its own.
5 I am very excited about this book. I like the cover of the book. Thank you so much. I enjoy the reading of her previous books.
4 Great characters! Fun read and excited for the next book! Love the strength given to female roles. Wish a couple characters had more 'time' in the book. Read it...you'll want to know what's next.
5 After finding out the marriage plans the Bayar's had installed for her Raisa decides to runaway with her friend Amon Byrne to Oden's Ford. Beliving it would be the safest place for Raisa to hide and the place where she could really get some world experience she seeks schooling in the Wein House, Oden's Ford military academy. In Wein House she will be met by an extensive curriculum that will keep her up from morning to dusk studying different subjects, her best bet to stay alive and not become anyone's political interest is to stay in the academy and forget about life outside Wein House for a while.On the meantime Han Alister just discovered that he is a wizard with nothing to loose, so he accepts the offering of the clans to go to school on Oden's Ford with Fire Dancer to study wizardry. Both of them don't feel really welcomed in Mystwerk House with the Bayars trying to get the amulet back and having the cold shoulder from the rest of their classmates for not being blueboods, but that does not stop them and Han stumbles into a mysterious character named Crow, a wizard that promises to teach Han sorcery but for a price Han may regret.I'm pretty much in love with the first part of this series as I am with the second one, she made me love and hate her while reading this book, it made me wished I had more patience in some parts where Han or Raisa could be in danger or the bits and pieces of what was happening didn't seem important to the story, but as non important as they seem they were always relevant to the story.I like the fact that we get to know Cat, Fire Dancer and Amon better, and even tough we still don't get to read Cat's or Fire Dancer P.O.V. in a chapter or two it doesn't mean their contribution to the story isn't meaningful or that they aren't fun to read, because they are.It's really a good continuation, maybe it's not as intense as the first book, but that doesn't mean this book is lacking in any department, it compensates the intensity with more character and universe growth and with people keeping their own agendas.
5 I love this series!  Well-written YA literature is such a fun escape for me.  I loved Chima's Heir Trilogy, but these are so much better!  The characters are so likeable, the world Chima has created is so fun to live in, and the story line is fantastic.  One of my all-time favorite series.  Can't wait for the third book!!
5 I got this book for my youngest son, who is quite a reader and he has said he really liked it. He now has the whole series. Came in great shape.
5 Okay, so my sixteen-year-old son and nineteen-year-old daughter loved this so much they've asked for the next book in the series for Christmas. Great job!
5 First off, let me just say how much I LOVE this series!! It amazing! Amazing characters, political intrigue, romance, action, adventure...it has it all!!This book starts off pretty much where The Demon King left off with both Han and Raisa on different routes to Oden's Ford. Cue the adventure!! The adventure and action starts right away, instantly gripping the reader in this most epic of epic fantasies!This book contains an intricate and intriguing plot that will keep you wanting more! This book is through the different POV's of Raisa and Han and their journeys, though seemingly separate, come together gracefully. This book is full of betrayals and changing allegiances. You never know the truth, who to trust, or who is a friend or an enemy.This is a book full of amazing characters! I actually grew to love Raisa more in this book. She had to learn to listen to others and do hard work instead of having everything done for her. She's headstrong, independent, and determined. She learns so much about her country and her people and knows what needs to be done to help her country. This helped her grow into an amazing young woman who I know will one day be a great ruler! Amon...although I love him, he sometimes annoyed me. Of course, there is a reason for this, but still. However, I LOVE Han! Ohhhh so much! Smart, witty, adventuresome, a thief with a sense of honor...Oh I do love him!I even fell in love with the secondary characters! Every single one of em, good or bad.The World building is excellent! I honestly can't wait to return to this book in the next series! If you want a book of epic proportions with just the right amount of everything, then definitely start this series!
4 Can't get enough of this series.  Can't wait to pick up the next in the series.  Didn't give it 5 stars because I'm picky, but very good.
4 In The Exiled Queen, Cinda Williams Chima takes her two main protagonists and the readers away from all they had known before and sent to the neutral city of Oden's Ford.  However, the journeys there and their experiences are not without hazard or excitement which keeps the reader very much engaged.  Chima continues the growth of her main characters as well as several secondary ones which helps develop the story, nor do Raisa (aka Rebecca) and Han really meet once again until over halfway through the book giving their story arcs independence from one another even as they interact.  Through both character's stories, the world and history of the Seven Realms is further explored without taking away from the narrative flow of the book and putting in building blocks for later in the series.  Although a few things aren't exactly explained to satisfaction given their importance or revelation in this book, I can't really complain.  The events of the last 100 pages not only were a pay off of what developed since page 1, but also left me wanting to see what happens in The Gray Wolf Throne.
5 As I said in my review of the first book in this series, I liked this second installment much better.Now that the stage is set, much more information can be given on individual characters.  This also gives time to really learn to love or hate particular characters.  In the first book, many characters were one-dimensional, but here in book two, we explore each more fully.  The story grows, intensifies, and twists.This book was much more of a "keeps you up at night reading" kind of book than The Demon King.  Now, that's not to say I shirked all of my daily duties to read this, but it was very close.  My nightly readings became longer and longer; my "little" breaks to just peek in and see what the characters were up to while I waited for class to begin...became more intense as well.I don't want to give anything away about the story, but....the ending is quite cliff hanging.  I can't wait to purchase book three, The Grey Wolf Throne.**Side note, I did read each of the first two books in this series through the OverDrive Library lending program, and I think it's fantastic.  I would not have picked up this book if I had not gotten the chance to read it for free, and now will probably end up purchasing the next installment (and probably the rest of the series as it's released) directly from the publisher for Kindle.**
5 Great series, I truly enjoyed this book and all the others in the series. Its epic without getting boring, there is a love story without it suffocating the story, there is challenge and above all intrigue and magic, what more could you ask for!?
4 I saw this book at the liberary for the first time and wanted to read it right away from what I read on the bacj it sounded very good, however the Liberary didn't have book 1 yet and I for one can't read books out of order.  When I finally read the first I was in love with the characters and couldn't wait to read part 2!!!!! And I was not dissapointed!!! During the travels the author kept the story very interesting and kept a very nice flow of information to keep the story fresh but no so much information that the story would become confusing.  The story flow was very nice and I enjoyed getting to know each character, I look forward to the next book to see how everything plays out.!!!!!!!!!
5 This book kept me turning the pages. It is well written I think and the characters are so interesting. Love it.
4 The second volume of Chima's Seven Realms series begins right on the tail of volume one. Haunted by the loss of his mother and sister, Han heads south to study in Oden's Ford at Mystwerk House. But leaving the Fells doesn't mean leaving the danger behind, as Han quickly discovers when he learns that his fellow students include the Bayar twins, scions of the High Wizard.Meanwhile, Princess Raisa has escaped to Oden's Ford, looking to hide from those that would try and force her on a path that is not in her best interests. In Oden's Ford she lives an assumed identity, hiding from those that would force her into a marriage that would break the thousand year old laws that bind the Fells.The Exiled Queen is a story of false pretenses and politics, framed within the lives of Han (17) and Raisa (16). This second volume of the series starts off much more strongly than the first, and could easily be broached by readers new to the series. Chima does a great job of refreshing our memory of the plot points without too much backtracking, letting the story carry us forward on its own merits.The Exiled Queen is a solid volume in terms of story. The first book of the Seven Realms introduced us to these two characters, making it clear that they were going to be interlinked some day, but focussed largely on world building. This second volume explores their development as individuals, giving us more depth and intertwining their stories as individuals, focussing on character over scenery. Most of the time in Oden's Ford is glossed over with a few brush strokes, focussing instead on the characters thoughts and emotions. In each character we see the shade of the adults they will become developing, at the expense of the story at large moving along.For that, this book earns some criticisms. Where the first volume focussed on the world around the characters more than it did on the individuals within it, this second volume takes the exact opposite approach. As a consequence, the action is fairly predictable to anyone that's ever read a fantasy hero/heroine novel before. The state of affairs in the Seven Realms at the start of the book is the same as it is at the end of the book, with only a few pawns moving around on the outskirts of the story. The real story is about us watching Han and Raisa make the decisions that will affect the rest of their lives.
5 As I started and stopped this book halfway through and picked it back up a year later, I don't remember much of the details from the beginning. By the end, however, I was getting right back into this great story.For a sequel, this novel really didn't answer a lot of the question you may have had at the end of last book, but it's nonetheless a great and fun fantasy. I loved the growing wizard powers and the school they set up for it. It reminded me of Hogwarts, but in a good way. I love school novels. This one wasn't as scary or tense as the last one, but I'm thinking the third will make up for that.I think the characters are awesome. Having just read Fire by Kristin Cashore, another YA fantasy, I must say Chima has much more likable characters. I think Raisa is arrogant, as a princess should be, but tries really hard to be a kind ruler. She is really trying to be the best ruler she can be, which makes it so much easier to root for her to keep the throne. She really grew on me, as I really couldn't stand her in the last one. She's become more mature and less snobby. More than Raisa though, I love Han Alister as a character. He's a good romantic lead, but honestly what's more important is that he's good fantasy hero. He has the mysterious past, he's an orphan so he has no ties to his family, he wants revenge, and his powers still are a bit of a mystery. It all makes for great stortytelling. Not to mention he is so likable, but still has faults especially with his friends. And he's a tough guy who still carries weapons with him. Over all a fun character to read. I love Dancer, Cat was really interesting in this one, and the Bayars are great villains. Amon is a great character, too. I guess I just love them all!The one thing I adore about Chima is that she really puts the romance second, unlike a lot of YA fantasies. Truthfully, it makes the romance that much better when the plot has room to grow with the romance. Raisa has a lot more a romantic plot that Han, but that's fine as he gets just as much time in his POV in the book.I love the political scheming that takes up a lot of this. Everyone wants something different. It's hard to know what the main characters even want to happen with this conflict.The ending made me frusttrated, but at the same time made me have to read the next one to know what will happen.Really well-done fantasy series that I'm still enjoying! If you want more make sure the read her Heir series, which is also really well-done for YA.
4 I enjoyed reading this series and although there was nothing new and earth-shattering I would say it was worth the time.
5 I definately loved this book more than Book one. I steuggled through Book one in the beginning. It took me to Chapter 13 to finally get captivated. This book was definately different. I was absorbed at Chapter one. It was definately an improvement. I can't wait to read Book 3!
5 EXPLETIVE! If I had known how awesome this book was going to be I wouldn't have waited this long to read it. High fantasy fans beware: The Exiled Queen is even better than The Demon King, and if you haven't read The Demon King then head on over to the bookstore right now and pick it up!NOTE: This review may contain spoilers.The Exiled Queen picks up two days after The Demon King left off and is once again told in two perspectives. Han and Raisa are both on the run, heading towards a common destination--Oden's Ford. Though roughly a third of the book is dedicated to their travels south, Chima manages to make each journey exciting and unique. Each character is attacked, captured, beaten and stalked in different ways until they reach their destination, where whole `nother definition of the word `intense' is created.As mentioned above, the rest of this book takes place in Oden's Ford, and was home to some of the most interesting scenes in the series yet. Minor characters return and are given the opportunity to interact with Han and Raisa in ways that weren't possible before coming to the schools, giving them much more depth. I felt myself growing attached to the characters who were supposed to be "bad guys," as their motivations and own political Catch-22s were revealed. In addition, Han and Raisa run into each other a lot more once they discover that the other is there, which shifts the dynamics between them in a way I didn't really see coming. Their skills also grow. Han becomes much more accustomed to his magic and works hard to train himself, where Raisa diligently studies to become physically fit and military savvy. It's easy to see the two transform from kids to genuine leaders, and their newfound maturity promises epic decision making in the future.For those of you who read and liked the first book, I'm 99.999% sure you'll love the second. There is a lot a set up that takes place here but it's never boring, and the two perspectives offered from each school continue to build upon the world that Chima has already created. There are also hints throughout the book as to how the two perspectives might be combined to save the realm in the future, and I cannot wait to see how the next book unfolds. Cinda Williams Chima, my hat goes off to you! This is some of the best fantasy the young adult section has to offer.
4 I enjoy this genre of books.  I don't really know why it's called the 7 realms...(well, I KNOW why, but the reason is very weakly developed).  A great jr. high level series.
5 Raisa is the princess everyone wishes could be queen, but not only is her mother still queen, but her line is being threatened by the wizards who are controlling her mother. In order to preserve the sanctity of the throne, Raisa does what she must do... she flees her own queendom and escapes into a world of anonymity where no one knows she is royalty and life isn't easy. The Seven Realms saga continues in Cinda Williams Chima's The Exiled Queen.Amon and his soldiers accompany Raisa, now going by the name Rebecca Morley to protect her identity, to Oden's Ford, the home of the schools for soldiers, the clergy, and wizards. While each have their own separate schools and tend to stick to themselves, they do come across one another occasionally. Raisa is concerned she will cross paths with Micah Bayer, the wizard she was almost forced to illegally marry (queens aren't allowed to marry wizards for fear of consolidating too much power). Despite her concerns, she immerses herself in her studies and sets her mind to what she came here for- to be the first queen who actually understands the people she leads.Han, after discovering his magic which was once controlled and is now set free, has headed down to Oden's Ford as well with his childhood friend. Both are newfound wizards still struggling with the idea that they are the very magical folks they grew up despising. But, they know it is more dangerous to let their magic run rampant, so their education must be a priority. When Han arrives, he finds himself plagued with an arrogant young wizard named Micah Bayer who is intent upon making his life miserable. Then he is approached by a mysterious stranger who wants to use Han as a weapon against the Bayers and their threat to the throne. Han is confused by who to believe, but when he comes across Rebecca Morley, he is drawn to the woman he once kidnapped. Together, they realize they can help one another, but neither truly knows the identity or intentions of the other. They have a common enemy, but neither is aware of the true extent of what they face.This was an amazing follow up to the first book. First, I have to say Chima is a magnificent world-builder. She has created a fictional land we can imagine perfectly. The characters are strong but flawed, the perfect mixture of people you can cheer for but can relate to as real people. I particularly love the strong female characters in this series. In addition to a queendom, you also have female soldiers and warriors who live and fight alongside men. It is explained so naturally that you find yourself wishing this situation wasn't fiction. but Raisa still remains my favorite character. She is strong, she is a leader, and she has a conscience. In a world where we can barely stomach most of the politicians we have to choose from, and we settle for "the lesser of the evils", I wish people would take a look at the type of leader Raisa hopes to be- one who has lived, learned, and fought alongside the very people she plans to rule, because how could someone be a ruler if they don't understand the true nature of the lives of the people in their realms.I love this series for any middle reader through adult who likes fantasy or even one who likes realistic fiction, because even though it is fantasy, the world and characters are relatable enough to appeal to a wide variety of readers. I also encourage anyone to contact Ms. Chima if you are interested in talking about the books. I connected with her and she is the nicest woman! I am very happy to have found this brilliant fantasy and can't wait to see where the story takes us.
5 This series is simply amazing. Cinda Williams Chima is an incredible author. I loved The Heir series and i love this one even more so. Please read them . . . you will not be disappointed!
5 This is a great novel in the seven realms series. It is very well written and has a wonderful plot. For sure I would recommend this book to my friends. Cinda Williams Chima has weaved a tale of action and adventure perfect for teens
4 Loving this series! Very good. Love all the characters and even though its a bit slow for me, very good still
1 I have to say that I am continuing to read this series because I,ve nothing better to read while I wait for the 2nd book of the Way of Kings to come out shortly (and because all the books with great reviews seem to be YA books, maybe because teens are more enthusiastic about what they like). I also have to say that I liked the 2nd book in te series -The Exiled Queen- better than the first. But it is still totaly predictable and childish. The protagonists seems to &#34;have the fots for&#34; all the male coprotagonists in the book. At the same time. And of course all those boys like her as well. All I can say is that if you're looking for good adult fantasy like FIre & Ice, The Wheel of Time, The Name of the Wind or The Way of Kings, keep reading (and if you find something let me know please ; ) ).
5 This is a wonderful series if you like fantasy and adventure and true love. Very well written and wonderful characters.
4 Definitely for Fantasy Lovers of all ages.Han and Raisa are both now headed separately to Oden's Ford for training. Han needs to learn how to harness the power inside him to be able to fulfill the deal he made with the clans. Raisa needs to hide from her mother and a forced marriage she didn't want until it is safer to come home. There seems to be danger around every corner for both of them.Raisa is traveling under the guise of Rebecca Morley with Amon Byrne and his triple. She has hopes of learning how to be a warrior queen like Hanalea. With the help of Amon she is learning how to fight and the feelings between them blossom but he made a deal with his father and Honor Duty and the magical bond seem to be getting in the way.Han made a promise to the clans in exchange for the money for his training at Odens Ford but it is a dangerous place with Micah Bayer around. It seems everyone wants to use Han in some way for their own ends. But he finds an unlikely mentor named Crow in the dream world. Han is busy trying to learn as much as possible and stay alive with all the `accidents' happening around him. Han runs into Rebecca and they form a friendship. Han needs to learn how to be a blueblood and Rebecca agrees to teach him.This book has so much description in it. The fantasy world is completely built up and there is a real feel for the characters development. No one seems to be all good or all bad they all make good and bad decisions. There were some very heartbreaking moments and others you wanted to cheer for. Han is a very likeable scoundrel and never seems to forget his roots. Raisa is learning how to be a better Queen. While living with real people she gets sense for kingdom and yearns to do better than her Mother.This is a great second book in the seven realms series, definitely better than the first book as all of the character develop and really grow. There is a little bit of everything for fantasy lovers. Sure there are so plot devices that maybe didn't need to be there but I liked the book so much I ignored them. Be ready to want to dive into the next book right after finishing.
5 Raisa really grows up a lot in this installment in the seven realms series. I enjoyed this book thoroughly, perhaps even more than the first of the series. Highly recommended for adults and teens alike!
5 In my opinion I can't wait to read the next book in the series in fact I am buying right after I write this review, why is this taking so long just buy the book already.
5 I dont quite know how to even begin to review this book without me going all fangirly over it. It's been quite some time since I've fallen head over heels for a series, specially for a high fantasy one. This book was magnificent... epic... glorious... monumental! I thought I loved the first one until I read this one, and gee, am I desperate to read book 3.I am seriously awestruck by the greatness of the world Cinda created. Even though this one was in a different scenery because they traveled south, and I did miss some of the previous scenarios, it was as unbelievably atmospheric as the first. Her alternate world of fantastical greatness that left me longing to live in it once again. The characters bloomed, just like any teenager, they've been growing up and unexpectedly growing together. Every single character was fantastic and well developed.The writing is magical and sucks you in right away. It's the kind of writing that makes me sigh, wishing every book was written half as good as this one. Cinda has quickly become one of my favorite authors. She must seriously have some kind of enchantment spell in her words. Also, the cover blew me away. You know from The Demon King what the cover represents, and it looks gorgeous. I cant wait to see the next cover."The Characters, the brilliantly woven plot, the magic in the storytelling, the atmospheric vividness of this wonderful world, and everything within these pages is pure perfection."- from The Demon King review.This is one of those series that will someday become a classic. It has everything you wish for in a book and so much more. So believe me when I say: YOU NEED TO READ THIS. It is the best high fantasy book I've ever read!NOTE: It was previously scheduled as a trilogy, but now there will be 4 books! (Squeee!)
5 Great story, really well written, kept me wrapped up through all four books...Good read for the young and old alike...Bonus was that I only saw three typo's in four books - that says something...
5 With teens turning to vampires, angels, and whatever other craze is out there it's refreshing to read an author who's not succumbing to the popular crazy of the day.Cinda Williams Chima is such an author.Cinda Williams Chima is a fantastic writer who improves with each novel she writes. Her Heir series was a New York Times Children's Series Bestseller, as well as appearing on a number of distinguished lists including the USA Today and Indie Bestsellers lists. Her most recent series, The Seven Realms Series, has also received much praise and thus far includes The Demon King and The Exiled Queen.In The Exiled Queen Chima starts the story immediately where The Demon King leaves off. (If you haven't read The Demon King yet, let me first say you should, and second that you shouldn't read the next few paragraphs, but should just know this is a great series that anyone looking for a great book should read.) For those who have read the first book in this epic series The Exiled Queen begins with all the main characters traveling to Oden's Ford to study wizardry, military training, and hide from their enemies. Where the first book sets up the story be introducing the characters to one another, the plot really thickens in The Exiled Queen. Different and strange alliances seem to develop and new and powerful characters are introduced to the story. Besides that more divisions and plots to overthrow the government and current standing are discovered as the plot thickens in this captivating book.And yet while the plot is incredibly intricate and detailed one of my favorite aspects of The Exiled Queen are the characters that are developed in the book. Fire Dancer, a character who could by all rights have a book all of his own, is given a greater part in the story. The Bayer twins (especially Fiona) are allowed to room to develop their own plots and schemes. And new characters such as Crow are introduced to the fray.All in all The Exiled Queen is a fantastic book that I just couldn't put down. The action swells with each successive chapter, the already vibrant characters grow even richer, and the plot is full of intricate and complex schemes that just make the book so captivating that anyone who picks it up wont be able to put it down until the very last page. Making The Exiled Queen a must read in this season of sequels.[...]
5 I read all of Brandon Sanderson's books. This Series is one of my favorite. I also recommend Legion by him.
4 overall I enjoyed it..again..so many storylines and characters going on it gets frustrating at times but could totally get over it as soon as the action started. han typically kept me entertained and I even like Fiona some. raisa still getting on my nerves with all her love issues though.
4 I would have given this book 5 stars, save for two things. I felt the beginning dragged a little too long. I understand that the journey to the school was a tough one for Han & Raisa, but I would have enjoyed it more if it were 20 pages less. The other reason why I would not give the book 5 stars is Han's training to become an elite seemed a little abrupt and a little too soon. This part could have benefited with 10 extra pages and with a little more details.That said, I absolutely loved the book. I enjoyed the new characters that have been introduced, especially Crow. I want to know much more about him. This book is a pleasure to read, and I have been recommending it to every book lover I know.One advice to other readers though, if you have read The Demon King quite some time ago (like I did), I would suggest you to read it again. This book picks up two weeks from where The Demon King left off and doesn't elaborate on events that have already taken place. So, while I remembered bits and pieces of the previous book, I had forgotten a lot of other stuff and therefore I had a bit of a tough time following the events in The Exiled Queen.
5 I loved it. The characters are well developed and keep maturing. It was hard to put down. We learned more about each of them and some more of the hidden portions of the story. I had to purchase the next one immediately after ending this one.I felt that the different character interactions came together a bit more here. The world is well crafted and thought out as well as the overall plot. I can not wait to see what happens in the end.I thought that the references to contraception were out of place and unnecessary.
5 A fiery, thrilling, possessive read - THE EXILED QUEEN was an awesome followup to THE DEMON KING. I really loved reading this book and couldn't put it down. I thought that Han, Cat and Fire Dancer's journey was going to be my favorite part, but when all of the characters collided and an intricate siege for power took place (that, also, must have taken a ton of time to plot out), my heart was racing with them. Every paragraph the stakes rose, there was more to lose, and the Gray Wolves and wizards struggled harder to survive, much less to come out on top. THE EXILED QUEEN gets a well-deserved 5 stars, in my book. If you haven't read The Seven Realms series yet, you should. I read the first book (The Demon King) within a few short days and it didn't take me long to finish the Exiled Queen. Cinda Williams Chima knows how to grab a reader and pull them into her books. The first two of the series has done that. On to the Third. Don't miss out by not reading these, it will be your lose if you do not read. Well worth the time, Outstanding. Can't say enough about these books.
4 I love this series & this book is better than the first. It's an easy read that brings you into a fantasy world in which you feel invested in the characters - especially after getting to know them in the first book. I can't wait for the next of the series to come out.
5 This one was even better than the previous! I bought it the same morning that I finished The Demon King, and read it in nearly one sitting. As soon as I finished, I shot Cinda Williams Chima an E-Mail, telling her how much I enjoyed it. She replied with a kind thanks.In this one, Han and Raisa end up in the same place. There isn't a lot of action in this book, but because of how many questions this book sets off, it's an unputdownable read. Much of the conflict has to do with relationships. Between Raisa and Amon. Raisa and Han. Han and Micah. And many others which I won't mention because it'll spoil something. Some characters will pop up that you didn't think you'll see again, and some new characters will be introduced.There are two giant questions that will make the reader hunger for more, wanting answers. Two questions that aren't answered until the next book.Do I recommend this book to others? YES! If you liked the first book, you'll love this one even more.
5 I can't believe how good this book and the entire series is! I stumbled upon it by mere coincidence a few days ago, maybe because it does not quite fit in any one category. The world that CWC created is unique, yet also so similar to medieval Europe, that it would pass for historic fiction, if it weren't for some added fantasy elements. I think it's supposed to be YA, yet you'd have to be closer to adult than YA to understand all the nuances of this book.The second (and third book, which I will be reviewing next), while part of the larger picture, followed their own intricate plots. I was literally on the edge of my seat the entire time.What in the world am I going to do once I read the fourth and last book in the series. Any chance we could have a prequel series following Hanalea's and the Demon King's paths? Or a 200 years later series? Anything to stay in this wonderful world CWC has created!
5 Louis Zamperini has live more in his lifetime then everyone in my neighborhood combined.  This guy is is a hero and I'm sad to say my generation probably couldn't survive what he went through. Mr. Zamperini lived 3 major life events and anyone of them would have made a great story.  But 3! I wanted this review to honor Mr. Zamperini before I addressed the book which I loved.  This is an amazing story that Laura Hillenbrand did a fantastic job of documenting.  Although I'm not a big history reader I was addicted to this story.  This book is one of my top 5 and I find myself recommending it to everyone.
5 http://laurahillenbrandbooks.com/I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  This is not my typical type of read but it was suggested for my book club.  At times it was hard to believe the things that happened to Louis were actually true events.  I don't know much about World War II, I am sure I learned about it at some point during my school career (I must have been sleeping).  The trials and tribulations this man as well as his fellow soldiers had to endure are just heart wrenching.  Just to survive this ordeal in itself is amazing let alone to come out and end up leading a productive life.This book takes you through one soldier's story during World War II, Louis Zamperini.  During the story you also get a look at a few of his close friends and their stories as well.  Louie was an American Olympian as well as a bombardier.  His plane the Green Hornet goes down and himself and 2 others are the only survivors.  They manage to last 48 days floating in the Pacific ocean until they are rescued by the enemy and taken to a POW camp.  The time they spend in this camp makes the ordeal on the raft seem like a walk in the park.  I don't want to describe the raft survival and the POW camp ordeals because I truly feel that you must read this book to get a true picture of what happened.  I will tell you that once the war is over they are rescued and go home to live fractured lives because of the torment they endured.  Through many trials Louie manages to come out on top after he is led to God by Billy Graham.  This is truly a book worth reading.  Once you finish this book you will never be able to look at any soldier again without a great deal of respect and appreciation for what they do to ensure our freedomHappy Reading~M
5 This is a riveting story that is a must read for anyone interested in war history or really anyone.  It is a bit graphic in spots, so not recommended for younger children.
5 My husband's grandfather was a POW in Germany during WWII.  On the few occasions when he spoke of his ordeal, I remember him saying, "Thank God I was in a German camp.  Thank God I wasn't in a Japanese POW camp."  I never understood what he meant.  I never understood how he could be thankful to have been captured by the Germans, rather than by the Japanese.  That simple statement has haunted me for years, and yet it has never occurred to me to ask the most basic question...why?  What was so much worse in the Japanese POW camps that one would be actually thankful to've been found by the Germans instead?And now I know.Unbroken is the story of survival.  It's the story of WWII soldiers captured by the Japanese and the atrocities they endured, and then the nightmares that haunted them for years to come.  It's the story of an entire generation,  and it opened my eyes to a better understanding of how and why my parents and grandparents behaved and thought the way they did.Thank goodness I didn't realize this book was non-fiction before I picked it up, as I would likely never have read it.  Generally speaking, I don't tend to enjoy the way a book of non-fiction reads.  That was completely untrue in this book.  Laura Hillenbrand has a gift for personalizing the individual's story and drawing the reader in with facts, without overwhelming him with trivia.Very well written and well worth the time to read.
5 Reviewed by Hana Gabrielle PackardUnbroken is the biography of an incredible man, Louie Zamperini. Hard to imagine anyone living through the tortured existence that Zamperini endured of unfathomable circumstances and unimaginable physical and emotional pain.  The author had 75 different interviews with Louie Zamperini. It's an unsettling account of man's inhumanity to man but also of hope and heart that shines through in Hillenbrand's exquisite writing. Zamperini lived his life well from pre World War One through and beyond World War two and he continues in good health today at the age of 94. This is a truly worthwhile read. It's a masterpiece!
5 Although generally familiar with the long odds faced by allied personnel captured by the Japanese during WWII, I was not familiar with the individual history of Louie Zamparini. "Unbroken" is his story. Within the pages of this book are at least five different tales of survival or personal transformation. Any one of these could have stood on their own as the subject of a book. That they are woven together here makes for a book that I simply could not put down.Each of the story lines present in this book offers inspirational fuel for anybody seeking focus, having a bad day, struggling with their personal demons, or wondering how much of *anything* they can take.  The stories addressed in this book are:-the story of an incorrigible youth who discovers a gift (in this case, the gift of being able to run) that salvages him from a path of restlessness and petty crime, and sends him to Hitler's Olympics and USC in the years before WWII-the story of a member of "greatest generation", transformed from Olympic athlete to B-24 bombardier-the story of survival in raft at sea against incomprehensible odds to the limits of human endurance-the story of survival in the custody of captors who delighted in stripping their captives of dignity as they subjected their prisoners to horrific maltreatment-the story of homecoming, the ugly aftermath of traumatic events, and one person's path to recovery.This book is meticulously researched and evocative of the times and places it describes. I challenge you put it down or remain unmoved by the story. And when you finish reading Louie's story, reflect for a moment on the millions like him (both those who came back from the detour of their wartime experience, and those whose lives ended during the war, leaving them forever young, forever detoured).
5 I loved this book.  In the beginning the elaborate antics of the main character seemed over the top.  But as you get into the book more, one realizes that this is the authors way of telling the story.  It has a rythmn.  Each page makes you want to find out what is next.  Even though this is one book, it seems like several books together, because he has phases of his life which have different plots.  By doing this, the book has a build up and a climax in each sub plot.  I am a woman and I thoroughly enjoyed the subject.
5 This was a well written book. It tells one of the most incredible stories you will want to read. This book is a little longer than most books I read, but I flew through it.
2 The problem with lots of war stories is that survivors tend to embellish, when they are not outright lying.  For example, in the book "Halsey's Typhoon: The True Story of a Fighting Admiral" that I've read on Amazon.com one of the central characters in that book is disputed by veterans who lived through that typhoon of actually having been there--they say he was not present.  Likewise, how can we tell what these men experienced at sea was real or not?  It's well known that when people are dehydrated they act and think irrationally--as if in a dream--and that can explain some of the fantastic stories they relate later.  As for the POW camp--well that part may be real, but the fact the protagonist of this book survived means it could not, by definition, have been *that* bad.  Not a Bataan Death March.  Having said that, the fact the protagonist was an athlete may have helped his survival.When reading these type books just keep in mind what I said: read them with a grain of salt.  Another book to read, that is along these lines but documented by third parties and not by just first hand accounts, is this book:  Arctic Snow To Dust Of Normandy: The Extraordinary Wartime Exploits Of A Naval Special Agent - Paperback (June 30, 2006) by Patrick Dalzel-Job.  Not as well written as this book but a bit more historic, that is, backed by third person accounts.
5 I highly recommend this book, it is a fantastic true story of a world war 2 survivor.  I have recommended this book to all my friends
5 A moving story about the depravity of war, hate and redemption.  I frequently wiped away the tears reading this book.
5 I was given "Unbroken" for my birthday in June, and had put off reading it because I feared it would be too depressing. I was wrong. Although Hillenbrand takes a long, penetrating look at the horrors Zamperini and his fellow POWs faced in the Japanese camps, the story of Louie's life is uplifting.  It is incredible that the men survived such abuse for so long, and yet survived.This should be required reading in all high schools. As our valiant World War II veterans fade from this earth, "Unbroken" brings the terrors they faced to life.  I cannot recommend this book highly enough.
5 Someone picked this for our monthly book club and I just can't say enough good things about it.  Not only is the story fascinating and inspiring, but it is so incredibly well written.  I am listen to the audiobook and Ed Herrman is doing an incredible job on that end, too.  The best book I have read in a LONG time.
5 Simple, clear writing style, written in chronological order, gripping in its'intensity.  This clarified in my mind the problem of PTS syndrome among our service people, as well as others who have been traumatized and survived.  It also addressed the solution to the problem.  Be sure to read to the end!
4 First, I really liked the idea of getting to read a couple of chapters in the Kindle BEFORE buying the book. The book turned out better than I expected, which is very well written, with an unbelievable storyline. I would recommend this to anyone who would like to know the sacrifices our fathers/grandfathers made for our country. It will fill you with pride and a sense of honor and dignity to be able to live and enjoy the freedoms our great country has provided. What we have did not come without sacrifice. This book brings all that home.
4 I am not a war history fan and after being so disappointed with Lost in Shangri La - I really hesitated if I wanted to try another war story.  However, this book was great because the characters were developed.  As their story is told there is a compassion and wanting to understand.  The book loses momentum the last 70 pages as the author gets the reader up to speed on what their lives were like post war.  The dates and people kept moving around making it hard to follow.  Louis is amazing and his ability to survive so much is incredible and inspiring - when you think you can't go on, remember louis it is possible.
5 I have never liked reading about war and prison camps, but this is a must read story of strength, courage, and determination.I have bought 3 more books and given them to friends, who feel as I do about this story. At age 94, Louie is still doing speaking engagements about his life.Annette Cheney
5 This was a wonderful book.  It really gave you insight into this man's life.  It also gave me an understanding of what WW2 did to our young men, especially in the Japanese POW camp. It is only by the grace of God that any of them made it in the war, as prisoners and after the war with all the psychological baggage.  Laura Hillenbrand knows how to tell a story!  EXCELLENT BOOK!
5 It's a rare work of nonfiction that keeps me so enthralled that I can't put it down, but this is just such a book. Zamperini's story is an amazing one, told wonderfully by Laura Hillenbrand. Thoroughly researched, it is the story not just of Zamperini himself, but of countless others who shared similar experiences in the Pacific theatre during World War II. Despite having read quite a lot about the plight of POWs in Japanese custody, I was still shocked by the descriptions of the treatment Zamperini and his fellow POWs underwent, and amazed that they somehow managed to pull through it. And the forgiveness theme is simply amazing considering what these men went through. This is a terrific book.
5 I bought this book (audio format) mainly becuase of the reviews. I am not big into war stories, but the story line sounded interesting. Myself, spouse and 4 children (ages 15 - 11) listened to it on a 10 hour drive. All of us were very captivated and on the edge of the seat listening. After 10 hours the book was not over, but everyone wanted to listen to more each time we got in the car. All of us - family of six - give it 5 stars. Also, on a side note - the kids are much quieter and calmer while listening to audiobooks on long car trips, less argueing with one another.
4 I liked it, but it's a hard book to love. At times, I thought it was a slow book and got bogged down in details.  But, except for those times, it was well written, but at times it was gruesome.
4 This is one you will probably recommend and read more than once.  It was a book club selection and got rave reviews from everyone.  Amazon has it for $6.49 for Kindle.
3 I wanted to give Unbroken 3  stars, but the rating system does not allow that.This book came to me very highly recommended and I wanted to like it more than I did, but unfortunately I can only give it 3 1/2 stars.  I had to push through the first 100 + pages or so.  After that point, when the author discusses Louie's survival at sea, I became riveted.Another issue, that for me, detracted from the book was that I know that human memory can be a slippery thing, and there are some events that happened in the book that we only have someone's word on. I don't believe that anything was intentionally fabricated, but eye witness account of events can sometimes conflict and memories don't necessarily convey actual events.One item in the Acknowledgements at the back of the book struck me and that is the author's thanks to Phil's daughter Karen, "thanks to Karen, I was able to peer into the life of the quiet, modest pilot known as Phil and uncover the brave and enduring man underneath."  I couldn't help but wonder about Phil and found myself wanting to know more about him.  I realize this is a personal thing with me - I frequently wish to know more about the quiet, modest person, than the person who is more than willing to share their tales.
5 This is a great story of Louie Zamperini's survival ater being shot down by Japanese anti-aircraft in WW2. This should be a must read for the baby boomer generation and all following generations as a reminder of the sacrifices that these brave men made in defense of our country.
5 I would recommend this book to anyone and everyone. This is one of those stories that stays with you. It is almost too good to review. I can tell you how great it is, but really you must read it.
5 So readable  with so much never shared previously.  If you doubt human will's importance in life read this and you will change
5 Brilliant, well researched, an awesome way to get the non-typical perspective of WWII, through the eyes of a POW in Japan. I've passed my copy along to many friends and they've all asked to pass it on to someone else. Make sure you've got a block of time set aside -  you won't want to put it down.
5 Laura Hillenbrand's Unbroken is a captivating novel beautifully written. She paints the picture for you as though we were all on there with Louie the whole time. She doesn't write this  story to make you feel sorry for anyone  or to prove anything--but story telling at its best--it is written honestly and she gives you just enough background information throughout the book. This is the first book I've read by this author and it certainly won't be the last, I strongly recommend this incredible story. This book you have to be in the mood to read it, however once you start you are sucked right in and this is a book that stays with you. Again I brace readers it is a intense story to read and will leave you with heavy thoughts none the less.... Read this book!
4 Unbroken follows the life of Louis Zamperini, once-upon-a-time thief and neighborhood hooligan, Olympic runner, bombardier, survivor stranded at sea, POW, and, as the title suggests, there is some redemption in his story.  I was enthralled by the Preface of Unbroken, which is merely a glimpse of what Zamperini endured.First off, I'm not a huge reader of nonfiction.  When I have picked up true stories, they've been either tales of survival or books on sharks.  While I willingly read Unbroken and even enjoyed certain aspects of the book, there was one huge negative present (which I will get into in a moment).The positives: It's obvious that Hillenbrand did some extensive research (just take a gander at her notes).  I liked that information was included about the planes being used (their occasional reliability and unreliability), a brief explanation of their inner workings, shocking statistics on the very low survival rate of pilots and their crewmen (even looking for a downed plane in the sea was a dangerous and sometimes fatal undertaking).  The horrific conditions and treatment of POWs in camp were horrifying and eye-opening, and, on this account, I will have to bring up other reviewers complaining that this is an overly depressing and sad book.  This is a book about WWII, and I don't know how anyone can expect to read a true story about war without being saddened or disturbed by constant dying and suffering.On another note, there were many times during the course of Zamperini's tale when I thought that all the things happening to him were just unbelievable.  He's stranded in the middle of the ocean with two other men (and this is not a spoiler because it's in the Preface), and they are frequently attacked by sharks.  These men have been under a hot, scorching sun for many days, they have no food and no water (though they are sometimes able to get some), their bodies have been severely weakened, and, to make matters worse, they are being stalked by sharks (if you've ever heard anything about the USS Indianapolis, I think you won't find this so unusual).  What I found hard to believe was Zamperini regularly having to fight off sharks with oars and his bare hands and that he had to do so for such a long time - especially in his weakened condition (but I'm not saying this isn't possible, plus he was an athlete and in great condition before the crash).  Other moments in Unbroken almost stretch beyond belief, but, in this respect, I'm going to have to point back to Hillenbrand's extensive research, the fact that Zamperini's story did not change from the time he first told it right after the war to years and years later when she would do numerous personal interviews with him, and the fact that other people gave the same stories.  For this reason, I'm going to have to say that I believe the things that happen within the pages of Unbroken.And now to the biggest negative of the book.  This whole story is about Louis Zamperini; it follows him through boyhood, running and Olympic dreams, and war.  Yet, at the end of the story, I felt like I knew more about random people scattered here and there than about Zamperini, who the story is about.  Hillenbrand never really gets into his feelings or thoughts during Unbroken.  Instead, she chooses to do so for other people (a man named Russell Allen Phillips is given more personality and has more quotes in the book than does Zamperini, but I really liked Phillips in this book and am merely using him as an example; I think he seemed like a great person and was saddened by his story).  When something personal from Zamperini was rarely brought to the forefront, I was taken aback because there had been no characterization beforehand and the way I viewed this man and the way his quote made him seem did not line up at all.  What I'm wondering is why Hillenbrand wrote a book about one man with an extraordinary life and spends hours and hours interviewing him (I think she had 70+ interviews with him - is this correct?), received numerous personal items from him, and yet, there's next to nothing of this man in the book.  It's so incredibly impersonal, and I almost think the story would have fared better if she had just done an overview of survival statistics, random experiences, and POW treatment, as opposed to having the story be about a man she never intended to characterize in the book. This was the main thing that drew my dislike, and I almost want to rate the book with only 3-3.5 stars for this; in all honestly, I think this was a huge mistake on the author's part.  Hopefully, Zamperini's story from his own point-of-view (Devil at My Heels) would be a better read where this is concerned.  Another thing that bothered me was the Epilogue. There were certain people that were not mentioned in the Epilogue (such as Zamperini's wife), and I thought this was really odd. Why was this information not included?This story does have a Christian message at the end, and this was not something that bothered me at all.  I had seen this book in a Christian bookstore, so this wasn't a surprise to me, but this part of the story is thrown in like an afterthought.  I really think it required more instead of the two or three (or two and a half) chapters devoted to it, to give it more weight with the story.Overall: I feel like a learned quite a bit (and was especially interested in information about planes). I do recommend this book (though it's not perfect), but potential readers should know that 1) this book is about war (yes, it's sad), and 2) we don't get a lot of personal insight from Zamperini (which was what I expected and wanted). Most importantly, I have come away with a greater respect for the people who served Allied countries during WWII.
5 This is an amazing story!  It brought home so vividly what these men went through for our Country andcame through it all to go on with their lives.  I also saw the interview on television with the man profiled inthe story.  He was a great hero and an example for what so many of our young men and women face in wartime.They face unbelievable circumstances and prove themselves in it all.  I would recommend this book to all readers,especially young readers so they can read a story of true heroism in terrible difficulties.  The will to live is soingrained in the spirit and souls of the men in this true story.
5 Laura Hillenbrand is the kind of author I would love to have dinner with. I read &#34;Seabiscuit&#34; a number of years ago and was so impressed by all her research.I am almost finished with &#34;Unbalanced&#34; and I had no idea of all the planes  that went down and crews that was killed during their practice exercises, the numbers ware staggering.How their families managed to cope with this is beyond me.
5 I have to take it on faith that this is an authentic biography.  It seems impossible that a former Olympian (1936) suffered so many horrific events - plane crash, months at sea, attacks by sharks, starvation, torture - yet recalls every traumatic detail after 60 years.  This was my first venture into war lit and there was a lot to learn.  I'd no idea that the Japanese had captured so much territory by the inception of World War II, or that they were every bit as brutal as the Nazi's.  From the gripping first page to the shocking finale, I was riveted.  As with "Seabisquit", Laura Hillenbrand enthralls.
5 I'm going to have a hard time coming up with words to describe this extremely well written story about an athlete who survives a horrific & brutal experience as a prisoner of war in the Japanese prisoner camps.It demonstrates the best and the worst of human beings. Evil, forgiveness, redemption. this story has it all.
5 In reading the prologue to this book, I was hooked."Their bodies, burned by the sun and stained yellow from the raft dye, had winnowed down to skeletons. Sharks glided in lazy loops around them, dragging their backs along the rafts, waiting."This is the true story of Louie Zamperini an Italian man from Torrence, California. His life as a rebel child stealing what he could just because he could, the life of a favorite in the Olympic games of 1936, and the amazing life of an army bombardier lost at sea in the Pacific ocean and was declared dead by our government but who spent 2 years as a POW of the Japanese.I have a fascination with any story that revolves around WWII. As I was reading this book, I remembered stories that my dad used to tell me as I was growing up of his time spent in that war. I also remembered the many times that he was quiet when certain subjects were brought up about the war. This book shed light on why men who served in the American military kept that part of their lives in the past.The images the story brought to mind are at times so unbelievable that they almost seem fictitious. From the beatings, starvation and degradation that these men faced, this book brings to light many things that were never told or that have been forgotten.Even though I will probably never get to meet this man, I felt that I have. Between this book and some things that I have found online while reading it, I feel as if I know him to an extent. He is truly a shining light that even one of the most sadistic men couldn't break.Thank you to both Louis Zamperini for sharing his story and to Laura Hillenbrand for the wonderful story that she has put together about him.Louis Zamperini is still alive today and at the age of 93, he has done so many things in his life that has helped him heal from the physical and emotional wounds he has endured. The story is one of true resilience, survival and one of a true American hero.
5 I was mesmerized and bought the book for my husband as well.  This is one of the best books I have read.
5 I wasn't sure a book about such privations and torture would be an enjoyable bed time read, but it is fantastic story of survival and an interesting vignette of life at the beginning of WWII.This guy had an amazing life -- almost a continual "We Were There" adventure life before during and after the WWII.If you like to learn about history through historical stories well told, then this is up there at the top of the list.
5 It was very detailed and makes you recollect history class.Getting to know a personal journey of survival makes you appreciate the skill with which story was told
5 As a WW II Army Air Corp Vet and having grown up in Seattle area the Pacific Theater was very close. This story of survival of a downing airman and his terrible treatment after capture is revealing of &#34;War is Hell&#34; expounded by a Famous Commanding Officer of History. The whole book was disturbing to my mind but I could not put it down. If a person wants to read about a superlative individuals survival and thinking during this time, READ IT.
4 This is the story that explains why that was the greatest generation why that was the American century. The writing is not of the best quality but the incredible story of resilliance and courage does the trick. One more thing, why do these writers have such an aversion to maps? If there is one subject that needed a few maps, this was it.
5 I received a copy from an old military buddy.  It was one of the recommended books at the war college course he was taking.  I started reading a few lines while waiting for my wife to get ready for something.  The next thing I knew, I could not put this book down.  Historically informative and the personal stories are gripping....
5 This is non-fiction book that reads like a novel. However, no fiction writer could have dreamt the incredibly traumatic experiences that the men went through.  Bravo to Laura Hillenbrand for making the story come to life.  You don't have to be a history buff to enjoy this book; I highly recommend it.
2 It seemed as if the author did not have enough material for the book.  The characters were flat and the material repetitive.  She could have introduced more original source documents such as letters, eye witness accounts.  With so many better books on POWs and WWII, I am surprised at the rave reviews this book got.
5 THIS SOLIDER LOUIS A OLYMPICS TRACK RUNNER SURFERS THE WORST OF THE WORLD'S TORTURER AND ENDS UP BEING A STRONG SERVANT OF THE LORD
5 This is one of the most incredible books I've ever read, and it was written by an author who was suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome, yet over the years managed to come up with 500 pages of the most immaculately researched material one could imagine on this subject. Others have summarized the story, so I will just point out its best parts: the 47 days at sea on two rafts (later one) with three men after a plane ditch in WWII. I read another three-guys-surviving-on-a-raft-in-the-ocean book, and those guys caught two fish and one albatross. Hillenbrand's account shows them ingeniously catching fish by putting hooks on their fingers and grabbing passing pilot fish that accompanied the omnipresent sharks. They captured several albatrosses, which would land on their heads (I mean, where would YOU land if you had been flying over the ocean for days without rest?), and they even pulled two five-foot sharks onto the raft one by one, poked their eyes out with their primitive instruments, and ate the livers of each. Despite this, larger sharks always circled the raft(s), and they were in continuous danger.When they floated to land, they found it a Japanese-held island, and they were immediately interned in POW camps. I hate reading war stories, and I hate reading about cruelty of any kind, and the cruelty in this book is not drawn out to any degree that made me want to stop reading. The most amazing thing was Hillenbrand's follow-up of post-traumatic stress disorder incidence among POWs, which was particularly severe in the Pacific theater. Her stories on the horrible flashbacks POWs suffered gives great insight into this psychological condition and how deeply it penetrates and affects the brain. It also shows what war is good for--absolutely nothing.Louie Zamperini, the subject of the book, has more lives than Rasputin--he's still alive!--and endures untold suffering without breaking, hence the book's title. The whole book could be one big Ripley's Believe It or Not if it weren't so well written and thoroughly researched. The number of sources Hillenbrand used are legion, and her vocabulary is dead-on descriptive. I even learned a new word: gracile, which means gracefully slender, and which described his wife.You won't regret buying this puppy.Now I must rush out and buy Seabiscuit.
3 Amazing story but very boring writing. Written like a documentary. Just don't feel any passion or emotion from this writer.  if not for the fact that this is a true story I probably would have put the book down the first or second chapter.
5 Great book. I could not put it down. I can't help thinking of all of our Soldiers, ect. that will never come home and all of those who did. It is almost impossible to realize all the terrible incidents of war that have impacted their lives.
2 I purchased the book due to the reviews on pininterest . However, I was not impressed. I read a great deal and all I can say is I had to make myself finish the boo,
5 This is a long book but you can not put it down.  Our book club did this book and ALL  loved it!
5 Brilliant!  Mesmerizing! Fearless!UNBROKEN is the true story of Louis Zamperini.  As a boy, Louie was a holy terror, always in trouble and running from authority.  His brother helped Louie channel his energy into running competitively, and through a combination of talent and pure stubbornness, Zamperini made it to the Berlin Olympics, on pace to surpass the four-minute mile.  Like many able-bodied men of that era, Louie enlisted in the army during WWII and became an airman.  With little more than tin cans to fly, our airmen died as often in training as they did in battle.  Louie's bomber crashed into the Pacific and disappeared - beginning one of the most extraordinary stories of perseverance, tenacity, and will to live."To be an enlisted prisoner of war under the Japanese was to be a slave."  Unfortunately for Louie, to be an unlisted prisoner of war was far worse.UNBROKEN reads like a novel - a fast-paced, action-packed, suspenseful thriller.  There were times I had to remind myself that I was not reading fiction.  The unimaginable horrors that Louis Zamperini endured during WWII haunted me, yet compelled me to turn the pages.  There is nothing delicate about this story, but Laura Hillenbrand pieces it all together in a way that no one else could.  I hate the term "readable" but considering the size and scope of Louie's story, UNBROKEN certainly is readable.It's incredible how the cast of characters come in and out of Louie's life, it feels so unbelievable, all the coincidences and chance-meetings.  The most amazing thing is the thorough representations of these men.  They were not just supporting characters in Louie's story, they had their own stories to tell:"Commander John Fitzerald had been in Japanese custody since April 1943.  For two and a half years, he'd been forced to grovel before sadists and imbeciles as he tried to protect his men.  He'd been starved, beaten, enslaved, given the water cure, had his fingernails torn out."Even when I wanted to cheer for Louie and his friends, my heart broke.  You will want to cheer for Louie; cry for him; fight for him; and save him.If you read one non-fiction book this year, read UNBROKEN.
5 What great story of survival and what one person endured to save himself and many others. This book was unnerving with it's accounts of how POW's were treated during WWII. The way the story pulled me in, your felt the mens pain and hunger. The book was a page turner, I kept reading just to find out what happened next. Some of the men survived but, some were not so fortunate. There was happy endings mixed with sad ones. Hillenbrand did a lot of research and interviews to get a real and true story of the life of one man among many that overcame everything to live life. Truly an eye opening book.
5 This was one of the most potent books I have read. The amazing and some times horrid times in an extraordinary life. His ability to find in his heart forgiveness inspires me to be  more forgiving having suffered magnitudes less than he.
5 This was an awesome book.  I love history and reading this book awed me with the will to survive and courage of the subject.  I thought it was a fascinating book and highly recommend it.
5 Laura captures well the extraordinary life of this quintessential American. I could not put this book down and finished it feeling more human and more in touch with God than before I began it.
5 Wow! One of the best books I've read in a long time! I was unsure due to the fact that I don't typically read war books, but this is more about one man's life during the war. It can be disturbing at times during the abuse sections, but something we should all know about. I can't say enough about this book...definitely worth reading.
5 An extraordinary man, an extraordinary life written by an extraordinary author.  I usually read fiction but from the first page, I did not want to put this book down.  Even when I wasn't reading it, I couldn't stop thinking about Louis and his amazing life.
4 This wasn't a best seller for nothing. In the same vein as Seabiscut. Lots of info entertainingly presented. Good read.
4 Slow beginning but turns into a Great Story! It almost reads as an historical fiction novel... hard to believe it was true and that someone could actually endure so much torture. I would love to meet Louie Zamperini! He is a true American Hero!
3 Friends have raved about this book.  It is very informative about WWII in the Pacific, but I found the book too detailed.  Maybe the idea is to exhaust the reader so he/she will be more sympathetic to the plight of the POWs.  It works.
5 Louie Zamperini is a scamp of a child, always getting into scrapes, and turns into an incorrigible teenager.  He plays pranks, steals, and creates chaos at every opportunity.  It seems likely he will grow up into a criminal.  But then, with the help of his older brother Pete, Louie discovers running.  Most importantly, he discovers that he is exceptionally talented at running.  He shatters high school records, running a 4:21.3 mile, and ends up participating in the 1936 Olympics in Berlin.Louie knows that with four more years of training, he could win gold in 1940.  He might even end up being the first person to run a sub-four-minute mile.  Then, unfortunately, the war gets in the way.  Louie finds himself in the Pacific, flying planes against the Japanese forces there fighting World War Two.When his plane goes down over shark-infested water, Louie and his pilot, Phil, and one other airman, Mac, hunker down to try to survive what they imagine will be the hardest experience of their lives.  Things are pretty deadly on the high seas, where Louie spends well over a month.  The men don't know how much worse things are about to get, though, when they are finally rescued from the sea--by the Japanese.This book is an incredibly detailed and moving story of survival.  Louie endures countless hardships but with the help of the other prisoners in the camps is able to go on.  The book explores not only the terrible brutality of the POW camps in Japan, but delves into the reasons why some of the guards may have behaved the way they did.  The intricate details of Louie's experience brought his story to life and kept me reading even when the subject matter was so painful.This author does such a fantastic job of bringing something awful to life without seeming to sensationalize it.  The men in the POW camps were brought to life and I agonized over every day of their imprisonment.  This is a truly incredible story, and Hillenbrand tells it perfectly.
5 I am glad they had this in large print.  I got it for my grandmother and she said it was a great read.
5 This book is probably one of my favorites to date. It is so well written that you find yourself feeling (or imaging what it could have been like) what Louie was feeling. There are times when you could break down and cry from the treatment the POWs were experiencing. At other times you're so filled with strength and courage and success; even at the smallest of achievements. A very strong and enlightening book. Highly recommended!
5 There are thousands of books written about World War Two. Some tell the story of battles; some follow the history of the whole war, or this or that theater. Some focus on the plight of the Prisoners of War. Some are memoirs, or biographies.Unbroken must join the bibliography of the Pacific War as one of the best personal narratives written. Laura Hillenbrand, famous for her story of Seabiscuit, picks up the story of one young man, Louie Zamperini, troublemaker, runner, bombardier, and runs with it. He was lost in the crash at sea of his B24 Green Hornet. Lost at sea, he drifted for weeks in a life raft with two of his crewmates. They broke all records for survival in such a craft. Two of them made it, through shark infested waters, hunger and thirst to land. That's where their ordeal began.Now, a survival against nature story turns into something more terrible and ominous. Zamperini must contend and deal with the blackest shadows of human nature while a POW in wartime Japan. Against all odds he survives, after being officially declared dead and returns to a grateful nation.He and his fellow POWs suffer the after effects of their ordeals for years after the war and again, Zamperini sinks into his own private hell. Then, when in deepest despair, he meets a young Billy Graham and his life turns around once more. He finds finally redemption and returns to Japan not as a messenger of hate but as a herald of hope and forgiveness.I loved this book.
5 I was unaware of many of the facts substantiated in this book.  I don't think many Americans are. I was amazed and humbled by the stories shared in this book. I was relieved that many of our veterans found forgiveness gave them the peace they were seeking. God bless the souls of all those that suffered as well as many who died. May God also grant peace to all their families. I think everyone should read this book - especially veterans and their families.  This was a well written and researched book. Let us never forget what we owe to our veterans and their families!
5 I have just finished listening to the audio version of Unbroken.  I am totally blown away by this amazing story.  Survival, Resilience, and Redemption really sum up this man.  I am so appalled at the treatment of the American POW's in Japan.  Thank you to the author for writing this story. And to Mr. Zamparini for sharing his story.  I will never forget him, his family and the other POWs.(The reading of the audio was very well done also.)I highly recommend this book.  Reading this story will make you a better person.
4 A good addition to the shelf of any WW2 history buff. I have read similar accounts before (Ship of Ghosts by Hornfischer being the best of the "captured and forced to endure an almost unbelievable POW experience" books). This one examines one man in particular, but the experiences of a cast of characters both known and unknown is also well-told. Again, it is daunting to imagine the deprivations and torture - both physical and emotional - that many POWs endured. What makes this one even more amazing is that Zamperini survived not only his captors, but the plane crash and long sea exposure that lead up to his capture.
3 I was disappointed that the end turned religious.  I was not prepared for that.  The story just sort of fell off at the end.
5 It is incredible what the human mind and body can endure and this book captures all the emotions and physical feelings that were endured.
5 This is a griping account of a man who was a Track star, WWII Vet, Christian and American Hero told by an author who packs a punch with her skill for crafting a sentence in a way that leaves you pining for the next.There are reviews galore so no need to reiterate, just read this book, it is truly exceptional, and deserved of a man who will leave you stunned with what he accomplished and overcame. I never felt prouder as an American, also I wished I had never complained about anything in my life, thinking I had it rough, there is no comparison.
4 I found it a very interesting and based on an amazing hero.  But at times it bogs now in the detail especially when in the camp and the end of the book.  It is an important part of our history, but some details are not needed to get the horror across.  It makes it seem exaggerated even if it is the truth.
5 This is one of the best books/biographies I have ever read. Very well written and reseached by the author. My first purcahse to my new Kindle.I had never heard of Louis Zamperini until this book and now I feel like I know him personally. What this man (and many others) endured cuts to the core. I couldn't put the book down, and almost hated finishing it! I would HIGHLY recommend it to anyone that is interested in WWII and the amazing men that have been through hell for or freedom.
5 There are not many books that I literally cannot out down. This is one and Seabiscuit was the other. Both by Laura Hillenbrand. She is the best writer. I love her work and can't wait for her next book. I stayed up all night reading it. Read it at work and while I was eating. I could not leave this book. I highly recommend it and any book written by Laura Hillenbrand.
3 FOUND THIS BOOK GRIPPING, AND WOULD HAVE GIVEN IT MORE STARS, HAD IT NOT BEEN SO DEPRESSING.THE TREATMENT BY THE JAPANESE IN THE PRISONER OF WAR CAMPS WAS DIFFICULT TO READ, THOUGH I AM SURE IT WAS NOT EXAGGERATED. HOW ONE SURVIVES THOSE CONDITIONS IS AN AMAZING FEAT.
5 This is an almost unbelievable story of struggle, perseverance, and survival. If you ever had found as to whether the decision to use the atomic bombs was warranted, this book will remove all doubt.
5 A friend loaned me this book to read. Amazing, riveting, & incomprehensible what Louie lived through! You will stay up late reading. Really a great book.
5 Amazing story, very well written. Highly recommend for personal reading or even a book club discussion. Great details to discuss.
5 Amazing story, what man can endure. Was interesting from the start right through to the end. A must to add to your collection
5 An incredibly inspiring story of forgiveness, courage and faith. While reading this story I constantly sought to answer one question, &#34;Could I have survived?&#34; Do yourself a favor and read this book. At the end please take a moment to reflect and to thank the thousands of veterans who had similar journeys.
5 A truely amazing story. My father fought in WWII, but never talked about it. The history books don't capture this point of view.
5 Fantastic book. I learned more about WWII and Japan from this book than I ever learned in school. And the character is inspirational. I bought the book for my father in law who fought in the Pacific before I even finished reading my Kindle version.
5 Great book!  I felt as though I was learning while I enjoyed the story.  It was an amazing true story
5 Great story of how one encounters life's hard places with courage, tenacity, and faith.  However, when human nature and emotions come to their inevitable breaking points, we are open to acknowledge God's presence with us - even when we were not aware of it at all.  Louis Zamperini is a wonderful man whose life bears the wounds of being scarred but unbowed even to his long-time enemies.  However, Louis discovers that his strength has not been his alone.  His power to heal, to recover, and to go forward belongs to the power of God in his life - when he expected it in the least; rejected it the most, and stayed afar from it for the longest time.  Still, God never quit on him.  Here is a gripping read of personal history that is undeniable.
4 I enjoyed this read very much. It takes you through the lives of real people who grew up in the Great Depression and served in WWII. The author has truly done the &#34;Greatest Generation&#34; proud with the reality and details of her historically correct rendition of the trial of Pacific POWs. Possibly the best part of the history is the aftermath of the war and the problems these survivors met in their civilian lives.
4 I found this book entertaining, informational, and inspiring. Some parts are gripping and intense, leaving the reader with hope for the best for the people involved.I really liked how the author uses enough facts to accurately portray what really happened, while taking the time to describe the surroundings, smells, sights, sounds, and most of all, the feelings of the characters.
5 If you thought you knew the history of WWII, you will be surprised by what you learn from this amazing story.  Laura brings to life the heroic tale of one of the few to experience the basest evil horrors of Japan, bushido, and its collision with western culture.  Your sense of justice, morality, and goodness will be bruised, and you will also be lifted by the strength of the human spirit.  This is a book everyone should read!
5 I haven't read a true story lately where I could hardly put down the book.  I couldn't stop reading. It was a wonderful story of camaraderie, faith, hope and forgiveness.  I thoroughly enjoyed learning the fates of the various characters.  Would recommend it to anyone.
5 I have read other books about the horrors the allied soldiers, sailors and airmen faced in WW2, and in the Pacific theater especially, and I have been at times horrified, angry, awe-stricken. But this is the first time I have put a book down and actually wept in gratitude for what these men endured in the service of their respective nations. Laura Hillenbrand's masterful telling of the stories of some of these men, especially Louie Zamperini, should be a must-read for anyone who wishes to learn more about the history of that dreadful period in our history.From his early childhood days, through his all too brief Olympic career, Zamperini's story is a story worth reading, as it shows the maturing of a young man who discovers that he has a gift.Then we discover that he is indeed a hero, a survivor, and, I believe, a chosen one, chosen to demonstrate love and forgiveness in the aftermath of unbelievable cruelty.Hillenbrand could have easily turned this book into an instrument of hate against the perpetrators of these atrocities, but she did not. Instead she showed that unbelievable level of love attainable (with the help of Almighty God) in the face of some of the most extreme cruelty the modern world has ever seen.I heartily recommend this book to anyone!
5 I just CAN NOT stop talking about this book. I started reading it because my husband had bought it so it was on my Kindle and  didn't have anything else to read yet. I was riveted. I am in love with Louis Zamperini. What a hero!!! I can't wait for the movie though I think it will be very hard to watch. This book really brought to light just how bad Japanese POW camps really were.
5 I knew so little about ww2. This book taught me so much, not just about Louie but also the horrors of this war. Louie's story is an emotional roller coaster.
5 I loved reading Seabiscuit, not because I like horses but because Laura Hillenbrand is such a phenominal storyteller. Despite having high hopes for this book, I was not disappointed in the least. Once again, Hillenbrand weaves an inspiring biography of a normal guy who went from the heights of athletic glory to the depths of utter despair and managed to survive. I won't ruin any of the story but the title really does say it all - unbroken. If you are looking to be inspired and enthralled by how much a human being can endure and persevere through, then this book with not disappoint.
5 I'm generally not drawn to this type of book but based upon the reviews I took a chance. So glad I did.  The book gallops right out of the gate and doesn't stop until the very last page.  Even written in third person it reads smoothly.  A great story of human courage and salvation.
5 Incredibly interesting and awe-inspiring story. Just as important, very well written and easy and enjoyable reading. One of those books you can spend hours reading and not get tired of. Made me read "Seabiscuit", which was also very well written.
5 I read this book without skipping a word. Sometimes I just skim over a page, or skip entire sections, if I lose interest. This book kept my attention from the first sentence to the last period. If I didn't know it was a true story I would assume someone made the whole thing up. This book should be required reading for all Americans. Just kidding, I'm sick of the government telling us what we HAVE to purchase!
5 I saw an interview of Louie Zamperini and Angelina Jolie...with Tom Brokaw(I think it was Brokaw!) I had to read this... it was fantastic to say the least.  I lived the experience as I read it... it brought tears to my eyes... and some chuckles.  Laura told the story.... the real story.  And following several others through their experiences...and brought us to the end... made me wonder how I would have handled the horrible things that they went through... I was born in 1939, knew there was a war...but really no idea what so many went through.  This is a "gotta read it" book. The research was staggering..unbelievable! Now I am waiting for the movie.  If Angelina films half of the things that took place....OMG!
4 It is amazing what the human spirit can endure. The story of Louie Zamperini was inspirational.  A man who was subjected to unbelievable abuse as a Japanese POW during World War II was able to forgive and pull his shattered life together. A former Olympian before the war, we became a winner in the game of life.
5 I was very surprised by this story. This was not a book I would have chosen, but it was given to me by a friend. Wow, am I ever glad they gave it to me to read. My husband read the book first and told me I should read it.I really don't think anyone will regret taking time out to read this book. When I started it one night, I thought, well something to get me to sleep early, but then I couldn't put the book down and read well into the night. The story simply grabs you from the beginning and doesn't let go.
5 Just adding my 2 to the pile.It was great! Highly recommended. I bought it for my Mom, and Dad who used to be the navigator in a B-52, so I wonder if it resonated for him and that's why he loved it so much. Huh. Anyway.I don't usually read non-fiction, actually. But once you read this story you'll have a hard time believing all these incredible things really took place in the lifetime of one man! Louie Z. is an amazing person to put it lightly. I'm not even going to try to spell his last name.And this book is so lovingly crafted by Laura Hillenbrand! It shows in the interesting footnotes and exhaustive citations at the end of the book. I especially liked the pictures included, which really brought home the reality of the people and events of this book. There they are. That's what they really looked like. Real people. And that just gives the book so much power and emotion.I can't wait to see them try and make the movie out of this, I can't imagine it will be as easy to translate for the screen as Seabiscuit.Read it!
5 Just finished Laura H's "Unbroken."  I can't say enough good about how she tells the story.  Thorough, incredibly detailed research backs up every aspect of the telling.  The story itself is almost beyond belief - but there stands Louie to prove the point!  Wow!  A must read, even for people who have no interest in the war!  This is all about the indomitable human spirit.
5 Louie suffers terribly at the hands of the Japanese after being captured during WW II, but finds strength and perseverance to overcome the cruelty and eventually finds forgiveness through Billy Graham's preaching.  The book begins with a world history progression as they trace the flight of the Zeppelin.  Louie was a hell-raiser in his youth who was saved by his brother involving him in Track at school and coaching him toward Olympic greatness.  It is a very inspiring story of American spirit, competition, history, and survival.  I highly recommend it.  A movie is coming out soon about this book.  I look forward to seeing it.
5 Ms. Hillenbrand has done it again.  After my 15 year old son read Seabiscuit for his high school summer reading, I decided to pick it up and read along.  I absolutely was absorbed in it!  For Christmas my son, seeing how much I enjoyed her first book, purchased Unbroken for me.  WOW!  The title does not do justice to this story.  Ms. Hillenbrand is a master of words.  The detail and research that went into this book is obviously well done.  I could not put it down.  Everyone should read Unbroken to fully understand what we mean when we talk about our armed forces sacrificing!  If you read only one book this year, this is it!!  I am eagerly awaiting her next book.
5 One of the best books I have read in quite some time. Historically accurate and extremely well written. Anyone interested in WWII, especially the Pacific Theater, should read this book.
5 Powerfully and graphically written, this is the story of Louis Zamperini, Olympic runner and Japanese POW.  Louis, along with other POWs were starved and abused for years at the hands of Japan's military.Although this book is well written with an easy flow, some readers may find the graphic descriptions disturbing.
5 Read the real deal, before you see the movie. A thriller, a real late night page turner. Not a dull moment. A true story about a great if lesser know American hero from WWII. Well worth reading. The power of the human spirit at it's best.
3 The book is a little slow in parts. It's a great redemptive story, However it kinda send on at times.  With that said I still recommend that even everyone read it. The info in it is almost unbelievable yet it's our history.
5 The cavalier spirit of Louis Zamperini was not entirely attractive in the early years, despite his outstanding achievements, but his determination and good will overcome such reservations as the drama of his life, commencing with his survival in desperate straits, drifting in the Pacific ocean with two others after crashing in the sea - then their arrest and serious mistreatment over a protracted time at the hands of a particularly vicious Japanese POW soldier. The final release, seemingly only enabled by the consequences of the nuclear bombing of two Japanese cities, was not the end of his suffering, as the mental legacy continued until his amazing release. The search for and final closure on the POW soldier is also a riveting story on its own. The authenticity of the story is well supported by documentation in the Appendix. This is a must read.
5 This book informed me about the terrible plight of POW's in Japan.  The story was so excellent.  I couldn't put it down.
5 This book keeps the hair on your back standing tall, amazing, actually have had cold chills while reading, had never heard of some of the horrors these guys suffered.
5 This book was an awesome story about survival. I learned so much by reading this book. The story and writing was exceptional.
5 This book was very compelling.  I agree with all of the 5 star reviews above.  It is an inspiring story of survival and determination.  The details about the war, planes, ocean, sharks and Japanese POW camps seemed very accurate.  Extremely well-researched and written.
5 This is an amazing story of devotion [a brother believing in his troubled brother], perseverance [training for the Olympics], courage [days and days in a life raft after being shot down in the Pacific], and survival [as a Japanese POW], overcoming [alcoholism] because of his coming to faith in Jesus Christ.  The story of Louie Zambini - a true hero!
5 This is a novel which should be a reading requirement for every high school student. It describes the brutality captured soldiers endured during WWII in the Pacific.  It is often said that this theater of the war was worse than Europe, and after reading this detailed recount of survival, I would have to agree that the torture and inhumane treatment surpassed that experienced in Germany.  It was an eye-opener for me to understand why our fathers don't talk much about the war.  I cannot imagine how very painful it was to re-live the nighmares for over 70 years.  These soldiers were young boys who came back to civilian life, unable to cope with the memories of torture and starvation.  Many comitted suicide, became alcoholics, and suffered from post-traumatic stress.  This is a historical novel which reminds us not to forget why we are free.
5 This is by far one of the best books I have read in years.  My only complaint is that at times it seemed to be a bit repetitive.  The story was great and very inspirational.
5 This is definitely a five-star publication.  A book repleat with factual data and great human interest.  I would suggest anyone over the age of 10 to take a look at this publication.
5 This is one book you don't want to put down.  It keeps you wanting to get to the next page from cover to cover.
5 This is one of the best books I have EVER read!!!  Most of the books I have read about the World Wars have been about the accounts European's during that time period; Holocause survivors, personal entourage of Hilter, etc.  I had never read any that were accounts from American Soldiers during that time.  I laughed, I cried-- Oh boy did I cry!!  Zamperini's story is amazing and one you simply must read.  My Grandfather was in the Navy during WWII and wrote in his memiors about rescusing POW prisioners from the Batan Prison camps, one of the prision camps talked about in the story, and how he will never forget what they looked like.  I wish I would have talked to him about his experiences in the war before he died.  This book instantly became one of my favorites and I will read it again and again!!
5 This was an excellent read. I would recommend it. I have never read any books other than text books about W.W. Two. I am amazed and horrified at what these men endured.
5 Unbroken was a riveting book.  I could not stop reading.  Realizing this was someone's life story seemed incredible to me.  It is so hard to believe war can be so awful and that one man could survive all the horrible things that he endured.  I highly recommned this book, as it is not only a history lesson, but a story of incredible strength.
5 Very good book!!  Thought we had heard everything about World War II, but never heard of the forgiveness side before.  Highly recommend
5 Well written story about survival and hope through some of the worst world war II experiences. This is not a new story, but is well done nevertheless.
5 What an amazing story of courage, bravery,and survival. Hillenbrand delivers with great detail and historical accuracy. Must read for wwii buffs interested in the Pacific theatre.
5 What these soldiers went thru in a WW11 Japanese Pow camp & the ones who came thru considering the the most horrid treatment was hard to read, but I could not put the book down.  The three men stranded on a raft in the pacific for over 30 days & fighting off constant sharks, the lead character promised God he would serve him if he came out of it.  In the end he remembers his promise, but only after extreme despondency & alcoholism. Amazing read
5 5 STARS, HISTORYKLE I FOUND TO BE VERY GOOD, IT WAS VERY INVOLVING IN WAT HAPPEN DURING A HARD TIME IN HISTOY, SPECIALY DURING THE WORLD WAR
5 An excellent read, seriously fantastic. I'm not one to read non-fiction, ever. I usually find it boring, but this book was phenomenal. You don't feel like you're reading a non-fiction story, the things this man went through are like something that had to be made up. I would recommend this book to anyone; there's action, comedy, drama. You're on the edge of your seat for the entire book, you really feel for the characters.I cannot think of a better way to describe this book; excellent, excellent, read.
5 Excellent book I had a hard time putting down.  Wonderful, uplifting, moving story that kept me glued to the pages (Ereader)Well worth the money!!!
5 I am not interested in war stories, but when I heard about this book, I was interested enough to pay full price. I learned this gentleman was in town recently as a guest speaker and I was sad that I missed him. It is amazing he is still telling his story. I can not beleive this book was non-fiction and that this story was based on his life.
4 I enjoyed this especially as it is supposedly true. Nice read with good insight on life in Japanese POW camps.
5 I found it interesting because I did not know that some pows were never listed in WWII and also the character of the American (not to break) and the sick person who was in charge to break him. It became a personal battle. I am old enough to have been a child at the time of WWII. Also more people died because of poor air craft in the Pacific Theater than actual battle .I thought many times of the pig headed officer who sent that crew up in an air craft that was not fit to fly and wondered what happened to him.
5 I gave this as a gift so I did not read it but was received well by the person I gave it to
5 I'm an avid reader, finishing about two books per week.  Because of this, I like to mix my genres as much as possible, and I've grown weary of novels with little depth. This is why I was thrilled when I saw this one.Admittedly, I was anxious to "get on" with it, wondering at first why Louie's youth was so important to the story. My bad! This has by far been the ABSOLUTE BEST book I've read in years! Louie Zamporini's story is astounding, heartbreaking, and uplifting. it's a MUST READ for anyone. The upcoming movie will certainly be a blockbuster, however it simply cannot cover all the life of this incredible man the way this book does.
5 I never fully understood what the prisoners of war from WWII, Vietnam & the Korean wars had gone through! It sickens me & I think every student should be required to read this book! One of my best reads. A little long, but, very good story!!!
5 I read the book UNBROKEN author LAURA Hillenbrand twice, and for me it is one off my best favorite books!Fantastic and unbelievable but true story.A clear inside how strong suffering became, and how severe the spirits off the soldiers involved were shaken during World war 2.I bought the book again and again, for give away presents at Christmas or birthdays.J.Verberne.
5 It might be thought that the sun shines brightest just after a storm. But, few will ever get the chance to see the sun shine as bright as Louis Zamperini has, because few have seen a storm so dark as his. This page turning story will entice you to believe in miracles and more. Suitable read for high school students to adults. An education, life lesson, and unbelievable story that no one should miss out on.
5 It's hard to imagine the strength and courage and desire to live that coursed through these young men's lives.  It's also hard to believe the cruelty and evil that can also exist.  The writing and research was excellent.
5 Loved this book. I don't know how the prisoners of war could possibly survive all the brutality they encountered in the Japanese war camps. I couldn't put down this book.
5 My father always reminds me that there is always someone out there having a harder time then you. This book just shows you that. Louie Zamperini started off on the wrong foot but managed to soar great heights but only to fall back down and this time right into the depths of hell only to pull out and survive and live a fruitful life. Through his struggles he managed to survive and persevere and every word written in this book will allow you to feel just as he had felt. You will be entranced by the story as many others have been and just I was. I was completely captivated.This journey will open your eyes. It will remind you just how lucky you are and that you should be grateful for the things and people you have in your life. You will also learn about attitude and perseverance. Taking the bad and making it good. I remind myself often nowadays, "Would Zamperini toss in the towel?" and my answer is always, no sir, he would find a way to survive.I strongly recommend reading this book and sharing with family members. Enjoy the here and now.
5 One of the best books I have ever read. Period. Anybody who did not give this book 5 stars should be ashamed.
5 The perseverance of the POW's in absolutely inhuman conditions is something we should all remember when reflecting on our freedom today.
5 This book has everything I look for in non-fiction.  The story is inspiring and the details about WWII are educational.  It is also written so well that it reads like a suspenseful fiction novel.  This is a must read for all audiences.
5 This book held my interest from beginning to end. How in the world this young man survived is beyond me. Starting out as a young man in California to a prisoner of war in Japanese prison camps. These World War II stories really showcase the Greatest Generation. Amazing young man with great spirit and determination. I feel like this book should be required reading in high school and college. To honor all those young men and women who did so much for our country and asked so little in return.
4 This is a story of survival and personal growth.  Edward Herrmann's superb narration of the story in the audio edition is among the best you'll ever hear.  The story vividly describes the brutality to which American POWs were subjected in WWII.
5 This is a very well written and extremely interesting account of a man's struggles and amazing survival against all odds. It certainly opened my eyes to the unbearable suffering inflicted upon American prisoners of war by the Japanese during WWII. The research that the author had to do in order to put together the facts of this compelling account was very impressive. It was a real page turner for me. I highly recommend it.
5 This story is amazing! It was given to me by a friend and he highly recommended it.As I read I kept thinking, "This story can't get any worse," but then, it does!The only motivation to read through to the end was the last word of the subtitle, "redemption." I kept asking "How can this situation be redeemed?"Without spoiling the ending let me say, miracles DO happen.
5 This was such an amazing book, I often had a hard time putting it down.  So educational and humbling. Loved it.
5 Well, in this age of kindle, eBooks, amazon, and a great public library system here in Portland, I read a lot.  But this book honestly, effected me in a very unique way that few books have.  The story is, of course, compelling and breath-taking. The underlying narrative of the subject's inner life and character formation is a fascinating insight into how a person grows through harrowing, unthinkable tragedy and loss, while many others are destroyed by those things.I understand that the author spent 7 years on this work, meticulously researching and verifying the factuality of its episodes.  Thank you, Laura Hildebrand, and THANK YOU, Louis Zamperini, for giving the gift of this story to the world!
5 What an amazing story of an amazing man!  There are so many facets to this book: from juvenile delinquent to track star, the war and airforce background story, his physical survival after the sea crash, his emotional survival as a POW in Japan, overcoming post traumatic stress ...  I can see why Hillenbrand found this just as compelling as her Seabiscuit research.  It's masterfully written, hard to put down, well worth your time and treasure.
5 Wow.  This is a phenomenal book - one of the best I have read in quite some time.  Really well written, engaging, and the pages tell an absolutely amazing story.  I would recommend this book to anyone.  I also learned quite a bit about WWII in the book as well.  Great book, it's really a near-masterpiece.
5 I just finished this wonderful book.This is the best book that I have read in along time.My father was a veteran of World War 11 but he never spoke about it.This book has taught me so much about the war that I didn't know about.I highly recommend this book to everyone.
5 This was a superb book.  A narrative about a man world class runner who joined the Air Force during WWII.  He fought in the Pacific; his plane went down, spent 47 days at sea, was picked up by the Japanese and spends the rest of the war as a POW in Japan.  The man, Louis Zamperini, encountered so many problems during the war that is it truly miraculous that he survived.I was enraptured from the very beginning of the book to the very end.  This book shed additional light on another part of WWII which was the plight of the POW's in Japan.  The cruelty that was met out to the POW's was unbelievable.  That this type of evil was so ubiquitous on so many fronts during the war surely is an indicator of the global darkness that was roaring its ugly head during that time.  To me, that darkness was Satan.  Finally, there was hope and ultimately redemption.  The evil was pushed back and forgiveness was dispensed.I sometimes wonder how people could survive the ordeals that they endured.  While so many fell, many survived and did so by the miraculous.  That Louis almost lost his life back on American soil, reminds me of the relentless attack of evil.  The tormenting that continued to haunt him, almost won. But in the end, there was a re-birth."The paradox of vengefulness is that it makes men dependent upon those who have harmed them, believing that their release from pain will come only when they make their tormentors suffer."This book will go down as one of my all-time favorites.  I love reading about WWII and books that have "hope" as their redeeming quality.  The language (swearing) in the book was very mild with only a couple of instances of it.  Overall a great, true life story.
5 Extremely well written, one is enmeshed in the grave trials of some WWII soldiers who suffered the war's worst experiences.  This is story of a will to live that few people I know will ever face.  I can honestly say I am not sure I would have survived these experiences and I am glad I have not had to face them.  It is an interesting yet troubling read that I could not put down.
4 ~This World War II story about Louie Zamperini's incredible life is a true tale of survival, resilience, liberation, recovery and forgiveness.Beginning with Louie's rebellious youth, and moving into his years as an Olympic athlete, we quickly learn that Mr. Zamperini has incredible determination and strength. "From earliest childhood, Louie had regarded every limitation placed on him as a challenge of his wits, his resourcefulness, and his determination to rebel." It very well may have been these early characteristics that kept him alive during the greatest darkness of his life.After Louie enlisted in the Army Air Corps, he was stationed in Hawaii.  He was the bombardier of a B-24 when it went down over the Pacific during a search mission.  The pain and hell that Louie suffered after this plane crashed is unbelievable. It is almost impossible to conceive that a human could not only endure, but live through what these soldiers lived through for years.Personally, I found the first half of this book slow and dehydrated.  I'm not sure why as his life from the beginning is interesting enough, the book just simply read too factual and dry. It certainly piqued my interest as I continued to read, and toward the end I admit that I couldn't put it down.
3 I did like this book and I'm glad I read it. I cannot rate it higher than 3 stars because I felt much in the first part of the book read like an autobiography and that the last part jumped around a lot through different decades. It seems as if the end kind of "got away from" the author. Mr. Zamperini's story is, however, amazing and inspiring. It's a story that needed to be told.
2 While the heroic life of Louis Zamperini is well worth telling, Hilderbrand's stilted prose and glacial pacing severely detract from what should be a gripping tale of survival and redemption.  I cannot recommend this.UNBROKEN is divided into three main parts and a short epilogue.  In the first part, we learn about Louis Zamperini the Olympian.  In the second part, we learn of Louis's experience in WWII and his harrowing survival in the Pacific after his bomber has crashed.  The final section details Louis's imprisonment in Japanese POW camps and his eventual release.Obviously, the facts of Louis's life would be tremendous material for a story of heroism, growth, bonding, crushing oppression, rescue, and forgiveness, but Laura Hildebrand gives none of that here.  Instead we receive a straightforward account filled with cardboard depictions of Louis's friends and enemies.  Hildebrand's characterizations are so bland that I would often confuse the names of Louis's fellow inmates.  I would occasionally go back to try and figure out who was who, but eventually, I realized that it didn't matter.In a well-edited book, an author can occasionally overcome flat characters and pedestrian prose, but, unfortunately, Hildebrand compounds this with very poor pacing.  In particular, the chapters on Louis's experience in Japanese POW camps drag on and on with no momentum, change, or insight.Very disappointing given the potential of the material.  In short, do not buy this or borrow from the library.  I'm sure that 80% of this story is on Zamperini's wikipedia page.  There are too many good books to read out there to spend your precious time on this one.
5 From the very first chapter, I found Unbroken to be one of the most remarkable and interesting books I've read this year.  Beginning to end, I spent every free moment I had engrossed in it.  Reading the short synopsis and reviews on Amazon in no way prepared me for what was in this book.  It's more than just a book about survival and redemption.  Unbroken tells a story of not just human strength and resilience, but also of the cruelty and evil that can be found in man.  The abuse Louie and other POWs suffer at the hands of their captors is almost unspeakable, but it would be a dishonor to those that suffered to sugar coat it.  It's impossible to read Louie's story without looking in yourself and questioning your own strength, fortitude, and will to live.  It's been several days since I finished it and I still find my mind drifting to Louie Zamperini's story several times a day.Having never read Seabiscuit, I was unsure what to expect from the author.  I found Hillenbrand's style to be remarkably smooth and easy to read.  The book moves briskly from Louie's childhood to his Olympic performance to a raft in the middle of the Pacific.  In just a few fairly short chapters, Hillenbrand manages to paint a picture of Zamperini so vivid that you feel like you know him as well as a member of your own family.  Having obviously done thorough research, she deftly mixes in anecdotal tales and numerical evidence that enhances Louie's story flawlessly.  If I had one complaint it would be that at times it feels like not enough detail is given or enough time is spent on a given subject.  In hindsight, though, the story is so large that it really pushes the page count already.  Too much time on one given time or event could have really caused the book to drag.A note for Kindle users - I read this book on my Kindle and was happy to find that all photos and maps are included.  There are a small number for footnotes in every chapter and the links for all of them worked correctly.  It seems like the publishers throw out buggy, unedited junk for many eBook titles out there, but this one was definitely worth the purchase.
5 The book was excellent.  His story of being a POW in Japan during WWII was just heart rending.  He experienced so much cruelty.  It was fun to read in his book of places in the LA area that I knew as I was growing up there.  Written so well!!
4 Just a personal preference - some of the heartwrenching areas of the book could be broken up with something from back home --Just to give a break.  Some ladies at book club didn't think it needed so much detail.  But it is a true story and it was war.  Difficult to deal with at times.  Overall, however, it is an inspiring story of courage, attitude, hope, strength of body, mind and soul...(I own the hardback version)
5 Story of a former Olympic athlete who spent time in a Japanese POW camp during WWII.  Story at the end, for me, was really more about the resilience of the human spirit than just of the body surviving all of the deprivation it was exposed to.  As a true story that can be looked up there is no ending to &#34;give away&#34;.  Exciting, novel like read.  A couple of &#34;take-aways&#34; for today:  when Louie is finally released from the POW and returned to his home the biggest ordeal and the one the nearly finishes him is not the physical hardship he has to overcome but the mental and emotional.  Today we call this PTSD and probably do not accord it so much effect as it has, just because we cannot always see it.  The demons of prior experience are not gone just because they are apparently covered up.  The second was the example of the lesson from Viktor Frankl, that while you do not always have full control over your body and what you must do, you retain the final freedom which is the control of your mind, your dignity, and your ability to choose your response to situations.  This may be a difficult lesson for many to accept but becomes the only one that provided true peace.
5 Perhaps the greatest story of perseverance in the face of horrific brutality that I have ever read. The forgiveness that was extended to the prison guards moved me beyond words. Captivating read that spoke deeply about redemption and integrity.
5 This is one of the best books I have ever read hands down! I enjoyed the writing style, character development, characters, and story. The details provided about Louie and everyone around his was amazing. The danger of this book is that once you pick it up, you may not be able to put it down. I'm ready to read it again!
5 Books that are rated as five-star are typically over-rated. In this case, I wish I could give it a sixth star.The story of a ne'er-do-well boy from suburban Los Angeles who finally finds himself is spell-binding. I was miserable every time I had to let go of the book. Hillenbrand is an outstanding writer.It helps the reader to understand a little of the historical significance. If they did not know about Hitler's reception of Jesse Owens at the 1936 Olympics, they would not understand how significant it was in the way he greeted Louis. If they knew nothing about the Japanese barbarity of its prisoners of war, they would be completely unprepared for those scenes.If I have any critique, it would be that Hillenbrand skipped through Louis' life after his return to the United States. In the interviews with Louis and his family when the book was first published, that part of his life was as significant and thrilling as the earlier part.Most book clubs are reading this, or have already read it, which is a great thing. Keeping history alive is difficult, and with this book, Ms Hillenbrand has done the impossible and put us in the middle of it.
3 It was ok... not a re-read by any means.The story of the WWII combat was very well done.  The story of the abuse was horrific... but after he got rescued, the writing and depth of the story went downhill.  The return to the US from Japan was almost anti-climactic.
5 Unbroken is a book to be read, and reread and discussed over and over again.Hillenbrand's extremely well researched and massively detailed book tells the story of Louie Zamperini. A man with an interesting personality to begin with, Louie survived ordeals that would have finished most people off.  When it looks like tan incident is the worst thing that could happen to him there is a moment of....But wait!  That wasn't the worst of it and the story is off telling another terrible event.An Olympic runner in 1936 Louie ended up in the Army Air corp as a bombardier over the Pacific during WWII.  When their plane crashed he and 2 other men were in a raft for more than a month.  On land at last Louie was captured by the Japanese and held in work camps for the duration of the war.  Louie's "bring it on" attitude caused his jailers to hate him even more and his punishment was unbelievable.After being freed Louie faced demons for many years until a chance encounter with Billy Graham helped him turn his life around.I found this book to be compelling, endlessly interesting, and fascinating.  I could not stop turning the pages, wanting to see what could possibly happen to Louie next. Everything about the story was interesting and educational while still being extremely readable.  I learned about flying a B24, and details of WWII that I had not learned before.  I read details of the treatment of POWs that I had not known before.I must  ponder  why  Louie survived when so many others didn't.  What part of his upbringing and genetic makeup made him so resilient that he was able to withstand the punishment, thirst, starvation and deprivation that he did?Hillenbrand gives quite a bit of thought to this subject of why the Japanese treated the POWs so badly.  There are many reasons to be considered.  It has been obvious in years past that people put in power over others can become overwhelmed with the desire to prove themselves to their prisoners, turning into monsters that they themselves could hardly recognize.  Something about the Japanese personality made these men fail to understand why the westerners behaved so differently from the Japanese.  In many ways the Japanese were simply following orders and were afraid not to do what they were told.This would be an excellent book for students of history to read, and for reading groups to discuss.
5 I read this kindle-based book a month ago and still cannot talk about it, because I get so enraged at how men abuse men. I do not think there are too many women who would torture men as depicted in this true story. That's all I can say, but if you don't believe me, read the book and judge for yourself.
5 One of the best books I've ever read about an amazing man.
5 I just finished this book.  It takes your breath away, scares the hell out of you, written by a gifted and talented writer & makes you weep for the men who serve our country & end up as POWs or MIA.  I will never be the same after reading this book. I salute the men who have endured through the extremities of war and give my deepest gratitude for the sacrifices they've made for our freedom(s).I am interested in reading the unpublished memoir of Phil (Allen).
3 This book was supposed to be a best seller so I expected to really enjoy it.  I love biographies and anything about World War II.  However, I was not able to get into this book and never enjoyed it.
5 Although I enjoy good fiction, I prefer to read non-fiction - real stories about real people.  This is exceptional!  I learned so much about the life of our troops during the war.  They are, indeed, real life heroes.  And - Lauara Hillenbrand is the superb storyteller!
5 I got this book after reading the astounding reviews and loved every part of it. It is researched with diligence and the 10 years of work Hillenbrand put into the book is highly visible. I highly recommend this book for people of each and every walk of life.
5 Yet another true life story that will keep you reading and reading!! I'm in love with Louie and can't wait for the movies!! Amazing what this man endured and his spirit was never broken!! This is a MUST read!!
4 There are many aspects that make this book a great read: It focuses on World War II's Pacific Theater, it documents a man who - hopefully - in time can be relegated to the halls of American heroes mentioned in history books, and it's compiled by a writer who has established her ability to capture the struggles of those who pushed through the Depression followed by selfless service in the second world war. Why the four star rating? With all the positives, there are some reservations that clouded the story.World War II's generation earned the moniker of &#34;the greatest generation&#34; because of the willingness to fight multiple fascist leaders' oppression around the world. There was no real second-guessing by citizens as America pressed into a wartime machine that arguably changed the course of the war. Because of this, World War II has a romaticism about it. It's the last great chivalrous time in history. Soldiers marching off to battle Hitler in Europe and Tojo in the Pacific mirror knights marching off into battle in the Medieval times. The Theater that always receives the most romanticism is the European Theater. The 101st Airborn, the B-17, the P-51, D-Day, VE Day, all dominate our mind when one is asked to think about World War II. Oftentimes people overlook Saipan or Wake Island. The only two aspects people can think of when pressed to mentions Pacific headlines would be Pearl Harbor and the two bombs over Hiroshima and Nagasaki.This is why it is important that a mainstream book emerges to refocus our attention to the Pacific. Men who fought at Iwa Jima and Guadalcanal got to read headlines about Victory In Europe Day as a sort of back-page importance because of the hell they were enduring. The War might have been over for a majority of men in Europe, but it certainly wasn't over for the Pacific soldiers.One of those men is Louie Zamperini who flies the rickety, unreliable, and oafish B-24 Liberator. It follows his experience from a bombing campaign, a plane crash, POW internment, and beyond. His will to survive several difficult (there is no word to describe what he endured) situations is remarkable. There are times where a reader has to put the book down and let the information sink in to fully understand what has happened to a human being in such a short time. Zamperini plunges into dark times in his life more than once and it's his coping skills that change each time. The book suggests that Zamperini's fame as a track star helps him at times, but it also hurts him at other times. This man has led quite a life, and readers are lucky to be able to track his life experiences in a mere 400 pages.Zamperini definitely picked the correct writer to chronicle his survival. Hillenbrand's style holds us in suspense throughout much of the book. Zamperini's struggles begin early and the reader can't be blamed for apprehension because of the sizable amount of pages remaining suggest even more difficult times lay ahead. As the reader charges toward the end of the book, one seeks several unanswered questions and a little bit of anxiety is what drives the final few pages. Hillenbrand's voice keeps us going on a story that demands an equal writer to capture this story.The recent style of criticism for novels (and movies) to not be 100% accurate could be the book's (and possibly the movie's) undoing. Critics have commented on movies for not reflecting the true nature of how things are in real-life and stories are nit-picked for even the slightest inaccuracy. Even Michael Shaara's The Killer Angels is considered historical fiction because of filled-in conversations that were created through educational guesses. His story of Gettysburg can't be too far from the truth, but still it can only ogle the non-fiction section from across the aisle. This story feels on par with The Killer Angels, but it is non-fiction.The four stars (or non-five stars) considers several scenes in the book that defy what may have happened. Since the reader is going off of Zamperini's storyline (and indeed Hillenbrand states his stories check out) it's hard to dispute anything he says. But it's hard to accept scenes, specifically on the raft, in the manner presented. Zamperini's punching a shark under water, or the constant waiting sharks lead the reader to believe that the sharks had an understanding of some survival situation. In other words, it felt as if the sharks were waiting for these men to die so they could eat (as if there's nothing else in the ocean for the sharks to consume) their flesh. Other instances such as the sharks finally jumping into the raft defies rationale. Moving onto land, there is a feeling of rapid time movement. Zamperini is mentioned to be near death, but then the next scene will be much later in a time line and he's twice as physical. It's because of these inaccuracies that critics may be turned off to this book (and the movie which is coming out later in 2014).Despite the overshadowing questions, this book should be read by every American. This generation is disappearing quickly and our next generation will exist in a world without World War II survivors who can tell their stories. That will be a time of great loss to our country. Zamperini's story in the Pacific carries more clout because it refocuses our attention to an oft-forgotten front. The book certainly shows that Zamperini was a great hero. It shows that he was extremely lucky to have survived in Japan during the War. It also shows a tremendous relief when B-29s make an appearance. Hopefully this book leads people to reading other stories about World War II's Pacific Theater. It certainly makes a good introductory story to get the next generation interested in studying this corner of history.
5 I like to read true stories about peoples life's. My father was a medic over in England during WWll but he never spoke about the warto us kids. Even though I found parts of this book hard to read I was fascinated by the survival technics of many of these brave men. The cruelty of humans treating other humans so horrible is hard to understand. But I learned something about our past history that I think should be taught in our schools. We owe our freedoms to these brave men and the women who stayed home and helped build their planes.
5 Maybe this book should be called, "Breathless," because that's how I felt reading it. How much can one man endure? This book never lets up, yet the story kept drawing me forward, engaging me, making me marvel at these WWII POWs' powerful will to survive.A possible new subtitle could be, "What It Took For a Seeming Superman To Be Captured By God." Zamperini dedicated his life to God on one of the 47 days he spent drifting on a leaky raft in the Pacific Ocean. He forgot about that commitment, however, until years after his ordeal was over. If God had not broken through his resistance, we would not be reading this book, because he would have died, long ago, of alcoholism. Louis Zamperini inspires me and points me to the love of God.
5 I couldn't put it down after just a few pages.  I wish it was not a true story, as it is heart wrenching to know this really happened to people.
5 I could not put this book down. I cannot believe one man went through all of this! I have recommended this book to so many people I lost count!
5 This was a book I struggled to put down. Such an amazing story that it is hard to believe all this happened to one man. The author has clearly done her homework given the detail she brings to the story. Very enjoyable.
5 Such an important time in our history. There is no wonder these people were called &#34;The Great Generation&#34;. It is unbelievable what the human will and God can do.
5 Beautiful. Reverent. Very well written and researched book. Cannot stop recommending this one over and over.
5 Hildebrand brought all the people in this book to life for me. Am astounded at the level of suffering and abuse that these men survived. Was a gripping read. Highly recommend.
5 I read this a few years ago and I was in absolute awe of this man - Louis Zamperini.  In his early life he was a US Olympian and later his plane crashed (1943).  Then. a POW for two years.His death made me truly sad this afternoon as he was one of those warriors that also do not like to talk about their experiences! In an interview a few years ago, he said &#34;3 Purple Hearts - what for?&#34;.  &#34;I have seen so many others that deserve it more than myself&#34;.RIP Mr. Zamperini and I look forward to Jolie's movie that will depict this great hero.  A wonderful reminder that this man is what the 4th of July is truly about....Most highly recommended.
5 Several people had recommended this book to me and I finally got around to reading it.  The story is amazing - it reads like a novel, which the best non-fiction does.  The power of the human spirit and the will to survive is illustrated in so many ways.  While the story was primarily about Louis Zamperini's experiences as a POW in WWII, I was just as intrigued with the stories of Phil, the pilot who was captured with him and others he met in the POW camps.  When you read something like this, there is no question this was the greatest generation.  The fact that any of the POWs who survived were able to resume "normal" lives and to forgive what was done to them is incredible. This is one of the best books I have read in years and I highly recommend it.
4 Get ready for quick read that is hard to believe about a great man that can teach much.World war 2 was good against evil.
3 Hillenbran is a great story teller.  That bring said, this was a hard story to hear.  Inspiring but hard to get through at several points.
4 My husband and I listened to the audio version of Unbroken over several weekend trips.  Read by Edward Hermann, this was an inspirational true story that we both enjoyed.Louis Zamperini's story is well known, but how he lived his life was something else.  A prankster in his youth, Louie had fun stealing food from his neighbors and evading capture.  He later used that talent for speed competing in the Berlin Olympics.  His determination to succeed against many more experienced runners would serve as the basis for the mental strength needed to survive against what was soon to come.When the war began shortly after, Louie joined the Army and became a bombardier on a B-24 bomber.  His plane crashed, and he survived for more than 40 days at sea through his amazing ingenuity.  Unfortunately, he was captured by the Japanese and ended up a prisoner of war for over two years.Louie had many hardships being a POW.  The brutality he experienced was just horrifying.  But he had a strong will to survive and help from others when he needed it most.It was hard to not feel emotional when reading this story.  While I'm not a fan of nonfiction or stories about war, this was so much more than that.  It was about the survival of an incredible individual who just never gave up.Unbroken was a fantastic book and I'm only knocking off a star because it could have been less detailed.
5 I loved the personal story as well as the historical aspect of this book! It was a sad, sad story, but the writing was phenomenal. Great read!
5 If i had a special shelf for the best books i've ever read, then this book will surely find it's place here&#34;Never give up&#34; is the first thing I can think of when i see this book. The story of a man who was to stubborn to say &#34;i've had enough&#34; and just give up life.A full package inside on man comprised of Resilience, determination, endurance and other qualities,I'm not gonna give any spoilers. All I can say is, thank you Mrs Hillendrand for an extraordindary book and to those who didn't read or are still thinking about reading it... DON'T THINK. Just get it.You will not be disappointed
3 This is a story that will really smack a person in the face if they weren't previously aware of POW stories in the Pacific Theatre.  A world-class athlete with Olympic hopes and dreams reduced to a paranoid mass because of vicious conditions is a brutal read.  The choppy writing of "Unbroken" makes this brutal read a little more difficult.Generally I thought the story was fine, although not polished.  Some elements are a little difficult to believe (e.g., the main character being taken underwater 1700 feet by his sinking aircraft before miraculously escaping the tangle of wires - 1/3 of a mile, but no bends on resurfacing; heck, he didn't drown...  how'd that work?).  It just takes one very suspicious story element to make you doubt others - creates distractions.I didn't read "Seabiscuit", but the acclaim that story received made me want to read "Unbroken" as the subject matter appealed to me more than a race horse did.  It was just OK.  I don't expect Disney to follow-up with a movie - this one is not family matinee fare.
5 Practically every conceivable human emotion will be felt as one flies through this extremely well-written account of a true tale of unfathomable resilience.
5 Itsa book that should be required in high School. There is a lot in the book that shows the extent of human ability to survival and the extent of human crulity and how giving up is truly for cowards.
5 If not for so much documented historical research, the events of Louis Zamperini's life would seem unbelievable. After a life of mischief as a boy turned Olympic runner, he proceeds to join the military during WWII and becomes a bombardier involved in a number of bombing raids. While on a rescue mission, his plane crashes and he survives for weeks on a life raft. He and 2 other members of the plane's crew floated on the raft with scant provisions, dehydration, sharks and enemy fire to deal with. They are finally picked up by a Japanese ship and subsequently placed in a POW camp.While imprisoned, they undergo torture incorporating hunger, sickness, dehydration, and both psychological and physical abuse, much at the hands of a man called The Bird. The Bird took special pleasure in tormenting Zamperini and made his life horrific while a prisoner. Incredibly, as the date for their mass execution approaches, the war comes to an end and they are released.When Zamperini returns to the U.S., he is hailed as a hero come back from the dead and gets married shortly afterward. He then proceeds to flounder from one job to the next and sinks into alcoholism as he deals with the horrors of war. With his marriage on the rocks, a seemingly random interaction with a neighbor, introduces them to the evangelist Billy Graham who was holding meetings in Los Angeles at that time.After his wife attends without him, he grudgingly joins her at a later date. He is unable to shake the pull of God on his life and becomes a Christian. Through this experience he finds peace and is subsequently able to forgive his captors and move on with life, becoming a Christian speaker and eventually starting a camp for troubled youth.Hillenbrand did a remarkably thorough job of researching Zamperini's life and the surrounding events in great detail. The book reads  like a novel rather than dry non-fiction. I highly recommend the book as an outstanding account of an incredible life.
5 After touring Pearl Harbor on vacation, I bought this for poolside reading to learn more about WWII.  Amazing story, very well written, and a complete inspiration.  When you're finished reading it, search YouTube for the CBS interview done for the 1998 Nagano Olympics of Louis Zamperini.  It goes through the whole story in the book in about 30 minutes and includes interviews with Zamperini and many of the POWs, as well as one infamous Japanese guard described in the book.
5 When SEABISCUIT the book swept the publishing world and eventually went on to success as a feature film, many were left asking, "What's next for Laura Hillenbrand?"  Could she top or at least equal her brilliant biography about America's most beloved horse?  Well, Andru Reeve is here to answer that question with an emphatic YES.UNBROKEN is riveting, compelling and filled with plenty of gripping moments of drama.  Others have delved into the plot already, so I will simply add my voice to the thousands of others who HIGHLY RECOMMEND this latest biography from one of America's newest writing stars.--- Andru Reeve
3 &#34;Unbroken&#34; was a good enough read (although there seems to be plentiful exaggeration of the hero's role as a god) until Louie's release and return to the United States.  I was left with the impression that the author tired of writing and started trying to wrap things up as rapidly--and implausibly--as possible.  To wit--Louie starts drinking heavily then visits Billy Graham's tent twice and then is converted and then gives up all forms of sin including rock and roll and then goes to church and then returns to Japan and then forgives all his captors and then carries the Olympic torch and then lives happily ever after--whew, end of story.I'm not particularly amused to learn that Zamperini was already writing a book on his adventures when this one was written but, however things came to be (and all parties seem happy with the result), this was otherwise a...decent read.
5 Great story. Great ending. Told with detail that reads like fiction. Plenty of twists. Best thing is that it's true.
3 Just my own personal take on this bestseller...incomprehensible and unbelievable.The courage of our fighting men never fails to amaze me.  Along with 'saints', 'martyrs' and heroes...riveting accounts hold us spellbound.However, I found Unbroken's story of Louis Zamperini and all of the information, so very detailed and precise, beyond my realm of acceptance.Throughout Louis Zamperini's life, and his service to his country, all is retold in detail...down to who said what and when.  This is thru being afloat perilously on an illequipped, starving, sunblishtered, dehydrated with sharks continuing to circle for weeks on end.Then to go to one POW camp after another to face even more untold physical abuse, punishment, disease, starvation and beyond inhumane treatment.Can anyone survive such torture and have such a vast memory...even upon being bludgeoned in the head constantly?Friends and family, past veterans, reluctantly speak of their ordeal.  They are forever changed with a vulnerability and history that no one can truly fathom.If indeed, this story is true...Louis Zamperini is the most amazing man to walk the earth.
5 One of the best books that I have ever read.  It is made all the more interesting (and sad) knowing that it is a true story.  The book is about the struggle for life through horrendous conditions at sea and other equally as horrific experiences (I don't like to divulge too much about a story in my review).  I am, again, amazed at the human spirit and the ability to mostly overcome such tragedies.  I highly recommend this book.  It is a big one, so it is probably easiest to download to Kindle rather than carry it around (which I did before I had my Kindle App).  I believe it was this very book that reignited my love for reading and was the impetus to purchase my Kindle enabled device.
5 Gave this to my husband and he couldn't put it down.  He was sosad to see what he went through, but glad that he made it through.
5 Well-written, nail-biting, page-turner! You can't help but wonder if it's all true, but it is! Plan to read it again!
5 This is an riviting story about an athlete who was captured by the Japanese in WW11.  He overcame impossible odds to survive in a prison camp where he was starved and beaten.  It's such an amazing story of survival and the human spirit and also a story of forgiveness.  Anyone who is going through a very difficult time should read this book.  I know it gave me strengh to carry on through a very traumatic event in my life.  The human spirit is amazing!
5 Very absorbing and interesting biography of a WWII soldier. A true picture of an American hero who survived in spite of unbelievable odds.
5 Here is the story of the life of one of God's creations and how all of his talents were gifts to be used for his witness in the end to God's glory.  While I would not want to endure the trials and tribulations of this man, I understand perfectly how he survived and how generous the spirit can be even to our enemies.  Thankfully, Billy Graham, used his God given gifts to impact this man's life and help him to live in peace.  Anita Keays
5 Don't read this if you need to get anything done.  I COULDN'T PUT IT DOWN. WHAT A MAN!!!  I started reading this to my kids.  They were all born and raised in Torrance.  We've driven by the Louis Zamperini Airport numerous times and took Cub Scouts there for field trips, however we never knew his story.  Entire family invested from the beginning.  Loved the history throughout.  Anyway, to make a long story short.  You can't sleep a wink till you've read it all.  Just brilliant!
3 The writing was fine....I just don't evet want to read  about torture that prolonged again. Hard to get out of your mind.
5 This book kept me spellbound until I finished.  What an indredible life to survive.  Our freedom is very precious in American because of people like Pete.  Great book.
5 I couldn't put the book down and couldn't believe what all happened in this man's life.  From Olympic athlete to WWII bombardier, to life raft survivor and then a POW camp.  It breaks my heart what young men went through. Aircraft technology being what it was at that point in history, sadly we lost thousands of men just from plane crashes.Hillenbrand's writing is really compassionate, humorous and informative.  I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  Louis Zamperini is an American hero as are all men and women that serve their country. War sucks.
2 The history portrayed in the book was excellent and very interesting.  The actual writing of the story was quite lacking - about a 3rd grade level.  I would give the subject matter 5* and the writing of it 1* (at most).
3 This is such an in-depth, richly detailed story about American prisoners held by the Japanese during WW II and while it is shockingly sad, it is mostly heroic and a testament to survival.  There was something missing for me.  it just didn't captivate me and even through the worst of the torture and abysmal grinding down of the camps I felt somewhat detached - sort of like I was reading an essay.  I was very impressed with the research and the amazing detail Ms. Hillenbrand was able to gather and I thank her for writing a story that needed to be told.
5 Not the type of book I am normally drawn to read but it had so many postive reviews I picked it up. One of the best books I have read.  As you read along you want to share and talk about what you are learning about history, endurance, strength and human nature. This book brings a personal perspective to the war I did not have before. While I already had an appreciation and respect for those that serve and sacrifice for our country, it is deeper now perhaps a better glimpse beyond the surface. My step father was career military and served in WWII but rarely did he talk about it. He has passed now, but I wonder what he would have thought of this book.
5 An absolutely excellent book!! It is riveting and I found it hard to put down, just as in Hillenbrand's "Sea Biscuit," which also was a very good book. I learned so much about WWII and the POW's. I had no idea how absolutely horrible the poor POW's were treated. Terrible, terrible. A tremendous person Louis Zamperini was and 1000's of others as well. I highly recommend this book!
4 I got this book after seeing it on Amazon best sellers and knew very little about it.  What I did find in reading this book is a fascinating insight into a person I had never heard of, and a time in history that I knew about, but not a deep knowledge.  Other reviews have conveyed the details of the book in greater depth, so I will not rehash the storyline here.  But do read the story of Louie Zamperini, from the highs of his Olympic quest through to the incredible lows as a prisoner of war in WWII.You certainly will not be wasting your time with this book - it is incredibly well researched and written in such a way, that you forget you are reading about a real person in history, such is the way the story is conveyed.Highly recommended for readers who like detailed and thorough biographies and great stories.
5 Unbroken tells a story of human endurance, perseverance and resilience, human suffering and man's unspeakable abuse of another. The story touches on Louie's unruly childhood, making it to the Olympics in 1936, enlisting in the Air Force, his plane crashing, suffering a month and a half on a raft only to be taken prisoner and suffering immeasurable torture. Survival. So much human cruelty, humiliation you would think it would surely crush the human spirit! The detail in this book is painful to read. This is beautifully written riveting, inspiring dramatic genius. What seems like a nightmare life may be worth the read to find the possibility of a sensationally uplifting ending.I also love books by Picoult, Kingsbury, Pirrung, Rivers and others who write with the special "touch" to inspire. These are books the world needs more of. We need to bring respect, peace, joy, kindness and understanding back into the world before it's too late.Ann T. Mason
5 This book was recommended by a friend. It is a story of how life happens when you have other plans. My Father was in a plane that crashed into the Pacific Ocean during WWII.. .he was one of two survivors and they were rescued by Filipino fisherman. . . .this book made me realize how different the outcome could have been.  It's a good,informative read and I would recommend it to anyone interested in the aircraft used in the Pacific during WWII and the POW camps... .the author spares no gruesome details and it makes the reader very aware of what these men went through,the miracle of survival and the lasting impact as they returned to postwar life.
5 have this on my kindle... reading it still - am very busy but a great book.  great price and great reading
4 There were times in this book when I simply had to put it down to give my angst a rest because the main character, Louis Zamperini, underwent so much hardship when his plane was shot down by the Japanese in the Pacific and then later as he endured the tortures of being a POW.  However, i was always driven to resume reading just to find out the ending.  It was worth it!
5 Lest we forget to horror of the Pacific war & Japanese atrocities committed on American soldiers and civilians, a must.
3 I thought this was a great story for the most part.  I liked it until I came to the end where he &#34;got religion&#34; and the book becomes preachy.  Kind of ruined it for a pagan like me.
5 This is an amazing story about a common American who survived extraordinary wartime scenarios.  Some parts are absolutely unbelievable but this story goes into what Americans used to be and their will to survive and contribute to an amazing nation.
5 I read this in pretty much a solid day. The story is utterly addictive. I had no idea who Louie was. What he did. What he had accomplished. What his struggles were. Laura wrote this biography in what could only be described as 'brilliance'.From growing up, his family unity and coherence, into war - then his years as a POW. Completed by the resounding recovery from post-war to today. Louie is a symbol of strength for all others to strive towards in their life, in my opinion.
5 An extraordinary way to remember the sacrifices of so many young men that fought for us so we could be free.God save their souls.
5 unbelievable but true story, very well written. Laura HIllenbrand does not disappoint, once again. Reads like a novel. highly recommended
5 I'm a big reader and few books touched me the way this book did.  What an absolutely amazing story of the life of Louie.  I recommed this to EVERYONE!
5 I have to admit that this book simply blew my socks off. It was a little difficult to read if considering all the horrible things that this man dealt with. I could not put this book down, Laura Hillenbrand really upped the ante with her follow-up to Seabiscuit.
5 I rated this five-star because people, especially the 18-40 or so, need to know about this part of world history.  Laura Hillenbrand's writing kept my interest, and I've read many WWII books, and didn't make things sound dramatic.  I knew I was reading about some horrible things that human beings did to each other, but there was hope.  I recommend it to anyone who wants to understand people of the world and their respective histories with each other as people and as countries.
5 Laura Hillenbrand did a wonderful job writing about Louis Zamperini's life. All the research and historical facts are there, but it reads so easily like she is telling a story. I could not put this book down! I thought the description of the ordeal in the raft was excellent! I felt like I was in that raft myself. Such great story telling!I can' t believe what this man has gone through, and he survived it all. The human body and mind is truly amazing. I felt stronger after reading this amazing book.
5 The book is a true story and it is very well written. I read it in three days and would definetly recommend it. In  fact I have already recommended it to friends.
5 This story would have been phenomenal even told by a poor writer, but this one added a lovely poignancy with her words. I loved every page!!
5 Not only is this true story amazing in itself, but the author has told it in a way that held my interest and kept me turning pages.  She has also added several facts that astounded me (e.g., the poor safety of earliest WWII plane models).  This book helped me appreciate more what my uncle went through as a WW II bomber pilot.  I highly recommend this book to others.
5 I cannot get this book out of my mind. I read it in a day and resented phone calls and any other interruptions. I kept checking to see if this was a real story or an invented one. It says it's a real story and that's truly humbling. It's brutally violent in parts but somehow uplifting. The writing is as compelling as the story. I would like to believe that parts of the story were embellished for literary reasons but I'm afraid that some things were actully left out. Redemption is truly what makes this story readable, believable, and unforgettable. Not for the faint of heart.
5 Oh my goodness! I don't know where to start. The use of the word 'redemption' in the title of this book is very key, and really the main point. While there are Christian themes in this book, they are quite light-handed and very well delivered. Louis is the sort of guy that I admire, even before the redemption that I'm so keen on.What I love:*The audience is enormous. I can hardly imagine a group of people that I wouldn't expect to enjoy this book, except maybe for teen girls.*Louis has a lot of character, and grows more as the book progresses.*The history is really cool.*It's a true story.*The moments of release for POWs. I cried.Things that I didn't love:*After the capture of Louis and Phil the story really slows down. It's a true story, so it would be difficult to cut it down, but in a novel I would call for this part to be shaved down a bit.*While I loved the epilogue, it was very long!
5 No one can accuse Laura Hillenbrand, author ofSeabiscuit: An American Legend, of ever doing a half-effort job of research when she writes narrative nonfiction. Spending seven years on this effort, the Author has produced one of the most detailed stories of an American POW being held by the Japanese during World War II that I have ever read. With the many interviews with the subject during her research, along with interviews of family members, other POW's and their families, reading over unpublished memoirs, personal letters, and military documents, it would have been easy for this book to have become a long drawn-out and sterile narrative that would read like a text book. Instead we're treated to a captivating and at times heart-wrenching story that takes a group of unknowns and present them in a way that you truly come to know them.The subject of the book is Louis Zamperini, whose life would have been an interesting read even before the events during WWII. A relatively trouble child who stole everything in sight, he grows up to become one of the greatest track stars of his time, shattering the national high school record in the mile and becoming one of the youngest members of the U.S. Olympic team in 1936. Many felt that Zamperini would become the first person to break the four minute mile. With the onset of the war, he was drafted into the Army Air Force and became a bombardier assigned to the semi-unreliable B-24. After surviving a number of bombing missions against Japanese targets his plane goes down in the middle of the ocean while searching for another downed plane. What follows is a story of survival by sheer will, first being adrift at sea for 46 days and then spending over two brutal years as a POW in Japan.Hillenbrand takes us step-by-step through the events, introducing us to other Allied prisoners as well as a number of the Japanese guards and personnel. Her descriptions of the brutality Louie, as well as other prisoners, went through are very detailed and heart-wrenching. His daily beatings from a guard known as "The Bird" would have been enough to break anyone but Zamperini endured each one. One thing I found interesting is not only did she name names of the guards that tortured the prisoners mercilessly she also did not shy away from pointing out the Japanese personnel who did their best to shield the prisoners even at the risk of their own safety. Then after the war the Author takes us through the post-traumatic years as Zamperini's life spirals downward, and his eventual rebirth as he learns forgiveness and peace.I would highly recommend this to those looking for an inspiring story of, as the sub-title of the book says, "Survival, Resilience, and Redemption." Just be aware, a large portion of the story will focus on the brutality and suffering inflicted on the POW's by the Japanese war machine. It can be at times a very disturbing and difficult narrative to read, one that can bring tears to your eyes. It is both one of the best books of the WWII POW experience I've read, and one of the most troubling.
5 if you only read one book this entire year, make it this one. this is the story of a man who is pushed to limits that exceed most and the coping process after horrors. I don't want to ruin this beautiful book for you, so ill say no more. but make an effort to get your hands on this one and you won't regret it.
5 I'm not usually too interested in biographies, but when I saw how many people had reviewed Unbroken, and how consistently good the reviews were, I decided to give it a go.BEST. DECISION. EVER.I found myself pouring through this book, page after page, chapter by chapter. Apparently it took Laura Hillenbrand seven years to research and write this book, and I can't express how glad I am that she persevered. I enjoyed Hillenbrand's style of write; descriptive, yet to the point and succinct. Her writing was fast paced and the facts were told from multiple sources and viewpoints.I did not realize how little I knew about the Japanese role in WWII until I read this book. Louis Zamperini is truly a remarkable individual. So many roles define him-- Olympic runner, bombardier, prisoner of war, brother, son, friend, husband, father, and most of all, survivor. His life story is inspiring, at times horrifying, but always amazing.I have been recommending this book to anyone who will listen-- and I recommend it to you too!
2 Unfortunately, UNBROKEN reads like a first novel. Hillenbrand uses no transitions to smooth the long citing of facts into the story line. The result is an abrupt shift from one to the other. The focus character too is described as being a jerk in his personal life yet superhuman, as he survives events that the other characters don't.  Although the book is billed as non-fiction, it is comes off as a blend of the movies Chariots of Fire, Life of Pi, and Zero Dark Thirty, ending with a shot from one of Billy Graham's crusades.  All together, this book isn't a good read.
5 Prior to WWII a young rabble-rouser east coast Italian displaced to California learns that he is fast...very fast.  Many people even believed that he would be the first person to break the 4:00 minute mile - a feat not achieved until the 1950s.  Then came the war.  He found himself in the Army Air Corps in a B-24 crew...then while on an ocean search and rescue mission his plane goes down.Thus begins the most amazing and memorable survival story I've read in a long, long time.  It's every bit as compelling asEndurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage, and in many, many ways even more so. After all, the main challenge Shackleton had to overcome was keeping his men alive and getting them home safely after their ship was crushed in the ice during an expedition to the Antarctic.Hillebrand (author of Seabiscuit) tells the true story of overcoming challenges associated with the natural elements while adrift in an inflatable raft AND overcoming the physical, emotional, and even spiritual challenges of man's inhumanity to man as a POW in a culture where surrendering is considered cowardly, un-patriotic, and unforgivable.Hillenbrand's telling is fluid, engaging, and compelling.  My wife actually recommended this book to me...and I'm usually the one reading and recommending real life stories from WWII.This is one of the most amazing books I've read in the past year or so.5 stars all the way!
5 This was a very well written and researched book about an amazing person.  I could not put this down, start to finish.  I cannot recommend it enough.
5 Ms. Hillenbrand has written another winner which I suspect will take at least a few book awards.  The story is complicated, inspiring, heartbreaking and joyful.  A true tale of WWII heroes and an expose of the conditions of Japanese POW camps.  I read the book in 3 days and enjoyed every minute of it.  I cannot recommend it highly enough.  Enjoy!
5 If the Olympics interests you or history or WWII this book is excellent.  But the biggest reason to read Unbroken is self education.  If you have ever been wronged, and who hasn't, have you lived with revenge eating at your gut like a fox under your shirt, this book can motovate you to end the self-flaggeration. Laura Hillenbrand is an absolute outstanding story teller and researcher. She does not waste a word and cuts to the chase in every sentence. Louie Zamperini,the great athlete and POW, learns in the end that all battles are within ones self. This book should be required reading for high school students, and just about every other group I can imagine.This is one of the best books I have ever read and is in itself a great teacher.
4 Good read of a life experience that had some meaning. That ought to be enough words. I write concisely. So thats it.
5 Amazing and unreal almost to hear of this experience both our military and POWs went through. What a strong man Louie was and all those who fought beside him. Incredible story.
5 The human body is a wonderful machine. We think we know our bodies and what they are capable of. But very few of us end up in situations that put this knowledge to a real test. Louie Zamperini is one of these few people. Laura Hillenbrand tells his amazing story in "Unbroken".Born in 1917 Louie grew up in Torrance, California, as a son to Italian immigrants. He had a chaotic childhood, getting into trouble for petty theft, bullying and general misconduct. But he was a natural athlete, breaking the record for the one mile run in 1934. He ended up on the US Olympic team to the Berlin games in 1936, competing in the 5,000 metre race. He finished eighth, but his finishing lap was so spectacular that it earned him a personal meeting with the Fuhrer. Leaving that meeting, Zamperini stole Hitler's personal flag.Zamperini's athletic career came to an end in 1941 after he enlisted in the US Air Force and trained to become a bombardier in the B-24 bomber. He was sent to the Pacific arena. On one of his early missions, the aircraft he was in, Green Hornet, crashed into the Pacific ocean, about 800 miles west of Hawaii. Of the eleven people on board only Zamperini and two others survive the crash.Here begins an unbelievable story of endurance and courage. Zamperini and his friends drift for 47 days (!) in the ocean, surviving on rain water and fish and birds they manage to catch, all the while fighting off sharks and trying not to drown in storms. One of his mates doesn't make it, but Zamperini and the pilot reach the Marshall Islands, where they were captured by the Japanese. As if the trial at sea wasn't enough, Zamperini now had to endure harsh, sometimes almost deadly, conditions in various Japamese POW camps, until the end of the war. One of his most vicious tormentors was Mutsuhiro Watanabe (aka "the Bird"), later a fugitive war criminal.The book is a breathtaking tale. Hillenbrand's prose manages to convey the feelings of Zamperini during his long and harsh time at sea in as a prisoner. At times the reader is left breathless with the unbelievable sufferings the man has had to endure, while at the same time feeling awe and wonder at how much the human body and spirit can take and yet survive. The fact that Zamperini lived a full and fulfilling life after the war (despite a rough period after returning from captivity), running with the Olympic Torch in the 1998 Winter Olympic games in Japan, is testimony to the willpower and strength of the human spirit. Louie Zamperini, a hero.
5 This book was awesome. It was well written and such an inspiring story! I've never read a non fiction book that I couldn't put down but this was a page turner. Loved it.
1 Obviously a fantastic story, but so written in such a dry and dull manner I just couldn't put any more time into it. Wanted to finish it, but 1/2 way through just wasn't enjoying anything but the story which was too slow in coming.
5 I am old.  I have ready many books, most of which I have forgotten.  I won't forget this book. Unbroken  is just a remarkable book.  Ms Hillebrand follows the main character, Louie Zamperini,  through his experiences as a youth, an Olympic runner, and a combatant and POW in WW II.  All of it is good and engaging, but her writing about his experiences as a POW and the situation with POW's in the Pacific is chilling and unforgetable. I knew there were atrocities committed by the Japaneses, but I had no idea how bad and how pervasive they were.  And, Zamperini's bad experiences almost border on the unbelievable.  Anyway, this book is  as "five starish" as they get.  Unqualified recomendation !
5 I wish I had read this book sooner. It opened my eyes to the reality of war in the pacific and the atrocities that occurred. The book hold your attention from start to finish and doesn't let go. This is a must read!
5 Although this is an excellent personal story of Olympic runner and WWII hero, Louis Zamperini, I was sucked in by the sheer horror of the experiences of POWs in war-time Japan, and the unbelievable will of man to survive unspeakable conditions.Louis Zamperini was an up and coming phenom in track who, at nineteen, competed in the infamous 1936 XI Olympics in Hitler's Germany. He was well on his way to being the man to beat in the 1940 XII Olympics to be held in Tokyo. Due to Japan's aggressive policies in Asia many participants proclaimed that they would boycott the games, prompting the IOC to rescind Japan's host status and reschedule the games for Helsinki, then later cancel the competition completely in 1939, due to the outbreak of WWII. December 7, 1941 and the bombing of Pearl Harbor put Louis' and thousands of other young American's future plans on hold.By May of 1943 Louis, trained as a bombardier in the Army-Air Corps and stationed in Hawaii, left with a crew in a stripped-for-parts B-24 on a rescue mission. They crashed into the Pacific and only three, including Louis survived. One crew member died during the 47 days they all spent on a raft, scrounging for food and water, and fighting back the sharks. They traveled 2,000 miles until they washed ashore on an island occupied by the Japanese and were taken as prisoners. Believe it or not this is where the real story begins.Lieutenant Zamperini and his prison mates withstood daily beatings, starvation, disease, and constant humiliation. Each horrible incident leaves you wondering if this beating, this physical setback, this day without food will be the last straw, the last time that this person gets through and lives on. For more than two years Louis and others endured and fought their captors in any way they could, stealing food, speaking to each other in code, using sabotage at their work details, and, yes, even using humor to get through. This book is an awesome testament to the human spirit.Ms. Hillenbrand has done her research well, recounting Louis' trips to various POW camps, retelling in vivid detail the starvation, beatings, and cruelty of his captors. This is a story not heard near as often as the stories of concentration camps in Europe, although the actions of the perpetrators were just as savage. Lacking a Simon Wiesenthal, Japanese war criminals were given amnesty in the end by the United States government for political expediency because it was decided that Japan was strategic in the "fight" against Communism.This is a "sit on the edge of your seat" read.
5 Since surviving Vietnam I complain less.  However anyone reading this book -- about an individual surviving a plane crash, then more than forty days at sea in an inflatable life raft, then years of brutal treatment as a prisoner of war --  would feel little reason to complain about anything at all.  The author does an excellent job at telling this story.  This is an inspiring and timeless tale of an individual's will to survive, while remaining positive  -- extraordinary.
4 Lots of action, the venue moving from place to place, time to time.  Moving also, for the reader who follows the tale.
5 I cannot add much to the content reviews already posted, except my wholehearted agreement.  Let this book educate you and make you ever more grateful for (1) all you have, and (2) all that our servicemembers have endured for our country.What I want to add -- for all you fans of Audiobooks -- is my strong endorsement of Edward Herrmann's reading.  I commute an hour each way and that's my only time to "read," so I'm constantly hoping a reader will do a book justice, and I'm wary whenever books are not read by the author.  Herrmann is absolutely pitch-perfect here.  Unlike the over-actors or just plain weak performers who bring so many good books down a peg (or more), Herrmann brings just the right intonation to every passage here -- no easy task given the vast emotional range of the book.  He's never maudlin, and he never gets in the way. On the contrary, Herrmann enhances this already epic book.
4 This is a book about the remarkable life of Louis Zamperini, a former Olympic track star, and WWII veteran, who endured unimaginable hardships - first as a survivor of a plane-crash that left him drifting on the Pacific Ocean for forty seven days, and then as a POW in a Japanese concentration camp for two years.  I won't spoil the plot by giving away the ending, but it's an incredible, captivating story.  Beyond the personal narrative of this man, I learned a few things about WWII that I didn't know.  For one thing, I had not realized how brutal the Japanese POW camps were, nor the extent to which the Japanese culture of the time sanctioned violence.There were some things that I didn't like about the book.  The story of Zamperini's internment in the POW camps of Japan is a litany of torture and abuse - with each subsequent event worse than the previous one.  Each instance of abuse is so horrible that the book eventually becomes surreal;  saturated with brutality, the reader is left numb and wondering how the next event can possibly be worse (but it will be).  I also didn't like the Christian overtones that occasionally crept into the narrative.  Obviously if they were part of Zamperini's life, then they deserve mention, but they somehow felt contrived and overly-simplistic.Nonetheless, a good book, well worth a read.
5 I enjoyed this book because of the human interest.  It was thought provoking and truthful for the times.  I especially appreciated the forgiveness and love that was well demonstrated.  Very tough truths.
5 I usually read books that are light and easy on my emotions but the subject matter in this book was difficult and held me spellbound at the same time. My parents were children of the 2nd world war and Unbroken helped put the war into context for me. I would highly recommend Unbroken even if you're not a history buff.
5 A gripping tale of survival on the sea and in POW camps. Attention needed to be brought to the war in the pacific and Ms. Hillenbrand does it suberbly!
5 This is an excellent copy of one of my favorite books. Though 'Used', this volume appeared to be new and was a bargain at the asking price. Thanks so much! Now I can give it as a gift!
5 I will keep my review short as there are almost 750 others here and don't want to repeat what has already been said.  Other than... this is hands down an amazing book.  when I wasn't reading it (working, eating, sleeping) I thought about it.  And now, after I am done, still think about it.  About Louie, Phil and all the other brave and amazing men and what they went through for us, their families and most importantly, themselves - just simply surviving.  It should be REQUIRED reading in the schools.  It is simply that good.  Enjoy!!
5 While on a rescue mission to save his buddies on a downed B-24, Zamperini's own B-24 - The Green Hornet - is forced into the Pacific.  Only 3 members of The Green Hornet survived that crash.  After 47 days adrift on the Pacific surviving on very little food and/or water, circling sharks looking for an easy meal, rough seas and Japanese pilots taking target practice at their raft, only 2 crew members of The Green Hornet ultimately survive.  Believing their ordeal at sea has finely come to an end when they site an abandoned atoll, they're captured by the Japanese, where they barely survive the cruel treatment of their captors.Unbroken was very well researched and gives the reader a look at what the war for pilots of B-24s was like in the Pacific.  It also tells the story of those unfortunate to have become POWs of the Japanese.  Hillenbrand's research calls out that this fact.  Of the 34,648 Americans held captive by the Japanese, 12,935, or 37%, died at the hands of their captors never returning home to their families and loved one.  She compares this unnecessary human suffering to American POWs held captive by the Germans and Italians, where 1% of these POWs died at the hands for their captors.Unbroken is a book that speaks to the souls of those who didn't survive the war,  the lives cut short and stories never told.  A must read of true American heroes.  God Bless them.
5 Okay, I wasn't really there witnessing one of WWII's greatest heroes, Louie Zamperini, but I felt like I was, such is the ability of Laura Hillenbrand to rivet readers to the page and bring her stories richly to life.I love the way the various plot threads are knit together to form a perfect narrative in this book.  I appreciate the talent it takes to create the tension on each and every page and I couldn't get through "Unbroken" fast enough.  It started out being a commuter read and ended up consuming Friday night into Saturday morning.  Granted, Ms. Hillenbrand has much to work with here (having heard about Louie Zamperini while doing research on "Seabiscuit"), and it is to her credit that she hardly (never) puts a foot wrong when presenting the material to the reader at its best advantage.I hope she's working on her next one.  As far as I'm concerned, "Unbroken" is THE read of 2011.
5 An inspiring story of overcoming and triumph despite circumstances that could have ruined or ruled this mans life. It's impossible to feel sorry for bad circumstances in your own life when you realize what this man went thru.
3 This book was very well written, but I wouldn't recommend it to any friend unless they loved history. I truly felt what it was like to be a POW and I don't ever want to go through that.It wasn't a warm feel good book, but it was 'good' if that makes any sense.
5 I cannot recommend this book highly enough. It is a celebration of the human spirit, and at the same time it shows just how depraved we humans can be when we turn on one another. It's a true story that reads like a novel. It is worth your time. I expect it will be made into a movie, though I haven't heard that. I would not wait for the movie if I were you. Just read it.Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption
5 very fast read. inspirational story of what the human body, mind and spirit can bear. humanized PTSD. very informative and attention holding.
5 Read this book in two days, could not put it down. You have recaps of the story in many reviews contained here, suffice to say is it an amazing story of an amazing human being. Not usually a "war story" fan, I will now seek out other books that tell the stories of the many men and women who sacrificed so much. Laura Hillenbrand is an amazing story teller and even when dealing with difficult subject matter, does it in a way that makes you want to read more and not recoil from the details. Get this book and find a comfortable chair, you'll be there for a while!
5 Fascinating account of the resilience of man.  The hardships and cruelty endured by American prisoners of war was hard to read and hard to believe.  The phrase, "Greatest Generation" is no exaggeration.Who Put the Poop On Perkins' Porch?
5 What a wonderful well written book! It's such a heart breaking subject to write about, but to do it in such a way that you have a hard time putting the book down till you get to the last page is done by a very special author!The subject's life is so unbelievable, I can't understand why nothing was writtrn about him way before now.I only hope that when the movie(which I'm sure will happen)is made, it'll be true to the real story and not a "Hollywood" version.
5 I read many books and there are only a handful of books that I would even consider giving 5 stars. This is one of them. I hardly ever take the time to write a review - but just couldn't help myself this time.  If this was not a true story - I would say it is over the top.  But knowing that a man, still living, has survived these horrors and still has enough brain power left to help relate his story - makes this remarkable.  I could not put the book down and literally read for 16 hours straight for 2 days until I finished it.  It has been several months since I read the book and feel like I remember every page.  Most books are forgotten easily.  Read it - you'll cry, laugh, and be enriched for sharing this man's story.
5 Laura Hillenbrand seems to specialize in bringing back to our consciousness events of the first half of the 21st Century that are utterly forgotten today.  Whether it's the horse Seabiscuit or the inspiring story of WWII prisoners of war, these events were front-page news for months and years at a time, and yet, in our busy, what's-happened-today world, they have vanished.In "Unbroken," she tells the horrific story of one airman, Louis Zamperinin (and his fellow soldiers) who was taken captive by the Japanese after his plane crashed in the Pacific. After enduring 47 days on an open raft with two other men (one died after about a month), Zamperini and the pilot of his plane were thrown in one brutal prison camp after another for more than two years. The daily diet at those camps was everything but food --- violence, degradation, exhausting work, endless and pointless exercise, death threats, and much more.  (As I groan through 30 pushups during a gym workout, I can't imagine being made to haul baskets full of coal for 14 hours a day, nor being made to stand at attention in sub-freezing weather all evening as a punishment. And then to have to do it the next day, while receiving rations of maybe 500 calories of rotten gruel.)Hillenbrand brings to life an amazing array of details. The description of the raft trip is harrowing (constant shark attacks) and dreamy (hallucinations brought on by starvation). The descriptions of the sadistic camp guards makes me understand why American propaganda was so anti-Japanese during WWII and why some older Americans say they will never forgive nor forget. Truly, I can't imagine surviving 48 hours of cold, beatings, and forced labor --- with the probability of execution hanging over my head at all times.Moreover, it should not be forgotten that Zamperini's early life alone was the stuff of legend.  Hillenbrand chronicles a sports story that stretches credulity and seems impossible in our era of specialized coaches and "travel teams" for nine-year-olds.  Quite literally, Zamperini rose from town delinguent to Olympic runner in less than four years. He qualified for the 1936 Olympics in the 5,000-meters, which he had run twice previously in his entire life. He was the youngest US track qualifier ever. In the Olympics, his sprint on the final lap, when he had no chance to finish in the top three, so captivated Adolph Hitler that Hitler spoke with Zamperini after the race; and two track coaches timed that last lap as well below the 4-minute mile pace that at the time was considered unattainable.With material like that, Hillenbrand has crafted a true page-turner. I'll heap on additional praise for her insistence that photos be included because they help immensely in adding to the book's emotional content. And I praise her for including as much as possible about the similar "adventures" of pilot Allen Phillips, who was Zamperini's co-survivor on the raft and co-internee at a few camps.  Phillips was somewhat forgotten in the decades after the war, even as Zamperini spent much of his life on the lecture circuit, retelling his inspirational story and describing how Billy Graham inspired him to forgive his captors and torturers.Great book. Buy it now.
5 This book was a very painful read, but it was so worth it.  Hillenbrand brings to America's attention the complete hell the WWII POW's experienced after being captured by the Japanese.  I think that the subject matter and the severity of the conditions these men lived through has not been focused on enough in history books and the media, and Hillenbrand has done a wonderful thing by giving these men a voice.  It is almost unimaginable that the men lived through such cruel and degrading treatment, and it is a testament to their courage and strength that they survived.My heart goes out to the men who were not able to recover emotionally and physically as they came back home and in the years that followed.  I felt Louie's pain as he struggled to come to grips with the hell he experienced that had taken his dignity and consumed him.  But ultimately, I was smiling happily for Louie at the end, glad that he had found peace with this part of his life, and that he could move on and have a productive and rewarding life.Hillenbrand has given these men a beautiful gift by telling their heroic story.
5 This is a well-written account of extreme and almost unbelievable endurance, courage and heroism. I highly recommend it  . It is riveting and deserves to be read.
5 Hillenbrand has found another amazing story. Louis Zamperini's life takes a sudden U-turn when WWII breaks out. Louis finds himself in the Asian theater, a part of the war fewer people seem to know about. This book follows changes to Louis while also introducing readers to a lesser known side of WWII.My only criticism of this book is that the beginning dwells far too long on Louis's early years. Fewer examples of the problems of his youth would have characterized him just as well. I'm glad I read on through them to the real meat of the story as Louis became a young track star and then was swept into WWII. Like great fiction, just when I thought things could not possibly get worse for Louis, they did.Hillenbrand was very lucky to have been able to interview Louis extensively. She also had unbelievable access to documents from other key characters.
4 I rarely read non-fiction, but I did read this book in record time for me. I was blown away by the detail the author provided, all backed up by research. In the section about Louie's imprisonment by the Japanese, I could read only a chapter at a time because his treatment was so vividly depicted. It's a miracle how he survived and lives still into his nineties.Always in the back of my mind as I read was the recent disaster in Japan happening now to the present generation of those who were so cruel to their captors in WW2 and those who survived the atomic bombing of their cities.
5 The best compliment a reader can give is to buy copies of a book and hand them out to friends and family.  This is one of those books.  Truly well-written and researched, it is a story of hope and resiliency in the face of some of the most difficult and evil situations a human can encounter--poverty, lifeboat survival, imprisonment and torture.  Though these are heavy topics, Laura Hillenbrand does a stupendous job of weaving life and hope throughout this true story.  I have read hundreds of books on WWII and this is not just in my top 5--it is #1.  Excellent.
5 In Unbroken, Laura Hillenbrand uses masterful writing to recount the incredible life story of Louie Zamperini! No words can do justice to this book and specially this epic survival story... I was amazed reading the book and could not put it down! I was also surprised that it was not made into a full feature movie, so when I learned that Angelina Jolie was going to be directing Unbroken, I was very happy!This is a must read for everyone!
5 I'm usually not as focused on bios. This.  This was....A fascinating read. And a history lesson well worth reading!
5 This is a read-until-early-in-the-morning type of book.  It is a non-fiction book for fiction lovers.  Parts seem so unbelievable, but it was an entrancing story.  I couldn't put it down.
5 I know I can't add much to the accolades given this wonderful book, but I think it should be required reading for everyone. Today, we can't understand the need for WWII Japanese stateside internment, or for the dropping of the atomic bomb, but this book takes the reader back to the era when these decisions were essential to shortening the war, or providing security for our soldiers and POWs. This story is just one of a million such stories of the Greatest Generation, of which I am a grateful descendant.
4 This book is truly inspiring. Louie's story takes you on his journey from being an Olympic hopeful to a prisoner of war. You can feel his triumph and pain. Be sure and read the epilogue and get the latest update on Louie's life after the book's end.
5 This book read like an action movie that had to be fiction.  But it's not.  It was hard to put it down.  It is beyond belief that anyone could survive the conditions described in this book.  This is not a book for the faint of heart.  It's too bad that no one was really allowed to talk about what they went through after the war was over.  You will get the real picture of war as it actually happened.  Too bad countries never learn from past mistakes.
5 Wow, is all I can say. The story is almost unbelievable, except it happened to so many in WWII. Hillenbrand told Zamperini's story in a way that you actually felt you were there with him. She was easily able to portray the attitude the Japanese have had in their entire time of existence. I for one cannot wait for Hillenbrand's next effort.
5 Laura Hillenbrand's "Unbroken" is the remarkable story of Louis Zamperini, olympian, track star, POW and WWII hero.  Although Louis' story has been told before, I'll admit that as a relatively young American, I had never heard of him before picking up Hillenbrand's book, which sucked me in from the first pages with her vivid storytelling.  Every aspect of Zamperini's story is fascinating, and Hillenbrand tells it in such a way as to keep the reader fully imersed in the struggles and trials he underwent.I am not typically a fan of war stories or memoirs, but again, the power here is in the storytelling.  If you are looking for a compelling and inspirational read, this is a book worth picking up.
5 I loved reading this book. I think this book will change the way you look at life; it's that powerful. Laura is a wonderful storyteller. This is one of those books I didn't want to end. Thank you!
5 Read this mostly on bus rides, and the emotions it roused in me made me look like a nutter given to laughing as fast he is given to tears.
5 Wow, incredible story, incredible author. Ms. Hillenbrand brings this story to life in vivid detail. I couldn't put this book down, the same with Seabiscuit.  The person behind this saga, Louis Zamperini, is truly an American Hero. Thank you for your service to our country Mr. Zamperini, your sacrifice is beyond indurable. You are truly an inspiration to our nation.  Bringing this story to the American people, Ms. Hillenbrand is in the same league of Americana authors, on the same level with Steinbeck, no better than Steinbeck.
5 This is an excellent book. No author does a better job of researching her subject before writing about it. This is beautifully written book and although it is true, it reads like an exciting novel. Hillenbrand is an excellent author. I highly recommend this book.
4 An amazing historical fiction about an Olympic hopeful, POW and survivor of life.  I didn't think I was going to get into it, but was turning pages faster and faster as I read.
5 Absolutely one of the best books I've ever read. Loved  Hillenbrand's  Seabiscuit and this book lived up to her reputation. Amazing to see how the human being can withstand adversity and come out better for it.
5 Survival, resilience, redemption are most accurate words to describe this story.  At times I had to put the book down as the horrors of the prison camp were too much to take in one sitting!Louie's story reminds me of the Monica/Augustine story. A mother's prayers had to be behind the survival and redemption of that man!The triumph of GRACE in Louie's life is the story of a saint!  Louie resisted  BUT God touched his soul through Billy Graham and reminded him of his promise when he was destitute.So grateful to have happened upon his story.
5 Although the story is biographical, it reads like a great book of fiction. Loved it for the depth of feeling the characters have for one another. IT stands as an unforgettable tribute to the the author's family and those who gave their lives for their country and the, very difficult to read, truth of the suffering of our WW2 men in POW camps, A wonderful book of strength of the human spirit. You must read this book.Barbara Buxton, (author ofA Season of Innocence)
5 This was a book I couldn't put down. It was a remarkable story of horrible experiences, yet the unbeatable human spirit of members of the Allied forces. Many of us never knew much about how terrible circumstances were in WWll, and what we did know was mostly about the war with Germany. This highlighted the Pacific War and the mind-set of the Japanese soldiers.
5 One of the best and most amazing books I have ever read. What an amazing life and spirit. I look forward to the film.
5 This is such a worthy book for all ages to read. It totally tells the tragedy and cruelty of war. Having had a father who served in this war made it even more interesting to me. It shows the human emotion and how we can overcome anything by just believing and holding on to a higher being. I wholeheartedly recommend this book.
5 Great story.  Well written.  I was amazed at what our prisoners of war went through and how many of them were able to live through the terrible conditions they had to endure
5 Well researched and beautifully written.  This book acurately tells the story of the war in the Pacific as it keeps the reader on the edge of his seat waiting to see what happens to the individuals involved.......  George Alexander
5 terrific book about survival in WWII,  Loved it.  Easy read and keeps you guessing.  A clear view of how things really were then.
5 This story about a scrappy runner teaches a great deal about WWII, as well. The central lesson - as in the title is one we should all remember
5 What a thrilling story written by an amazing author.  A good read.  Hope she writes more books, I will buy.
5 Absolutely amazing book. Just goes to show that the mind really controls the body. Imagine Louie is still alive after all that persecution and lack of nutrition.
5 I read &#34;Unbroken&#34; without knowing what I was about to read.  From the first chapter, I was engrossed in the life of a character who would prove to be a survivor against all the odds.  I would recommend the book as an excellent read for many reasons.
5 "Unbroken" is one of the better books I have read in years! I have passed it on to my husband, brother and cousin by means of purchasing copies for them on Amazon.
5 In the last four months I've read eighteen books about addiction. Since I'm beginning to look at everything from the perspective of a drug treatment counselor, I decided to take a break and read something just for entertainment. The book I chose was Unbroken by Laura Hillenbrand, who is also the author of "Seabiscuit" which I enjoyed very much. And lo and behold, the hero of this true story is smoking cigarettes by age five and drinking at eight. But luckily, that's only a small part of what this inspirational story is about."Unbroken's" hero is Louie Zamperini who metamorphoses from a hardscrabble youth into a record breaking track star and eventual Olympian in 1936. And he comes oh-so-close to breaking the four minute mile barrier before anyone else. But World War II begins and dramatically alters the course of his life. In short, he joins the Army Air Forces, his plane goes down in the Pacific where he floats for forty-seven days, and he is captured by the Japanese who hide him in a series of POW camps where he experiences unspeakable cruelty until the war ends two years later. Upon his return to America, he struggles with what is now known as post-traumatic stress disorder and he descends into alcoholism until he is saved by none other than Billy Graham at a tent revival in Los Angeles in 1949.I'm deeply inspired by Louie's courageous story. He truly walked through the valley of the shadow of death and is a true testament to the strength and resilience of the human soul. And Hillenbrand certainly out did herself. She set the bar high enough with "Seabiscuit" and still managed to surpass it by far with "Unbroken". I could not tear myself away from this book and neglected all my duties and responsibilities until I finished it. Books like "Unbroken" are the reason I love to read and I can't wait for Hillenbrand's next one.David Allan ReevesAuthor of "Running Away From Me"
5 I was amazed by this book. Not a fan of war books but this one sucked me in. What an amazing story and so well written. For any reader this is a must read. So inspiring!
5 makes for great listening on a long trip=--the time just flew bye, in great shape and definitely as advertised, even arrived early
5 One of the best books I have read in a long time.  It taught me so much about WWII that I didn't know.  My daddy was stationed on Okinawa at the time this was all going on and my regret is that I didn't ask him more questions about his duties during the war before he died.  The book makes you proud to be an American and it makes me realize that freedom is certainly not free!  What a great group of men we had back then!  So proud and thankful for every single one of them.
5 This is a riveting account of Louis Zamperini's 27-month ordeal of abuse and deprivation during World War II.  Zamperini, a southern Californian who competed in the 1936 Olympics as an 18-year-old runner, joined the air corps as a bombardier in 1941.Flying was a dangerous mission in WW II.  Airmen trying to fulfill the 40 combat missions that made up a Pacific bomber crewman's tour of duty had a 50 percent chance of being killed.Louie's plane crashed in the Pacific, nearly 2,000 miles from the closest islands, both belonging to the Japanese.  American airmen feared being taken prisoners of war since the Japanese military had reportedly killed more than 90,000 Chinese POWs in the late 1930s, while murdering between 200,000 and 300,000.Louie and two crewmen were stranded in the ocean on a 6-foot raft with little water, no shelter, no radio and no navigational equipment.  Miraculously, Louie and his mates survived shark attacks and an attack by a Japanese fighter plane.  After 47 days adrift, they reached land.  Unfortunately, it was inhabited by the enemy.Louie spent more than a year at Ofuna, a Japanese POW camp unknown to America or the American Red Cross.  As bad as the conditions were there, they got worse when he was transferred to Omori, where he encountered Watanbe, a sadistic torturer who viciously beat Louie regularly.  What Louie and the other POWs had to endure during this reign of terror was sickening and inhumane.  Watanbe, nicknamed "Bird," was transferred out of Omori, giving Louie some relief.Unfortunately, Watanbe and Louie were reunited when Louie was transferred to Naoetsu, the worst hellhole of all.  Louie continued to take beatings and continued to defy Watanbe and the Japanese.  The end of World War II saved the POWs as an August 22 kill-date of all POWs had supposedly been issued.The physical and emotional damage took a shocking toll on the Pacific POWs.  Thirty-seven percent of American POWs held by the Japanese in the Pacific died."If I knew I had to go through these experiences again, I'd kill myself," said Louie.  For American POWs, plagued by memories of torture and humiliation, nothing would ever be the same.Louie was filled with rage.  Bird and the POW experience had taken his dignity and left him feeling humiliated, ashamed and powerless.  Louie began having nightmares and drinking.  In the end, however, Louie finds peace and forgiveness.While in the end, this is a story about survival, resilience and redemption, it is also an extremely depressing story.  I'm not sure how many readers will be able to endure the countless tales of torture and mistreatment Louie and his other POWs suffered.Laura Hildebrand's research and writing are outstanding and makes this a very readable story.  But, I don't believe this is a subject that will attract the wide audience of Seabiscuit.  I expect those mainly interested in World War II will be the major audience for this book.
5 A story that makes today's relationships with our former enemies an absolute miracle of human forgiveness. The wounds are permanent - the nightmare very real - for those who lived through it.
4 This story, although apparently true, is hard to believe. Men back then were made of heartier stock than today's. A good read, for sure.
3 I agree with most of the three star ratings here. The book can be overlong, over-detailed,plodding,repetitive and disappointing due to the fact that there is little depth to the narrative. It reminded of Sgt. Friday's dictum on "Dragnet," "give me the facts,ma'm just the facts." I also agree that the prose is, basically, journeyman journalistic.Something else, that is harder and risky to discuss. I got the impression that Zamperini was being cannibalized. That he was a "juicy" subject ripe for the plucking,and basically, I'm sorry, maybe being "used" by Hillenbrand to further her already notarized career. I say "maybe," its just a perspective.We already had Zamperini's memoir, that I fully intend to read, so do we need Hillenbrands? Of course, right now she's more famous than he is, so is this all about fame or marketing, like so much in the publishing industry. Let's write a book to make big bucks, in fairness to Hillenbrand I don't believe that was her intention, but she certainly needed a follow-up to "Seabiscuit,"to keep her mojo working and to solidify herself as an author.That said, the book is a major piece of heavily researched historical non-fiction that cries out for the approach that maybe a "creative non-fiction" writer might take. Make it a more "personal" story, let the author write with an eye to literature, this is an incredibly tragic and painful story that I think needs more than a reportorial approach.There are major themes here, religion for instance, that lie open and fallow that need discussion and reflection. I don't question the miracle that "healed" Zamperini, there are placebos of all kinds in the world. But I can't help but notice that Zamperini's "take" on God,prayer,forgiveness,retribution,suffering, sin, etc. falls flat on its face when we read of the "bird's" life and fate which puts the lie to any illusions about God's plan and Louie's oft repeated notion that,"everything happens for a reason." So tell me, what's the plan that makes Louie a crippled and abused punching bag for an "evil" man who's punishment is prosperity and long life?
5 Fascinating read about an amazing life.Learned quite alot about the Japan side of the war and POWs. Highly recommend
4 This was a page turner to say the least. What a story. It is better than any fiction author could ever come up with. Imagine being at sea for that long. Unbelievable and that was just the start of his ordeal. I highly recommend this book for its inspirational aspect. Never give up!!
5 This was my first time reading Hillenbrand.  I have not read Seabiscuit and have not had much of a desire to, but after reading this book I am now considering reading it.To me, Unbroken starts out with almost outlandish-like stories about Louis and his childhood.  Without any introduction to Louis, it as a little hard for me to believe some of the stories she related.  However, after continuing on in the book and learning exactly what type of person Louis really is I was able to appreciate his childhood stories and how they contributed to what type of man he became.I would describe this book as interesting, riveting, and entertaining.  If you're interested at all in war books, particularly about WWII, you will really enjoy this book.  The author went to great lengths to discuss in great detail a lot of facts about WWII that I had never read or known much about.  Up until around the point that Louis is captured I would describe the book as thoroughly entertaining.  Louis led a very interesting and full life prior to the war, and Hillenbrand does a great job at covering many aspects of it.  And finally, the experiences and trials that Louis went through will keep you riveted until the very last page.Unbroken is a very well written book about a fantastic story with an very nice ending.
5 Unbroken:  A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience and Redeption was a great book.  I am very glad I purchased it.  This was a truly inspiring story.  I can't express the gratitude and respect that I feel for those that have served and especially for those that have been POW's.
5 I finshed this book in record time and since I don't read much anymore, that says alot. I used to be a huge reader of everything but now a book really has to speak to me to get me to read from cover to cover, and this one did. I haven't read much about world war two, so it wasn't like reading the same story yet again to me. Reading about the horrible way the Japanese treated POWs might have been too much, but by that point, I had too much invested in Louie, from learning about overcoming childhood challenges to get to the 1936 Olympics, to the ordeal on the life raft, which was pretty amazing. The POW part was too long and too awful in my opinion, but by skimming over alot of it, and knowing that Louie did in fact, survive the ordeal, kept me reading. The return to civilian life was a familiar theme, reminding me of my relatives and the way their lives were turned upside down by their returning vets dysfunctionality, and how their children's children are still feeling the repercussions. But all in all, a fascinating read about an unbelievable guy. I also quite enjoyed Seabiscuit, which is why I even bothered to try this book in the first place, probably wouldn't have otherwise.
5 Engaging and informative story of the power of humans to survive and endure, plus explore the depths or cruelty.  Captivating book.  Liked how author blended the pre and post war stories to create a whole picture of the characters. A fantastic companion book written in 1st person is "Two Gold Coins and a Prayer".  A story of flying over Europe, crashing, surviving Nazi prison camp.  A different side of the war but equally informative.  Read that one first, then finish with this for a complete personal picture of WWII, survival and strength of our soldiers. Bravo.
5 I have never read a book with so many interesting facts about WWII.  The bravery these fledging pilots had to have to just fly our planes let alone go into battle in them.  It's a wonderful book.
5 My father served in the Navy during WWII.  He rarely talked about it.  This book gave me some insight into what these brave men went through during the war.
5 If you are looking for a good book to read , this is it. It is well written & entertaining.  I came away thinking that if someone could survive all that Louie  did that a person could survive almost anything.  The author did a great job keeping the subject fresh with so much material that could have become redundant. This will be a book that I read again.
5 If I had to sum this book up with one word, it would be &#34;WOW&#34; .  I only decided to read it because of the high reviews I kept seeing, and I now wish I'd done so sooner.  Never have I read something so educational, gripping, and insightful.  It is clear that Ms Hillenbrand did her research, but also that she came to understand Louie and the brave POWs of his time well enough to take on the enormous task of telling their story - and she does so brilliantly.  This book is a must-read and now one of my all-time favorites. Highly recommened.
5 This book is just plain old TERRIFIC. An unbelievable story about a true hero and survivor. Don't miss it. Inspiring!
5 Unbroken is amazing! I bought it for Christmas presents for my sons and husband. Everyone should read this. The facts are incredible. It was well researched and presented in an interesting way. This story should be required reading for all history classes and anyone who wants to read about a true-life hero. If you're thinking you had a bad day, read this! It is an inspirational story for certain.
4 This story of the perils faced by Louis Zamparini and his fellow soldiers was at times hard to read. The abuse and hardship went on and on. The uplifting message of forgiveness made up for all of it. A great book.
5 I love history and this book give you that with a great story. It tells how men in the war dealt with so much miseries, and how they were before and after the war
5 This book was excellent.  I did not want to put it down once I started it.  It is truly a story of resilence.  There were parts of it that were very difficult to read because of what was happening to the POW's, but following Louie's story really stopped and made one think about many things.
5 First, the story told in this book was intriguing.  I had never heard Louie's story before, but it is amazing.  Much of the content was hard to read about, but I am glad I stuck it out.
5 The book is jam packed with facts and statistics, but one of the best stories I've ever read.  I never could have imagined what our GIs went through.  I couldn't wait to pick it up!
5 A spellbinding true story, beautifully written. Reads like a compelling fictional narrative, while redefining our understanding of both heroism and perseverance.
1 Good story, blandly written. Not badly written, mind you, but very workman-esque. I can't believe it took her seven years to write this book. I don't doubt the author is an amazing researcher, but as a writer - very plain Jane. Nothing jumps off the page. Everything is predictably done. It is like reading a term paper or research for a film. It probably deserves more than one star, but with everybody just giving this five stars I thought it needed some balance. Maybe two stars or two and a half. The guy lived an interesting life and there is nothing off putting about the writing. It's just a good story blandly told.
5 I had heard what a good book this was, so I purchased it for my husband. He hasn't read a complete book for so long, but finished this one and loved it.
4 Grade: B-L/C Ratio: 30% Literary / 70% CommercialThematic Breakdown:30% - Life of a POW25% - Lost at sea20% - Military operations15% - Track & field10% - Post Traumatic Stress DisorderAddictiveness: MediumMovie Potential: 2 Thumbs Up (Angelina Jolie is slated to direct it)Re-readability: LowThe amount of time, research, and effort that Laura Hillenbrand pours into her books is staggering. That level of labor was apparent in her account of Seabiscuit the depression-era racehorse, and in Unbroken, it's on display again through the story of Louis Zamperini, an Olympic runner and WWII prisoner-of-war.From punching sharks to surviving torture, Zamperini's experiences make for an exhilarating read. Hillenbrand recounts events chronologically for the most part, but at times it feels like she can't decide whether she wants to write Zamperini's biography or a broader war story.In addition, Unbroken has a surprising lack of quotable moments. Hillenbrand's straightforward prose, while perfect for describing historical events and character backgrounds, does not always maximize the emotional potential of her material.Noteworthy Quote:Without dignity, identity is erased. In its absence, men are defined not by themselves, but by their captors and the circumstances in which they are forced to live.
5 What an amazing story of resilience, survival, and triumph. It is a testament to the human capacity for good over evil.
4 Wonderful book.  It is unbelievable what these prisoners went through during this war.  It is a gripping story and the fact that this well researched book is true makes it even more unbelievable.  Well worth the read.
5 Intense, gripping, expertly researched and written by Laura Hillebrand, author of Sea Biscuit, I found this book almost impossible to put down. From wild, impetuous, out-of control youth to record-breaking Olympic runner, Louie Zamperini was drafted as a WWII bombardier and downed in the Pacific. The saga of the 46 days he floated with two other mates on a raft without supplies is an amazing story in itself. The horror of what follows his rescue by the Japanese exceeds anything I could imagine. How the POWs survived the Japanese POW camps where they were brutalized and starved to the brink of death defies the imagination. Their belief in eventual rescue and innate courage and humor appeared to be the inner forces that enabled them to survive. Louie survived but after release began drinking heavily, tormented by the memory of the especially dehumanizing brutality of a minor Japanese camp official who singled him out for ongoing torture. His drinking destroyed his marriage, his belief in God, and his hopes of a future of any worth until he (unwillingly) attended a Billy Graham tent mission where he was reminded of his promise that, if spared, he'd spend his life serving God. Louie fulfilled this promise by a long life spent helping kids, sharing his story, and inspiring others, winning many awards and world recognition in the process.
5 Have already promised my copy to most of my family and friends, because I have been talking about it since I began reading the book a week ago - I don't know what took me so long to pick this book up, but I am so glad I did!  WWII was my mom and dad's era, and Louis' story, along with the great writing by Ms. Hillenbrand gave me the best story and history I could ever hope for...highly recommend!
2 Mr Zamperini's courage and fortitude is something to which we should aspire. I am glad to have learned about him. However did we need the excruciating detail on the atrocities committed by the Japanese military?  Will the telling of this do anything but breed racial hatred? I know that this really happens,but does it need to be told in such detail? The Balkans are such a quagmire because no one is willing to forget the past transgressions and the stories are told in a way to insight hatred and violence in each new generation.
5 I read this book toward the end of the summer of 2011, and it quickly became a favorite of mine. It was apparent from the first few pages that much research went into this book about the incredible will to survive of Louis Zamperini, a captive of Japanese forces during World War II. A great runner, who  unfortunately was born at the wrong time, Zamperini put his track skills on hold to fight in the war. There he utilized other skills when, after risking his life on countless bomber runs, he was taken prisoner by the Japanese. The agonies this man endured did not break him. Instead they made him a stronger individual. This was indeed a fascinating story of courage and the strength of the human spirit.
5 When reading this book and later reflecting on the person who wrote about her survival, you learn that you could learn to survive using her examples of fortitude.
5 A real hero brought to life with all his strengths and faults . The author also did a great job  in the research and description of the events depicted in the book.
5 Laura Hillebrand's UNBROKEN is a compelling true story of resilience, raw courage, and recovery.  You won't regret purchasing this book!
5 This book brought me a joy  I cannot conceal. It is one I will never forget and will stay with  me for the rest of my life. He is  a true and real hero and I can say without a doubt  a great role model. Through tears, headache and laughter thank you Louie for letting  me be apart of your life. See you in heaven friend.
5 This was such a moving book and will inspire me for the rest of my life. My favorite motivational saying now is "Remember Louie!"- Would LOVE to meet him or hear him speak.It definitley puts into perspective all of the little petty trials of life.  Nothing I will ever do in life will be as difficult to survive as the trials of Louis Zamporini.'Best book I have read in years.  If this book can motivate a 63 year old woman this way, imagine how it can affect a young person.  Buy it and enjoy!
5 Amazing story of survival......  great story..... schools ought to make high school students read thesebooks so they can appreciate what is required, how much faith & bravery it takes and to know howterrible an enemy can be!  As an elementary teacher, it is not recommended for grades K-6th
5 I just finished reading this book. What is amazing to me is the enormous amount of research and follow-up that had to be done by the author. Laura Hillenbrand's account of all the facts coupled with her gift for storytelling made it almost impossible for me to put down.
4 This story, of an airman who survives the crash of his plane during WW II, is beautifully told. Unlike most stories, which end at the rescue of the subject, this one gives you the full picture. The queen of detail and interest, Hillenbrand does it again. You'll like this one. Read it!
5 This is truly an eye opener as to what really went on in the prison camps. I personally knew Frank Tinker, who became Zamperini's friend in the camps. That friendship continued on until Frank passed away in 2010. I highly recommend this book to everyone.
5 This is one of the best books I've ever read and I've read a lot of books!  Louie Zamperini is my hero.  It is truly an inspirational story about the human spirit.  I didn't want to put this book down.  It was so exciting, unbelievable, touching, etc.  Laura Hellenbrand is an excellent author.
5 This is a true life story and very intense.  Keeps you on edge.  It is out in a movie, but book is much more involved.  It shows us what our military has to endure  for our country.  An excellent book.  Bettie
5 Excellent book. Laura Hillenbrand did an amazing job telling the story of Louis Zamperini. This was the war in the Pacific. My father was at Pearl Harbor when it was bombed, he didn't die but the only thing he ever said was they were stacking bodies like cord wood the following day. To see what a lot of Americans and other countries' soldiers endured under the Japanese was horrific to say the least. This is an incredibly well thought out book and I learned a lot more about World War II in the Pacific theater and what soldiers and loved ones do to hang on to hope. 10 thumbs up!!!!
5 I loved this book. I read alot and this book has left me thinking about it more than any book I've read in a long time. I think, for two reasons. One, the story is absolutely amazing. This man should be dead 800 times over. It is amazing what he survived through before and after the war. Two, most importantly, is a kudos to the author. To me, a great biography is when the author can leave you spellbound by the story of that person while quietly slipping into the background. There is no "overwriting" in this book...just terrific storytelling. She has a talent for telling the story in a way you forget your even reading a book. I'm going to have to read Seabiscuit now just because I enjoyed the author's writing so much. I honestly don't know how anyone could not like this book.
5 Great book  Did not realize the cruelty these men suffered - with no help from our government when they got back.  They did not have the information and resources they have now
5 I loved the book, couldn't put it down once I started reading it. Very informative about World War II. I will give a review of this book to my friends who love to read. Very few people could write a book as interesting and as detailed as Unbroken. Maybe James Michener.
5 You MUST read this book.  My father served in WWII.  Maybe your uncle or grandfather served.  This is history from a very personal level.  You see some of this stuff on TV and just kind of discount it.  But this is a true story right from the soldier's point of view.  You cannot miss this book.
5 I thought I knew the events of WWII , but in fact I really knew very little about the real behind the scenes facts. At some points, as I'm a woman who gets uneasy about watching scary movies,I thought I'd have to stop reading the book because of the unnerving parts, but I'm so glad that I kept reading until the end. This was a true story that had to be told to the world, no matter how gruesome the truth was to read at times. Every American should read this book and it will make you so much more appreciative of where we live and what we have been blessed to have in this country.
5 This is an amazing true story of an athlete, WWII hero & POW, who had to overcome his hatred of the enemy to find peace in his life.It should be an example to s all in the power of forgiveness
5 Well, Lauren Hillenbrand has done it again with Unbroken.  I didn't think she could ever surpass Seabiscuit, but she pulled even and maybe even edged by a nose with her latest.  She has got to be one of the most meticulous of authors with her keen research into the subjects. Louie Zamparani is given to us thoroughly, warts and all, until the reader knows him so well.  And once you know him, you're his.  I was turning pages eagerly wanting to know what's going to happen to him next. Louie was a rebellious child. As a long-time but now retired elementary teacher, it certainly sounded as if he were an ADD underachiever - extremely bright but bored with school. How could I not have laughed at the mental picture of him as a 2-year old jumping off a train, thereby causing his Mother to go in hysterics. And not much later, with Louie slipping the bonds of childhood constraint, I chuckled as I pictured him running off stark naked down the street with a policeman in hot pursuit.  Hillenbrand takes us through Louis' life as a superbly talented Olympic distance runner, and then a bright, resourceful airman undergoing unbelievable rigors of hardship and POW abuse.  Such is Hillenbrand's style of writing that the reader gets utterly caught up in his struggle for survival and the totality of his life.But Hillenbrand does not present a one-dimensional story of only Louie Zamparani.  She skillfully weaves into the narrative the stories of the people who played major roles - and sometimes minor roles, in Louie's life and paints them into existence with such apt descriptions that the reader knows them almost as well as they know Louie.  I was especially fond of Phil, Louie's pilot and close friend.  Louie's family and friends came to life with Hillenbrand's special knack of painting pictures with words.  I would recommend this book to anyone who loves a good, rousing, exciting story that, in this case, just happens to be true.
5 This is an amazing journey of a man who never gave up, and he came out whole. This is the very best book that I have read in a long time.
5 One of the bravest men I have ever read about.  He overcame all odds to come out alive and live a long life.  Our thanks to this brave man
5 Second time I have read it.it moved me just as much this time s it did prior.  Ms Hillenbrand is a gifted writer--one of the very best!
5 1st:  Bravo Louie!  You Rock.  Amazing!2nd:  Don't miss this excellent book.  An incredible story with each page becoming alive.  I'd finish one page thinking that was excellent and the next page was as good or better.3rd:  Thank You Laura Hillenbrand.  Every life is a story.
4 If you like this type of reading, this book is enjoyable.  However, the author covered the same material several times.
5 One of the truly outstanding books of our time and, given the aging of World War II veterans, maybe one of the last great books about personal experiences in WWII.The title says it all: "...a story of Survival, Resilience and Redemption..." All told in a moving, fast paced style. The writing alone will make you want to turn the page and the story it tells makes it even more urgent to turn the page and see what happens next.  Though it is true, it has all the stuff of which great novels are made.Two closing thoughts:  A true story of redemption, great redemption and forgivenss of Japanese atrocities in Prisoner of War Camps...and the atrocities were outrageous.And finally the sneaking, ultimately prevailing question of what we--the United States and our allies--do to prisoners of war in our POW camps. Nothing like this, surely, we hope...but then there are the revelations that come out of Guantanamo in Cuba and Abugrab in Iraq.  It is a haunting question...
3 I guess this is a supposedly true story.  Life slows down in true life, so okay.  I liked the first part with planes and Olympics and life raft.  It slowed way down with the "bird" and love story and being saved.  It would have been better as a historical fiction, with some liberties taken. I won't ruin the story.  It is quite inspiring, and worth reading.  It is overall quite good and I recommend it. Do not expect some action packed thriller.  There are thrilling parts it could have been enhanced with a little fiction, or side stories, but then it's not really a true story anymore.  The story is great, and inspiring.  It is a fun read, would not be surprised if it shows up as a movie.
3 I've been searching for a way to describe what I think about this book and the one word that comes to mind is: predictable. Nothing really surprised me (except the statistics about airplane training deaths during the war). I got the feeling that similar stories could be found throughout the armed services. I don't want to give away anything by elaborating though, so forgive me for not going into more detail about the "predictable" comment.I don't know. I certainly don't mean to diminish Mr. Zamperini's service and I think the writing was fine if a bit dry. I just had a hard time connecting emotionally to anyone in the book.It did kill a good portion of a 7-hour car ride, though, I'll give it that. :)Will also echo other reviews and say 25% of the book is acknowledgments, sources, etc. Something to be aware of.
4 I can't imagine what Mr. Zamperini went through in his life even after reading this book. We do NOT give our veterans enough respect, honor and gratitude.
5 An outstanding book about Louis Zamperini, an Olympian and war hero who prevailed after crashing his war plane in the ocean, living on a raft and eating shark's liver, surviving the torture by the Japanese and ultimately his returning home to his sweetheart.  I have given this book to many for Christmas presents.  I can't wait until this movie being directed by Angela Jolie comes out.  Think Louis will be 95 years of age.  This book will make you laugh, may you cry, and make you mad!  Laura Hillenbrand is an incredible writer.  She had an incredible man to write about!  Buy it for your senior friends, and younger grandchildren!
4 In thought that this book was amazing in many ways. It talked about him being a track runner and a soldier in World War two.
5 The adversity is with nature and then man. This is a great read for many reasons. History for start of WWII, air war in Pacific, lives lost in trying and those against Japan, honor of Japan which was just for Japan and nobody else, conviction of truth, and if Truman knew what was about to happen in Japan, dropping of the bomb was justified, and what true forgiveness really is, necessary and how it must come to the heart and soul. I hear they are going to make it into a movie.Bill Grothus wrote this
5 An absolutely unbelievable story of endurance and courage. Written very well. Bravos to Laura Hillenbrand. I can't put it down. Louie is a true American hero along with all the others who served with him. I'm telling others to purchasr this great book.
5 An incredible story so compelling it is very hard to put down. Beyond a journey, more of a personal Odyssea through the World War II Pacific theater under Japanese control. Heartbreak and inspiration. Hatred and compassion. Difficult to describe the feelings generated by this read. Highly recommended.
1 Have you ever listened to a toddler describe a trip to the zoo.  &#34;And then I saw an elephant and then I saw a tiger and then I saw another tiger, and then I saw a bear...&#34;  That's how this reads.  Seriously.Perhaps the strong positives associated with &#34;Unbroken&#34; are votes of praise for the hero, Louis Zamperini. If so, fine.  But this book is unworthy of the time it takes to read it. Instead, read Atkinson's fine trilogy on the European theater, or - if you want to be shaken to the core - read Bloodlands. But read something other than this.
5 If you want to truly taste, smell and fell how war effects men of war this is a must read. The story kept my intrest until the end. The recap of all involved in writing her book was not of great intrest to me.
5 I will always read anything Laura Hillenbrand writes.  She does her research and tells the story in a concise yet very descriptive way.  She knows how to take the reader along with her as she gives the facts.
5 A story of incredible strength in the face of inexplicable and unbelievable cruelty. This story is one that portrays a bravery that is beyond comprehension and one that should serve as inspiration to those of us who have been blessed by comparatively untroubled lives.  The heroism portrayed makes one ever more thankful for the sacrifices of our military in preserving the lifestyle that many of us too often take for granted. This book should be required reading for every high school student in America. It is about the spirit of a country embodied in an amazing individual and should not be missed.
5 It's so well written, so well paced and such a great story.  The narrator of the audiobook is just spot on perfect.  One of those audiobooks that you sit in the car and listen to long after you've parked.  You go for a walk just to have an excuse to listen.  Makes traffic melt away -- "We haven't moved for 10 minutes?  No problem, I didn't even notice."  I liked Seabiscuit, but I thought this was a lot better.  Many things make me proud to be an American, and this book is one.
5 i did read the book by the way, and its very good. just get pass the airplane part. than its a smooth ride ...
5 It's hard to believe this was a true story.  It gave me a new perspective of what people experienced...before I was born.  Amazing history lesson and how a strong body and spirit can survive.  It was troubling to read at times and I had to put it down to process my feelings and emotions.  Still, had to pick it back up to find out what happens next.
5 I just know that I wanted to read this book in a day, but time ran out. I'm always amazed as I read about the human spirit surviving so much cruelty and coming face to face with so much evil.
5 I totally loved Hillenbrand's book on Louis Zamperini's life. He was a bigger than life person and Hillenbrand did an astute job of presenting his life, his time as a prisoner of war, his post traumatic stress disorder, and his recovery due to finding Christ with Billy Graham. This book opens with the terror of being in a raft with his bomber friends and being circled by sharks and bombed by Japanese planes. As we are left hanging about what will happen to Louis, the reader learns about Louis' (crazy)life in Torrance, CA and his rise to competing in the Berlin Olympics. A must read for everyone, Louis Zamperini is an inspiring man!!!
5 This book is hard to put down from beginning to end. I really got into the character of Louie Zamperini even from his childhood. While I was reading about him (and other POWs) during their captivity, I thought how we all whine about our lives and troubles we have. People should read about people like Louie who have endured the worse of the worse and survived.
5 Wonderfully written book, full of so many facts about World War II.  Sometime difficult to read, easier to not know some of the things that were written in this book.  I recommend this book as great reading .
5 I listened to this on audiobook and was captivated from the first minute.  To think that it's a true story is even more amazing.  If it were fiction, it would be unbelievable.
4 Where to begin with the review of Unbroken? Reading of Louis Zamperini's young life as a rising track star was phenomenal...the feats of his mile pace time and victories in the Olympics were fascinating to read. Laura Hillenbrand did a great job describing his accomplishments.What was frustrating to read was the description of his treatment at the POW camp. It was like watching the horrendous scenes from The Passion of the Christ movie. At some points I had to take breaks from the book to regain the desire to continue reading. Probably could've hit the emotional lines without all the descriptive chapters on the POW camp.Don't know if I'm more frustrated with the author or how the American captives were treated. The way the book ends is an anticlimactic way to look at how Louie Zamperini lived his life.Four stars for the writing and the extraordinary way into WWII lives and how humans come together during times of strife.
5 While it was almost too &#34;brutal&#34; to read, the story was riveting and I couldn't put it down. Louie is quite a character and persevered through anything and everything. His was no ordinary life. I liked very much to read his story. Author writes very well. (I'd read Seabiscuit previously - that was also excellent.)
5 If this was a fiction book, many readers might think it was too fantastic to be believable.  But it isn't.  This is a true story.  That's what makes it all the more amazing and inspiring.  There are some very tough parts to read - e.g. how he was treated in prison camps - but it is never dull.  All in all, this is a great read. It's a story you will never forget.
4 The story of Louis Zamperini is enjoyable and uplifting, right up to the point that his bomber goes down in the middle of the Pacific ocean. This book then becomes quite difficult to read. Not cumbersome or overly scholarly, but difficult in that the reader feels heartache for what Zamperini and his fellow servicemen are forced to endure at the hands of Mother Nature and the Japanese.I read John McCain's book, Faith of My Fathers, about his POW experience in Vietnam. The portion of this book that is about Louie's POW experience is as hard to read as those portions of Sen. McCain's book. Heck, I got so angry that the old feelings of shame at buying a Japanese car came rushing back to me. I started thinking about the Japanese effects on the world and what in my life may be of Japanese origin. I wished I could remove any vestige of Japan from my life. I felt the hard feelings toward Japs that my grandfather expressed after his WW2 experience.Now I admit that I have always harbored anger at Germany and Japan for the atrocities they committed during WW2 and before, so I'm particularly susceptible to these feelings. In telling you about my feelings, I am attempting to indicate the strong feelings this book will generate in you.That isn't to say that the book is a Nip-bashing propaganda piece. Ms. Hillenbrand is fair and does not exaggerate. Her accounts of Japanese war crimes are, as far as I recall them from other sources, accurate. What she does here is paint a portrait of the WW2 world, including the xenophobia of Japan and the cruel policies ordered by Japanese leaders bent on never surrendering. She describes in painful detail what our servicemen were forced to endure and forces us to watch people die due to neglect and abuse.**Possible spoiler alert in next sentence only** You will feel, at turns, humor, pride, disbelief, horror, anger, disgust, relief, joy, satisfaction.This book is powerful, and if you are an empathic reader, hard at times to get through. But it is moving in positive ways, too, and tells the story of Louis Zamperini through his whole life, from birth to death. Take the book in small doses until you have eaten the whole thing, but I highly recommend this book for readers mature enough to handle the difficult material!
4 Hard to add much to 7,000+ positive reviews.  But I will say that this biography of WWII combatant, POW and survivor, Louis Zamperini, was inspiring on a very personal basis.  There aren't many problems in modern day America that come close to what Zamperini endured and resolved.  Where we come close at the moment is in the Iraq/Afghanistan returned vet community.  No doubt the guys who are suffering from forms of PTSD will identify with Zamperini's experience and might take some inspiration from it.  Looking back at what he had to go through with no public or official understanding of the problem, should redouble our current commitment to help our recent vets get through similar afflictions.A fine book in many ways.
5 I know my review will get lost in the rushing torrent of positive reviews, and the book hardly needs yet one more, "You must read this book!" But YOU MUST READ THIS BOOK!Yes, it's an almost unbelievable story of survival in the midst of inhuman cruelty. And yes, the inspiration of this man's life makes me feel guilty for complaining about all the little setbacks I face on an every day basis. But for me the most moving aspect was its ability to invoke appreciation for what those in the armed services have done in the cause of keeping this country free. Every now and then we all need a reminder of that, just as much as the assurance the human spirit is capable of suffering astonishing amounts of pain and anguish in the fight to stay alive.I loved this book so much I immediately downloaded the Kindle version of 'Seabiscuit' onto my iPhone. And yes, I know, I'm one of the last people in the universe to have read this book. I haven't seen the film, either. But before this exposure to the nonfiction style of Laura Hillenbrand I wasn't convinced the story of a race horse would be all that appealing to me. Now that I've read her work, I think otherwise.Yes, I'm only repeating others' words about how terrific a book 'Unbroken' is, and, yes, it's hard finding anything unique to say about it. But I felt compelled to add my voice, anyway, if only to say Laura Hillenbrand has made me feel very proud to be American.
5 UnbrokenThis incredibly thoroughly researched story of a real American hero describes the risks, assumptions, and outcomes of World War II Pacific Theater operations.  It explains how the war was won by the Allied Powers in the Pacific by not just the impact of superior weaponry (the Atomic Bomb) but by American ingenuity reflecting a cultural foundation of skills that is probably less present in today's same aged group than in World War II's similar demographic group.This story is exciting, heart warming, and at times unbelievable.  A wonderful read!
5 Outstanding story. Well told and very engaging! I thought I had no interest in WWII or stories about POWs. Well, this book changed all of that. It was very educational and well written. You know Louis Zamperini personally by the end.
5 I'm not one to read historical novels concerning war, but the reviews on this  story made me take a look.  It was, at times, difficult to read through the brutal treatment these men endured, especially Louie Zamperini. Their strength and sanity pushed beyond human endurance, many survived, barely. Many died or hoped for death.  I couldn't put this down until I knew the fate of Louie and his fellow POW's. I especially appreciate how the author took us through Louie's entire life, from childhood to his end years. What an amazing man he was. His journey was so very difficult, and yet he found his inner peace through God, love, and family. I recommend this book to anybody looking for well written, life affirming, non-fiction.
5 This was a well-done, complete account of the experiences of a POW during WWII. I found myself rooting for Louie, glued to the book and hoping for a positive outcome somehow. And even my biggest hopes were satisfied. Amazing, horrific, hopeful, and even better, true!
5 Unbroken is an amazing tale of courage, determination, and grit. Laura Hillenbrand brings the story of Louis Zamperini WWII POW alive. What she did for the story of Seabiscuit, she does ten-fold for Louis Zamperini's unparalleled tale.
5 This is a terrific book for people who love to read WWTwo history, but this time from an individual's viewpoint rather than descriptions of the mega-battles.  This is truly the horrors that Louie Zamparini went through during the war, and it is clear he was just one of many who suffered special circumstances and, more importantly, the cruelties of the Japanese who captured him.
5 This book was hard to put down.  I am so amazed that it is a true story.  I can't wait to see the movie................
5 UNBROKEN is Breathless! On Amazon.com some 1,700 plus people have written reviews of Hillenbrand's latest book. Yet I all but ignored the book and had little thought of adding it to my must read list. Certainly I recall having enjoyed Hillenbrand's "Seabiscuit" and found I was actually surprised that I could enjoy a book centered on the story of a race horse. But still despite some friends recommending her latest I just never got around to reading it. My error and my loss because this is an incredible story told by an incredible writer.Not much reason to go into the story and surprises of what is basically a biography of Louis Zamperini and his experiences in World War II. It covers his whole life and it is inconceivable to believe he survived the events depicted. The story certainly gives credence that life is stranger than fiction. And no doubt Zamperini's life was not as fast and entertaining as the page turner that Hillenbrand has created. (All be it much of the book is gruesome and violent.) Hillenbrand brings all this to life with suspense, and surprises (almost one after another) without embellishing. She is wonderful creating a journalistic narrative. (Even her footnotes are worth reading.)And there is more here than just the story of Zamperini as numerous other characters enrich the story.UNBROKEN reminded me a lot of Hampton Sides GHOST SOLDIERS which is also about the treatment by the Japanese of POW's and a mission to rescue the POW's. One thing I do think Sides did better in his book is to go into the cultural reasons and issues of why the POW's were mistreated. However Hillenbrand's story personalizes the situation much more dramatically than Sides is able to do. Both are remarkable in writing style and both authors are now among my favorite writers.As an example of Hillenbrand's ability to convey time and place in just one paragraph she opens the book with the Zamperini brothers looking up at the Graf Zeppelin..." After a slow glide around the Statue of Liberty, the Zeppelin banked north, then turned over the Atlantic. In time, land came below again: France, Switzerland, Germany. The ship passed over Nuremberg, where fringe politician Adolf Hitler, whose Nazi Party had been trounced in the 1928 elections, had just delivered a speech touting selective infanticide. Then it flew east to Frankfurt, where a Jewish woman named Edith Frank was caring for her newborn, a girl named Anne. Sailing northeast, the Zeppelin crossed over Russia. Siberian villagers, so isolated that they'd never even seen a train, fell to their knees at the site of it."This is an example of how the whole book is constructed. Layers of research used on behalf of this most incredible story and life. A must read for sure. I am only sorry I waited so long.
5 I'm not an author and I'm not going to write a long review about this book. I will say that if you enjoy true, well written stories then pick this one up.The author follows, chronologically, the life of Louis Zamparelli. She writes about him growing up, attending college, being drafted to serve as a pilot is WWII, surviving on the open water after being shot down, becoming a POW, and returning to a normal life.My father told me about this book and once I started reading I couldn't put it down. Matter of fact, when I finished it the first time, I read it again right away.I highly, highly recommend this book.
5 What a truly remarkable story of persistence, honor, courage, strength and true application of Christian teachings, without being in any way a book about religion.
5 A remarkable story of the will to survive.  Highly recommended by all history enthusiasts and anyone who needs a little inspiration.
5 Here is a story pf a true American hero. As I was near then of the book, I shared with two others that I was reading it. Both had read it and one of the guy's uncles was a POW in the same camps!
5 This book was a page turner from the beginning. It was a remarkable story about a very special person. the story starts at the beginning telling how he went through the war to survive and really live life to its fullest. Great story, written well.
5 Amazing book! Read it when it first came out and it's an incredible story. I'm anxious to see the movie, but I imagine it can't live up to the book!
5 Think of every strong  human emotion, then multiply each by a hundred.  That will give you an idea of the journey on which Hillenbrand's unforgettable book will take you.  "Unbroken" is one of the most enlightening, disturbing,and uplifting books I have ever read.  I highly recommend the book to anyone interested in the depths and heights to which human nature can go.  But I especially recommend it to all Americans and Japanese.
3 Amazing details of the atrocities committed by the Japanese during WW 2 , and the loss of life and human dignity on all sides. Mesmerising and deeply troubling look at war, wondering how we continue to support policies of hatred and territoriality.
5 This book was amazing, but that's because Zamperini's life was amazing. He triumphed on the track, suffered and survived in war, and then triumphed again over alcohol and depression.  Laura Hillenbrand's storytelling is sublime, just as it was in Seabiscuit.  I highly recommend.
5 PURCHASED AFTER REVIEWED BY ONE OF OURREADING GROUP MEMBERS, IT REFLECTS THESTORY OF MY FATHER IN  HIS WWII EXPERIENCE
5 I rated this book 5 stars because it is such a compelling tale of one man's life lived in extremes. Part of Louie Zamperini's life was due to an exuberant push- the- limits personality and partly due to fate. It is a testament to human endurance and how a man returned from an extremely harsh prisoner of war experience coping poorly with post traumatic stress syndrome to one of redemption and inspiration to others. Through it all Louie Zamperini's strong will and tenacity speaks to us all.
3 This book started out slow but got better.  Found myself hating to put it down about midway.  Interesting story that provides insight into what some of our men went through in defending our country.
3 I felt there was an epic story here, but also felt the author should have given us more depth in the characters of Louie's family, and actually even Louie and Phil. It would seem that Laura Hillenbrand had the opportunity to probe Louie for details of his emotions re: Cynthia and his children, Billy Graham,  etc. ~~ rather than so many dealing with the technical aspects of the war. The disclaimer being, I am a woman; I am from Venus.There were times that I just had to put the book down for a while.  The beatings, starvation, humiliation of the POWs by the Japanese was too horrific to experience in long reading sessions. I never really understood the hatred my generation had for the Japanese, but I do now. It would be very, very hard for anyone who had a loved one experience such conditions not to generalize the entire country as such tyrants because of the POW camps.It's a little hard to believe how small the world was back then; amazing how familiar faces kept showing up.All this being said, I can't WAIT for the movie!
4 Fiction and autobiographical fiction should be graded by category: I.e., by plots, themes, believability of  characters, quality of prose, including syntax, thoroughness of research, etc.  "Unbroken" is a 5 Star from most perspectives, and anyone who would like to be be carried back through time to the early 1940's and placed dead center in WWII in the Pacific,  MUST READ this book.  I couldn't give it 5 Stars for two main reasons:  (1) The story itself was so depressing that I was barely able to keep reading and (2) the author's prose did not rise to the level of  beauty that she showed in "Seabiscuit", her greatest book.  Regardless, her research in "Unbroken" is scholarly to a fault.  Laura Hillenbrand is a masterful crafter of fascinating books.  BookAWeekMam
5 My favorite book so far last year.  I was totally taken in with the man and his story.  I saw him interviewed with Angelina Jolie about the movie she is making about the book.  Cannot wait for it to come out and go see it.
5 I'm just adding my 5 stars here.  No point in writing a long review because nothing more can be added to what has already be said over and over in previous reviews.  It's an extremely good read and I read a lot of books.  Is there exaggeration in some of the telling as some of the one star reviews claim?  Possibly but that doesn't take away from what is a well told story of an amazing life.  Highly recommended.
4 This book was interesting because it is about WWII.  I think this book reminds me of a YA novel I read back in grammar school, called "Hatchet" and the other one was called "Island Keeper" about people who crashed in an airplane and were stranded there.
5 This is an amazing biography of Louis Zamperini, who was here in the Ft. Myers area giving a talk about his life. The man is a true American Hero. How an individual can overcome all of the hardships and terrible tragedies that he survived and triumphed over, is a testament in itself to the American spirit and human kind. I couldn't put it down.
5 A difficult, but important, story that needs to be told. This is the biography of Louis Zamperini, Olympic runner and American hero. Some of this is so horrific that I found myself having to put it aside and take a breather, but it has a great finish. Do continue to the very end. The title says it all: A Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption. Every American should read this book.
5 This true accounting of the story of one prisoner of WWII captures your interest from page one and never lags!
5 Another review of this wonderful book....I am always looking for non-fiction books about WWII - this is one of the best I have ever read.  It was just a bit slow in the beginning - but quickly picked up and I could hardly wait to be at home to read it!  Enjoy!
5 I read the reviews on this book and thought, ok, I'll give it a shot. I enjoyed this book so much! Recommend it to all!
5 Recommended by my son as one of his favorites, I started reading, and early on thought, oh boy, this is a man's books and a story for runners...buddies in the war, male camaraderie, lots of running stats and achievements toward personal bests for runners.The protagonist, Louis Zamperini is a kid when the story opens, and not very likeable to boot; being a bit of a spoiled jerk and self-centered, but by the time he's enlisted in the military, and his plane goes down in the Pacific, the action begins on a huge scale, is a story with a lot of heart, and never lets up.  What he and others endured was beyond amazing, informative, ingenious, inspiring, and more.  It wasn't a man's read anymore, it was a testimony to what the human spirit can endure, what the emotions and the belief systems of the different cultures were like at that time, and the monsters that war turns people into.I've been an avid reader of the holocaust and the effects of WWII in Europe and Russia...this was my first venture into Japan, and what an eye opener!  Americans were hated by the Japanese in some ways as the Jews were hated by the Germans, and treated accordingly.  Healing proved to be a very difficult, if not impossible, process for many, told very dramatically in the book.As close as we teeter to the edge with our prejudices and stereotypes, one would hope we learn from our past.  Excellent read, highly recommend.
5 Hillenbrand's account is as fascinating as it is thorough.  The depth and thoroughness of the novel is remarkable and seems almost impossible.  She manages to recall slight details and factoids that add to the emotional vigor of the story.  There is a transformation from a juvenile youth to an olympian to a military prospect to a stranded soldier to a hopeless prisoner of war, a cycle that's patriotic finish is quite the relief.  Unbroken is such an amazing account that its only flaw is that more people haven't read it.  It is truly deserving of all its accolades and stars.
5 Despite all the plaudits here and elsewhere, I found the beginning of this book to be slow-going.  Maybe it's me, but the repeated descriptions of races and times seemed rather boring.  However, once Hillenbrand got to the meat of the book -Louie and WW II - she really kept things moving.  Her writing was gripping and I couldn't put it down until I'd finished it - which is why I'm writing this review at almost 1 am.  She is extraordinarily skillful about painting vivid pictures, keeping many characters straight and distinct for the reader and setting forth facts without getting into controversial philosophical points.  The latter are left for the reader to think about and discuss.A highly recommended book.p.s.  It is also worthwhile to read her lengthy thanks at the end of the book.  The number of people she interviewed is extraordinary, her sources are copious, the amount of readers of the manuscript is striking and the help she received from so many experts is fascinating. Hillenbrand takes this mountain of information from scores of people and constructs a seamless book.  And the most amazing thing is that she accomplished ALL of this from the room she is restricted to as a result of her chronic fatigue syndrome.  Wow!
5 Sacrifice, endurance, perseverance and dramatic change of life - fantastic NON-FICTION!  This is such an encouraging story that inspires all of us to not only persevere, but to honestly face ourselves.  This book may seem tedious in parts, but the dramatic turns of events will shock and surprise you.  This is another outstanding book by Laura Hillenbrand - what a gifted author and story teller - and amazing research.  Every American should read this book!
5 Few books can leave an impression on a reader like Unbroken. I read it several months ago, and when anyone asks me to list my top ten favorite books this one is there. Absolutely well written and though provoking. How would these events change you? Incredible...Incredible....Incredible. If you haven't read this....you must.
5 This book is exciting.  It is even a true story.  Everyone that I've recommended it to has loved it.  It seems to appeal to both genders.
5 Laura Hillenbrand admits that after she completed her remarkable biography of a racehorse, SEABISCUIT: An American Legend, she had little hope that she would ever find another subject as compelling to write about. But "When I had my first conversation with the infectiously effervescent and apparently immortal Louie Zamperini, I changed my mind."A bad kid from a good working class family, Zamperini was defiant as a boy, all the way up to high school. The police knew who he was, and his father had just about given up on reforming him when he remarkably decided to reform himself after seeing that some "bad kids" were ending up in institutions for the feeble-minded and criminally incorrigible. He worked on his schooling and started to run. He ran so well, so effortlessly, that in the fateful year of 1936 he went to the Olympics. His run there was distinguished not by winning (he came in 8th), but by the fact that he came from way behind, making up 50 yards in one lap and pulling the fastest time for any runner that year. He became a worldwide celebrity and was on target to take the gold in the 1940 Games. But those Games never happened. The world was at war, and Zamperini joined the military.Despite a fear of flying, he found himself in the Air Force. Not long after arriving in the Pacific, Zamperini was on a mission to find a plane that had gone down, when the plane he was in fell into the sea. By amazing feats of will, he managed not only to pull himself up from the bottom of the ocean, but also to save two companions by dragging them onto two small life rafts. The rafts were pitifully equipped, and one of the three men started their harrowing adventure by eating nearly all of the chocolate, a move that later made him so disconsolate and guilty that he died on the voyage. They got by under unbelievable hardships, collecting rainwater, teaching each other things they had learned in school, and reciting old family recipes to keep their mental faculties from fading. They finally learned how to catch and eat the sharks that constantly surrounded them, and even survived a strafing from the Japanese that tore one of the rafts to shreds.But that 46-day stint in the raft was only the beginning of Zamperini's horrors, as it ended in capture by the Japanese and a long stay at a POW camp run by a sadistic soldier known to the other prisoners as the Bird. The Bird immediately dubbed Zamperini "prisoner number one," singling him out for nearly daily beatings with fists, feet, and once, a belt with a heavy buckle. Other Japanese camp personnel included a doctor dubbed the Quack, who enforced the Bird's policies with medical "treatments" that included injecting prisoners with a liquid torture potion. Men died from systematic pummeling of their bodies, diseases such as beriberi, and slow starvation. Their spirits were tried by cruel humiliations. A few guards were able to give surreptitious compassionate care to the prisoners, but under orders many of them were also forced to mete out beatings. Amazingly, the prisoners "fought back" in small, morale-building ways, ingeniously stealing small amounts of rice or destroying the Japanese equipment they were charged with loading onto ships bound for war.After the war, the Bird preposterously declared that at the time he was in command, he had never heard of the Geneva Convention. He lived in hiding for years until he was given amnesty along with others on a "most wanted" list of war criminals. The statistics tell the story --- only one percent of Allied POWs died while in captivity in Germany, while in Japan the percentage was near 40, and that does not count the thousands whose names were never recorded. Zamperini had been singled out for a reason: knowing his worldwide name recognition, the Japanese hoped to break his spirit and force him to record propaganda against the US. Once Zamperini realized what they were up to, he refused, marking himself for further maltreatment and, if the Japanese lost the war, almost certain death.But Zamperini survived and eventually returned to his family. How he came back from the brink of self-destruction after the war and re-emerged as an unbroken man is a story in itself. When he went to Japan for the 1998 Olympics to carry the torch, running past the buried ruins of one of the camps where he suffered torture and terror at the hands of the Bird, the Quack and other sadistic masters, he was a free man who had miraculously learned to forgive.UNBROKEN is a riveting read; once you pick it up, be prepared for a long weekend living inside the mind of Louis Zamperini and his companions, including many of the Japanese captors. Taken from extensive personal interviews, diaries, letters and archives, and aided by the fact that Zamperini, now in his 90s, is a "superlative pack rat," Hillenbrand has constructed a detailed, dramatic saga to help all of us remember and respect the men and women who serve so valiantly. In the case of Zamperini, that respect reaches the realms of awe.--- Reviewed by Barbara Bamberger Scott
5 I received this book as a gift via Kindle.  What fun! This is a well told tale of Louis Zamperini and his amazing triumph over the vagaries of life - in his case, a life made extraordinary by his participation in WWII.  Both his story and the author's story of completing this book in the face of chronic, debilitating illness provide great inspiration.  They both fulfill Churchill's maxim:  "Never, never, never give up."
5 This book was a recommendation from a friend, I knew nothing about the book or about Louie Zamperini's life. To be honest, I hadn't heard of him until this book.I was gripped from the opening page and struggled to put it down. I finished it in a three days - had work not come in the way I would have read it non-stop.The book is very well written and the first pages start giving a backdrop of the story of Louie; a hint at his running career till he ended up in a life raft drifting across the ocean.The story then drops back to his boisterous childhood, hell-raising teenage years and what happened to him to enabling him overcoming it and succeed to become a successful runner expected break the 1 mile record, all the way till WWII and the even that led to him in the life raft as they drifted closer to the wrong end of the occupied area. As I didn't know anything about the his life - I didn't know if he was going to live or die.The photos and facts surrounding each event adds a deep richness to the story and I found myself horrified, laughing and crying though out the book.Last book I found this gripping was "Touching the void".
5 This is one of the best books I have read recently.  Ms. Hillenbrand did a thorough job of researching and she writes in such a way that I felt I was there in the downed aircraft, in the raft lost at sea, and in the POW camps with Louis. I could not put the book down.This is also a great story of what our service men endured during WWII and it helped me understand more about the war in the Asia-Pacific theater. The author's ability to bring the events to life made me cry, enraged me and had me begging for mercy.  I learned why there has been such acrimony between the Japanese and Chinese as well between the Americans and Japanese.Unforgiveness can be the root of much bitterness.By all accounts Louis should have been one of those veterans with chronic PTSD with all that he endured during active duty and captivity. His example of forgiveness is a model for healing.
5 Laura Hillenbrand has taken the fascinating story of Louis Zamperini and created a masterpiece of historical research.  Anyone who is interested in nonfiction dealing with WWII, and specifically the conflict in the Pacific, will appreciate this book.  A true story of persistance and survival against all odds, UNBROKEN will serve as an inspirational read, one not easily forgotten.
2 I know people rave about it, saying it's the most entertaining and compelling novel they've ever read. But I couldn't disagree more.I'm all for entertaining and compelling, but I wouldn't describe Unbroken with either of those adjectives. I also really disliked the author's writing style. #1 rule: show, don't tell. Illustrate a point; help the reader draw a picture in their mind. Hildebrand instead uses long lists of events or details to get her point across. She should have picked one or two events in each case and really wrote about them, rather than list them.On the positive side, Hildebrand certainly has done her research and has peppered in more facts than I anticipated, which was certainly enjoyable.I just couldn't take it anymore though! I retired the book when I was nearly halfway through. I kept telling myself it would get better, but alas, it did not. On to bigger and better things.
4 This is a story about an amazing individual, in fact many amazing individuals.Worth reading.I wish it had been shorter. The book has too much detail and editing issues.Sentences are repeated and facts are contradicted.Still I recommend.
5 I found myself mesmerized by the story of Louis Zamperini, a high school and Olympic track star who survived his early antics as a child to become a giant of perseverance in the Japanese POW camps in WW II.  A few reviewers have found parts of the story hard to believe, but I've been privileged to meet at least two survivors from similar torturous experiences in Vietnam and Iran.  Like Zamperini, they survived unimaginable physical and psychological abuse.  Equally impressive, the author peppers the story with details about the high number of US Army Aircorps airmen who were killed in training as well as combat and on the history of what happened to those Japanese guards who so brutalized their prisoners.  It's a compelling story about the dark side of war --- and of humanity -- as well as the determination of one man and his will to survive.  What happens to Zamperini after the war -- his fall and eventual rise from disaster -- is a lesson we should all take to heart.
5 I have to admit that I was hesitant about starting this book.  Someone in my book club selected it and I was turned off by the mention of war.  I am not a fan of war novels, but this was so engaging and compelling.  I don't want to sound cliche, but it truly is a story of the resilience of the human spirit. Laura's writing is superb!! I thoroughly enjoyed it and would recommend it to any and everyone.
5 The stories held in this book made me want to be a better friend, husband, and father. I gained insight to feelings and experiences I have never had before. Laura Hillenbrand helps the reader experience things almost as if they were there. Thank you for such a brilliant biography and masterpiece on Louis Zamperini and his experience in the war.
5 Other reviewers have dealt with the brilliance of this book and I will not try to improve upon their words except to say this is certainly as good a biography as I have ever read. I did want the note that the scenes with Zamperelli in Japanese POW camps are terribly affecting and disturbing. The descriptions of the torture he and others endured is graphic despite being written in spare and non dramatic prose. I found myself angry at the horror these men endured and then angry again when "justice" was not handed down for those who committed the atrocities. Hillenbrand does her best to explain those acts without justifying them but of course, they are in many ways inexplicable. You will love this book, but be aware that you will read things here that more polite histories would leave out. All this of course makes the survival and eventual success of Mr. Zamperelli even more amazing. Read this book and be glad that you now know about this person
5 Unbroken is a story of an American soldier during WWII. As a child, Louis, the main character, was a juvenile delinquent. An exceptional runner, he was working on breaking the four minute mile. He traveled to Germany to run in the &#8220;Hitler Olympics.&#8221;During WWII, he became a bombardier, protective of his friends. Louis was shot down over the Pacific and was at sea for many months, shot at by airplanes and targeted by sharks. He was captured by the Japanese and tortured for many years. He was often deprived of adequate food and water. Amazingly, he survived and through it all his spirit of life was never brokenThis story is in many ways almost a history, not just a novel, because of the many statistics provided by the author. I found this book hard to read because of the very real descriptions of the torture and abuse.
5 Received book in 2 days and it arrived in absolutely perfect condition.  This is the best WWII book I have ever read and I highly recommend it to friends and family.  I have already given it to several friends and family.
4 CD/Unabridged/non-fiction: I hate to say this, but I was never so happy for a nuclear bomb to be dropped. This is the biography of Louis Zamperini life.  It goes through his early life to his emotional "saving".First, Zamperini is still alive and I don't think I will spoil anything with this review. (Unless you slept under a rock and don't know anything about WWII).  Zamperini was shot down in the Japanese Theater and was one of three survivors after the plane crash. He survived 44 days while floating to the Marshall Islands. After becoming a POW, you wish he is was starving on the raft again. He was under deplorable conditions by the Japanese. After the war, he suffers from post-traumatic syndrome and recovered by becoming a born-again Christian. Zamperini spoke as an inspirational speaker for years and there are other books written about him. He was also part of a 60 minutes story that featured one of his guards that avoid capture after the war.Actor Edward Herrmann does the narration for the audio and he does a great job.The cons of the book were some of the stories told. I felt that most of the stories were told well. The book is written like "A Perfect Storm" with stories within stories.  However, I felt that some of the stories were exaggerated over time and too unbelievable.  Also, Fighter Pilot Pappy Boyington was kept at the same POW camp and he is only mentioned twice in passing.
5 I had never heard of Laura Hillenbrand or Seabiscuit, so I had no particular expectation when I picked the book up at a warehouse store.  Hillenbrand does the type of research and answers the questions that provide a thorough understanding of an incredible story. I can't help but think that anyone writing on the subject of Louie Zamperini would be able to write a very good book.  Great subject, excellent author.  Expect to have trouble putting the book down.
5 Absolutely the best book I read in 2010. It is a must read for everyone that lives in this country and lived through WW11 or came after. The grit and heroism of our boys in that war set a precedent for todays trials. I really believe that we cannot forget what they sacrificed so that we all could live  in a free world. I pray that our leaders never forget. God Bless all of our service men and women that make that sacrifice daily.
5 gripping listen to for in the car - I know I could not have read it as a book though
5 If you have ever felt sorry for yourself or doubted the men serving our Country, "read this book." It will make you feel truly blessed with the circumstances in your life and appreciate what our servicemen did for us and continue to do on a daily basis.
5 This book is absolutely fantastic. Hillenbrand has outdone herself with the story of Louie Zamperini, an Olympic hopeful who becomes a bomber in World War II, and ends up a Japanese POW. There is so much to recommend here; A truth is stranger than fiction story, a sobering recounting of the second world war, but above all else is the unbreakable spirit of the man who is the centerpiece of the book. A fantastic read.
5 Incredible story of a famous distance runner in the 30s, Louis Zamperini, who was a WWII prisoner of war in Japan. What he endured for 47 days in a raft lost at sea then the incredible torture as a POW is almost beyond belief. Even more amazing than that was how God change him and he was able to forgive and move on with his life after enduring years of torment subsequent to the war. It's the best book I've read this year, one of the best I've read in the last five years. Pick it up, you won't be sorry."
5 An amazing story full of hope!Unbroken by Laura Hillenbrand is the amazing story of Louis Zamperini.  The story begins with his early years, moves through his teens, military career and ends with his life after World War II.  Louis went to the Olympic Games before the war and actually met Hitler.  During the war he served as a bombardier on a B-24 in the Pacific.  He survived  a plane crash at sea only to fall into the hands of the Japanese and suffer through POW camps.  You will also learn how he dealt with returning to life as "normal" back in the U.S. and how he chose to use what he went through to help others after he became a Christian.This book caught my attention and held it until the end.  To see what Louis went through and how he didn't lose hope and actually survived made me wonder at the capability of the human body and mind to survive under the worst circumstances.  Hillenbrand took a heartbreaking story and infused it with Louis' hope and zest for life.  You know he will survive even as you are appalled at what people will do to others when given unrestrained power over them.  Woven into Louis' story are the stories of those he served with and survived POW camp with.  Unbroken is so skillfully written that you will "see" what life was like for Louis.  This book is hard to set down!  I highly recommend it but be warned, much of the account of his life as a prisoner is disturbing.  Five stars!
5 This book was suggested by a friend and I can't believe this story. How this man was able to survive and overcome all the adversity he faced is beyond belief. This book should be read by all and maybe we can come to understand how to &#34;love our enemies&#34; as we have been told we should. I bought another copy and sent it to a friend. This book is fantastic!
5 Roughly 5,000 reviews in, there's not too much to add that hasn't already been said, so I'll keep it brief and simple: UNBROKEN is a powerful, captivating, and ultimately inspiring tale of unimaginable endurance, resilience, and salvation--both physical and spiritual--told by a master storyteller at the height of her abilities and the peak of her vocation.  With this flawless chronicle, author Hillenbrand has given Louie Zamperini and his fellow Allied prisoners the most timeless and moving monument of all.Highest recommendation.
3 For those interested in warfare this is of interest at the level of the individual.  However most readers will find the style tedious.
5 I could not put this book down,I read it in two days,what a story,what a writer,I cant understand why this story has not been told before,about one of the greatest WW2 American heros,and they could not have picked a better writer to tell it,I intend to re-read it several times.
4 Fascinating story and kept me turning pages. I can't imagine suffering the hardships that these men went through. Hillenbrand did a prodigious amount of research to write this.
5 I do not normally read true stories, but this was amazing.  The story was well told and captivating.  I couldn't put the book down and found myself astounded again and again.  By how much can happen to one man.  By how many parts of history one man could touch so directly.  By his strength and his humanity.  By almost every part of this book.  I was constantly calling my husband over to tell him details that I found unbelievable.  You will LOVE this book.
5 I had great trouble putting this book down. It held my interest all the way through.
5 I loved this book. At one stage I nearly bailed - I just couldn't handle the sheer pain. I pushed through and was SO thankful I did. It is the most incredible story of courage and forgiveness. We can all learn so much about the human spirit from this story.I admire Laura's writing skill. She made this book come alive and live in my head for weeks after the finish line. I wanted and needed more so Googled any information I could on Louis. I was delighted to find Youtube interviews and a movie in the making!!I live in South Africa so I am very aware of the power of forgiveness through Nelson Mandela teachings. These people are extremely rare and special, their stories need to be spread to every corner of the Earth. Love and forgiveness are the only way to move forward towards a global peace. I recommend this book to all my friends. I am grateful I read it before watching the forthcoming movie. Read this book and find a deep place in your soul where compassion lives.
5 Another wonderful, thoughtfully researched book from Laura Hillenbrand. At times both hard to read and hard to put down because of the subject matter. An excellent book for anyone, especially history/ WWII buffs.
5 This man, Louie Zamperini, is a stud.  Meet the real Italian Stallion.  His family immigrated from Italy but Louie is 100% American.  Unbroken is a true survival story.  Don't waste your time with the CBS Survivor show.  Turn off the TV and start reading Unbroken.  It will inspire you.  With men like Louie Zamperini on our side during WW II the Germans and Japanese never had a chance.  After finishing the book I realized that the research and the writing by the author, Laura Hillenbrand, was an integral part in making this book a success.  It's a great and unbelievable story on it's face but Hillenbrand skillfully and respectfully told the story.  Ms Hillenbrand deserves much credit.  She did a great job writing the book and it was abundantly clear that she cared deeply for all the people in the book.  She gets it.  Louie is Louie.  How the man ever survived all the bodily abuse is amazing to me.  The man just celebrated his 95th birthday and he is alive and well in the Hollywood Hills.  I wish I could shake his hand but more than that I wish that Louie and Laura could meet face to face before Louie passes away.  That would be a wonderful meeting.  As a Hoosier, I have to mention the B-24 pilot in the story, Lt Russell Allen Phillips.  Thanks "Phil."
5 The story of Louie Zamperini is a remarkable tale of heroism and horrible tragedy. Not only is &#34;Unbroken&#34; well written, but it shines a light on the war in the Pacific that often is over looked. The living hell of Pacific POW's is a true testament of the human spirit and the value of friendship. I highly recommend this book for anyone looking for an uplifting story that tells of the sacrifice of our men and women in uniform.
5 Before I write a review I always read the one stars.  I have to say, each and everyone of them is wrong about this book.  I could not put it down, I looked forward to being able to have the time to continue reading it.  I can relate to Louis' story, my father and uncles served in the Pacific in WWII with the U.S. Marines and Navy.  I also served in the U.S. Navy and spent three years in Japan, visiting many of the areas where the men in this book suffered.  The difference between how Americans and Japanese saw each other during the War and how we see each other today are so striking it is very hard to believe we ever felt the way we did.Louis' anger after the war, that led him to his abusive behavior, was caused by his abuse by his Japanese capters but he found a way to leave it behind, and finally the war ended for him.  I wish I could say the same for many of my relatives that lived day to day with the memories of that war and suffered for many years from the effects and trauma.Nice read, its hard to find a book that I like enough to read in just a couple of days, and this was a keeper.
4 The saga of the hero's survival is an amazing one. Hillenbrand has taken the WWII experience of noted Olympian Louis Zamparelli, and touchingly retold it as a tale of human strength and endurance that is truly worthy of Olympus.
5 Laura Hillenbrand is an amazing researcher and novelist.  I've loved both of her books and can't wait for the next to be written.  The only bad part of this book is that it ends. Truly, a fascinating and inspiration story.  A must read!
4 I was very moved by the first three quarters of the book. However, the last section seem padded, redundant, and not as interesting. It kind of felt like the book had to be a prescribed length and the author strained to write enough pages to meet the requirement. Nonetheless, the story is inspiring and encouraging.
5 Just an amazing story about an amazing man. Everyone should read it, I could not put it down. By it
5 Laura Hillenbrand must have thanked her lucky stars when she found Louie Zamperini and made him the subject of this book. Zamperini, still alive and kicking (an apt description as he was a famous runner in his youth) at 94 (this month) hit the nail on the head when he told the author, "I'll be an easier subject than 'Seabiscuit', because I can talk." Well, he may have been easier in the sense that he could relate many, many stories concerning the incredible things that happened to him during his lifetime, but things couldn't have been all that easy as it took Ms. Hillenbrand seven years to research and write this book. For the reader, it was worth every day of those seven years.If you had the imagination of Steven Spielberg and Robert Zemeckis combined, you couldn't come up with a life nearly as interesting or action-packed as Mr. Zamperini's. A wayward, rebellious childhood was followed by an obsession with running. When I was a teenager in the early 1970's I was a pretty avid follower of track-and-field and knew something of the history of long-distance runners, but there was a gap in my education as I had never heard of Mr. Zamperini. But in 1930's California he was hot-stuff, and he held the high school record for the mile for around 20 years. He made the 1936 Olympic team and although he came in 7th place in his event he ran the fastest last lap ever. He got to pal around with Jesse Owens and had the (admittedly dubious) distinction of meeting Goebbels and Hitler. He expected big things at the 1940 Olympics but the games were cancelled due to WWII.So far, we already have had enough for a "normal" book but Mr. Zamperini's experiences as a bombardier in the Pacific theater raise "Unbroken" to a higher level. He was shot at and (almost) downed. Then he was in a plane that wasn't shot at but wasn't airworthy and it crashed. He was adrift at sea for a month-and-a-half in a 6 foot raft, with 2 companions. It is no exaggeration to say that Mr. Zamperini could have suffered death by starvation, death by thirst, or death by shark. Take your pick. (One companion did die.) After the 6-7 week ordeal, the 2 remaining men were picked up by a Japanese ship. Again, the ordeal by sea would have made a book by itself. But there's more.....The remainder of the book deals with Mr. Zamperini's experiences in various Japanese POW camps. The Japanese didn't believe in surrendering. They encouraged their own men to fight to the death or to commit suicide to avoid capture. Needless to say, with that attitude they didn't care much what they did with allied POW's. They were used as slave labor, barely fed, and were beaten severely for infractions, real or imaginary. This part of the book is not for the squeamish and it makes you wonder how anyone who survived "life" in these camps could come out a reasonably normal human being. (Indeed, many POW's became physical and/or mental wrecks.) I don't want to ruin the story by saying how Mr. Zamperini coped, but it wasn't easy. After the war he was a mess for awhile, but eventually he did settle down to lead a productive life helping other people. He also stayed thin and kept himself fit by continuing to run for exercise. In his sixties he was still running a mile in under six minutes and in his seventies he took up skateboarding.This was an amazing rollercoaster of a book. I know it's a cliche to say a book is a "page turner" but "Unbroken" is such a book. I couldn't put it down and read it far into the night, well past my normal bedtime. It was, by turns, funny, exciting, frightening, depressing, sickening and, in the end, inspirational. A great, great book about an amazing man.
5 Great bio of survival and a very interesting man as the subtitle says!The author of Seabiscuit has found another very interesting life to write about.Ohhh Mr Zamperini was full of pranks and fun and a great athlete as well as a survivor of downed plane in WWII.There is a particular caper with a Nazi flag during the 1938 Olympics in Germany that will likely tickle you as it did me if you choose to read this book!
5 A fascinating story and very well-told.  wide reader appeal we would think. both my wife and i enjoyed it a lot.
5 I'm not going to review the book, but say that I've lived a life challenged by depression for a few decades, and the dispiriting messages the disease allows into my mind. I understand what it is to suffer mental anguish, though I suffered nothing like Louis Zamperini and so many other POWs suffered as described in this gift of a book.At a time in my life--I am 57 years old--when I am scarily, tenderly pursuing a completely different career than the one I've done for nearly 25 years, this book, this story could not have come at a better time. The resilience, the fortitude, the human capacity to persevere, and then to redeem oneself, has affected me so much. I think it's imperative that I remember this remarkable (and remarkably well-written and told) story of Louis Zamperini.I want people, especially people who have physical, emotional, psychological, whatever, challenges of their own, to know about this book. I hope for them that this amazing is for them the gift and hope that it has for me.Thank you, Laura Hillenbrand, for the extraordinary gift you have given me. Thank you.
5 I remember quite clearly when reading Laura Hillenbrand's "Seabiscuit" about the famous racehorse that this might be a once-in-a-lifetime book for the author, that she would probably never find so compelling a story to focus upon.  Hillenbrand herself says much the same thing in the afterword to her new "Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption" (due to be released to the public in the next couple weeks) -- but then she learned about Louie Zamperini.  Zamperini, as the son of immigrant Italians in California in the 1930s, seemed a sure candidate for everybody's "Most Likely to Go to Reform School" list.  Then, his older brother convinced him to try out for the high school track team, and a great natural gift for running was discovered.  In short order, his academic and disciplinary record reversed itself, and soon Zamperini was a student at USC and one of the brightest stars of the American track scene, often touted as being the man most likely to break the fabled four minute barrier in running the mile.  He was on the US team at the 1936 (Berlin) Olympics where he did respectably, although it was believed that with a little more maturity his real opportunity to win gold would come at the 1940 (Tokyo) Olympics.  Then, World War II started.Louis Zamperini found himself a B24 bombadier in the Pacific, where long distance over-water flying in aircraft of dubious mechanical reliability probably killed more air crew than combat.  In 1943 Zamperini's plane disappeared while on a search-and-rescue mission, and Zamperini and the rest of the crew were presumed killed.  Instead, he and the pilot survived 47 days in a life raft before being found and "rescued" by the Japanese, landing Zamperini in a succession of POW camps for the next two years.  It was a horrid, brutal experience, and it makes for intensely distressing reading.  Zamperini was singled out by one particular chief guard, perhaps because of his sports fame, perhaps because of his unbowed attitude, for unrelenting, sadistic attention.  Yet, despite the beatings and torture and almost nonexistent food and terrible living conditions Zamperini survived.Restored to the States after the end of the War, Zamperini married but quickly descended into a desperate spiral of alcohol and anger that threatened his marriage and his life.  But, improbably enough, when he was dragged reluctantly to a Billy Graham camp meeting by his estranged wife, Zamperini found it within himself to let go of his wholly understandable anger and thirst for revenge, and literally reformed himself overnight, becoming an inspirational speaker and advocate for troubled youths.  As of this writing, he is still hale and hearty, an indomitable optimist.Hillenbrand has once again found herself a perfect subject (Zamperini told her that it would be easier to write about him than Seabiscuit because he, at least, could talk), and again has demonstrated her skill in constructing a highly compelling story, vividly drawing upon the memories of a large cast of friends and family and former enemies.  "Unbroken" is a marvelous book.  The account of Zamperini's POW years is tough stuff, to be sure, but Hillenbrand's focus on an extraordinary character is unwavering.
5 This book is the most inspiring story I have ever read. Louis Zamperini is a legend whose story must be told. Amazing.
5 All the other 5 star reviews are right on.  Miss Hillenbrand can write!  Louies story is fantastic, unbelievable, shocking and wonderfully true.  Great storytelling.
5 They were called the greatest generation for a reason.  what he went through needs to be made into a movie, but the book will always be better.
5 A powerful, true story trumps any fiction story any time.  Louis Zamperini truly has lived an uncommon life and his story needed to be told.  I loved the contrast between a person who seemingly could stubbornly survive the worst tragedy, treatment, circumstances and disappointment and the person who, once he'd achieved survival, wasn't able to lift himself, by his own incredible willpower, into a happy, productive life.  If he couldn't do it, then none of us can, at least not on our own.  You'll have to read the book to see where "his strength comes from" so that he can live a life of meaning after all the incredible hardships have been vanquished.  Warning, next is my summary:Growing up:  A hardscrabble youth, a world class gift for distance running, a trip to the Olympics, an unfulfilled Olympic medal dream.Army air corp. service:  enlistment, a highly skilled B-24 bombardier occupation, some successful bombing missions, a dislike of the Bible, a propensity for the bottle, a foolish lieutenant, a cursed replacement B-24, a rescue mission ended by mechanical failure, an deadly ocean ditching.The raft:  an unlikely survival/along with 2 others, 47 harrowing/starvation filled days on a raft in the Pacific, a poorly prepared survival package, mental stability exercises to pass the time, numerous relentless sharks, the death of one crash survivor, a vow to God (save us and I'll serve you forever), a transcendent gift of one beautiful/uncommon day (crafted "deliberately, compassionately" for them), a Japanese Naval "rescue", families get no news of survival.Execution Island: Months of horrifying/sadistic/inhumane treatment, grasping for dignity, a surreptitious Christian friend, biological experiments on prisoners, a false confession, shipped to Japan.Ofuna interrogation center:  starvation conditions, constant disease, cruel guards, Japanese cultural distain for surrenderers (for each Allied killed/4 surrenders - for each 120 Japanese killed - 1 surrender), one brutal guard/The Quack", Japanese "kill all" prisoners contingency plan to cover their crimes,  transfer.Omori POW camp- a psychopathic guard - "The Bird," his special dislike for Louis - daily physical attacks, physical and emotional torture, a belt buckle beating, an official notice of death by the military (standard after 13 months of missing in action), refusal to read a propaganda statement on the radio, return to Omori, Tokyo bombings, Allied victory signs rising, possible final death sentences, atomic bombs, war ends!Liberation:  airlifts:  peaches, chocolate, quick forgiveness of the Japanese people, trading goods with Japanese civilians, months recuperating in hospital, a grateful, emotional homecoming.Emotions scar Civilian life:  "The Bird" haunting his dreams, a nationwide manhunt/but "The Bird" is never apprehended (and ultimately - as only the United States would do to an enemy = pardoned to allow fuller healing between the countries), a beautiful wife, Pacific POWs have many times more physical difficulties than European POWs, one more/failed attempt at a running career, the bottle rears it's ugly head, a baby comes, a wife pleads unsuccessfully for an end to the drinking, a marriage on the brink.Redemption:  Billy Graham's Los Angeles Crusade, wife attends and makes a lasting commitment to a difficult marriage, Louis very reluctantly attends, remembers God's care of him (surviving the plane crash, the transcendent day, his promise, "if you save me, I'll serve you forever"), surrenders his life to Jesus, pours out the booze, "The Bird" leaves his dreams, "a new creation".Life after:  a Christian speaker, a promised reuniting with the Bird get aborted, Louis sends a letter of forgiveness anyways, his bitterness is gone, replaced by a Godly love for his horrifying, unrepentant enemy, life still filled with joy and meaning.Other learnings:Japanese culturally - trained that they were superior.  Historically had murdered thousands of prisoners, including between 200,000 and 430,000 people in a six-week incident known as the Rape of Nanking.It seems like history has given short shrift to the Japanese pre-war cultural issues that led not only to the war, but to their incredibly disgusting treatment of captives and POWs during the war.I'm also struck by the awesome power of true forgiveness as portrayed by Hillenbrand in this book.  First we see Louis's forgiveness by his wife, then by his God, then his own forgiveness of a man hated him purely for the enjoyment of it) not to mention the United States' forgiveness of both Japan and Germany).  Only God can bring that kind of power to bear in a human heart!Also, long live Laura Hillenbrand, what amazing story will she unfurl next?
2 I am glad that the book bring to the attention of Americans the truth of the Japanese treatment of POWs in the second world war, and I am glad that she tells the story of an American flyer. But if you read the history of the Pacific War, most of what she wrote is well known. Also why so long? It seems that parts of the book could have been told in one page but is stung out to a chapter. I did not find the boyhood stories very interesting and POW life seemed to go on-and-on without purpose. There are a lot better stories of World War II then this one.
4 Good historical documentation, well-informed character descriptions, good dialogue.Provokes my interest in reading additional material about this historical period.(word)
5 A thoughtful book recounting the life of a true American....a man who never asked to be a role model, making choices in his life that at the time seemed to him to be appropriate. Resulted in a biography that should be required reading for every high school senior....and basically for any person proud to be an American. An additionalperk for me was his home town of Olean NY...and the fact that Louis is still alive  today and touring with his co-author....gentlemen like him, and his story brings tears to the eyes of every person, proud of their country andthankful for those who served or are serving to keep our land the home of the free. I would love to meet this gentlemen just to shake his hand and thank him, and to thank Ms. Hildebrand for bringing Louis's story to us.
4 The fact that this is a true story and that the main character is still alive makes this even more riveting. I've since gifted this book to a few people, who all loved it.
4 I thought I knew alot about the war and some of the heroes but never knew this one.  What a wonderful and yet upsetting story of how man can treat man.  I thought over the centuries that we progressed further but apparently not.  It was sad to see how horribly one human being can treat another.  It almost sounded like the concentration camps of Nazi Germany.  In the end, this was a feel good story of how one man overcame all the obsticles.  The sad part is how many couldn't.
4 Really interesting even though it gets repetitive. A lot of details inside WW2 as well as POW life.  Section bringing thehistory of many characters up to date is excellent.
5 Unbroken is a gutwrenching account of the brutal, tortured life of a former olympic track star in a world war2 Japanese prison camp. Zamperini. the main character, goes thru hell, suffers post traumatic stress, turns to alcohol and has a miserable post war existence. Then, almost miraculously, finds God and becomes a better man than he had ever been.
5 I love history, but get bored quickly. This was really engaging and inspiring. I love her writing style and was pulled into the story from the beginning.
5 I just finished reading this book yesterday, it mesmerized me, it was a beautifully written story about an inspiring man and his life journey, i'm so glad i had the pleasure to read it.  It was a very interesting read, and it was touching.
4 Very long but well documented.  The end sort of crept up on me. This was a great perspective of one portion of the War in the Pacific.
5 Astonishing. Incredible. Upsetting. Enraging. TRUE!A valuable history lesson and an extremely inspiring story of many, many heroic men who fought, died and survived the hell of the Pacific theater in WW2.This book is a true page turner but some parts of it I had to skim as the ongoing, non-stop hell got to be too much for me. I simply do not understand how these young men --boys, actually---managed to survive the life of torture in those death camps.This is true, non revisionist history and should be required reading in every high school American history class (providing, of course, local school boards will toss out the biography of, say, Marilyn Monroe to make room for it).
4 Although "Unbroken" is primarily about Lou Zamperini (an Olympic runner, a WW II bombardier & POW, and reformed drinker) the book details for the reader the breadth and scope of humanity and how extreme the opposites of those poles can be. We have characters that are almost saintly in their virtue and others that seem to be the devil incarnate. And they were all real people, who walked this planet and did the things written in this text. The good and the bad depicted should cause the reader pause and reflection. Where do we fall on that scale?I won't rehash the main plot lines of "Unbroken", but I will say that the first part of the book, which focuses on Zamperini's childhood and life as a runner were very enjoyable to me. I mention this only because I have read many reviews on Amazon that characterized this part of the book as "boring". If you have ever been athletically competitive, or are a runner, I doubt you will find the first part of the text to be dull at all.The book as a whole is rarely if ever slow, but personally I found the part of the book that focused on the time the shot down crew of Zamperini's plane spent on a life raft in the middle of the vast Pacific to the most exciting and enjoyable aspect of the text. Ms. Hillenbrand does a wonderful job at creating tension and fear in this part of the book, and this is quite an achievement, since the outcome of the story is well known. There were times that I was in that raft with those shot down airmen and their fear and situation was palpable to me.Ironically, the part of the text where we enter the Japanese POW camps was the least interesting to me (and still I was not bored) only because I found it to be repetitive and slow. Of course, that is precisely what life in a POW camp would be like, so I don't fault Hillenbrand for that at all.My only qualm with the text is that at times Hillenbrand seems to be excusing Japanese atrocities during the war as simply symptoms of their culture, and as something a westerner would not understand. The Japanese Empire was an evil entity, period. To label it as anything else is morally dishonest. Ms. Hillenbrand never goes that far, and as a whole the book leaves one with no doubt of Japanese atrocities before and during WW II, but every once in a whole I felt she was equivocating. Not often, and not blatantly, but enough for me to notice."Unbroken" is an enjoyable and informative text, and deserves the wide readership it has received. I was entertained, amazed, and I learned from it. You will be too.
5 At first when I considered reading this I was a little dissuaded by Victorio's review stating that the author had given the book some 'personal coloring'. I wrote a reply to his review stating that in fact his own words are misleading and that he misrepresents what the book actually says so that his review is by his own definition 'dishonest'. The way things happen verses what actually happened during these horendous times are certainly two different things. I don't know how a reviewer can read this book and say that the author embellished at all. Maybe his sources embellished but what can he do about that?If your considering reading this book at all - do it. You won't be sorry. The first half or two thirds of the book deal with Louie's life before the military, the military, capture and confinement in Japan. The last part deals with the aftermath - when Louie gets home.Reading this book you get a tiny bit of history from the Japanese side. There's not much of that around for general public consumption. I lived in Japan for half a year in 1989 and WWII was never mentioned, except by a man from Hiroshima who asked me if I had heard of it 'you know ***nuclear bomb***!!!'Back in 1989 I got on the Yamanote Sen which is the train that circles around Tokyo. It wasn't crowded. There was an elderly man sitting about 15 feet away. Sitting with his cain in front of him, a kind of scowl fixed to his face, staring very  intently at me. I was a 22 year old caucasion 5'11" a little scruffy that day. This in a country known to be polite. As a matter of fact the whole 6 months I was there I don't think I ever met a rude person. Any way this elderly man stared at me in a way that made me think he was in WWII and had in some way dealt with American soldiers or sailors. I was spooked to say the least. After reading this book now knowing that so many war criminals were given amnesty in 1958 as a way of repairing political ties with Japan makes me wonder even more who he really was. Maybe he thought I was a dead soldier reincarnated???Japan is a wonderful country to visit. A little expensive. When I was there I always felt how odd it was for a country on the whole to be so polite to have committed such attrocities.
5 Beautifully told story, from one man's perspective, of lfe and time in the US and in the Air Corps.I knew little about the Eastern theatre, and in particular, about the war with Japan.  Ms. Hillenbrand writes with an ease and calm that promotes interest.  (Many nights the sound of my Kindle dropping to the floor wakes me up!  I hate putting the book down.)
5 I learned an interesting account of World War 11 that I didn't learn in history class in school. Never new how brutal the Japanese where during the war to POWs  I found it disturbing.  Worse than the Germans which I found hard to believe  Very well written. Will read more from this author.
5 I don't know if I can add much more of value to anything that the other 1,111 reviewers had to say...the vast majority of which were 5-star reviews, but I guess I feel the need to join my voice to the chorus of praise!I like a good war story and this one had the added benefit of being true.  There was a constant theme in Louie's life of trouble, redemption, renewal, tragedy, redemption, renewal, etc.  There was a point or two where I started to despair for him.  Silly me.  God had plans for Louie all along...from the time he stepped off the back of a train as a toddler until the day he stepped out onto the sawdust in a tent in Los Angeles.  What a ride.  What a book...what a story and what a man!  I can't wait for the movie!
5 I received this book promptly from my favorite internet source, Amazon.This book is a must read for those who love the freedom enjoyed by those living in the United States.The courage of those defending our country, during times of War, is displayed on the pages of this inspiring biography.
3 I was disappointed in this book after all the good reviews.  I think that I just didn't like the guy.  He wasn't a pleasant person before the pow camps and he wasn't great after he got home.  The title was confusing because for most of the book the main character was definitely broken.
5 A very disturbing and powerful novel, which shows the lengths of human endurance, and beyond.  It has given me even more appreciation for &#34;the greatest generation&#34;.
5 Generally, I do not care to read books about military life,  war heroes, war itself, or watch movies of the sort. However, this book, "Unbroken" caught my eye because it was on the NY Times Bestseller's list and had many raving reviews on Amazon. Author Lauren Hillenbrand gives the reader a bird's eye view into the life of Louie Zamperini. Readers will "watch" as Louie's life moves from wild-eye, untameable teenager to renown Olympian, American Air Corps Bombardier, and then Prisoner of War. I was reminded how resilient a person can be even when faced with the devil himself, as Louie had when he was beaten, starved, dehumanized by "The Bird"--a notorious Japanese guard in one of the worst POW camps in Japan. This book is a must read. I hope you will buy this book. It's a keeper!
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this story - there were definitely some sections of the story that were better than others, but over all, an epic story
5 This is a must read!!! Probably one of the best books I have read this year!  Valuable historical information!  Highly recommended.
5 This book was extremely well written.  The torture scenes were hard to take, but it was amazing what the strength of the human spirit can endure.  I believe his in-born indomitable spirit was what made him get through it. I could hardly believe that they made that long ocean voyage on a raft, but the unbelievable was just beginning.  To think this was a true story and actually happened was mind boggling.  I was thrilled that Billy Graham was able, with God's help to turn his life around.  Fantastic story!!
5 Really great book.  I recommend this to anyone who likes excellent storytelling and who doesn't mind the gritty/unpleasant details inherent to WWII prisoner-of-war experience.Laura Hillenbrand is just a genius.  I await her next book so eagerly.
5 I was really not interested in reading this book.  Implored by my 72 year-old-mother, I acquiesced.  It's the least I can do.  She may not be around forever and I'll be sad I didn't read the book she recommended.  Reluctantly I opened the book.  Then began to pour over the book, turning pages with Mach 1 haste.  Here's the conversation I had with her on the phone last night as the story was coming to an end....(more like a monologue than a conversation.)  "Mom.  UNREAL.  Cannot believe that story.  Learned SO much.  Explained so much about Daddy, (WWII RAF Pilot.)  Had no idea what life was like for POWs and war veterans.  Cannot tell you how much this book has opened my eyes.  Do you think the folks returning home from war right now have the same ghosts haunting THEM?  Oh my goodness.  Best, and most incredible TRUE story I've ever read.  We all need to read it to get a perspective on WWII.  How chilling.  How scarey.  How amazing. So glad you suggested I read it."My mother's reply?  "I knew you'd love it."  Spoken like a true mom.
5 From the first page I could not put this book down.  It was so good that I didn't want to finish reading it.  I was captivated and got lost in the book.
5 Not many people know about Louis Zamperini and what he went through during his service to his country. A hero in every sense of the word, it's unfortunate that there is very little known about him. All of your emotions are brought to bear when you read this story.When finished, you will ask yourself how he managed to accomplish anything after the trials he had to endure as a captive of the Japanese and also the hidden turmoil within himself. Hiilenbrand weaves a masterful blend of humor, heartbreak, and salvation.
5 I purchased this book but before I could read it three people asked if theycould read it first. I still haven't gotten it back because too many other peoplehave asked to read it.  I think that's an indication of the interest in the WWII book.I'm looking forward to reading it.
5 This book is a must read.  It is truly an inspiration.  I was caught up in the story; you really feel like you know Louis Zamparini.  His experience as he was trapped at sea and as a POW is amazing.  The fact that he lived through this experience is mind boggling.  His journey back from this experience and salvation so that he was able to love those who tortured him is inspirational.  This book is uplifting.
4 Fantastic read: gut wrenching and entertaining. I gained an appreciation for the sacrifices of our men and women who serve this country.
5 An absolute amazing read! So glad I did. It really gets into the reality of what war is really like!
5 Unbroken by Hillenbrand is the unbelievable story of Louis Zamperini,a troubled teen turned Olympic contender,whose service in the Pacific front of WW11 lands him in a POW camp in Japan. His story defies ones comprehension of survival. His experiences define the horror and the realities of being a serviceman and prisoner of war in the great war. Zamperini's resilience and core of strength amazes the reader more and more as each page is turned. Hillenbrand has researched the topic to the minutest detail and in so doing gives the reader a very eye opening account of the Pacific front of the war. These details are quite extreme and disturbing but the spirit of faith, courage and resilience that come from Zamperini's journey make the read a story of inspiration. This book gives a true understanding of why those who served in WW11 are called the greatest generation.
5 This story was nearly impossible to put down. I stayed up most of one night reading it. It's difficult to read in places because of what the POW's endured. Has a wonderful ending. A true story of life with a purpose. Extremely well researched.
5 This is a book that was well written about a very interesting man... and I learned a lot about WWII, the airplanes and what went on in the Japanese Prison camps, even if it was hard to read with the brutality.  I have recommended this book to several people and am glad I read it.
5 OH MY! What a wonderful book and a wonderful man! He was so inspirational. My family can not wait for the movie to come out during the holidays! It's going to be fantastic!
5 I never knew what was going on in those prisoner of war camps.  I expected it was horrible, but this is a real eye-opener.  I pray for them in a new way.
5 A wonderful story of courage, faith and finding peace after experiencing the unthinkable (and unimaginable) horrors of war and man's inhumanity to man.
5 What a story!  This book should be essential reading in schools.  This is true bravery.  To say I enjoyed it would be the wrong word. I endured the plane crash, the raft and the prison camps, it was all so real.  I couldn't stop reading, I was amazed and humbled by this man's achievements. Laura's descriptions were clear and uncluttered, every fact necessary and informative. It is a long book but never, for one minute, did my mind wander from the text. Truelly gripping, and if it was fiction you wouldn't believe it.  I would give it ten stars.Carole H
4 My Dad was a tailgunner in World War II so this book really resonated with me.  I was so moved by the book (which was loaned to me by a friend) that I bought this copy for my brother.
5 I could not put this book down.  The author does a great job telling this riveting story of a truly amazing man whose courage and determination prevailed throughout the absolute worst imaginable misery a human could endure. I thought the 47 days in the ocean was bad enough but the real worst was yet to come.  Then, what happened to him after his return and how he conquered the hate he felt for "The Bird" and what he had endured was even more inspiring.  Through it all, Louie remained truly UNBROKEN.
5 Louie's perseverance is astonishing. Not only does Louie survive his days as a POW, but he helps many other POWs survive as well. The Bird never breaks Louie's spirit. Eventually Louie forgives the Japanese prison guards. He even visits them in Japan! The book does conclude with Louie's life through the years. Thankfully, the author also tells what happened to the other prisoners.All these years I have learned much about the European half of WWII. But, I never knew so much about the Pacific portion. This book should be required high school reading. It tells the real-life story of an American soldier and his days as a POW. It relates how amazing our Armed Forces truly are and his, and their, ability to triumph over great adversity. I hope everybody reads Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption by Laura Hillenbrand. It's required reading for you too.
4 Ms. Hillenbrand knows how to put words together.  Mr. Zamparini represents all the heros of WWII.  The book is a classic.
3 How this guy ever survived is truly amazing.
5 I love it when my mind keeps returning to the story long after I've finished a book... This is one of those stories.  The title is so accurate, it is hard to add more too it.  It is a story that will leave you feeling encouraged and positive, knowing that even in the worst of situations, a person's attitude can mean the difference between living and dying.  A true story of hope.
5 Unbroken is a compelling story of the war in the Pacific and his ability to overcome odds that would have killed most of us.  The descriptions of the B-24s and the air force in the Pacific gave me a new perspective and understanding of why my father refused to talk about his war experiences.  And for Louie Zamperini, you have to take your hats off to someone who survived so much and pulled himself up with an indomitable spirit.
4 I had a difficult time staying interested at the beginning of the book- but had a hard time putting it down as I got farther into Louie's life. Just an awesome life story of courage and resilience!
3 This is a detailed accounting of one man's life story, focused on his young adult years which included his phenomenal achievements as a track runner and years as an Army Air Corps navigator, held POW by the Japanese for many years.  The details were overwhelming for me in many of the scenes, so much that they became redundant and forced a skimming type of reading.  I enjoy non-fiction when it is in a form that almost mimics literature in its revelation of plot and use of language.  For me this book was informative but not a pleasure to read.
5 A very gripping story that you will find hard to put down. It reads like a novel from the opening pages. Very tragic to know that it is true and that such things happen in war time. Just an incredible book.
5 I would recommend this book to everyone, no matter what the age.  It's a great story and I just couldn't believe there would be a happy ending.  We have chosen this book for our next bookclub.
5 This is an amazing book.  I now understand why WWII veterans from the Pacific theater are often reluctant to talk about their experiences.  I am really looking forward to the movie.  I hope Angelia Jolie can do it justice.
5 The word "unbroken" doesn't do it justice. This story was captivating from both a personal and historic standpoint. Details about war statistics and the realities soldiers faced was unknown to me. All in the personal side of this particular story and I was unable to put the book down. Now I can't wait for the movie. I hope they do justice  to it.
5 This book was recommended to me and it is an incredible story.  Louis Zamperini lived the kind of life most would not endure.  From being an Olympic runner and returning home after living thru POW camps.  It is exciting for men and women.  I learned much about bomber planes in WW2.  It was hard at first to get thru those technical parts but exciting at the same time.  I understand PTSD much better now.
5 I didn't expect to like it as much as I did but albeit I was shuddering threw much of it I still found it very interesting & was happy I had read it.
5 This is a fine book for both those who remember World War II and those who know very little about it.  It tells the true story of Louie Zamperini and his survival in the Pacific theater of war against all odds.Louie was in trouble for much of his boyhood, stealing and getting into scrapes regularly, until his older brother Pete turned him onto running.  He enjoyed it so much and was so good at it that he made the 1936 Olympic team.  Though he placed fifth, he was considered a good candidate to break the 4-minute mile, a time milers were slowly nearing.The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor put an end to his running, and he joined the Army Air Corps where he became a bombardier.  The story of Louie and his crew mates are far different from the propaganda films of the time.  They often had to make do with whatever was on hand and with bombers that were slowly improving.  Flying in one of the less than adequate B-24s, the crew went down in the middle of the Pacific.  Louie, the pilot, and a crew member survived and found two rafts nearby.The rafts had very few provisions:  Some chocolate, patches and an air pump for the raft, rope, and line and some hooks for fishing.  Surrounded by sharks and strafed by a passing Japanese bomber, they floated for an astounding length of time, only to land on a Japanese-occupied island.  Their years in prison camps, first on an island and then in Japan, make a harrowing story of its own.The end of the war brought its own fears.  Would the prisoners be marched to the forest and killed, their bodies hidden forever?Their captors melted away and planes dropped food until they could be rescued.  But freedom was not free for many who each night relived the terrors of their captivity.  How Louie found peace and forgiveness makes a fine conclusion to a book that brings to life a time so few are left to remember but is an important part of our country's fabric.
5 I was unsure where this book would take me, as I am not a war book type of reader. What it did was bring history a bit closer. It also gave me a better understanding of my father who served in WW 2. He did not fight in the Pacific,but in Europe.  The few times he mentioned anything to do with war, was rare. It took him to some place he did not want to visit.  Perhaps the book did run too long and too slow for some readers.  I found it to be about the right pace.  The photos really made it more real.( I read this on my Kindle 2. ) I could not read this book without thinking about what was written, about my father and his experiences, and how war affects everyone in some fashion. I knew mostly about the war in Europe, but not so much about Japan. I really like the information that was provided to let the reader know what happened to the other people in the book.  It was a good read.
5 The amazing story of Louis Zamporini from the Olympics to a Japanese prisoner of war. He is still alive to tell this story and will soon be made into a movie.He is in his 90's now and what a life he had  just unbelievable  !!!
5 The true story of Louis Zamperini, who lived a pretty incredible life.  He began as a juvenile delinquent, transformed himself into an Olympic-class runner, then was drafted into the Pacific theater of WW2.  Zamperini's plane crashed in the Pacific Ocean, and there begins an almost unbelievable story of courage and survival.  Zamperini and his fellow crewman survived over 40 days on a flimsy inflatable raft, and just this part of the story alone is gripping:  no food or water, beating off sharks with little more than their hands, trapping rainwater to drink, capturing birds and fish to eat raw.  Upon washing up on an island, the two surviving men were taken prisoner by the Japanese.  The second half of their experience involves their being held as POWs without any of the protections of the Geneva Convention -- insufficient & contaminated food and water, little or no medical treatment, constant physical and mental abuse, and more.  The book is well-written, based on the author's numerous interviews with Zamperini, his family and friends, as well as exhaustive research.  Once you start, it's hard to put down, even though you almost dread hearing what happens next to Zamperini.  A vivid reminder (just days before Veteran's Day) of the sacrifices that our soldiers made in WW2 -- and it ought to remind us that war should only be a last resort because of the incredible cost it takes on the human beings unlucky enough to be caught up in the fighting.
5 One of the best books that I have read in a long time. Based on a true life story that one wouldn't believe it if it was an invented plot. True heros do walk among us...
5 Shows that predetermined attitude has a great deal with how you deal with ultimate survival under such horrendous conditions.  Resilience is an understatement.
5 I  have already read this book on my kindle and enjoyed it so much that I purchased it in hardbound for a friend that I hope will enjoy it as much a I did.  It truly is an unforgettable story.
5 You just can't put this book down.  A true story and yet it seems so unreal.  A runner almost makes the Olympic, but instead gets drafted in the service, and ends up surviving under worse conditions.  He is still alive, and living with his past.  Long story, but quick read.
5 This book is a classic -- from the elegant prose, to the main character of Louie Zamperini, to the vivid portrayal of the era, to the details of WWII in the Pacific.  For anyone who is hesitant to read non-fiction, "Unbroken" is the book you should pick up to introduce you to this genre.  In all honesty, it reads better than much of the fiction that makes its way onto best-seller lists.  As many others have noted, I couldn't put this book down and tore through it in a few days so I could pass it on to my brother, so he could do the same.  I then ordered copies for some of my cousins so we could talk about it.  By the end of this book, I was entertained (perhaps riveted is a better word), better-educated about what went on in the Pacific during the war and especially about the Japanese prison camp atrocities and I wanted to give Louie a hug and thank him for sharing his journey as the child of Italian immigrants who went on to be an Olympic runner and a war hero who survivied uspeakable cruelty.  He made me proud to be an American and I secretly began wishing I lived next door to him so we could talk over coffee every day.  Everyone should read this book and I'd love to see it taught in high schools before the memories of WWII sacrifices fade away.  A simply stunning achievement on so many levels.
5 This was a terrific book.  I appreciate Laura Hillenbrand's research and writing.  I believe she does a good job of presenting the whole picture.
5 Unbroken is one of the best books I have read in years. Absorbing and deeply engaging.The story of these men's survival and spirit is unparalleled. I urge you to immediately read itand you will find a remarkable read.
5 This book just blew me away ...finding out about some of the problems with our planes in early WWII was just disheartening.  I loved the story about the main person.  He was so determined and really had to go through unbelievable things.  The author did an amazing job.
5 What a man to admire! This kind of inner strength is amazing as well as rare. If we could all be so strong the world would be a better place.
5 Excellent real life story based on a fantastic story of a misfit youngster and following his life to his personal struggle to survive against horrible odds.
5 An amazing story about a terrible time in the world. Those pow's had ordeals no person's should ever have had to endure.
5 I am the first to admit that I am a huge history nerd! I read almost anything I can about World War II. I am also a former track and field athlete, so this book combined two things I love to read about. I was given this book as a Christmas gift but with my busy schedule, I only started reading it last week. Needless to say, once I got about 50 pages in, I couldn't put it down. I finished the book yesterday after a 5 hour session of reading. The life that Louie lived is incredible. He was a troublemaker, a world class runner, an Olympian, a bomber, missing/lost at sea, a POW, and finally made peace with all of it. This was an incredible book that any World War II buff should read.
3 I bought this book thinking it would be a page turner because I love reading about WWII.  However, this book took me about 5 months to get through and not because it is long&#8230;..it is just dry.  While the history in it is AMAZING the book is slow.
3 Great story from a great writer. So it's a shame that the fascinating story of Louis Zamperini is undermined by the nagging feeling that some parts were needlessly embellished. I had a hard time believing a few things that happened on the raft with the sharks, and also some events in the POW camps. Apparently I'm not the only one who feels this way.It was still a thrilling read and I believed most of it, and Laura Hillenbrand seems like a good woman who cares about men.
5 I absolutely loved it.  Everyone should read it.  Gives you a whole new appreciation of what our soldiers went through.  I was half way finished with the book when I heard he died.  What a life he had!!!
5 I would rate this one of the best books I have ever read.  I had no interest in history at school and although my father was in the navy during the WWII and my mother was in London studying they never talked about the war.  I watched the TV series &#34;The world at war&#34; but nothing prepared my for the horror of this story.  I found I could barely breathe  - unable to put the book down - compelled to keep reading even though I just couldn't bear to think that any human could be subjected to such evil cruelty.  Beautifully written.  An attestation to the resilience of the human spirit.
4 Wonderful story of a man's endurance in both good times and bad.  4 stars instead of 5 only because I bought this for my kindle and was disappointed by the placement of footnotes - often times at end of chapters or sections.  It was very difficult to understand which point in the story was being referenced.  This is probably not  a problem in the book itself, and it may be more my problem than a problem with the kindle.
5 What a fantastic book!  It's been a long time since I couldn't put a book down, and this is it!  It is beautifully written and takes turns that I did not expect or see coming.  Most importantly, it is an important book to read as it will either educate you or remind you of the sacrifices that our men and women in the armed forces have made.Today, when so many in our country scream about the "atrocities" our military commits or has committed ... this is a naked, honest, terrifying view of what other countries have done in war.  I wish this was a required reading for all teens in the US today .... the true story of the greatness of our people and our country.If you want a book that you can't put down, filled with HEROS, filled with hope and redemption ... this one's for you!
5 Even if you rarely read non-fiction, this is a must-read! Even if you are not a runner, this is a must-read. Even if you don't read history, this is a must-read. This inspiring and spellbinding true story of Olympic runner Louie Zamperini will have you staying up late, losing track of time and wishing you could read while driving. (Don't try that.) The writing is superb, and the story is riveting. This is an excellent book that will haunt your waking thoughts and nighttime dreams. Highly recommended.
5 This biography of Olympic runner Louie Zamperini is a riveting account of American lives caught up in the global cataclysm of World War 2.  It is extremely well researched and very interesting.
5 All I can say is to read this harrowingly true story.  You will, without a doubt, be a better person as a result.
5 well written and a great presentation of how things really are in times of war.  many stories are written both fiction and non fiction recalling the activities in Nazi war camps but few tell the story of POW's in the Pacific and the treatment of these courageous men, most of whom have passed on. I was a youngster at the time and my dad was in the US Navy and the story really touches and relates to times at home and over there.  I recommend this book everyone who likes to read about how it really was at that time.
5 I really liked this book.  A humanistic tale of courage and determination that helped a young athlete survive a plane crash and torture as a prisoner of war in Japanese prisoner camps.  His experiences left a profound impact and eventual addiction that he overcame after learning the power of forgiveness.  The writer made it difficult to put the book down with her description of the events and her ability to make you want to know more and more and more about the man who endured and survived insurmountable odds.
5 Amazing, amazing story, written by an excellent author. It doesnt get any better than this for real-life cliffhangers. I could hardly put it down.
5 This is absolutely one of the best books I've ever read.  Riveting, yet so inspirational, it held my interest into the wee hours of the night.
5 it is hard to believe what the human spirit can endure. A truly amazing story!  ThatLouie could forgive after hie treatment is almost unbelievable.
5 This story was so gripping, so well written, the agonies were almost felt personally as I read.  For most of the book I feared Redemption was impossible..
5 Louie Zamperini's story is a must read!  I'm old enough to know the stories about WWII but the detail in this book is amazing.  I learned so much about what our military men lived through in the war, how they survived being POW's, the challenges that with today's technology seem unbelievable.  There are enough reviews here to tell you the details of this story so I just want to say that you will not regret reading this book as you will learn about a part of our history and the wonderful men and women that lived it.
5 I am very surprised in today's politically correct world this book ever got published.It is a very good but sad story of the high price alot of our military men paid in the War in the Pacific.In today's world of revisionist history this book is enlightening.
5 This is one of the most amazing books I have ever read. The true story of a troubled kid who found his path out of vandalism by running... and who became an Olympian, running in the 1936 Berlin Olympics with Hitler watching him. He continued training even when he joined the Navy and began flying. On a rescue mission, his plane crashed. Bad things happened... and he survived, only to be washed ashore on a Japanese-occupied island. A prisoner of war, he struggled, and survived, but even his return to the US was marred.Well written, gripping, human and hopeful. I have recommended this book to everyone I know. It was a joy to read, and truly inspirational without being sappy in anyway.Well done, Ms. Hillenbrand. Thanks, Lou Zamperini!
5 I suppose I'm like a thousand other readers who rave about the book. Well done. I did get a little tired of the childhood material and skimmed but once Louie became a runner, I was hooked and couldn't stop reading. And the last 50 pages of the book read almost like a Hollywood movie.I highly recommend this book.
5 I am NOT a history buff at all but this book was so well written even a girl could find it interesting. My boyfriend started asking me every day, &#34;so what's old Louie up to now?&#34; He got so into it I started saving chapters and reading outloud to him on weekends like a schoolteacher. Louie Zamparini is hands down my new hero. I want to meet him and hug his neck after all he went through.  this was an absolutely amazing story.
5 I have read many many WWII books from the broad in scope (Rise and Fall of the Third Reich) to stories about individual battles (D-Day,Pacific islands, Battle of the Bulge, etc.). This book is highly personalized; it is about one person's battle just to survive and keep his sanity in the face of the worse that human beings can throw at each other. His story is fascinating and inspirational. If you think you know the war in big and small pictures, this book is a must because it brings the war experience to such a personal level of survival and triumph - a must read to help complete anyone's secondhand understanding of war
5 After reading this book, I have a new appreciation for war. My grandfather served in the army in WWII and I only received a few stories as he passed away when I was very young. Until reading this book, I never gave much thought to details of what life in war really was. I am grateful for all who serve, but my appreciation runs deeper now. Phenomenal story and book. I highly recommend this!
5 I ENJOYED THIS BOOK SO MUCH; I COULD NOT PUT IT DOWN.  THE AUTHOR DID A FABULOUS JOB WITH THE NARRATIVE AND SHE LET US KNOW OF ALL THE RESEARCH SO DID; MENTIONED ALL THE PEOPLE THAT SHE CONSULTED AND HOW HER NARRATIVE WAS WAS WHAT AUTHENTIC.
4 It took me a bit to finish this book, but it was very enlightening.  It chronicles the story of Louis Zamperini.  It tells of his life before WW2 and then how he survives a plane crash and time in the Japanese POW camp.  It then continues with his life after the war and how he managed to get back to life as normal."I received this book for free from WaterBrook Multnomah Publishing Group for this review."More about Laura  [...]
4 This has to be a wonderful book...just LOOK at all the five star reviews!  But is the author telling me that there were TWO flag-stealing incidents at the 1936 Olympics?  Because I know who ELSE stole one: Carl Burt and his math teacher Howard Paul, from Boise, Idaho, stole a German flag from a flagpole on the Olympics grounds and were chased through town by "the Gestapo" and escaped only with the help of two girls on bicycles.  There were newsreels at the time showing the two sitting quite close to Hitler in the stadium, where they could hear him ranting against Jesse Owens, which is why they got mad enough to steal the flag. There was also a newsreel telling about the two stealing the flag.  The Paul family still owns that flag.  Could Louis possibly have indulged in a little story enrichment and slipped it by the author?
5 This is a beautiful story of survival! Louis is a hero and Ms. Hillenbrand did an amazing job truly showing what he went through and how he made it out to the other side. I would recommend this book to anyone.
5 I listened to the audiobook over the course of several weeks while driving to and from work.  I can vividly recall soaking in every word of this book as each new day of Louie Zamperini's life unfolded.  Many days I could not wait to get back in the car; and when I arrived at my destination, I didn't want to get out.With all the terror and despair Louie experienced, the book at times makes your jaw drop and your head shake slowly.  But through it all there is a glimmer of strength, a reserve of spirit that is hard to describe.  In short, if this book doesn't make you appreciate the blessings in your life, nothing will.I am grateful such a talented author was paired with this incredible history.  And it happened purely by chance (so it seems), while the author was researching material for her previous book, Seabiscuit.  It is this fact, along with all of the incredible coincidences and seemingly cruel random events told through Louie's life, that makes one wonder over and over if it is all part of the master plan or just random chance.  In the end, the reader can decide which answer he or she is most comfortable with.
5 Phenomenal read - engaging and suspenseful.  Hillenbrand captures a beautiful story.  Couldn't put it down.
2 Louie Zamperini's story is insane, you guys. This guy is a real-life superhero, due to his resilience, strength, and quite a bit of luck (or is it divine intervention?)However, the dry writing of the book made the story seem boring to me. That's right: I was bored by the story of a man who was shot down, swam with sharks, and survived not one, not two, maybe three (I lost count) Japanese prison camps. Well, I was bored while reading it, but after sitting back and thinking about it I realized just how incredible this story is.Also, there were SO MANY people mentioned in the book, it was very hard of me to keep track of who our core &#34;heroes&#34; were, and the book gets bogged down by too many tangents and throw away details about soldiers who weren't critical to Louie's story (although these soldiers were no less heroic, so I do understand and appreciate the shout-outs, despite the disservice to the narrative flow.)I think this will make an impressive movie. but I'm reviewing the book, and I just didn't like it.
5 These 11 CDs kept me driving from LA to Grand Canyong via Vegas and back!But that was not my point.Through out the book I was reminded of Jack Nicholson's character in One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest.Also, I have just finished reading many books on the subject of survival, be it from crime, natural disasters, events like 911, and/or tragic accidents like plane crash, missing at sea, lost in wilderness etc..Most authors concluded that the most obvious character that marks a person a natural survivor is rule breaker, rebel rouser, and people who can think outside of a box.Reading Ms Hillenbrand's description of Mr. Zamperini it became clear why he survived adrift at sea and later in the POW camps.It broke my heart during the chapter detailing his PTSD related breakdown.  I thought, if someone like Mr. Zamperini who was marked from birth to be a born survivor could break under PTSD, what's the chance for mere mortal like me if something aweful happens?Thank God for His power to redeem.  I was in tears reading how Mr. Zamperini was lifted out his destruction and misery by God's grace.  It was truly a blessing not just to his loving wife, children, and family members but to countless lives he later touched in the decades to come.God can change misery into triumph.  Painted by Ms Hillenbrand's talent in writing and research, Mr. Zamperini's whole life and adventures come alive on a big canvas to demonstrate the power of love, forgiveness, and redemption.PS. Reading so many chapters detailing Japanese solders' and officers' unbelievably sadisdic treatments towards POWs, I could not help but to feel intense hatred.  There's night and day difference in comparison to how USA treating Japanese American internees during the same period.
5 This is an incredible account of one man's life. I was never bored with the material. Very well-researched and written. I found a couple of videos online about the subject of the book, as well as the author. Both people are inspirational.
2 Reading this was more like reading a police report of a group of incidents.  The story held much that was interesting but was presented in a very dull fashion.  I only completed it because I mostly finish what I start.
5 So many reviews, so much said. Nothing to add. I found the book extensively researched, well written, and inspiring. The negative reviews I read seemed written by folks with axes to grind and little objectivity. I was born in '42, so WWII soldiers were my heros growing up. I spent hours going through Life's Picture History of World War II - now there's facts you can't dispute. I fought in Vietnam, and while the beatings in the book do seem to be difficult to live through, I would not be so quick to challenge how it seemed to the men who took them.
5 This was required summer reading for my daughter, and she enjoyed it.  I read it some time ago and found it thoroughly engrossing.  Hard to believe this guy lived through it all...
5 Awe struck at the courage and resilience of our brave fighting men of WW2.  The true story of one soldier, a world class athlete who transcends the word survival in this chilling tale about being a POW in WW2 Japan.  His battle with the demons that plagued him after the war and his success in overcoming them will warm your heart and maybe your soul.A mustread for all...Chuck GreenbergTucson Arizona
3 Once he gets out of prison after the war ends the story loses steam. Compelling story to that point.  Didn't think it was written all that well.
5 A moving book that gaives an accurate account of POW life and the maltreatment of Allied prisoners by the Japanese
5 This is a true story and a spellbinder. A story of heroism and survival, it's hard to put down.  Laura Hillenbrand, who wrote &#34;Seabiscuit&#34; is a wonderful writer and really does her research. This is one of the best books I have read.
5 The author made me follow the subject of this novel through hard work and victory, dedication, loyalty, and hell, and finally to profound wisdom, peace, and.........well, you need to read this book!  I &#34;lived&#34; the subject's experiences WITH him and, at the end, came away with a depth of insight and inspiration that I now carry with me.  And to THINK:  this is a TRUE STORY--you'll understand my awe when you read it.
5 One of the best books Ive read.  The detail in which the author writes is just like beimg there. I highly recommend this book to anyone no matter your interest or preference.
1 Sharks jump.  We've all seen those jumping great whites on television.  Sharks will rub against a boat/raft to see what it is. They will try to bite the raft because it might be food.  The same two sharks jump repeatedly onto a raft in an attempt to eat the people on board...  This is my breaking point.  I find this incredibly hard to believe.  These men had been at sea for 13 days with very little food or water and no shelter.  I'm supposed to believe that in this condition Zamperini was able to lean over the raft and wrestle a four foot shark onboard and keep it still enough to stab it in the eye.  I guess it all depends on the type of shark as to how much it weighs.  I can't comment on the POW camp story because I haven't made it there yet.  So far this book is sooooo boring and difficult to read.  How many runners statistics/plane statistics do I really need to know to understand this man's story?  Just tell me how fast he ran and the record he broke.  Then give me a few quick details on the plane. Done.  This book is way too long.  It just sounds like it was written to become a movie.
5 If this story had been a movie, I would have said that it was not a believable story line! I found it amazing that one person could have had so many unusual adventures in one lifetime! The story was well written, reading more like a novel than a biography. I literally couldn't put it down--I had to know what happened next! There are a few parts that are a little graphic or disturbing (particularly the account of the POW experiences), so I would only recommend it to those in their late teens or above. I would be shocked if you didn't find this book worth the read!
5 This is the true story of a man that went to hell and back, a man who survived when he should have been dead several times over, a man who then experienced healing such as few ever find.  If this story were written as fiction, it would be rejected everywhere as beyond all suspension of disbelief.  It is a story that speaks of the depths that men can descend to and the heights that they can reach. I cannot recommend it too highly.  It is well written and well researched.I prefer not to go into the details of the story.  They are best discovered as you go.  You may find the beginning slow, but it is necessary background to understand the man you are reading about.  My only caution is that the extensive section dealing with life in the Japanese POW camps is extremely grim.  It was not bedtime reading.  But I believe that we all need to know stories like this, stories of the strength of the human spirit.
5 This book was so well-written.  If this wasn't a true story, I think you would tend to think it was just too unreal.  There were many times that this brought tears to my eyes for what Louie and those other men endured.  They are truly heroes.  I would highly recommend this book.  It is an extremely great read.
5 This is the best of the best. The story is amazing, the writing is supurb. As I read, I feel myself "there". The book begins with humor, and takes you on a survival whirl wind. Not like any other book I've read. I am already looking forward to re-reading when I finish the first time. Well worth the price. And well worth your time. I would like to give this book an even dozen stars.************
5 Somehow, I don't think I can add to what has already been said about Unbroken, by Laura Hillenbrand.  I think, though, that it is a phenomenal book.  That it is a true story boggles the mind.  Yes, I can definitely recommend Unbroken.  I believe it to be a major literary achievement.  I believe Mr. Louis Zamperini, about whom the book is written, to be a national treasure.  Thank you Ms Hillenbrand, for your seven years of relentless research and ability to relate this amazing tale of Mr. Zamperini.
3 A remarkable story of forgiveness where the world would say there should be none. The main character is an Olympic athlete who enlists in the navy at the start of WWII. After getting shot down in the Pacific Ocean, he and a comrade survive over a month on a raft, only to be captured by the Japanese and made prisoners of war. They end up at a camp run by a cruel and sadistic military official, enduring torture, punishment, and starvation. You think fighting off sharks on the raft in the South Pacific is the worst that can happen to a man, until he arrives at this camp. But he miraculously survives, and comes to forgive his cruel captor. My only complaint was that the book was a little too long and detailed, and I had trouble believing that anyone could survive the horrid hardships he claimed to endure.
5 Even if you've read this book already, I recommend the audio version, it is so well read. This masterful narrative brings home again the fact that war is hell!Our hero, Louie Zamperini is a track star who participated in the Berlin Olympics, shook hands with the Fuhrer and was an American serviceman in the US air force in  WWII. He was shot down June of 1943 over the Pacific and was adrift with his buddy Phil and fellow servicemen for over forty days.I don't believe this story could have been more meaningfully told by anyone else. The detail is staggering and the emotions overwhelming, this book pulses with the liveliness that attaches itself to every good book. The data that Hillenbrand provides is vivid, starting with the relentless stalking by some aggressive sharks mistakenly confusing the downed servicemen  for food, scorched by an unforgiving sun, and an inescapable hunger they drift into Japanese waters and the hands of some heartless guards.The unspeakable horrors experienced by the POWs made me feel the humiliation, shame and powerlessness they suffered at the hands of a country (Japan) single minded in its pursuit to win at all costs.  The Japanese guards tried and in some cases succeeded in stripping the POWs of their honor, dignity, sense of self and self respect. Every indignity suffered was meant to showcase their absolute and profound wretchedness and to strip them of all hope.Despite the seriousness of this tale, there were still some real laugh-out-loud moments that point to this story as one of redemption and forgiveness. Some acts of rebellion included the incorrigible stealing techniques the men adopted, the codes they used to speak with each other right in front of the guards, the nicknames they invented for them and the explosive farts cultivated and lobbed in the direction of the guards, all the more deadly because of the chronic dysentery they suffered. Then there was Gaga the peg-legged pet duck the POWs adopted, who brought a tidbit of levity up until it's demise. Funny too, the tale of the RAF who flew over the camp to let the POWs know the war had ended, "a candy bar with a bite taken out of it and a twenty-count packet of cigarettes with one missing. Fitzgerald had the candy bar sliced into seven hundred slivers, and each man licked a finger, dabbed it on his bit of chocolate, and put it in his mouth. Louie's portion was the size of an ant. Then Fitzgerald had the men form 19 circles, each of which received one cigarette. Each man got one delectable puff."The honor and dignity of these men would not be denied despite their sometimes fatal run-in with a sadist to rival Hitler, Mutsuhiro Watanabe. Why he was not hunted down and executed with an ending similar to Osama Bin Laden is beyond me. The POWs were powerless in the face of this madman.The author likens the stripping of the POW's dignity to the same conditions faced by the slaves of the American South and the thousands of betrayed people the world over, I second that. There are people who say they read this story and gave the book 2 or 3 stars and in their review question the veracity of Louie's story. I have a sneaking suspicion these are the same people who don't believe the Holocaust happened. Do they think not believing in gravity makes the theory null and void?!Louie's saga makes me more aware than ever that freedom is not free, someone has to put in the plumbing!Our government too has exacted injustices on the men who serve our country. Sometimes keeping families in the dark about their lost loved ones and paying lip service to the sacrifices they have made. Our service men should never, ever, be hungry, cold, lonely, poor, friendless or homeless because of the price they have paid for our freedom. VJ day is now way more significant to me and I see the cost our men paid as priceless.Having made it back to America and finally to a state of wholeness thanks to a merciful God, I can well understand why Louie can end his life flushed with love for everyone and everything!
5 I loved this book and found out things I didn't know about the Japanese POW camps. I was unaware of this part of history. I wish more had been written of the character's life and family as he got older, what he's doing now, is he still living, etc?
5 Fascinating story! What an amazing story of survival. Hillenbrand's research and writing brings the people and places alive in your mind. I was mesmerized. What I want to know now is; when's the movie coming out?
5 This was a spellbinding story of perseverance and fortitude.  It is an amazing story of survival that will captivate your interest.
5 I can't comprehend what it must have been like to be him, but it taught that maybe these ADD OR ADHD kids have those incredible toughness and stubbornness to help the rest of us. Just think of how many people learned how to handle the worst. This makes the Life of Pi a Fairytale.
5 Louie Zamperini (LZ) went from obnoxious, driven, feral boy to award winning Olympic long distance runner to bombardier in World War II to prisoner of war under horrific conditions, held by the Japanese during World War II.What makes one man give up under terrible circumstances and one man focus and use  his incredible inner strength to persevere and survive?  "Unbroken" explores that question in this story based on the truly extraordinary life of LZ."Unbroken" is incredibly well-researched, delving in LZs life from childhood to old age, taking seven years for Hillenbrand to write.  All portions of LZs story are incredible but the sequences on his participation in the 1936 Olympics and meeting Hitler, plus his ordeal of being lost on the open sea plus the horrendous abuse he and our other POWs suffered at the hands of the Japanese were spellbinding. And the story continues on after LZs rescue and looks at the effects of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) on this veteran and his family.The notes at the end of the book, chronicling the author's research are interesting, too - she explored so many avenues to write this incredible book.If you like this type of book, I think you would also enjoyAngels at Dawn: The Los Banos Raid;Broken Jewel; andOnce An Eagle.
5 This is a wonderful, heartbreaking, gripping real life story of an amazing man.  I highly recommend this book, especially if you love war stories with happy endings.
5 This book is absolutely stunning. It took me a little while to get into it, but when I did, I whipped through it in no time. It is extremely well-written and truly reads like an amazing fiction novel. I cannot recommend this book enough. Louis Zamperini is a true American hero and it boggles the mind to imagine that someone can live through what he did. Ms. Hillenbrand did a fantastic job with the book - her research paid off.
2 The book started out a little unbelieavable. Could a kid really do all those things? I understand the author was setting him up to show is indestructible spirit but it bordered on ridiculous. Then, the draft and training. I enjoyed this part probably the most.... very Top Gun :-) My problem was the pages upon pages upon pages of vivid description of torture for the POWs. At least 100 of those could have been left out with the simple sentence, "And so we endured the beatings for days that turned into months" and the bleak picture would still be painted. When I read the guard "violated the duck" I almost put the book down for good. However, it was for our book club and coming from a large military family, I felt I owed it to Louie (not the author). I am glad I finished. The updates to everyone's lives gave it a second star. I was prepared to leave one.
5 This is one of the best books I have ever read.  The whole story is unbelievable!  I can't imagine what those soldiers actually went through, but after reading this book its pretty clear to see that it was beyond the scope of imagination.  These soldiers where heros and put their life on the line every time they stepped foot in one of those planes.  They knew they had a pretty good chance of not coming back.  This story is unreal!  Its a must read!
5 Excently written true story about a young boy on the wrong path in life who makes good.This story will have you feeling sad, happy, angry, tearful, hateful, proud, joyous and a number of other empotions, which when all sumed up,mean you will not be disappointed if you read it.An exicitng, well written, story of a real boy, who became an athlete, then a soldier, then someone you wouldn't care to meet to some one you'd be proud to help anyway you could - and he is still living.
5 I started this book and like a few of the other reviews I thought the beginning was too slow and thought ok should I just forget it but I kept going and am glad I did. This book was so detailed and at times so disturbing I couldn't get it out of my mind. The part with the lice and Louie on the raft made me sick. I couldn't eat my dinner that night. I recommend this book if you really want to know what a true Hero is. We throw that word around way too much. I couldn't help but wonder  why some people have the ability to survive the unsurvivabe and are able to make the quick  decisions that keep them alive and others just can't. It is a must read and would make a remarkable movie.  I couldn't put it down and it's a very long book. You won't be disappointed.
4 This is a very good book, with an amazing true stories of American heroes.  I think it is not as well written as some other best sellers (The Help, Room) but still, worth reading.
5 Great story! Should be a must read for high-schoolers to give them appreciation for their easy lives! It is hard, gruesome, but true. Religion becomes part of the story, but please don't let that scare you away.
5 Amazing story of survival that was hard to read, but hard to put down! Made me feel even more thankful (and humble) for the sacrifices these men went through!!
2 Had I known this was a biography of a runner I wouldn't have wasted the money. I did not see the word "biography" in any of the advertisements or reviews. While it may be worthwhile I have just started the book and have already lost interest.
4 Great writing style. Nice easy read without too many big words I have to look up. ;-) You won't regret reading it. I never read Seabiscuit but thought the movie was great. I am buying Seabiscuit soon as I hit enter.
5 This book was great and very well written, detailing the amazing life of Louis Zamperini, a man who had so much promise taken from him by the war and as a POW and who yet had the will and the inner drive to survive the worst atrocities imaginable.  The Japanese POW camps seemed to be far more brutal and torturous than the camps run by the Germans. It is purely amazing that they could not break this man's mind.
5 Every so often you run across a story that enlightens and educates besides revealing the heart of a hero on a host of levels.  "Unbroken" is an incredible tale of an honest to goodness man who began as an incorrigible kid who did not want to follow any rules other than his own but who turned his life around into one of sheer heroism.If you've read the book jacket cover you essentially know the headlines but along with this  multi-dimensional story, it's the behind the lines information that grabs your attention and teaches even more.At first, I found the tale quite interesting and intriguing but it was an easy task to lay the book aside to read more later.  Once our young man grew old enough to join the military effort in WWII it became impossible to set down because I couldn't wait to find out about his next exploit.  I had little knowledge about military aircraft and some of the efforts crewmen had to put up with simply to fly.  How easy it was to crash or how many young lives were lost during training flights long before any battles were ever fought.Laura Hiltebrand has an uncanny method of slipping in all kinds of information and substance to support her stories with unbelievable facts that rivet imaginations.  Then the story unfolds and once that is set into motion it's all but impossible not to read to the last page.  Every paragraph was packed with emotion, details and the reality of what being a prisoner of war entailed.  The horrors of war and man's inhumanity to man grew frightening and captivating at the same time.I would also highly recommend "Seabiscuit" wirtten by the same author.  The identical quality of story and integrity of information spills off every page while acquainting the reader with one of the finest athletes of our modern era."Unbroken" is a monumental book that deserves every award because it reveals the essence of a man as normal as any old guy on the street with a talent and determintaion that set his world on fire and taught a country what heroism really meant.  It's a fabulous read not to be overlooked.
5 Unbroken is a masterfully written presentation of the heroic Louis Zamperini, a World War II pilot.  The account artfully covers his early years as a young troublemaker, his breakout years as a world renown long-distance runner, as well as his entry into the war.  However, the most dramatic period of his life came when Louie was shot down over the Pacific.  For well over a month, he battled starvation, exposure, and hallucinations in the ocean.  He was eventually captured by the Imperial Forces.  His treatment was horrific, as was that of most prisoners of the Japanese.Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and RedemptionLouis Zamperini survived and developed a strong faith and an appreciation of the gift of life.  This tale is especially personal to me since my uncle, Charles Gregory was also a prisoner of the Imperial Japanese Forces.  Uncle Charles survived the Battle of Bataan, The Bataan Death March and over 30 months of imprisonment, torture, starvation, mistreatment, disease, beatings, and slave labor.  Nonetheless, he died aboard the insidious Hokusen Maru Hellship on October 12th, 1944.  His riveting and equally personal story is told in the recently released Buckshot Pie, Semper Pi Publishing, [...]Buckshot Pie, a Family's Struggle Through Homesteading, the Great Depression, and World War II
5 I got this for my Dad's birthday because I enjoyed reading it so much.  It has been a couple years since I read it and I still recommend it to others.
5 This really is the most amazing story. It is the true story of  Louis Zamperini, a former Olympic competitor and. POW. It was truly reverting and I could not put it down. It is a story of the human desire to survive against the odds. How you can prevent an experience from defining you. Fabulous. Highly recommended.
1 I think the writing is sophomoric at best. The author writes as if she lives in idealistic 1950's and while the story is compelling I found myself pulling out my hair from the way it was portrayed.
5 I am giving my rating based on delivery and condition only.  This book was a gift, so I do not know about the books content to judge whether it is a good book or not.  Received book on time and in excellent condition.  Overall great experience.
5 A great narrative of men's survival companionship and love through extraordinary times of Japanese internship.It is unbelievable that man can be so cruel to another man even if they are at war.I could not put this book down. Something made me read on to try and understand for myself why this happened!A great read but disturbing to know that some people are capable of such cruelty.I hope that we never have to send people to another world war but I suppose that is a false hope as this must be in our nature as a species.I would highly recommend this book but for mature minded people.
5 This book is as amazing as it is educational. I learned significant facts about WWII in the pacific.Be warned that the subject matter is sensitive and not always easy to receive. Otherwise, this is an extraordinary book worthy of 5 stars.
1 Author Laura Hillenbrand has done her best to keep at a minimum "Unbroken's" Louis  Zamperini hand shake with Adolph Hitler at the 1936 Olympics. When I asked her why, when his teammate Jesse Owens was snubbed, he decided to shake Hitlers hand, she replied, "Chris, it is a myth that Hitler snubbed Owens specifically." Not true at all. Here's what Zamperini had to say:"Hitler came and shook my hand after the race," Zamperini recalls. "I was one of three Americans who shook his hand. But what happened was that one of his advisors told him that once he starts shaking hands, he'll have to shake all of them. We all knew he wasn't going to shake Jesse's hand."It seem Louis Zamperini was fascinated by the Nazi's, here is another incident:True to form and before departing for home, the troublemaker turned champion runner stole a Nazi flag off the Reich's Chancellery. Caught by the Gestapo, Zamperini convincingly talked his way out of the predicament and proudly brought the flag home.And after all these years, over half a century, this is what the man thinks of Hitler:Zamperini shook the Nazi leader's hand and thought the man odd. "Like a dangerous comedian," he said."Veterans Journal," Winter, 2006, Franklin County Veterans Service Commission, Columbus, Ohio.Really? A comedian? That's a first in describing Hitler. Both Laura Hillenbrand and Louis Zamperini need to come clean about the Nazi question in the paperback version of "Unbroken" because now it is broken.Chris Roberts
4 I have been on a young adult kick lately, so this is the first adult book I have read in a while.  A friend of mine lent it to me and told me it was one of the best history books he had ever read; not just about World War 2, but in general.  The author, Laura Hillenbrand, is well known for her triumphant Seabiscuit (which I did not read, but loved the movie); so with all the buzz around the book and my friend's recommendation I gave it a shot.I'm so glad I did.  What an AMAZING story!  If the book wasn't so well documented it would be hard to believe it was true.  We read the story of Louie Zamperini and how he goes from rough teenager, to Olympic runner, to World War II airman, to floating survivor, to tortured (physically) POW, to tortured (emotionally) war survivor, to a redeemed man who finds peace in his life.Honestly, you couldn't make this stuff up; and that's where Hillenbrand's success lies...she didn't make it up. She spent almost a decade researching and meeting the people that affected Zamperini's life: family, fly-mates, even the POW guards.  We become intimate with not only the main character, but those around him.  Her style of writing gives us depth, but personally it's also one of the flaws of the book.  I want substance, I want to know about other people, but Hillenbrand seemed to go on tangents where one minute I was reading about Louie and the next minute I was reading about somebody completely different (and wondering why I wasn't reading about Louie).  That is one reason I gave the book a 4 - it wasn't because of the story, but more because I disagreed with the writing, or how it was put together.  I wanted the book to focus on Louie.  Bring in family and friends and enemies, I want to know about them, but keep the focus on Louie.Another issue I had with the writing is there were times when Hillenbrand seemed to repeat herself.  I would spend a page reading about how a time in Louie's life and how he felt and I would feel like I was right there, eating it all up.  Then she would share another tidbit, maybe a couple of paragraphs of side information, which was fine.  But then she would go back to talking about the same information as before, but do it in a way as if she had not been talking about it...like she was introducing it for the first time; with the same vigor and seriousness that she had the first time.  I felt like she was trying to draw me in...again.  And it wasn't needed.  This happened multiple times.So again, the story itself and all the characters involved gave me an insight to World War II and POW camps that I would have never imagined and made me want to turn the page to find out more.  My respect for those in uniform has grown exponentially.  The stats alone are enough to make anyone pause.  There is not a single doubt that the author did her homework, and the people come out in the story, but at times the writing made the story repetitive and maybe a little forced.  I'm not sure if the book knows what it wants to be.  While the book seems like it wants to be a biography, I can't really say that it is...100%.  It's like Hillenbrand wanted to fit as much information about aviation and POW camps from WW2 into one man's story.But, all that aside, a phenomenal story very much worth the read!
5 One of the best books I've ever read.  Wonderful, thorough, exhaustive research.  A wonderful true story that isn't always happy but tells of real endurance.  I could not put it down.  From Louis Zamperini's brush with Hitler to his WWII flying experiences, shipwreck and POW experience it's an amazing survival story.  I would read a laundry list written by Laura Hillenbrand.
5 My dad, who loves to read, wanted this book so I got it for him off of Amazon. He loved it so much that he told other people to read it. It's currently being passed among his family and friends. So, even though I didn't read the book, I'm guessing its good.
4 An incredible and inspiring story of survival. The human spirit is both fragile and resilient. The beginning of the story had me bored to pieces and I was prepared to settle in for a torturous 400 page history lesson. History used to be one of my favorite subjects in school. Now that I'm not in school anymore though, I have realized it was only my favorite because there weren't any subjects like "Paranormal Romance" or "Time Travel Fiction." I was ready to just about stab my eyes out when The Green Hornet crashed.I was sucked into Louie's journey and felt myself gripping my book in intense anxiety as I walked through his life in his shoes. Laura Hillenbrand did a great deal of research for this book and the details are a lot to take in. She did a brilliant job of taking those details and arranging them into vivid scenes the reader could place themselves in. What these men had to endure is really incredible. I have a whole new level of respect for our veterans. This is a must read for everyone! History lover or not.... this book is amazing.
5 Laura Hillenbrand is a gifted storyteller and I found her retelling of this story to be very interesting and captivating.
5 Though I didn't like the writing initially and I think there are some quirks throughout that are unnecessary, this is a riveting book that I couldn't stop reading. Be warned there are many disturbing parts.
5 I could not put this book down.  It was such an insight to what our military especially our POW's endured in WWII.  God Bless all of them.
5 I'm part of a book club (all girls) and everyone loved this book.  I like books with a lot of character development and boy, this is the mother of all character development books.  The writing style is so detailed, you feel like you're right there with the main character.  The craziest part of it is that it's all true.  I can't think of a person I would not recommend this book to.
4 This is a good book, finely crafted for functionality and readability.  In the context of the other reviews here, this should be taken as damning by faint praise.  I zoomed through the book, and by the end I was more intrigued by the production and wildly positive reaction to the book than I was by the book itself.  I came away with the feeling of having been manipulated by committee - the writing seems as if it has been post-processed by machine, eliminating difficult vocabulary words or unique turns of phrase, while the story, while presumably factual, is on the cusp of distortion.  The crystal-clarity of the writing is remarkable, but the writing is at the same time completely without distinction - I could recount the story from start to finish, but I couldn't point to one writerly passage.  The story is clearly extraordinary and in some ways inspiring, but I felt that its actual purpose was to incite the reader and deliver the message of the author (and producers?), rather than extract historical or biographical meaning.  The author/producers have been tremendously successful in reaching their clear goal - blockbuster bestseller status - but judged purely on artistic or intellectual merit the book comes up short.  I don't regret having read it - I learned a lot - but it's just not sensible to view this book as "great" in any respect (except perhaps in the area of bestseller engineering).
5 One of my favorite books by one of my favorite authors. Looking forward to the movie later this year, and to more books from Laura.
5 Wonderful, fascinating history of a REALLY tough guy. Most of us couldn't survive one of Louis's experiences, much less all of them. Hat's off.
5 A great read, was hard to put down. This man was remarkable. He attended the same basic flying school (although not at the same time),  as my dad who was a B-25 bomber pilot
5 I had no idea what to expect when I began reading this book.  The first few chapters were easy enough but then the book took off.  It has been a while since I've read a book that simply couldn't put down.  Hillenbrand did an amazing job writing this book.
5 This was my fires Kindle book and I enjoyed using the device and reading about the War in the Pacific as well as the adventures of the prisoners of war and their mistreatment by the Japanese. Graphic but gripping!
5 The best thing I can say about this book is that it should become required reading for all high school/college students.  Besides telling the unbelievable, if it weren't true you wouldn't believe it, story of an Olympian turned P.O.W. in Japan, Laura Hillenbrand gives great details about the war and insight into our soldier's day to day lives and what it was like in a Japanese POW camp.  I could go into details about the story, but ultimately I'd just be ruining it for everyone.  I strongly suggest getting this book, and when your done with it....give it to someone else to read.  This unbelievable story is one not to be missed.
5 A real account of one man's fight to stay alive and not give in or give up.  Talk about inspiration!
5 This was a story of a remarkable man who lived through some rough times from when he was born to the day he died. He survived when so many others just gave up and took the easy way out. His experiences cover the whole spectrum from pre-war to post war. The time he and his buddies were marooned on the rafts kept on the edge of your seat every second. Great book and worth a re-read.
4 I was surprised at how much I learned about World War 2 in this book and the life of Louis Zamperini is incredibly interesting.  Some parts were hard to read, meaning upsetting but it was worth it.
5 I am not a fan of non-fiction reading especially about war. I could not put this book down.  Hillenbrand is a superb author who places you in the moment!
5 An amazing true story of a man's courage and strength topped off with God's patience, love and grace. A story to give every one of us that same courage and hope to keep on keeping on.
5 This is a gripping true story of an American hero.  It is more than just a story about an American POW in a Japanese prison camp, it is also a compelling story of an Olympic star, survival in war, a POW AND finding true after the war.  I read this story while serving with the Army in Afghanistan.  It is a reminder to all readers about the true nature of sacrifice.  This is a well written book that shows true stories are often far more compelling than any fiction.
5 I would give this spellbinding book 10 stars if Amazon would let me.  Louis Zamperini had everything to live for: he was an Olympic athlete full of promise & touted as the person most likely to break the 4 minute mile.  He was a member of the fabled USA Team at the 1936 Olympics which were held in Berlin Germany.  Fellow teammates were Jesse Owens & Glen Cunningham.At the outbreak of World War II, Louis joined the Army Air Corp & became a crewmember on the B24 bomber.  When Louis' plane went down at sea, he & two of his fellow crewmembers found themselves alone & adrift in two rafts the size of bathtubs in the middle of the vastness of the Pacific.  No one knew where they were located when they went down, but they did know their destination & a search began. By the time their terrible ordeal ended, Louis & his buddy Phil (Mac had died) had survived by fending off ravenous sharks, eating raw birds & fish, catching rainwater, and turning one of the rafts into a tarp-like shelter longer than any other known castaways in recorded history.  Ironically, just when they'd at last sighted land they were picked up by a Japanese gunboat.Thus Louis & Phil became Prisoners of War for the next horrific two and a half years.  Subject to the brutalities of starvation, slave labor, beatings, extremes of heat and cold, separation and degradation they existed in a series of POW camps, expecting at any moment to be summarily executed especially as it became apparent that the Allies were winning the war.As the war came to an end, Louis & thousands of his fellow prisoners held in camps all over Japan were liberated.  The long road back to "normalcy" of civilian life was complicated by their experiences & the PTSD that plagued them.  Louis life was not easy after he returned home but he made it despite many pitfalls all the way back to a full life and returned once again to Japan as an Olympic Torch runner at the 1998 Olympics in Japan right past the gates of his last POW camp in Noetsu - Louis was 81 years old.
5 This is a gripping true story of an average American GI who is captured by the Japanese and endured years of deprivation and torture.  The amazing part is that he not only kept his sanity, but that he eventually was able to work out his issues with the help of religious conversion is inspiring. Be sure to have a long span of time available when you pick up this book because you will find it impossible to put down.
5 It was a true and very compleeing story that boggles the mind how one man, and many, were able to beat and survive the terrible Japanese prison camps
5 The most remarkable aspect of this book is the amount of research that the author completed to make this story accurate. From November 1944 until July 4, 1945 I participated in the B29 missions over Japan. I watched one of the contributors to this book as the plane that he was flying in, left the formation trailing smoke and was being attacked by Japanese fighter planes. We had no idea of where or how many prisoners of war were held in Japan. Most of my friends who became prisoners of war in Japan tell a story similar to the one that was described in the book. It's an amazing story of survival that has no equal.
5 Even among the greatest generation there are people so extraordinary that their story catches one off-guard. The saga of Louis Zamperini recounted in Laura Hillenbrand's book, Unbroken, was such a story. Louis Zamperini was an olympic runner. He was a crew member on several riveting missions in the Pacific theater during World War II. He was a survivor for nearly 2 months at sea on a tiny raft. He was a POW, interred in several Japanese prison camps, living under truly nightmarish conditions. More than anything, Louis Zamperini was an overcomer through the grace of Jesus Christ. The horrific experiences that he endured nearly cost him his life, his mind, his soul and his future.Thanks to the Holy Spirit's guidance, through the ministry of another great man of that generation (Rev. Billy Graham) Louis's course was transformed from one of despair, bitterness, and vengeance. In place of despair, he found hope. Bitterness was replaced with peace. Vengeance was exchanged for forgiveness. Although not a "Christian" book, Unbroken contains a powerful testimony of the miraculous healing that comes through faith.If there is one living person I could choose to meet, it would be Louis Zamperini. Never have I read a more inspiring story.**I received this book for free from WaterBrook Multnomah Publishing Group for this review**
5 There is a powerful phrase among those sympathetic to Holocaust victims and survivors: Never again! This phrase has two meanings: in one sense, it&#8217;s particular to the sufferings of the Jewish people (never again allow another Holocaust against the Jews). In another sense, it expresses a universal message for all humanity: Let&#8217;s never again allow another genocide based upon discrimination and hatred of any group of people. I interpret the phrase &#8220;Never again!&#8221; in the second, broader sense, which I believe is the most meaningful. Although the Holocaust was certainly about the massacre of Jews as Jews, any such genocide against any group of people is ethically wrong. For this reason, we should do whatever we can, as a human race, not to allow this to happen to anyone ever again. In this second sense of the phrase &#8220;Never again!&#8221;, I believe that the incarceration, starvation, torture and killings of American prisoners of war during WWII by the Japanese belongs to the history of the Holocaust.Remarkably, American prisoners of war captured by the Nazis fared much better than those captured by the Japanese. The Nazis, who killed ten million innocent people in concentration camps and via shooting squads throughout Europe, were rather careful with non-Jewish Allied prisoners of war. Generally speaking, Allied POW&#8217;s lived in much better conditions than Jewish, Polish, Russian and Ukranian prisoners and had a much better chance of survival.By way of contrast, American POW&#8217;s were in extreme danger when captured by the Japanese. They were subjected to similar mistreatment and conditions that Jewish prisoners had to endure at the hands of the Nazis: starvation, filth, disease, physical and psychological torture, slave labor and death. Of the 132,000 POW&#8217;s from the U.S., Great Britain, New Zealand, Australia and Holland forced into concentration and labor camps in Japan, more than one quarter of them&#8212;and about forty percent of the Americans&#8212;died in captivity. By way of contrast, only one percent of American POW&#8217;s held by the Nazis died in captivity. (see Unbroken, Laura Hillenbrand, New York: Random House, 2010, 314-315).Although the Japanese didn&#8217;t have crematoria, similarly to the Nazis against the Jews, they adopted a &#8220;kill all&#8221; policy towards American POW&#8217;s during WWII. The Japanese policies were inherently racist. Much like the Nazi vision of a superior Aryan race, the Japanese policy was also informed by racial hatred, xenophobia and a sense of supremacy not only vis-&agrave;-vis the Americans, but also towards their Chinese, Koreans and European captives. Hence there are striking similarities between the racist outlook and behavior of the Japanese under the Prime Minister Hideki Tojo and that of the Germans under Adolf Hitler, his ally in war.It is therefore not surprising that the remarkable memoir of resiliance and survival, Unbroken, a New York Times best seller in nonfiction and soon to be made into a major motion picture directed by Angelina Jolie, reads like a Holocaust memoir. Beautifully narrated by Laura Hillenbrand, Unbroken tells the moving life story of Louis Zamperini, a young soldier and star runner of the Berlin Olympics, who defies all odds in his struggle to survive war and captivity. This true story is so incredible that it reads like a Holywood script.On May 1943, young Louis Zamperini&#8217;s plane crashes into the Pacific Ocean. The are only three survivers: Louis and two of his friends, who are compelled  by misfortune to embark on an Odyssean voyage across the world. They&#8217;re stranded on a raft without food or water, drifting for thousands of miles, constantly threatened by bad weather conditions and assailed by sharks. They catch fish using bird meat as bait and collect rain water to stay alive. They patch up the raft when it is pierced by bullets and fight off sharks using their bare hands. Weakened by starvation, thirst, exhaustion and depression, one of them, Francis McNamara (Mac), gives up the fight for survival and perishes before reaching land. The other two, Louis Zamperini and Russell Allen Phillips (Phil), brave a typhoon and make it to an island.  The most difficult part of their journey, however, comes not from natural threats but from attacks by fellow human beings.They young men are captured by the Japanese, incarcerated, interrogated, then sent to concentration camps for POW&#8217;s. Louis is first sent to Ofuna, then to Naoetsu. In those camps, the conditions are inhumane. The goal of their captors, as for the Nazis, is total human degradation. Louis recalls two particularly sadistic guards who got a sexual thrill out of beating and torturing prisoners: Sueharu Kitamura, known as &#8220;the Quack&#8221;, who beat Louis&#8217;s friend, the brilliant Bill Harris, to unconsciousness, and Corporal Mutsuhiro Watanabe, dubbed &#8220;the Bird,&#8221; a vicious psychopath whom prisoners dreaded the most. &#8220;The Bird&#8221; particularly enjoyed tormenting Louis, the star American athlete. Alternating between savage beatings and fake shows of compassion, this monster became the bane of Louis&#8217;s existence, haunting him years after he was freed from captivity.Much of Louis Zamperini&#8217;s post-traumatic stress disorder after liberation takes the form of nightmares in which he envisions strangling his former tormentor. This doesn&#8217;t relieve his pain, however. As the narrator wisely states, &#8220;The paradox of vengefulness is that it makes men dependent upon those who have harmed them, believing that their release from pain will come only when they make their tormentors suffer. In seeking the Bird&#8217;s death to free himself, Louie had chained himself, once again, to his tyrant&#8221; (Unbroken, 366). Though welcomed as a hero back home, Louis can&#8217;t escape the trauma of his war experiences. He drowns his bitter memories with alcoholism and sinks into a deep depression. Religion, along with his supportive and loving family, helps him overcome this last challenge. Louis&#8217;s greatest strength, however, stems from his own internal resilience: namely, from the capacity forgive his tormentors without forgetting his painful past.  In fact, one of the most compelling messages of this incredible story is let go of the pain, so you can move on, but not of the memory. &#8220;Never again!&#8221; means, in part,  forgive the enemy but never forget the experience, so it can offer wisdom to future generations.Claudia Moscovici, Literature Salon
4 Compelling generous tale of a full and extraordinary life told in a modest humble fashion. Thought the boat part eas the best.
5 A one-sitting read that immediately draws the reader in!  I found this book so engrossing that I could not set down my kindle and finished it in less than a day.  The characters are well portrayed, engrossing and dear.  The raft scene is tragic and absorbing at the same time.  Though I would not normally find myself reading this type of story I felt compelled to finish this one in record time.  The POW experience was terrifying, captivating and found me wanting to destroy THE BIRD singlehandedly.  Through the power of our Savior the beaten are ultimately triumphant.  If ten stars were available I can assure you they would have been highlighted for me.
4 great book by a great author. looking forward to the moving out this year (2014). my heart goes out to all of the men and families.
4 My Dad was a WWII veteran and he shared with me some very interesting stories about his time in the Eurpoean Theatre.  This book reinforced his stories of the severity of the conflict and the atrocities of war.  An extremely well-written story that paints a dark picture of what really happened to our POWs.  It's not always a fun read but it is always eye-opening and brutally frank.
5 This book is the proverbial roller coaster ride.  Louie Z. is the Forrest Gump for the real world.  I literally could not stop reading it.  Fair warning however, some of the content is gut wrenching.  It will, in the long run, restore your faith in humanity (or at least bolster it if you haven't lost faith yet!) and you will cheer for Louie Z. along will the rest of the world.  Bravo--simply amazing book!
5 This book easily made it into my top 5 of all time. Not only was the story itself incredible, the book was impossible to put down. I would recommend this to anyone.
5 I was the the author and the protagonist all throughout their trials tribulations and emotions. I went through Tears anger and laughter along with the people in this book. One of the best ones I've read so far.
5 If my book club hadn't selected this, I never would've read it, and I'm SO GLAD I DID...I had to keep reminding myself that these are real people in a real war and that the author, in physical distress herself, had managed to engage me to the point where I found myself falling into this story for hours at a time...certainly an engaging piece of history.
5 Ms. Hillenbrands' story telling is telegraphic. But more importantly, Mr. Zamperini is a hero beyond human imagination. I found myself having to verify I was not reading a novel or fiction! It is inconceivable that a human being can be subjected to such treatment, for such an extended period of time, remain sane much less healthy to survive to forgive his attempted executioner. This has to be one of the best retelling of courage, endurance, physical and mental strength ever told and hopefully will be made into a movie kept true to the written word in order to spread the story to the masses. I believe this mans' war years was in the hands of the lord and I will reread this book again anytime I may feel sorry for myself.
4 I have read so many historic novels based on true events, I find the WWl and WWII particularly difficult to forget. This book was well written, heartbreaking, inspirational, and will stay on my mind and in my heart for quite a while.
2 I was glad to have finished this 400 page tome.  Just too many facts, incidents, every bloomin' thing.  And at the end, his conversion by Billy Graham - well.  I feel I've wasted two weeks reading this, in spite if its having been on the New York Times best-seller list for weeks.  Go figure.  It's that redemption part at the end that really got me.  350 pages and then it turns religious.  To be fair, there are a zillion rave reviews on the dust jacket.One has to wonder if memories can be this accurate/correct, as it is hard to believe any human being could survive the hellacious, cruel treatment the Japanese inflicted on these helpless men.  And then to keep all these events so well in their mind?  Most would tend to forget, I think.  How many men come back from war, never wanting to speak of it?  I have to ask, to what end was this book written?  And why was it so hugely popular?  Zamperini was not the only man to have endured such horrors.  What can't I see that so many others can?
1 As a Airman from that era I found that some of the things that Mr.Zamperini said happened to him I have heard dozens of times, it is flyer's lore, it never happened to anyone. It's like sea stories.The story about ditching his B-24 in the ocean and nearly drowning because he was entangled in the planes wiring is a falsehood, the wiring in those aircraft were wrapped every 6" with linen twine soaked in paraffin forming ropes, no possible way that enough of these wraps could break to ensnare a man.But, the straw that broke the camels back and what made this book unbelievable and unreadable was when Mr.Zamperini said the Japanese prison commandant told him "Be happy with your work" this line is straight out of "The Bridge on the River Kwai"With these fabrications it made me doubt the veracity of the entire book, and therefore unreadable, I simply couldn't believe a thing the man said after that.
5 Laura Hillenbrand is the bestselling author of Seabiscuit. In her second long awaited nonfiction story she has produced a masterpiece of one man's courage, strength and love. The subject is Louis Zamperini who grew up in Torrance, California.  Louis had a brother Pete and two sisters. His parents came from an Italian immigrant family. Louis was a mischevious boy! He loved to steal and play pranks in his middle class neighborhood. He then developed an interest in track and field. Louis won several high school meets and ran at USC. He was selected as a miler for the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin where he shook hands with Hitler and Goebbels.He became a Lt. in the Army Air Force. Zamparini's B-24 Liberator plane was shot down over the Pacific. He and two fellow airmen were left to float on a small raft for 47 days of starvation, shark fighting and attacks from Zero fliers.  Instead of being rescued they were captured by a Japanese boat! Louie spent over two years in captivity in Japan being tortured, starved and beaten in a series of Japanese POW camps. His fiercest enemy was a horrible corporal nicknamed THE BIRD. After the war, Louie became an alocholic and was tortured by wartime memories. Zamparini was persuaded by his wife to attend the 1949 Los Angeles Billy Graham Crusade. Zamparini became a Christan and ran a successful Boy's Camp for many years. His story is a tale of a human being who endured the worst life could throw at him and emerged a strong and loving Christian man.Laura Hillenbrand suffers from poor health but her writing shows her to be an outstanding chronicler of a remarkable man's life!Highly recommended!
5 Not knowing anyone first hand who experienced WW II to Louis' extent and becoming a POW, proved to be very insightful. I thought it flowed very nicely without jumping back and forth with details.
5 This book is so well written and every household needs a copy.  How can we appreciate what we have if we don't know how we got it - our freedoms.  PLEASE READ THIS BOOK.
5 From reading this, the only other person who has sacrificed more for me is Jesus Christ.  Even when I thought he could not take more abuse, he kept his "dignity".  A must read for any patriotic American.  What Louis Zamperini and many others like him went through during WWII only certifies that they truly are the Greatest Generation.  I had to keep asking myself if I thought I could go through what he went through and most of the time, my answer was no.  Thank you for what you did for our country to preserve its freedom.
5 My wife recommended this book to me.  Glad I took her advice.  Hard to believe anyone could be subjected to such horrible circumstances and then live to tell the story.  Making it more gripping is the fact that Zamperini led a very colorful life, before and after his captivity.  If I did my research correctly, he is still alive and is 93 years old.
5 I love WWII history.  This a story of a truly great member of the Greatest Generation.  I highly recommend this book.
5 This book is really intense. I found the historical information about wwII horrific and compelling. I had never learned of the extent if brutality in Japan at that time. Almost always learning of Nazi Germany this book was incredible from this different perspective. This book kept me there with the story from word one. It was so well written. You will learn to live the main character and the depths of emotion you will feel while reading is absolutely incredible. This book will stay with me for a very long time. It was amazing. If you are someone who cannot stand to read about the war crimes this is not the book for you. But in my opinion it is one of the best books I have ever read.
5 I had to buy this for others after I had read it.  Powerful, yet hard to read at times because of visualizing the War, rescues, and POW camps.
5 One of the best books I have ever read and that&#8217;s saying a lot!  I loved the story of Louie Zamperini and the many things he faced in his life.  He was a MAN who was able to face life&#8217;s adversities and managed to come out on top.  The reader feels Louie Zamperini&#8217;s lows such as when he is held prisoner during the war and causes us to cheer his highs, his Olympic days.  This is one of those books where you will laugh, cry and when the book is over hate that it&#8217;s come to an end.  Laura Hillenbrand is a top author who knows how to catch the attention of a variety of readers &#8230; from young to old &#8230; and enable each of us to love and want more of her books!
5 The book club discussion I attended for Unbroken was quite heated.  Each participant had plenty to say and participated more emotionally than at the usual book club.  People could really feel the tribulations that Louis endured.
5 Great book and amazing story.  But, in my opinion,  a book dealing with the same subject,  " Devil At My Heels",  is told more from a personal point of view.I have read both books several times and found "Devil"  much more enjoyable.  You will not be disappointed.
5 It's an amazing story that any human being could withstand the experiences that Louis endured.  It should be required reading for high school students
5 I thought this would be more of a mans book, but I loved it.  Not a war buff either, but it was so interesting & educational.
5 What an amazing story of bravery and forgiveness.  I am so proud to be an American.  This book has lifted me to be a better person.
5 Excellent book about an amazing man who served our country & fought for our freedom! It is one of the best books I have ever read! Everyone should read it!! Thanks.
5 I have owned this book for over three years. I bought this copy for a friend because I knew he would also be inspired. The story is beyond belief. His survival took incredible strength. His later redemption floored me. I'm not a big WWII buff but this story is far more than a war story.
5 Great book about an amazing man! The writer did a wonderful job telling this story. I was engaged from the first page to the last. I learned a lot about WW2. Everyone should read this book.It gives you such insight to the sacrifices our soldiers made. Parts of this book are violent and graphic, but so were the events.
5 This book is on my top ten list...and I've read a lot of books.  If you never do another thing, you must get this book.  I'm serious.  Do it right now.
5 Laura Hillenbrand strikes again!  After writing Seabiscuit, she comes back and writes another phenomenal book.  This time a biography titled: Unbroken - A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption.  It is truly a remarkable tale and her writing is absolutely amazing in how she captures the readers attention and never lets it go.  I couldn't put the book down - it's one of those books.The story is about a man with an extraordinary constitution - one that allowed him to become an Olympic athlete and then survive an astonishing ordeal in WWII, and eventually recover from the deep physical and psychological trauma.  Without any spoilers, let's just say that Hillenbrand finds a way to reinforce this man's will and character throughout every point in his life - even his early childhood, which was very convincing and usually difficult to achieve.  She appears to have taken an incredible amount of research and interviews and has put together a very fluid account of certain aspects of the war.  She is just an incredible storyteller - one of the best writers out there today.  Skip this book at your own risk - you've been warned!
5 Wonderful true story of a real hero.  I learned a lot by reading this book.  I am not a history buff but truly enjoyed learning in this way.  Well done!
5 This is a keeper.  Laura Hillenbrand certainly does her homework.  I highly recommend this book.  I read itsometime ago and I can say it is one of those books that will stay with you for a long time.  I have such respectfor all veterans, but having been born during WWII  a special love for those guys! (Some were my own family).How Mr. Zamperini endured and survived all that he did and still found it in his heart to forgive, is amazing.  Alesson for all.
5 This book is powerful, horrifying, and inspiring. Following Louis Zamperini from his turbulant, deviant childhood, to his famous Olympic run, to surviving a plane crash and floating on a raft for 2000 miles, to becoming a POW, you'll be horrified yet unable to stop reading.This nonfiction book reads like fiction, one you could only hope ends on a high note (it does). While I'd known a little about Zamperini before reading this book, his harrowing tail was both fascinating and saddening. Finding his place as an Olympic runner the world looks good for him until WWII breaks out and he's flying with the military. A few close calls with Japanese Zero airplanes (agile and quick) do nothing to dampen his smile, wit, and search for a good time. After getting shot down his story of endurance begins after floating adrift for weeks and thousands of miles. After surviving getting shot at by the Japanese (while on the raft), shark attacks, and a tyhpoon, they finally find land, only to realize it's occupied by the Japanese. Thus begins his life as a POW where he's beaten, mistreated, broken, experimented on, and treated like the scum of the earth. The fact that he survives this physically is astounding. After Japan surrends and the POWs are freed he returns home but is haunted by flashbacks and nightmares and sinks quickly into alcoholism. Christianity eventually saves his life and he's able to make a positive impact on those around him for the rest of his very long life.This book is written incredibly well and you won't want to put it down. Highly recommended, an excellent read.
5 I'm not one to read non-fiction especially war stories, but this book was beyond incredible. Hillenbrand wrote this in such a captivating manner that it almost seemed as though you were there. The level of detail provided really set the emotional, physical, and cognitive tones for the reader as Hillenbrand moved through the characters.
5 It took me maybe 50 pages to get into it, but holy cow this is an incredible story. I never read war books or historical non-fiction, but this story was incredible. Have passed this on multiple times. great read.
5 This book is really, really good. The story is compelling and it is written very well. It's also a great way to learn some history.
4 When you think of WWI, what typically comes to mind? Hitler, right? The Nazis?Inglourious Basterds? Gas chambers? Jews? Most of my WWII reading centered around the German arena. Amazing first-hand accounts and insights likeNightandMan's Search for Meaningcome from this stage along with other classics likeThe Diary of a Young Girl. These are just a few stories I've read about this time in history and I'd recommend them all. But how many books have you read on what happened in the Pacific theater of WWII (aka the "Pacific War")? Unless you've seenThe Pacific] (which I haven't) you probably don't know a lot.Besides the draw of learning about a whole new front of the war, Louie Zamperini's story is an incredible one. Amazon reviewers' (I always read Amazon reviews!) top critique was that the story seemed unbelievable. A boy with Olympic dreams of breaking the four minute mile is incredible enough for me--do you know how fast a 4 minute mile is? That's an average of ONE MINUTE around a high school track! That boggles my mind. For those of us thrilled with 11 minute miles, "Zamp" as he's called in the book would've easily lapped us. At least three times. How crazy is that? I would have been happy with just that story. It's crazy because his rising star coincided with Hitler's, and he actually met him at the Olympics in Berlin. There's a story about guns booming and pigeons flying that literally made me laugh uncontrollably out loud: the Germans wanted a big show, so they released a bunch of pigeons, and then did a gun fanfare. Every time the guns went off, the pigeons pooped with fear on the crowd. Why is that hilarious? I don't know. Who doesn't like a story about pigeons mass-pooping on people during the Olympics?Each phase of the story is a crazy one. The story spans from his running days to his days as a bomber to his days stranded on a life boat surrounded by sharks. His survival skills are (here's the word again) incredible, but reading about his days as a POW is even more insane. I don't want to give too much away here, but there's a little bit of everything, including his desperate cries to God in the life boat and his eventual conversion. This is hardly a religious book, but it doesn't pull its punches too much when it comes to spiritual matters, either.This book drew me in, and I had to fight developing my parents' early distaste for the Japanese. I knew about the horrors of the war, and how the Japanese treated the Koreans, and the book in no way highlighted any of the details between these two nations, but what it had was enough. I was horrified and devastated and had empathy for the nationalistic distaste (what an understatement!) Koreans developed after the war. It was indeed a horrible time and brought out the worst in people.Is it a spoiler alert if you know what happens at the end? It's like watchingValkyrie]and wondering if Tom Cruise will succeed in killing Hitler. Obviously the conspiracy fails... right? Right?! Well, Zamperini survives, and there is an insight into life after the war for many people who fought in WWII, although much of the PTSD seemed to be blunted. This story isn't about the ending, but about the journey. I am amazed, as someone who is not much of a fighter, to read about someone who clung to life with a tenacity that I doubt I have. I'm definitely not the one eating all the chocolate, though. (Read the book to find out what I mean by that.) Hehe.Sidenote: I purchased and read this book on the Kindle. It was recommended to me by my brother-in-law, who heard it on audiobook (after considering it for a while, I decided that audiobooks count as "reading" if you consider Braille "reading." Blind people wouldn't say "I felt that book," would they? All this to say, the audiobook version of this comes recommended as well.) Another friend had it on her "top tier" of reading, so that pushed me over the edge. Totally glad I did it. The book is about 4 pages shy of 500, but it was a quick read and I didn't feel like I lost much on the Kindle (pictures showed up just fine.)
5 This book will completely transform anything you've never known. What an incredible story of Louie and Phil and Bill Harris. This is a must read that will leave present day readers with a taste of the past.
5 I'm so glad to have just learned today that Universal has picked up movie rights to this book and we will see a film of Louis Zamperini's life, based on Laura Hillenbrand's book.After reading  her book, all I could do was shake my head in wonder how Zamperini not only survived his WWII ordeals but will be 94 years of age at the end of this month!  You think, "how can this be?"Author Hillenbrand ("Seabiscuit") makes this horrible tale of pain, suffering and injustice a readable one, although be prepared in a few spots and catch your breath and check your blood pressure if you aren't aware of the horrific Japanese brutality in WWII.From young hoodlum to Olympic runner to a man  battling sharks in the open sea to dealing with sadistic men in POW camps (one "monster" in particular) it's a memorable tale and tough to put the book down.
4 A very detailed and through book about the capacity of human suffering and determination.  The author covers all the details objectively and respectfully.  I was worried as I heard that in his own account he labors the religious angle.  The author mentions these moments in his life as they happened and handles them respectfully but is not heavy handed about it--phew.  She sticks to the inspiring story.  I would recommend this story.
4 I felt like the book started out very slowly.  I had a hard time getting into it, but once I had gotten through several chapters I was hooked. I knew quite a bit about WWII in the European theater but not as much about the Pacific. This was a fascinating look into the lives of the American POW's in Japan.
5 This was fantastic. It is amazing how much Louie went through and his story made for an easy to read book. I'm amazed this hasn't been made into a movie.
5 Wow.I am not going to tell anything about this book because any one piece would be a spoiler. I will just implore you to read it, particularly if you are interested in incredible storytelling and an incredible story of survival, resilience and redemption, extraordinary endurance and superhuman strength.Read this book.
5 The suffering endured is mind blowing, beyond imaginable.How can the human body survive repetitive sickeness, starvation, physical abuse, mind games, for years??-- through the Grace Of God- and through the gift of HIS Son, Jesus.Good bless all of the WWII veterans and POWs!!!!
5 Louis ("Louie") Zamperini was born a dare devil. The first few chapters of this novel tell of how his mom often couldn't find him and he was consistently doing dangerous things. As he got a little older, he started fighting (after being bullied) and his older brother Pete thought a great way to channel all of Louie's energy would be for him to run track. And thus, a track star was born. He would eventually go on to be an Olympian. He went on to enlist in the Army Air Forces in 1941. The bulk of Hillenbrand's novel discusses Louie's time in the military and of his being a prisoner of war in Japan. The things that happened to him while a prisoner of war are beyond appalling. One of the people at the Japanese prison camp known as "The Bird" was especially brutal with Louie. I was heartbroken for him with each beating he endured from The Bird.Anyone who is the least bit interested in history or in our military would like this novel. While heartbreaking, it definitely gives a portrait of what sacrifices have been made for our country, something I think that might be taken for granted these days. This novel is not for the faint of heart, but I would recommend it to anyone who wants a better appreciation of what these men have gone through or who just like to read biographies about extraordinary people.*Disclaimer- I received a free copy of Unbroken via WaterBrook Multnomah Publishing Group
5 I teach in a typical public high school.  On a daily basis, I see what is happening to this country and have a sad glimpse of the future.  I see high school kids everyday who can't go 5 minutes without texting, they need to have Starbucks every morning, a Red Bull with lunch.  Adversity to them is having their phone taken away.  Every little thing is drama to them.  We modify everything.  No Child Can Be Left Behind.  If something is too tough or challenging, we modify and make it easier.  Any time a student has something bad happen to them or even something bad to somebody that they just know of, we send it grief specialists and crisis teams...for any bit of adversity.  I see this on a daily basis, and then I read this book.  Wow...talk about night and day.  Talk about the difference between the World War II generation and today.  This book and more importantly the story, the writing is great, but man what a story.  There is not much I can see, every American should read this book.  The next time you are upset because you lose your WiFi connection, or the line is too long at Starbucks, think of what Louis and 1,000's of others of his generation went through.  From the Nazi Olympics, to flying, to the ordeal on the raft, to surviving the POW camp...this is an amazing story about an amazing man.  Read this book.
3 I loved 'Seabiscuit' and was immensely looking forward to 'Unbroken'. However I must agree with those who are disappointed at the quality of the writing. The story is so extraordinary that one is compelled to read it. Yet the writing ranges from turgid to just competent.
5 I've always loved history. And this story does not disappoint.The way Laura Hillenbrand tells the story gets you into the story and you don't want to put the book down. I hope you enjoy this book as much as I have!
5 I read this book because I saw Louis interviewed on television. I thought I would scan parts and read only some of it. But I couldn't put it down. What a fantastic encouraging rags to riches story of a true World War II hero. I ended up reading every page of it. It is not my typical book but I enjoyed it very much. I learned so many things about the war, the prisoners, that I never heard before.
5 Unbroken, the amazing story of Louie Zamperini and his survival during WWII will stay with you long after you finish the book. The story of his survival on a life raft in the Pacific Ocean for 47 days following the crash of the bomber he was aboard would make for entirely incredible story on its own. The fact that what he and other US servicemen endured at the hands of the Japanese in POW camps makes the rest of the story nothing short of a miracle. This gut wrenching book will make you angry, morose, hopeful and lastly amazed at what human beings can endure. A truly remarkable and eventually redemptive story is told in a fantastic narrative style by Laura Hillenbrand. It is hard to imagine that she would write a better book after Seabiscuit but she has done just that. This is the way history should be written. Exciting, touching, and informative without ever being boring Hillenbrand is a fantastic writer period.
5 "Unbroken" by Laura Hillenbrand has got to be ONE of the very best books out there today. Her descriptive powers not only lures you in but leaves you there, staggered and vacariously broken, at the edge of humanity, insofar as the saga and heroism of this one man, Louis Zamperini, can bring you. What an unbeliveable man, a hero many times over, and surely a name I would not forget as long as I live. Great story-telling on Hillenbrand's part to bring alive a forgotten piece of history and personal sacrifice no exquisite film studio can possibly manifest. ~ Cullen Dorn - author of "The Hierophant Of 100th Street"
5 A wonderful book about a true American hero.  A typical immigrant family with a hell-raiser son, who later rises to fame.  World War II intervenes and he continues to persevere in very trying circumstances.  The book is well written and hard to put down after starting reading.  Soon to be a movie.
5 I can sum this book up in one word: harrowing. I had no idea how difficult the troops had it in the Pacific arena. This story will horrify you and make you want to cheer (for our POWs) at the same time. There are clear heroes and villains in this book, but nothing is expected!
5 I purchased this as one of my very first books for my new Kindle! I began reading it just before a trip with my husband and 2 other couples to Alaska, even though I thought it might not be light enough reading for a trip like this. However, I was intrigued by the description of the book. Now I think Alaska is one of the most beautiful and awesome states in the US, but this book kept calling me to it, even on all of our exciting excursions! I wanted to read it at any and all tiny breaks in the activities! So it took me longer to read than normally because of all these "interruptions". However, it was absolutely mesmerizing!It was a story that moved me to tears many times, but ultimately inspired me to keep on keeping on in my own life, (of course, my problems are NOTHING like Louis' life!!). I was so moved by what Louis and these men went thru, and amazingly survived!I would recommend this book to anyone interested in World War II, (which I wasn't BEFORE this book!), or in the courage of all the POWs of our wars. You will be shocked by what one human being can do to another, and amazed at what a human being can survive!
5 It is rare to find such a flawless book. The story is captivating, heart-breaking, and all the better because it's real. The meticulous research, the beautiful writing, the riveting story - there are not enough superlatives to do this book justice. So grateful to the author for bringing this story to light, and in such a fine manner. Absolutely recommend for everyone, not just WWII history buffs.
5 This book had me from the first word--I could tell it was going to be a wonderful read and it was hard to put down.  It is the type of book that gives hope and just took me to all of the places the Louie was at any given moment. I hated to put it down at the end I just wanted more.  It is a story that will stay with me for a very long time. Very well written--great book and great story.
3 I was disappointed. Louie Zamperini's story was heartwarming, heroic and nightmarish at the same time.  I just wish he had told it.  Hillenbrand gives lots of historic details that bring World War II to vivid life.  I recently read Urquhart's "The Forgotten Highlander" which depicts his personal experiences in the Pacific and it was every bit as horrible as Zamperini's but he told his own story.  By comparison Hillenbrand's book feels second hand and a little exploitive.
5 I don't read a lot of biographies but this one had me enthralled for hours at a stretch. Parts of it read like a novel and the fact that it was a true story made it even more engrossing. I also learned a ton about WW2 and the war in the Pacific theater. The historical detail was terrific. Cannot wait for the movie version later this year!
5 i purchased this book not knowing what it was about, or anything about the author.  as it turned out, i also knew nothing of the story and had never heard of the main character, so it was all fresh to me.  the story is heartbreaking and inspiring, and is a reminder of all that "the greatest generation" endured in the name of keeping our country safe and free.  we may never know their likes again.  i'm so glad this one incredible story has been chronicled in such detail.
5 This was a great book. It read as easy as fiction but as it was a true story, I found it really amazing to read what this person went through and what the war was actually like for many
5 I tend to stay away from biographies and autobiographies because they generally don't hold my attention.  This one was completely different.  The first couple pages start off with Louis Zamperini and other soldiers on a life raft surrounded by sharks.  I literally couldn't peel my eyes away from this book.  Everytime you think things could not get worse, they do...but for those that hate sad endings, you'll be happy to know this book isn't terribly tragic.  I would def recommend this book even if you don't like biographies, even if you're not a history buff.
5 Extremely well researched and well written.  It is a book I have recommended to many!  The title could be Unbroken and able to forgive!
5 It will change your attitude if you feel sorry for yourself.  Much admiration and appreciation for the true hero's in this story.  A real inspiration to live more grateful.
5 Unbroken was an unbelievable story.  Laura Hillenbrand did an amazing job telling the real life story of Louis Zamperini. I normally do not read books about any wars, however, this was more than a war book, this was a wonderful story about a young man who's dreams were put on hold because of World War II. Laura Hillenbrand gives you details of the hardship and pain Louis Zamperini experienced during the war and as a POW.  I was outraged as I read what these poor POW's were put through. The book also details what an amazing human being Louis Zamperini was and how he fought his demons to become a better person after the war.  I loved the book.
5 It's a miracle these stories were ever told because the folks who lived it faced danger and made it out alive to tell the story.  Well done telling of boys who were catapulted into becoming men of honor and distinction!
5 This is one of the best books I have ever read.  I have recommended it to many people.  Once you start reading it, you won't put it down.  I have a new appreciation for POW's.
5 Biographies do not get better than this. Zamperini's story is incredible, almost unbelievable, except there are the witnesses to verify his amazing journey.  This is a defining example of a life lifted out of the pit. . . several times.  Hillenbrand does a superb job of writing Zamperini's story.  Set aside a few evenings (in succession).  Once you start this book, you'll be interested in nothing else.
5 This story is gutt wrenching. I feel so sad for the damage and loss to the POWs ; and I'm certain for their family for generations.This is an amazing story and I'm glad I read it. It gives me huge appreciation to the soldiers and profound sadness we still send our people off to fight in wars.
5 This book was chosen for my book club. It is not the kind of book I usually enjoy, so I would not have read it on my own. It was a great story from beginning to end, even though some of the events that Louis endured were hard to read about. I have recommended this too everyone I know!
5 Life was depressing after reading this... Simply because the book was over.  WHAT AN ADVENTURE!  I know that at many points I had tough time coping with what he had to go through, but it was such a great read - AND you know he lives to tell the story! Good luck putting this one down.  God bless our troops.
3 My wife bought me this book for my birthday and I was excited by the story. But surprisingly I found it not so exciting to read. And the more I read on the more I realized that the details Hillenbrand was describing were at best fabricated to (ostensibly) make the story more interesting or poignant. About 60% of the way through I had to put it aside.
5 I think it may have been a mistake to use Unbroken as my introduction to the history/history-inspired genre. This book was fantastic, and it is going to be the book that I compare similar books to for the forseeable future.The story starts off slowly, detailing the life of Louie Zampernini from his troubled youth to his Olympic skill, and then it gets into the main story arc. From the book's telling alone, you will see the unease of the German people during the rise of Hitler, the uncertainty and danger of being among the first American Airmen, and the rabid devotion to country that the Japanese populace had.The story of how Louie and the other POWs kept sane during some very difficult times is inspiring, harrowing, and a captivating read. If you have any interest in history (and I didn't), then this book is a must-read
5 Laura Hillenbrand recounts the story of World War II hero Louis Zamperini.  Zamperini was a troubled youth until encouraged, or maybe forced, by his brother Pete to become a distance runner.  Zamperini participated in the 1936 Olympics in Berlin, Germany, and his performance helped propel the young runner onto the world stage.  Zamperini was preparing for the 1940 Olympics in Tokyo when World War II broke out.  He entered the Army and joined the U.S. Army Air Corps as a bombardier.  After harrowing bombing runs against Japanese bases from his base in Hawaii, Zamperini's plane crashed into the ocean.  Zamperini and his surviving crewmates were lost in the ocean with Zamperini spending over 40 days in a life raft.  After his recovery from the ocean, Zamperini experienced brutal conditions in Japanese captivity.  The reader is left with the question of how and will Zamperini survive his incredible and horrifying story.Hillenbrand is a solid author who spins a story that is engaging.  Readers will be regret putting down Unbroken when in the midst of the story.  And Zamperini's story, of which I was not aware, is incredible.  It leads one to wonder how we did not discuss Zamperini more often in history courses as a representative of those held captive by the Japanese.  I left the story understanding how these men would have seen the dropping of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima as a god send as Hillenbrand chronicles events in several POW camps around the events of the flight of the Enola Gay.  Hillenbrand does an excellent job of providing tension to her readers as one questions if Louis, crewmates, or other POWs will survive the war.  Additionally, this is a book that I have been talking about as I read it.  My copy will be passed to a co-worker as I have been unable to not share Zamperini's story as I dug into Unbroken.  Along with being well-written the text is also well researched using both oral interviews and archival documents.  Sources also come from both the United States and Japan.Unbroken is an excellent book that I cannot recommend enough.  It helped provide a very personal and engaging face to the facts and figures of Americans in POW captivity.  And with a story that includes castaways at sea is highly engaging.Review Copy Provided by WaterBrook Multnomah
3 This is such an amazing story - shocking to think what our soldiers, our heroes endured while in captivity in Japan.  The story is fast paced but does tend to bog down at times with ongoing, repetitive details about the abuse of Louie...and quite frankly, some is too difficult to believe - bordering on impossible.  There really should not have been a reason for the author to embellish the abuse - the true story is severe enough on its own without adding creative license to the details.  At times, the plot became hung up on the repetitiveness of these descriptions...and the timelines became confused. Sometimes Louie was so starved and malnurished and beaten that he could barely walk and the next moment he is engaged in running races with his captors...or holding a six foot beam over his head for an impossible amount of time.  This book does an amazing job of bringing to the attention to atrocities of war, the amazing bravery of our soldiers, the poor decision making of some military leaders, and definitely the amazing spirit of survival.  I recommend the book - but be prepared to "skim" through some of the repetitiveness - while focusing on the amazing human stories.
5 Every time I begin to think everyone has forgotten about the sacrifices of POWs in World War II, another author comes along to remind us of the qualities of endurance, brutality and forgiveness that exists within humankind.As a journalist who has interviewed POWs held by the Japanese, I thought I was familiar with the degradation Japanese soldiers were capable of during the war. Hillenbrand, however, has taken this chapter of our history to a new level. While I was prepared for brutality and cruelty, I wasn't prepared to the psychological damage done by the captors to the captives. I also wasn't prepared for the struggle these men went through after they came back to the United States to pickup their shattered lives. Although many stories end with liberation from the POW camp, Hillenbrand continues to follow the story to chronicle Louis Zamperini and others as they attempted to integrate into American society.Beware to all readers, this is a difficult book to read. I found myself rushing through the POW years because I couldn't stand to dwell on the torture and inhumanity exhibited by a large number of Japanese officers. My heart ached to see how Louis and others were haunted by their experiences long after the war ended.Reading the notes at the end of each chapter and acknowledgments at the end of the book gave me a glimpse into the amount of work Hillenbrand  did to document this book. I also understand she encountered some medical problems during the writing of this book. I'm thankful for the sacrifices she made in chronicling the sacrifices of so many brave souls.Who are these brave souls? Japan held some 132,000 POWs from America, Britian, Canada, New Zealand, Holland and Australia. Of those, nearly 36,000 died, more than one in every four. This does not include as many as 100,000 Asians who died as laborers especially Chinese.To all of these souls, this book is a memorial to their sacrifices.
5 This us an amazing story of a teenage Olympian (1936) and national mile champ who goes to war as a bombardier only to crash in the Pacific after his second, junk heap B-24 suffers mechanical failure. The book is divided in 5 sections, the early youth portion is also unbelievable; a 5 year old smoking, sticky fingers but quick on his feet who turns his life around and eventually goes to college as a star runner. This true story has amazing set of circumstance, dead heating in the Olympic trial 5000 with a great sprint  that was so dramatic on the last lap in the Olympic 5000 final that Hitler wanted to meet him, finishing 8th with a 56 second final lap was indicative that the 19 year old had so much more to come. Even greater than his athletic accomplishments is his survival of over 30 days at sea in a raft with the pilot and. 2 years of tortuous time in a series of Japanese prisons where enlisted were treated like slaves and the officers beaten and humiliated with prisoners suffering severe rate of death and a high rate of disability. The worst if the brutes is a man called Quark and the worst, nicknamed 'the Bird'. The prison descriptions of the horrid  conditions, marginal and often nauseating food and the abuse and suffering is so continuous from  place to place that the ability of Louie or any of the prisoners' chances of survival seem incredibly remote.  The period of allied victory becomes obvious toward the end but seems to take an agonizing amount of days that seem like months before the prisoners are released. Louie's notoriety is not lost on the Japanese who use him for propaganda and for special abuse not even acknowledging his capture until he becomes useful to them. The book also details Louie's dramatic re-entry, sudden marriage and turmoil struggles with PTSD and recovery. The number of challenges that Louie faced is simply incredible but this book  also provides a picture what all allied prisoners faced in Japanese prisons and work camps. Re-entry is obviously difficult today but even more so in WWII and other wars. Audie Murphy slept with a pistol and always kept it nearby and he could be suddenly  volatile. He was later an advocate for mental health counseling. The other fascinating part of the book is the search for his chief tormentor, 'the Bird' who was named the 7th worst war criminal yet was the most difficult to capture. The end of the 'the Bird's odyssey is disturbing and disappointing. Perhaps the greatest stunner is Louie's amazing ability to forgive, even traveling to Japan to express forgiveness to many of his tormentors. This must have been a cultural shock for his abusers.
5 UNBROKEN documents the horror of the slaughter of World War II.The reader repeatedly asks self what could possibly have beengained by that elimination of so many human lives.Nonetheless the heroism of the &#34;unbroken&#34; soldier demonstratesthat even in the midst of that horror there were humans who foundwithin themselves the courage and horoism to remain greater thanthe slaughter all around them.
5 My firs thought.. WHY DID WE NOT HEAR ABOUT THIS HERO BEFORE. I was spellbound as I moved though the chapters. this was well written and well research. We need to be made more aware of these true hero's and survivors. Would love to see a documentary or movie on this book.
4 A very heart-wrenching story about a young man struggling to find his true identity in life and when he finally achieves some success and is walking on the right path, he is shipped to the Pacific theater during WWII.  One fateful flight turns into years of torture and abuse at the hands of the Japanese - one individual in particular abuses the former Olympic runner beyond the levels of human dignity and capacity to resist.  But, the book does not end with the destruction of this incredible man's life - but rather with his ultimate surrender - not to a foreign enemy while at war, but rather to the King of Kings Jesus Christ to reign supreme in his life and cleanse him from all iniquity.  While our hero finds freedom from bitterness and anger, his life is juxtaposed to the lone Japanese torturer whose life is tortured by despair and disillusionment following the war.What a great book to read to gain a significant insight into the nature of man.  What man is able to endure physically is simply amazing - but what is more incredible is the peace that surpasses all understanding that comes not from overcoming life's great trials and difficulties, but rather in finding rest for one's soul in the only place possible - at the cross of Jesus Christ!
5 As others have commented, Unbroken is a book worth reading. Not simply because Laura did a great job of writing but of the truths reported. Difficult to put down? Surely!  We can not know if Louis' experience was unique since we don't know everyone's individual account. Nevertheless, Unbroken refreshes our hearts and minds as to both the horrors of war and the forgiveness which can only come from God.
3 Book was excellent in the middle, beginning and ending slow.  I am not sure forgiveness by prisoners for Japanese abusers ok is believable.
4 I had trouble putting the book down. It kept my interest. then when the war started just the way our guys were treated.  It was heart breaking. I laughed at some parts and cried at others. This would be a book that I would read again later.
3 I've read Seabiscuit and am a great admirer of Hillenbrand's writing style. Her research skills must be considerable to pull together this story of Louis' life. That said, I couldn't finish this book. It's not that I'm squeamish, (I've read The Lizard Cage which is also brutal). I think in this instance it was a matter of the details of his imprisonment going on too long. The man suffered terribly, but the story lost a lot of its power with the over telling.
5 I had a 15-hour car drive ahead of me, so I asked friends for audiobook suggestions and a friend recommended Unbroken. I took a quick look at Amazon and saw that it had 8500+ reviews and 5 stars, so I knew it had to be good. I was in a hurry to leave for my trip so I barely glanced over the subject matter of the book. This turned out to be a good thing, since I just started listening and didn't really know where the story was going to take me. This book is EXTRAORDINARY. I can't remember reading a true life story that made me feel so many strong emotions. Most importantly, reading about the harsh realities of war and how these soldiers endured such abject cruelty made me realize how truly fortunate I am, and how beautiful life really is.
4 Couldn't wait to start reading again after putting it down.  Breaks one's heart to know what men and women go thru to  protect us in war time.Don't think we appreciate all of them enough.
5 I couldn't put the book down. The Pacific POW's went through some terrible suffering. This story takes you through one person's experience on the tragedy of war and it's aftermath. Should be required reading at every school.
5 This is an interesting story - amazing man!  We had seen a TV interview with him and he seemed like such a character.  The book was very good, just a little long.
5 "Unbroken" deserves the acclaim it has received.  It is the story of Louis Zamperini and his extraordinary tale of survival during World War II.  Zamperini grew up a juvenile delinquent in Torrance, CA.  At the urging of his older brother, Zamperini learned to channel his energy into running.  He quickly became a legend in southern California, shattering the high-school record for the mile and eventually becoming a member of the 1936 Olympic team.  Louie was training for the Tokyo Olympics in 1940 when the games were canceled because of the war.  Louie joined the Army Air Corp and became a bombardier on a B-24 in the Pacific theater.  While on a search and rescue mission, the plane he's on crashes into the Pacific.  The survivors cling to two tiny rafts for 47 days.Two of the men survive this ordeal, only to be captured by the Japanese and sent to the first of several prison-of-war camps.  His celebrity makes Zamperini the focus of terrible assaults and cruelty, especially by a horribly sadistic guard nicknamed "the Bird."  The cruelty of the Japanese during the war has largely been forgotten, but this account serves to help us not forget the suffering and humiliation these men endured.Ms. Hillenbrand is an amazing storyteller.  Moreover, she has done an incredible job of research.  She also does a great job of describing the incredible dangers of aviation during World War II and what it's like to be a member of the flight crew on a B-24 bomber.  In the end, "Unbroken" is an incredibly gripping tale and a compelling story.  It is unforgettable, gripping, unnerving, and inspiring.The three primary criticisms of the tiny minority who dislike this book are all without merit: 1)  One criticism is that the book stretches the truth.  In my opinion, the critics would have rightfully criticized it as too over the top if it were a work of fiction, but this story didn't need embellishment.  2) Another criticism is that the writing is mundane.  Hogwash! 3) The final criticism is that the suffering in the book goes on and on and one.  Again, if this were fiction, that would be a legitimate criticism.  But this is real life, and this is what Zamperini and many men went through.
5 This is a beautifully written, well crafted life story that I could not put down!  Historical elements stimulated my mind; personal elements filled my heart; relational aspects inspired my spirit. Louis Zamperini is an inspiration, as were other unforgettable characters in this story.
5 An amazing story of one man's struggle to survive at impossible odds. Truly, his self-determination and his love of God saved his life even after all that he had endured.
5 Unbelievable tale of survival and will power in the face of extraordinary hardships.  It is also a well written and heartfelt book.  Everyone should take the time to read this story of individual heroism and courage.
5 a great read. i certainly enjoyed every page of it.And my Kindle worked great with the download and also the reading.
5 Definite must read.  The struggle these POWs overcame is remarkable.  It's crazy how bad Louie's luck was but he managed to overcome it all and survive.
5 Quite simply one of the most amazing stories and well written books I have EVER had the pleasure to read.  I read this in two sittings.  I read "non fiction" books almost exclusively, and although I am not a prolific reader, I would put this book & this story at the very top of the list of one of the greatest books I have ever had the pleasure to read.Extremely well-written by Laura Hillenbrand, and because of this book, I borrowed "Seabiscuit" from a friend.  She is a very gifted writer and story teller.If you purchase ONE book on here as a physical property or via Kindle, I recommend this book among all others.  Truly one of the most interesting historical biographies you will ever read.  I guarantee it!ONE NOTE: If you want to get a good laugh, read some of the negative reviews of this book.  I think some people actually thought this was a fictional book based on their disbelief at some of the events that transpired.  This story and book are perfect examples of the statement, "Truth is stranger than fiction".Dave
4 With UNBROKEN author Laura Hillenbrand moves in a totally different direction from her best-selling blockbuster SEABISCUIT. This time Hillenbrand follows another runner, Louis Zamperini, who was closing in on the four-minute mile before WWII interrupted his quest.Prior to being introduced to track by his brother Pete, Louie was a trouble-maker and a thief. He once climbed a church tower, tied the bell to a rope which he strung to a nearby tree, and rang it all day.Louie Zamperini became a bombardier in the Army Airforce before his plane was forced to ditch in the ocean. He then spent forty-six days with two other airmen on a raft fighting off sharks and subsisting on rainwater,  seabirds and the occasional fish. Little did he know that this was only the beginning of his travails. When they finally touched land, he became a prisoner in a number of Japanese POW camps and  he met his tormenter, Mutsuhiro Watanabe whom the prisoners called "The Bird." Watanabe had heard of Louie's Olympic achievements and singled him out as an object of hatred.It's not so much Louie's trials and tribulations that make this book so instructive. Louie's plane, a B-24, was on a rescue mission when it crashed in the ocean. We learn that for every one airman rescued from an ocean crash, seven potential rescuers also disappeared. Apparently the B-24 was a flying coffin. We also learn that one out of four POWs suffered from post traumatic shock after war.We follow Louie home after the war, see him get married and watch him succumb to problems with alcohol. He has terrible flashbacks and The Bird frequents his dreams almost every night. This is where Hillenbrand adds a little suspense to her book. As many as 900 former guards were put to death after the war but Watanabe disappeared, and we want to know if he got what he deserved. Louie determines to save himself by tracking Watanabe down, but finds his salvation in an unlikely place.In a time of 9.8 percent unemployment some Americans feel sorry for themselves and blame the government for their predicament, but they just might feel a bit squeamish about their whining after reading Hillenbrand's book and the hell on earth Louie Zamperini and the other POWs went through.
5 This is a great WWII story of survival and spirit.  I lived in Japan from 1983-1986 and they were wonderful people. However, their treatment of American POWs during WWII was horrific, cruel and sadistic.  This book tells the terrible story of one flyer who was held captive for 3 yrs.  It's quite a page turner, and to know that it's all true is stunning.  I thoroughly enjoyed the book.(My Father flew as a B-24 crewman in WWII in the South Pacific, so I really appreciated the flying stories on that aircraft.)
5 This has to be the best book of the year. It was a Birthday present. I have read heavily on WW2 and thought "Here I go again." I couldn't have received anything better. This story takes you from Childhood with a little brat of a kid, through the years of running track having found himself, somewhat anyway.The war breaks out and as most men he enlists immediately. He ends up in the Army Air Force with a casualty list that made you beleive you didn't have a chance. His crash, time in the Ocean and the details of being taken prisoner read like a good fiction story. That encompasses about a half of the book. The next half covers his time and experience in a Japanese prison camp. His survival is epec. There are times you think he could't survive another day. After liberation his days and years as a civilian weaken and weaken. The culmanation of this problem is quite striking and makes for a fine story. I highly recommend this book to any and all. It strongly shows what America is made of.
5 I am at a loss to say something that has not already been said about this amazing book and the hero, Louis Zamperini, whose incredible story it tells.As the WWII generation passes on, it is important for all Americans to pause and remember the sacrifices they made... and to ponder what is asked of us today to be worthy of their legacy.
5 After almost 5,000 reviews and a few years, nobody needs my opinion to be encouraged to read this.  I just felt compelled to add my highest recommendation to a book that kept me on edge from start to finish.  There were plenty of times when the brutal reality of what the men were facing was so difficult that I had to put the book down and step away for a few hours, but I just had to know where it ended up.  In the end, I finished with a smile on my face, now knowing this remarkable story of a great man, written by the brilliant hand of Laura Hillenbrand.
5 This is without a doubt one of the best books I have ever read in my life. It's just amazing that this hero is still with us today after going through all the horrors that he endured. I would like to congraulate Ms Hillenbrand for the amazing job she did in putting this great story to paper. I am so glad I was able to read this story before the movie comes out.
5 nobody knows who this guy is but he had a great and epic story. funny in the beggining and then it gets very epic and awesome. a great biography with a great story fraught with danger heartbreak and action. so exiting and real that i couldnt put it down. those three days were worth it
5 It felt like I was there! Vibrant detail, raw emotion, you will laugh, weep & feel every emotion. Couldn't put it down.
4 a great biography.  I needed a change in my reading and gravitated to a few biographies.  this is written more like a commentary.  I learned much about the time and the events.  Don't put it down...it just keeps getting deeper and deeper...  I put it down and told my wife she had to read it.
5 One of the best books I have ever read illustrating the triumph of one man's spirit over unimaginable hardships, challenges, and cruelty.
5 To read this book is to begin to understand what some of the World War 2 POW's went through. I absolutely enjoyed reading about Louie's life and found myself unable to put this down. I've recommended this book to my friends and family.
5 This is an amazing story and quite frankly is movie material.  If you loved Saving Private Ryan this book will clearly outline what personal tragedy looks like.  It was a hard read at times due to the subject matter and left me feeling upset over the treatment of our POW's.  I guess we are way too lenient on the POW's we capture...these guys had it rough to say the least.  It was probably the most horric personal experience I've every read...awesome book, hard to put down.
4 Amazing story of survival.  Having read a number of books about WWII and the Pacific, the treatment of prisoners by the Japanese was not surprising.  This is worth reading.
5 War is hell there is not doubt.  Great true story.  If you have been anywhere near war you will relate.  Might make you bit mad but drop that it won't help.  Other countries are just as embarrassed about the behaviors of their ancestors and think about two hundred years ago how brutal people treated others in war. Amazing story of survivial
4 This isn't quite as good as Laura Hillenbrand's first book, Seabiscuit, but still a good read.  It shows how strong someone can be in the face of adversity.  The book is a little slow starting, as there is a lot of background at the beginning, leading up to the real story, which is not unlike Seabiscuit,  In Seabiscuit, it seemed to work better than in this book, as you are always waiting for the real story to begin.  This does present a horrifying picture of how the Japanese treated some prisoners of war.  We often hear about the Nazi atrocities, but the Japanese were also very cruel to prisoners.  They even executed large numbers of prisoners, not unlike what happened in Germany.  It's an important book because it gives you glimpses into what the war was like somewhat from the Japanese perspective and demonstrates that any culture can be cruel and do terrible things in a war situation.  I hope that Hillenbrand writes more good books, but with her serious health issues, it is an uphill battle for her to do so.  After Seabiscuit, according to her, she wasn't sure she would find another subject that she really was passionate enough to write about, until she came across this story.
5 This is a must read.  An incredible story of survival and faith in your fellow man while being a prisoner of war.  A truely inspirational and incredible story.
5 On this one, i can only say that this is an incredible story, so well told, that we shall not read anything more absorbing, more exciting, more thrilling.  I can only remember the stories that i read as a young boy, now 60 years ago, that thrilled me as much.  Louie Zamperini, a world class runner and a world class naughty boy,  lived through so many challenges that would have killed most men, but not Louie.  He displayed the great American virtues of tenacity, ingenuity, unbreakable resolve, and guts.  He floated thousands of miles across the vast Pacific Ocean, he fought off sharks, hunger and thirst.  He endured two years of horrendous treatment in a series of nightmarish Japanese prisoner of war camps.Laura Hillenbrand takes an astonishing story and tells it magnificently.  Her book is an effortless read -- pages flip by and one wants them to never end.  And, in addition to all of this, I learned about the Japanese character, as it was displayed during World War II.  I can only hope that this was an anomaly caused by the great conflict, not something deeper ingrained in their national psyche.  Wars are tough and brutal but the portrait of the Japanese prison camps in this book takes brutality to another level.My takeaway here is nothing more than admiration for what Ms. Hillenbrand has accomplished.  She has taken a great story, incredibly never fully told before, and made it into a magnificent piece of art.  Congratulations, Laura.  Louie lives through your beautiful work.
5 From the first pages you will be caught in the life and adventure of Louie, and his family!  As the story unfolds you cheer and even shed tears. It reaches into your heart and  creates anger and eventually healing,  One of the best reads I have ever had, and I am recommending it to all!
5 Incredible story demonstrating the resilience of humans.  Must read. Made me rethink what I qualify as a bad day. I highly recommend this book.
5 This was the kind of book that was hard to put down once I started. It also gave an excellent, balanced account of imprisonment during the war, as well as the PTSD that followed - and the unusual choices that brought him out of his post war trauma.  Thanks to Laura for an honest, well written story.
5 This book was recommended by two WW2 veterans.  Plus I saw the interviews with the author and subject of the story.  The book was not a disappointment at all and well worth the time to read it.
5 An unbelievable story that 98% of  American people have never heard.  Truly a story about an unbelievable man, and how God changed his life and provided him with the he sought.  I am almost 77 years old, and while I remember World War very well, but was completely unacceptable of the atrocities in the prison camps.  A book that every age should read, especially our spoiled youth in America.
5 This is a wonderful story, a uplifting story of the best and the worst in man. It is a must read for everyone so we never forget the men who sacrificed their youth so we can live free. What a great story, I highly recommend it to everyone.
5 Reluctantly purchased, afraid of just another WWII read. Turned out to be so much more. I highly recommend to historians and sports followers.
4 This book was the book of the month for my senior center reading group. while I do not participate in the group, it caught my interest. I found it to be well worth buying and would read others by the author.
5 I will just put in five-star vote, and tell you this is one incredible read.  If you have any difficulties sleeping, I strongly suggest you don't read "Unbroken" before bed.I have read numerous WWII books; 'Band of Brothers' , "Helmet for my Pillow", "Under the Rising Sun" ...  this book outlines the simply unbelievable story of endurance, fortitude and forgiveness.  I have no words to express how reading this book, makes me look at anger, resentment and revenge again.My only small disappointment, as thorough as Hillenbrand is in detailing Zamperini's life, she does follow-thru concerning his marriage in his later years.  It's as if he's been a bachelor his whole life.  Great read all-in-all.
5 This book was recommended by my brother as an extremely good read. Boy was he right! Have me not only a deep appreciation for our WWII servicemen and POWs, but a great appreciation for fine writing. Do yourself a favor and give it a try.
5 I never read "Seabiscuit." I saw the movie, and have the impression that it was enough of the book that I didn't need to read it. I will confess, though, that this latest book has gotten me interested enough I may wind up reading it anyway, if I come across a copy. "Unbroken" is the sort of book that does that to you.A few years ago, there was a book sitting on the shelves around here titled "Devil at my Heels" by a guy named Louis Zamperini. The author is a World War II veteran who participated in the 1936 Olympics and spent half the war in a Japanese prison camp after being captured. That single sentence makes what must have been (by Laura Hillenbrand's account) a very horrific series of events seem rather mild and tame. The experiences of prisoners of the Japanese during World War II were particularly horrific (about 25% of POWs in Japanese custody died, contrasted with Western Allied prisoners in Nazi custody dying at about a 1% rate) and Zamperini appears to have suffered more than many, largely because of his celebrity status as an Olympic athlete. Apparently towards the end of researching her book on Seabiscuit, author Hillenbrand came across Louis Zamperini's story, and decided to write his story for her next book. Yes, Zamperini had already published an autobiography, but you always get a different point of view when someone else writes the book, and that apparently is the case here.Zamperini was and is an interesting character. As a child, he apparently was a tiny typhoon of a child, found running down the street of his native Brooklyn, naked, at age 2. After the family moved to Torrance California while he was still a small child, he spent much of his youth breaking into houses and stealing things. He often spread around what he stole among others, giving things away or discarding them, and he often got caught, but he didn't stop stealing until he learned to run competitively, and decided that could be his thing for the next several years. His speed as a runner improved significantly in a short amount of time, and he competed in the 1936 Olympics. He shook hands (briefly) with Hitler and even had Goebbels (neither Zamperini nor his friends knew who this was) take his picture with a group of friends. He didn't do well enough to earn a medal, but he managed to steal a swastika flag from the front of the Reich Chancellery and talk his way past the guards who caught him, bringing the trophy back to the states. When the war started, he was in training for the 1940 Olympics, and it appeared that he might break the fabled 4-minute mile, which Roger Bannister actually did some time after the war.Zamperini joined the Army Air Corps before the war started, and became a bombardier, eventually serving all of his combat career in a B-24 bomber. In mid-1943 his plane went down in the Pacific while searching for another aircraft that had crashed the previous day. All but 3 of the crew were killed in the crash. Those 3 survivors, Zamperini and 2 others, managed to salvage 2 rafts from the wreckage of the bomber before it sank, and drifted for the next month and a half. One of the other survivors finally died, but Zamperini and the pilot were still alive when the rafts came ashore on the island of Kwajalein. The two men were imprisoned, and eventually transferred to Japan. Over the next 2+ years, Zamperini was moved from camp to camp, abused repeatedly and beaten at times constantly, until finally the end of the war resulted in the prisoners' rescue by American forces.Zamperini came back to the states, married a lady, and took to drinking to deal with the trauma that he'd endured in the war. After the alcoholism almost took over his life, he became a devout Christian, converted by Billy Graham at a tent revival meeting. He served as a youth counsellor and ran a recreation hall at a church for the rest of his working life. He's retired now, and lives in Pasadena California.This is a truly remarkable book, and author Hillenbrand has done a wonderful job of recounting the story and including all of the proper information. Everything from the B-24 pilot's over-large left arms (this from the set-up of the steering gear in the plane, which required a lot of strength) to the reasons for the brutality of Japanese prison camps, she gets pretty much perfectly. Frankly I was extremely happy to see that none of the silly politically correct cultural relativism that often creeps into books on the Pacific war made it into this one: the author unflinchingly describes Japanese brutality, and makes it clear that these things were pretty much accepted in Japanese society at this time, and that even after the war their zeal to punish their own war criminals didn't last long.I completely enjoyed this book, and would recommend it. Excellent reading.
4 My title captures what I thought of this book.  The style is unrelenting with anecdote after anecdote hammering away at the same ideas again and again.  The ending is surprising.
5 Great true-story of a remarkable man who directed his energies to doing his best in all that he attempted.  He endured incredible hardship, brutality and still did not surrender his soul.  This is truly the greatest generation.
5 Ms. Hillenbrand Did an excellent job of researching and documenting Louis Zamporini's life and the challenges that he faced and overcame.  She made Zamporini come so alive for me that I would invite him to share dinner with my family any day of the week.  What a person she has portrayed for us.  She certainly proves that truth can be more stimulating than fiction.  I can't wait to pick up another of her books.
5 Excellent story. Once I started to read it I had a difficult time putting it down.  A book I would read again.
5 great book. very fast shipping
5 This is the most inspiring book I have ever read. What this man survived is incredible! And to see what a person can endure, and not only survive, but then triumph afterward is truly amazing. I recommend this book to everyone !!
5 Amazing story and enlightening information regarding WWII. Its hard to believe anyone could endure what this man endured.The book would make a fantastic epic movie.
4 I realize Hiroshima saved him from Pacific war. He had amazing stories of how many men were lost before they even went to war in training crashes.
5 From the very beginning, I did not want to put this book down. In Hillenbrand's hands, the lives of Louie Zamperini, his family, friends, and even some of his Japanese captors, jumps off the page in vivid, captivating detail. I liked how the thoughts and perspectives covered a wide variety of people while remaining crystal clear in the storytelling. I felt like I was sitting on a tree branch, watching Louie and his brother, Pete, as they got into mischief when they were children. I felt the skimming of the sharks against the worn-out raft that Louie and his fellow servicemen, Phil and Mac, floated on after their plane, the Green Hornet, crashed. I sat in the backseat of Sylvia's (Louie's sister) car as she parked it in a parking lot and cried as she worried over her brother who had been declared missing in action. I watched, sometimes unwillingly, as Louie and other prisoners of war were beaten by their Japanese captors at different camps they were shipped off to. My stomach roared in sympathy as the POWs were starved and I cheered as Louie, other POWs and family and friends found ways to survive and hang onto hope and life.I expected the book to end with the end of the war, but it did not. Life - and the many issues the POWs faced in a life non-serving Americans probably can't well understand - are described in detail. We learn the fates of almost all the stars, good and bad, in the story. I don't face death (or even a beating) every day as Louie did, but his story inspires me to view the challenges in my life differently. When I want to complain, I can't help but think of all that he and other POWs went through, and I know how easy I have it - even when it may not seem like it at the moment. This book would make a great gift; it's an engaging "keeper."
5 One of the best books I've ever read. The story was fascinating in all its detail and beautifully written. I don't believe any other book has ever left me so emotionally agitated.
5 This biography, by Laura Hillenbrand, tells the story of Louie Zamperini.  Someone who at the age of 2 was swiping used cigarettes off the concrete floor and getting drunk off of his parents wine under the dinner table by the age of 3.  This trajectory continued to escalate as his youth progressed, so it's not necessarily the beginning tale of what you think would be a hero.  Growing up in a town of 4000 residents, he was not looked highly upon as the village nuisance.  After swiping funds from the athletic department at school, he was about to be banned from sports all together entering high school, when his brother Pete (who was the upstanding one) stuck his neck out for him in order for sports to be a potential remedy to Louie's rebellious adolescence.  This put him on a new path to the 1936 Olympics in Berlin, Germany, under the rule of Adolf Hitler prior to the Nazi invasion.After his venture in the Olympics, he makes his way to the Army Air Corps to become a pilot, but washes out when he realizes that he hates flying.  But after WWII begins, he is forced back in to become a member of a B-24 crew.  Following a number of missions in the Pacific, his plane (Superman) is eventually shot down, making it home by the skin of it's teeth, never to fly again, while from there Louie's life takes a downward spiral that doesn't seem to ever end.  He eventually "volunteered" (a term all veterans know intimately) to a scouting run to scour the Pacific for downed survivors on a terribly beat up plane, which eventually went down by it's own terrible manufacturing, and this set Louie, his close friend Phil and crewmate Mac on a 47 day cruise on a life raft in the middle of the Pacific, battling sharks and starvation.They are eventually picked up by the Japanese (after a 2000 mile drift), where you think life might get better after being a cast away for so long, but life as a POW in the Japanese prisons were nothing but hell on earth.  Daily beatings, overworked, and starvation were all common factors in the JPOW camps.  Degrading, dehumanizing torture was the norm, and survival did not seem to be a plausible outcome for Louie (let alone any of the Allied forces who were caught during that time).  A main POW guard, nicknamed "the Bird", was to be Louie's personal demon, as he strived daily to destroy Louie's humanity.  To not give away too much (I have barely scratched the surface), he is eventually saved just days before his execution after roughly 2 years as a prisoner.  This does not prove to be a solution to Louie's troubles as PTSD spiral's Louie further into the depths of his own personal hell through drinking and smoking his way to death, while the Bird would still be there beating him over the head with his heavy belt buckle every night in his dreams.  Sin only lead to more sin.I won't spoil the end (for those who don't already know the story), but it is oh so worth it.  I'll hint with Louie having a crazy encounter with Billy Graham.  Though it is a biography, it reads like a Tom Clancy novel at times and even gives you the suspense, as if you were actually there.  Do not be surprised if this book becomes a movie in the near future.  Just hope Hollywood doesn't ruin the story.
5 Posted at another site and reposted here (explaining allusions to Amazon)...This is the story of Louis Zamperini, his childhood as a World-class hooligan, meteoric rise to become an olympic runner suggested to be the first guy who would have broken the four minute mile (try 4:11 mile on friggin' sand), his experiences as a bombadier in WWII, a World record-breaking survival on a raft (47 days) after being downed in the Pacific, three years in a POW camp under the tutelage of the #7th ranked Japanese war criminal, and his life recovering from these ordeals and eventually thriving in post-war America. This is a truly stunning story of perseverance. You will laugh out loud (LOL), tear up, and find yourself convinced the guy is a goner repeatedly when you know he makes it. As usual, I went over to Amazon to check out the opinions of the masses and found hundreds of customer reviews giving the book a 4.99999... star rating. The people have spoken.With that said, two things tugged at me: (1) I happen to find out that Louis had himself written an autobiography and that volumes had been written on the guy, and (2) while listening to the audiobook I was struck by how incessant the beatings were as a POW. I am not referring to just the punishment by the Japanese but also the punishment of the reader. I checked out the very few lower star rankings and, indeed, those who poked at the book did so on these two counts. I could imagine the POW part being tedious for those of us whose lips cramp when we read. It may be an ideal book for audio. As to Hillenbrand, she told a great story but there is reason to believe that her source material was already very well developed.With those caveats, this really was a stunner.I am currently working through Taibbi's "Griftopia", which is one of the last books on the crisis I will read but entertaining nonetheless. Chris Whalen's "Inflated" so far is proving to be a very entertaining history of money and credit in the US, often providing perspectives that seem unfamiliar to me. (Heaven only knows what I've read and forgotten over the years.) I am also inching my way into "The Fourth Turning." On audio, I am about to pop in a Teaching Company course, "Roman Emperors" and will eventually boot up "Into Thin Air". Lastly, I am hoping to pry a draft of Rickards book out of him, which I do not even know the title.
4 This true story is so remarkable that it belies believable.  A former marathon runner is the last survivor, drifting forever in the Pacific under brutal conditions,  He is finally &#34;rescued&#34; by the Japanese and thrown into a prison and brutally beaten with little food.  It is a story of incredible fortitude by an amazing person, a true hero.  Although painful to read it is well written andmemorable.
5 I would recommend this book for everyone to read, it's a great book, the hardships they went through and how they survived, this book is so worth it. In fact, this coming December 2014, this book is coming out as a movie, which I'm going to go see because of this book. Everyone should read this book.
5 This is one of the best books I've read in a long while. Reaches into your soul and makes you think about how hard our war heroes had/have it. You read and wonder if you would have the guts and will to survive as this man did.This author is a fantastic story teller. A true wordsmith!
3 I got through the horror of their time at sea and even read most of the horrors of the prison camps (had to skip a couple places) but when he decided to go after The Bird I knew it was going to be more anguish and I had had enough.  It was well written and flowed nicely but I couldn't get past all the pain and suffering.
5 Although I loved Hillenbrand's previous Seabiscuit, when I heard about the topic of Unbroken, I was wary. A story about a POW in Japan? Sounds boring. Worse, I lived in Japan for years and was afraid this would be a hatchet job, the good and noble American against the evil Japanese.I'm happy to say my fears were unfounded, and this was possibly the best book I've read since, well, Seabiscuit.  Yes, his tormentor was a raging psychopath, and the Japanese weren't big on helping POWS survive, but Hillenbrand shows the good and bad side of Japanese culture in a fair and thoroughly researched account. But this book is really about Louis and the personality that allowed him to survive not only the horrors of the POW camps but a record time adrift a tiny raft in shark infested waters of the South Pacific. She not only made it interesting, she made it exciting.We read this for a history book club.  For the first time, possibly ever, every member not only didn't dislike the book, not only didn't think it was just okay or wished it had been a bit better, but loved the book.  Everybody.  A first.Got a copy now.  Once you pick it up, you won't put it down.
5 This book is hands down just great. The story is awesome.  Literally awesome , huge! Then the pace is great too, keeps you reading.  The book is almost stressful as you keep telling yourself that this is a true story.  I feel that anyone in the 2010's who think that there life sucks, should read this and say it ain't that bad.Louis went through hell and back! Your trouble about which coffee to order pails in comparison! Just enjoy the freedoms you enjoy on the back of the Zamparini's pain and shut up!BUY THIS BOOK!
5 A great read.  The author captured my attention throughout, presenting history through the eyes of someone who lived through what most of us could barely imagine.  A real eye opener.
5 Once again Hillenbrand has taken a topic and turned it into a modern masterpiece. I did not think it possible to exceed what she did in Seabisquit, but I was proved wrong. Unbroken is the best book I have read, and I have read a lot! As the title suggests, it is a book of survival, resilience, and redemption. But unless you read the book, there is no way you can begin to know to what depths these descriptions go. Zamparini is a fascinating figure and Hillenbrand goes to great depths to introduce you to him. From his reckless youth to his world class accomplishments on the track. All are fascinating and draw you in, but cannot prepare you for what lies next. Without going into detail, this is one of the greatest stories of survival and endurance that has been written. With each chapter I found myself asking, "How much more can this guy take?". No tale of fiction could match the drama  this book provides and it is all true! I recommend this book to everyone I know. Do yourself a favor and pick this book up and get ready for a story that you will move you.
5 The book Unbroken arrived in good time and in very good condition.  The book was hard for me to read because of the subject matter.  It's description of how prisoners of the Japanese were treated was almost unbearable for me.  Of course you have to take into consideration that this is a woman's perspective.  It just made me wonder what we as a country had done to them to make them hate us so.  Also most of the Japanese had no compassion whatsoever for fellow human beings.
5 Loved reading  this remarkable story of survival.  Thank you Laura hillenbrand for writing this this amazing story of the human spirit.
5 There is a reason this book has been on the best seller list for such a long time-- and why a movie is being made, based on it. It's heart-breaking, and often hard to listen to. Its been two years since I've read this book, and  I'm just now getting around to writing a review.  The audible version of this book is well done.  The story is about suffering, pain and then... redemption. I'm a Christian, and was not expecting the ending to be what it was.  When I finished the story, I sat immobile... trying to digest this story.  It totally inspired me to understand the power of forgiveness and that healing that it brings.  One of the best books I've ever read.
5 A fantastic story of endurance and forgiveness. A must read for our time in history. What Mr Zamperini endured is beyond my comprehension. The author took me right there with her words.
5 Are you like me? Do you ever read a book that is so amazing that all you want to do is tell people to go read this book?I'm not just talking about telling other big readers like me and you. I'm talking about telling everybody. My brother who loves WWII. My eighty-four year old dad who never reads books. My friend who reads mainly mysteries. My checker at Kroger. Everybody.When I woke up this morning, I felt so happy: I had finished Unbroken by Laura Hillenbrand yesterday and I had loved it. I wanted to write a Sunday Salon post about Unbroken, a post so brilliantly written that everyone who read my post would zip out and buy the book and read it today.I tried writing down my favorite parts of this amazing book and I tried writing lines and lines of enthusiastic prose about this amazing book and I tried writing entreaties to go buy this amazing book because it's, yes, amazing....but nothing seemed right.Finally, I came across a fifty page excerpt of Unbroken and I realized that I could simply post part of the book on my blog ([..]) and let you read the book for yourself and decide for yourself. In fact, I'll go further....I challenge you to simply read the two page preface of the book (pages 18 and 19) and see if this book works for you.
5 What a struggle this man went through and survived!!  Fan of this author.  Would love to read another like this
5 I had been looking forward to reading this book since before it was released, mostly because I had loved reading "Seabiscuit", the author's previous book.  Even though I had recently viewed the HBO mini-series "The Pacific", nothing really prepared me for the horrific experiences of the main character of this book during his duty as a Naval Airman in the Pacific during WWII.  Obviously, his resilience was developed during his childhood and his dedication to running, which led to his participation in the 1936 Olympic Games in Germany.  If not for his determination and physical conditioning, this story might have ended quite differently.Ultimately, though, most of us will find the end of the story the most heart-felt and satisfying part of an often excruciating and gut-wrenching tale.  Without giving away too much of the ending, I can only say that my eyes filled with tears as I read about Louis' post-war struggles and his subsequent redemption. It also chronicles the untold story of the return to "normal" lives that many POW's struggled with.  Even if all of the details are not entirely "fact-based" (although she meticulously documents all of her sources at the end), it is a riveting and remarkable saga of a man whose courage and resilience will never be forgotten.  Highly recommended.
5 Hillenbrand is best known for her vigorous telling of the story of Seabiscuit, the remarkable thoroughbred racehorse who overcame the odds and captured the hearts of millions during the Depression.  To Unbroken, Hillenbrand brings the same spirit of unabashed wonder, willingness to dig deeply, and an almost poetic eye for vivid, and at times scathing detail.This is a story told in distinctive parts of one man's  extraordinary life.  Louis Zamperini earned his place in the history books as a record breaking Olympic runner.  But that is the least exciting part  of his life. As a child, before he discovered the joy and rewards of running, Louis could only described as a terror, a young,  delinquent boy on a fast course to personal disaster. It is hard to know where these behaviors sprang from:  Louis seems to have been raised in a close, loving family and he had as a role model his older brother Pete , loved and admired by all.  Well, perhaps sibling rivalry was part of the problem!Urged on by his brother, young Louie trained with fierce pride and determination to break running records held by older, more experienced, and better trained athletes.  His special hopes were pinned on the 1940 Olympics, but a certain event called World War II put an end to those dreams.Shot down in his fighter plane in May, 1943 Louis and two other airmen endured unbelievable odds, adrift at sea without food or fresh water, tormented by sun and storm, and unnerved  continually by circling sharks, for 47 days .  Yet their eventual capture by the Japanese and the subsequent years of torture, starvation, and humiliation made those days adrift seem more like daydreams than nightmares.Reading this book is often  painful.  It is  deeply disturbing to read of the brutality that man can inflict on his fellow man.  Many Allied prisoners died of starvation, beatings, exposure to bad weather, and disease in the Japanese prison camps.  Countless more died of despair and humiliation, which can break a human being just as completely as lack of food or raging disease.Louis Zamperini miraculously survived, but so many of his friends and comrades did not.  He returned at the end of the war to the U.S.A. to loud acclaim and many honors, yet even his family did not know about the parts of his mind and spirit that were savaged and  broken, perhaps never to heal.For all the horrors described in this book, there is a kernel of hopefulness and of deep respect for what human beings can endure through their strength of spirit and their shared humanity.  Louis Zamperini deserves this astounding retelling of his life; yet so many others lived as honorably and endured as much, perhaps with only an unmarked grave to note their passing.  The great thing about Unbroken is that it never fails to recognize the sacrifices of many lesser or even barely known soldiers who gave everything they had and more than they could have imagined.  Their legacy is truly the unbroken chain that unites us all.
5 Wonderful story.  The "60-Minute" TV interview of Zamperini (available online) is a very good complement to the book.  I didn't know as much about the Pacific theater during WWII as Europe's, aside from superficial accounts about Pearl Harbor, the Death March, and Hiroshima, so this was an excellent way to get a personalized account of another dimension of the war.  (Also recommend Tom Hanks' "Pacific", but that is fictional as opposed to this story.)  Hillenbrand does a masterful job of telling the story of Zamperini's harrowing experiences while weaving in factual background of the Pacific war.  The narrative is told so well that it is a surprising afterthought to realize that there is very little dialogue in the book.  My husband, who for years has read anything and everything he can about WWII, also felt this was a terrific book.  We highly recommend it.
5 Wonderful merge of historical facts and creative delivery.
5 This is not my typical reading choice but was recommended by a friend. It was an incredible story. Sometimes it was hard to read and others it was very uplifting. I'm really glad I read Louis Zamporini's story. What an amazing man!
5 Fascinating story of the physical and emotion brutality suffered by an Olympic runner as a Japanese prisoner of war, how he survived, and his life before and after the war.
5 I felt privallaged to have read this book, based on a true story. The more stories I get to read of our veterans I am amazed at how much courage and 'true grit' they had, and had to turn their lives around. This was  definately a page turner. Some sections were hard to read, mainly because I really felt for their discomfort and the horror that the faced. An excellent read!
5 This book is very well written and what an incredible story! I realized I have not heard a great deal about the harrowing experiences of the POW's in the South Pacific during WWII. I had no idea how very brutal the Japanese were to their prisoners. I loved the history and educational references throughout. A great read!
5 What a story! It is amazing what human beings can survive and inflict.  Louie's redemption through the power of God was the best part.
5 Well written. I keep recommending it to friends.  Even though my dad was statoned in the Pacific at the same time, I knew very little about the war and the people.  This book brought many aspects alive and personal.
5 I have really enjoyed reading this book and getting some idea what the POW's went through in WWII.  I combined reading this book with a trip to D.C. and it made the monuments even more special to me.  I have gotten three people to read this book and they have all loved it.  There is so much detail in the book you really feel like you are there.  When the guys are on the raft and starving, it's painful to read.  It's hard to believe he made it out alive.  Thank God he did.
5 I absolutely couldn't put this book down!  The story of Louie Zamperini from childhood to adulthood is a testimony not only to survival but to the plan and purpose God has for each of us.  It takes the reader step by step through the almost unbelievable story of his life during WW II. the people who shared it with him and has wonderful messages of hope and love.  Laura Hillenbrand is a highly descriptive author who captures the feeling of the people who come to life in her books and leaves you feeling that you knew them personally.  She's an exceptional author and I look forward to more of her books.
5 This book should be required reading for anyone over the age of 25. We listened to the audio version on a 9.5 hour drive home...we arrived with 'book to spare' and sat in the driveway for 15 minutes to finish the chapter. As soon as we finished the chapter, I ran inside, straight for the computer to see if I could find out about Louie (can't tell you what I found out, that would be cheating!). Memorable and humbling book.
5 I'm  not a big biography person. I bought this book because I enjoy stories on outdoor survival, and one of the excerpts from the book was about Louis Zamperini's survival in a life raft on the ocean. That said, from the point I picked up this book I could barely put it down. It was fascinating, from start to finish. Zamperini's story is an absolute triumph, and a true inspiration. My Aunt told me that my late father's favorite saying was, "Two men looked out from behind prison bars. One saw mud, while the other saw stars." Louis Zamperini was the type to see stars. I recommend this book to anyone that likes an inspirational story. From his mis-spent youth to his Olympic accomplishments to being drafted and fighting in WWII to being shot down and surviving a life raft to being held as a POW and the remarkable life he made after he returned state side, Zamperini's story is amazing.
4 Tapping into her own courage and capacity for persevering, Laura Hillenbrand has written a compassionate and thought provoking book about a different kind of war time battle.  The graphic and almost unbearable brutality of nature and the airmen's captors was neither sensationalized nor politicized.  The strengths and failings of people as individuals were acknowledged, allowing the facts to speak for themselves.  This well researched book is very readable and while the plane crash and what followed are obviously the center of the story, it is situated within the context of the individual's larger life experience.  I was disappointed in the lack of detail and depth devoted to the psychological impact of the war on Louis; it is difficult to believe that his PTSD was resolved with quite the speed and relative ease as the narrative would lead one to believe.  That being said, my overall impression of the book was very positive and would definitely recommend it to readers interested in the War in the Pacific.
5 I have fallen in love with Louie! This is absolutely the best book I have ever read.  Louie's story and Laura's telling of his story is so amazing that I sometimes stayed up all night reading....I could not put it down! The in depth retelling of his life in the POW camp can be disturbing at some parts and may cause you some sleepless nights yourself but,  His redemption after his ordeal is one that will certainly have you believing in God and shedding a few tears.I recommend this book for all adults!
4 This book is a must read for anyone interested in the personal life of a World War II veteran who endured not only 47 days in a raft in the Pacific Ocean, but also life in a Japanese POW camp after retrieval from their ocean ordeal.
5 Thank you for giving us this heartrendering account of the courage in the face of the attrocities faced by the POWs at the hands of the Japenese in WWII. This book kept me awake at night. I read it everywhere and laundry was forgotten. The insight into Louie's life is spellbinding,and inspiring. I felt anger one minute and crying empathy the next.This book is my number one reccomended book.
5 Couldn't put this book down. It is a stunning life story of one WWII hero. This book also points out that there were many heroes in that war. However, one reviewer mentioned that there may have been some exaggerations in a few of the details. That thought crossed my mind also. But, it does not take anything away from what those heroes endured and suffered for all of us.
5 To read the life story of Louie Zamperini is to be challenged. His endurance under trial requires me to ask whether my small daily complaints amount to a hill of beans. His sweeping forgiveness causes me to ask if the bitterness I hang on to is worth retaining. And his fearlessness in facing the strange God who preserved and redeemed him forces me to grapple with that same God in my own life. Well written, and well worth reading.
4 I am a huge reader of WW II fiction and nonfiction, primarily the European theater. This biography about Louis Zamperini, a Pacific POW, is the first book pertaining to the Pacific theater I have read, and it is absolutely unforgettable. I knew nothing about Mr. Zamperini prior to reading this biography which worked in my favor as it allowed the story to unfold without my ever being able to guess what would come next. I am filled with admiration for Mr. Zamerpini's inspiring heroics, fortitude and survival.Laura Hillenbrand's telling of 'Louie's' story was perfect. The details and history given by her in the writing of this book were fascinating and complete. I learned SO much...so much that I think I will begin reading other WW II books regarding the Pacific theater. I highly recommend this book.
5 &#8216;Unbroken&#8217; by Laura Hillenbrand brings an amazing story based on real events that describes the fate of a man who was a member of the Olympic team of his country, and a few years later ended up as a prisoner in World War II camp.Louis Zamperini was a soldier who found himself back in 1943 in an Army Air Forces bomber that crashed into the Pacific Ocean. He was the only survivor of this accident, and although what he went through was hard, the hardest thing was there waiting in front of him.His youth was not ideal, it cannot be said that he was an example with his behavior, which often exceeded the boundaries and even came to the edge of the law &#8211; he stole, broke into the houses, brawled and escaped from his hometown in order to ride with train. However, in some ways it helped him to find out that he was extremely talented in sports, especially running which enabled him to quickly progresses and finally comes to what every athlete is considering the highest honor - representing his country in the Olympics, in his case one that took place in Berlin 1936.And when the Second World War started, Louis like many other young men across America and around the world replaced his freedom with the military life in the struggle against the Axis powers. Survival in the ocean today with top-quality equipment would be a challenge, and we can only imagine how Louis felt in the ocean, far away from anyone and anything, hungry and thirsty, exhausted and surrounded by sharks to which he was supposed to become food.Still he managed to survive this incredible test, but the nightmare was still far from being over &#8211; he was captured by the Japanese and sent to the camp for its brutality comparable to the Nazi ones, and in some ways it was even worse. For Louis even that was not strong enough to break his robust spirit that led him to sport success; he did not give up next three years of his life even in the most difficult days and this book is story of his hope and dreams about freedom, about suffering, about all that seen from today's perspective is difficult to conceive.What is particularly interesting is that the story does not end with his release from the camp, but continues by describing the continuation of his life, which could not become perfect like using magic wand after all he went through.Laura Hillenbrand with &#8216;Unbroken&#8217; managed to once again deliver a powerful piece of non-fiction that speaks about incredible journey of a man who refused to give up, who did not want to surrender, who fought against himself, but finally succeeded.Therefore her book is dedication to the human spirit that can be measured by force with anything, which is sometimes almost impossible to break as was the case with Louis Zamperini. For this reason &#8216;Unbroken&#8217; can certainly be recommended to everyone as a lesson and an inspiration for all the battles, large and small, that we fight every day in our lives.
1 I wish I had read some of the negative reviews (and some of the higher ranked reviews). This book is tooooo slooow. I might have finished it if I jumped into the book at the midpoint but I suffered through about 20% before I removed it from my Kindle.
5 Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption is the extraordinary story of Louie Zamperini a Torrance, California native who hones his skills to become an Olympian.  After the 1936 games, he set his sights on competing again in 1940.But World War II intervened, and Louie enlisted in the Army Air Corps.  After flying a few combat missions, Louie and his other B-24 crewmen volunteered for a search mission southwest of Oahu.  While on this mission, the plane suffered an engine malfunction and crashed in the Pacific with Louie and two other survivors.Forty-seven days later, Louie and his close friend were picked up off the Japanese controlled Marshall Islands.  Over the next two years, he suffered the deprivations of four POW camps before being liberated in August 1945.Upon returning home, he suffered from war injuries and alcoholism that nearly destroyed his marriage.  The end of the story is about his amazing battle back from his tortuous past, including redemption for his tormentors.Laura Hillenbrand's incredible research, writing, and selection of photographs from Zamperini's and close friends weave you into the story.  Her seven-year journey through Louie's unlikely life created a book that is hard to put down.
5 This is a fantastic story - hard to beleive its true!  The author combines a generous amount of humor amid some seriously difficult situations which keeps the story from being too overpowering.  Basically it is a story of resurrection and renewal, how one very exceptional person overcomes enormous obstacles to reshape his life.  A good read for anyone from teenagers up, it gives youngeer readers an accurate picture of just how bad WWII was for some of those who fought in it.
5 An incredible story of one mans journey through life, from the tough kid in the streets to the Olympics, to being in WWII where he survived a plane crash at sea then a long and torturous stretch in a POW camp that affected his life in many ways. Then a discovery with Bill Grahams help, set him back on a path that proved to be a long and fruitful life. A story that defines an entire generation, a story of coming to terms with what life has dealt you and accepting it along with learning compassion and forgiveness. A richly rewarding read that is gripping, insightful and thought provoking.
5 I am a man of few words. I will say, however, this one of the finest books I have ever read. If you are a reader of WW2 or appreciate stories of our greatest generation or read how inhumane we humans are capable of being to fellow humans or what some horrible experiences some people overcome.
