3 I thought that I'd love this book. I'm a huge fan of historical fiction, but this book pushed that interest and my attention span. Although Gregory writes fairly well, I found myself slogging through this book and wondering if it would ever end. As the book progresses, so does the detail given toward sexual matters in all aspects. The inclusion of these details didn't seem to further the plot any, but rather appeared as the gratuitous nudity, etc. sometimes thrown into movies just because. I didn't dislike this book, but it wasn't enjoyable either.
4 I finally got round to the book that began a whole sub-genre: and put headless robed women on the covers of a thousand novels.  This is a tale of two sisters, b%#chy Anne and her unfortunate sister who gets to deal with her famous sibling.  Of course we all know the ending, but England comes alive in ways it didn't in 10th grade history.  Also gave a copy as a gift, and my friend enjoyed it as well.
5 A different take on the story of Anne Boleyn, this novel is told by her overlooked sister, Mary, who was Henry VIII's mistress before he became besotted with Anne. Gregory uses modern language and expressions in her writing, so this novel does not drag a modern reader through a field of Thees and Thous, which IS more historically accurate, but frankly I am not interested in reading a novel that I have to translate. Lots of sexy court plotting and intrigue make this a page-turner perfect for beach reading or a rainy weekend, but I'm afraid serious history buffs will not appreciate the modern take on the story.
5 "The Other Boleyn Girl" is one of the best books I've read in a long time. Philippa Gregory retells the story of Anne Boleyn as seen through the eyes of her younger sister, Mary. The Boleyn Girls, along with their brother George, have been attending the king of England's court since they were children. At the age of fourteen, Mary captures the attention of King Henry VIII. Despite the fact that both of them are already married, Mary and Henry become lovers at the insistance of the Boleyn family, which uses Mary as a pawn in its desire for advancement within the royal circle. Mary struggles with her desires for the king, her loyalty to her husband, and her rivalry with her sister, Anne, who eventually surpasses Mary in the king's eyes and sets her sights on becoming the next queen of England.There isn't a dull moment in this book...even though it's almost 700 pages long, I finished it in just a few days because I found it impossible to put down! Anyone who enjoys British history will get a kick out of this wonderful retelling of one of the most scandalous events in England's history. "The Other Boleyn Girl" offers rich characterizations and an exciting plot that will keep readers entertained until the very end, even though anyone who's ever picked up a history book already knows what the outcome of this tragic story will be.I highly recommend this book to everyone...you won't be disappointed!
4 Having been on an 'anything Tudor' kick lately, I decided it was finally time to remove this book from my wish list and give it a go. I'm certainly glad I did...it was very entertaining, yet at the same time, a bit exhausting. The Boleyn family's never-ending pursuit of Henry was riveting and tiresome all at the same time. Even though I of course knew how the story ended, I too was ready to rid myself of Anne, and I could absolutely understand Henry's need to be done with her...for good. I had zero sympathy for her considering all the terrible things she did to others on the road to becoming the Queen.Now, as far as Mary goes, I really liked her. She did everything she was told to do, but managed to keep her heart, soul, and compassion for others...very unlike her sister who would plow over anyone who stood in her way. Mary was a breath of fresh air to Anne's heavy and turbulent personality.Overall, I really enjoyed the book. I do think that it could have been trimmed down about 100-150 pages though. While vivid descriptions of scenery and clothing are a very good thing, some things just went on and on. In the end I would absolutely recommend this book as well as read another Philippa Gregory novel. In fact, I've already added a few of them to my wishlist. She's a very talented author and has managed to put an interesting spin on a story that's been told many, many times before.
4 The story is a fascinating one and Ms Gregory has breathed life into all the characters for me. It's made me hungry for more. I've trawled the web these last couple of days reading everything I can find on the Tudors. My existing knowledge of Henry VIII was limited to schoolgirl history and I only wish I'd had this book, back in the day when History was on my timetable. You know it's a good book when you seek out any little bit of info on the web that relates to the story you've just read.I'm really amazed though, at the negative reviews here, which site 'inaccuracy' as the reason to give 1 or 2 stars. It's a work of fiction. The characters were real people, but Historical Fiction is just that - Fiction in an Historical setting.I can't believe people are saying it's a terrible book because it's not 100% accurate. It's fiction. If anyone is looking for 100% Historical accuracy, perhaps a work of non-fiction would suit better?As a work of fiction, it's a good book.
3 I read some but, mostly listened to this novel on CD.The narrator was excellent. The problem with listening to a CD is that you can't skim and skip parts . The story went on and on. Despite this, the story is interesting  and the characters are well drawn. Th only person I liked was Catherine of Aragon.  Both Boleyn girls  were treated by their family  like whores however; I still didn't like them .Henry the VIIIcame across as a philandererer. I liked the story and learned  a great deal about the Boleyn family .Phippa Gregory reminded me of Jean Plaidy who wrote historical novels thirty years ago.
4 Loved this book! I couldn't wait to read it again each day, I dreamed about it. Started to get a little slow around pg 500, but I stuck it out. Makes me glad I was born in the 20th century.a lot of criticism I've read pertains to historical inaccuracies, but that didn't bother me. It's fiction!
5 In the history of English monarchy, Henry VIII's life will remain one of the most fascinating even if only for the fact that he went through Queens as voraciously as he went through food. And of his many wives, Anne Boleyn has cemented herself as probably the most controversial. Yet before Anne's ascend to the royal throne, her sister was the most favored by the king. In this book, Philippa Gregory charts the rise and fall of the Boleyn family as seen through the eyes of the "other Boleyn girl."It is 1522 and Mary Boleyn is one of Queen Katherine's favorite ladies-in-waiting. Although already married to one of King Henry's courtiers, she catches the king's eye and is soon the recipient of his seductive advances. Meanwhile, hungry for power, Mary's family plots to advance their position in the king's favor and realizes that Mary is the key to achieving their ambitions. Thus, they order her to set aside her marriage and forced her against her moral scruples and religious beliefs to become the king's mistress. Shortly after, she bears the king two children. When the second birth forced Mary to confinement, the family fears that her "unavailability" to the king would lead him to another woman. Therefore, her sister Anne is ordered to take her place to ensure that the king's eye doesn't wander. Thus begins Mary's fall from the king's favor as Anne sets out to seduce, captivate and manipulate him. But while her sister was a reluctant mistress to the king, Anne is a willing participant and takes things one step further by ensuring that Queen Katherine's throne is cleared for her ascent. But as we have learned from history, it all ends when Anne and her brother George become the victims of their family's dangerous game as their lives ended at the scaffold, while Mary, dubbed by everyone in court as "the other Boleyn", escapes when she turns her back on her family's game, remarries and live a quiet life in the country.THE OTHER BOLEYN GIRL is a novel about greed, power and sibling rivalry. From the start we see the magnitude of the novel as we are introduced to Mary and Anne and various other characters that play pivotal roles in the lives of these two Boleyn sisters. It was fascinating reading about the hunger of their family for power, the way they didn't care which sister the king slept with as long as it secures the Boleyns' position in the court. Reading about the family meeting to plot and manipulate was like watching an intense chess game. And seeing it in the eyes of the only Boleyn with scruples is what makes this book so deep and compelling. Mary's portrayal as the meek and kindhearted sister adds to the depth of Anne's ruthlessness and venomous  character.This book is a riveting and compelling read. It is a real page-turner and I guarantee that you won't be able to put it down once you start reading. While many people, especially historians, would dispute the accuracy of some aspects in this novel, you need to keep an open mind and remember that this isn't meant to be a literary accounting of the lives of the Boleyns, but a historical fiction based on their lives.
5 This was a very entertaining read. I love books written in this time period so it would be easy to disappoint. It is a perfect blend of history and fiction.
5 The Other Boleyn Girl gives a fascinating glimpse into the court of King Henry VIII. While I struggled with the author's writing style in the beginning (a bit too heavy, repetative, and slow for me) a 100 pages into the book I was gripped by the story. I can't say that I loved any of the characters, but I think that was the author's purpose, to show us the real people of the court, which I found intriguing and realistic (or at least imagined it as real.) I will definitely read more of this author's books.
5 First I have to say that in school and college, I either skipped or slept through most of my history classes. It was my least favourite subject. That being said...Several people recommended this book, and when I finally picked it up, I was imediately roped in. I read it in two days, and went out to buy the rest of this series!Not only was the book fascinating,and steamy, but it's also real history folks! I learned so much from "The Other Boleyn Girl" and what life was like in that era.Life in the King's court was truly scandelous, and a queen's life was under constant scrutiny. Nothing was kept private for these women, and their sole purpose in life was to get pregnant and bear sons. When Anne finds herself unable to become pregnant again by Henry (the ol' guy seemed to have an issue with impotence), she becomes desperate and resorts to incest, trying to save her neck and give him a son.The Tudor family lived to make the King and Queen happy, despite their own feelings. But their sole purpose in the royal court was to climb their way to the top, and win the King's favour. They used any means necessary, including sacrificing their young daughters. Catherine, the young innocent, was merely a pawn, catching the eye of the king and tearing him away from his queen and holding his lust at bay, while Anne waits cunningly in the wings for her moment strike.Read this book, it has everything: sex, scandal, execution, treason and lots of scheming.
5 Without a doubt, Philippa Gregory's "The Other Boleyn Girl" is entertaining.  Gregory chose as her narrator Mary Boleyn--the "other" Boleyn woman that was part of the Henry VIII harem. Gregory focuses on the rivalry between sisters Mary and her more infamous (and unlucky) sister Anne, playing on traditional archetypes in fairly obvious ways:  while Mary is presented as fair, conventionally pretty, not especially bright, and all English, Anne is dark, intelligent, ambitious, "French" (with all the negative associations that are attached), and self-centered.  Yet it is these flaws that make both characters compelling, and readers have to pity the lack of freedom and individual agency the women have as pawns of the powerful men in their lives.  While the book is not historically accurate, the miscues and factual errors aren't glaring enough to disturb the flow of the novel, and Gregory should be commended for nailing the sycophantic and cutthroat atmosphere that prevailed in the Tudor court.  This is a quick, fun read--one I would recommend to those who like historical fiction and who want to curl up with a good book on a cold, rainy afternoon.
5 I saw the movie and enjoyed reading the book. This book helped fill in many of the holes that the movie had.
5 This was an excellent book. The characters were believable and I almost forget that it was a work of fiction. It brought out so many emotions in me. I laughed, cried and even hurled the book at some points. I highly recommend this book as a must read.
5 This is my absolute favorite novel/book EVER!!!! I cannot even put together a sentence to adequatelydescribe this book. There is so many things that makes you love thjis book. I have read/own every single tudor/cousins war novel Gregory puts out she is phenomenal.
5 This book single handedly launched me into an investigative research on Tudor history and specifically Anne Boleyn and her sister Mary. I had picked up the book based on the knowledge that Philippa Gregory wrote fairly historicaly accurate books. After the first chapter or two, I was absolutely hooked.The story is told through Mary's, Anne's sister's, perspective. If you are at all aware of the history of Anne Boleyn, then you already know the gist of what happens, however, that doesn't spoil the book by any means. The beauty of the book relies on Mary's observations into the social atmosphere of the court under King Henry the VIII. Perhaps the most intriguing part was the relationship and interplay between the three Boleyn siblings. There's plenty of scandal to keep the plot barreling along and the end leaves you wanting to know more. In my case, the moment I ended the book was the moment I began looking up Mary's life.
2 I avoided this book for a long time. After reading dozens of books on Tudor history over the years I didn't see the need to read a fictional telling of the tale of Anne Boleyn. But several friends whose taste I respect praised this book to the heavens and finally I succumbed. Unfortunately, I didn't like it.I don't fault this book for changing the facts of Anne and Mary Boleyn's lives or for imposing motivations that don't jibe with the current academic opinion or for putting distinctly 20th century dialogue in the mouths of 16th century characters. This is fiction and Philippa Gregory is entitled to use history to suit her story.I've enjoyed fictionalizations of true stories before and I knew going in that Gregory makes controversial dramatic choices. The problem wasn't the fiction, it was that the fiction wasn't compelling enough to make me forget what I knew and just be carried along by the story. No matter how I tried I'd find myself thinking, that's not what happened, or, wait a minute, that's not why Anne went to France, etc. Gregory's 20th century phrasing and 20th century motivations kept creeping in, too, jolting me out of the story. Then I'd start noticing things that didn't jibe with the facts and the way people thought in the 16th century. It didn't help that so few of the characters in the book are truly likable either.I've come to the conclusion that if you're a Tudor-phile, if the names Chapuys, Campeggio, Eric Ives and Retha Warnicke ring any bells, then you'll likely have a hard time suspending disbelief enough to enjoy this book. It's a weird thing but the more likely you are to be interested in the subject matter, the less entertainig this book is. If you know only the bare outlines of Anne Boleyn's story, or less, then you might enjoy this book as much as my friends have.
5 Reading about court life from Anne Boleyn's sister, Mary's point of view was great fun!  This was the first historical novel I read, and since then I have read 20 more, yet I am still yearning to find something as spellbinding as this one.
5 This was the book that turned me on to Philippa Gregory, and I have since followed all of the books in this series.  I immediatly made all of my friends read it, all of whom also became hooked.  This book painted a picture of the Royal Court that I had never imagined in my wildest dreams.  At the time, the birth of a girl was a dissapointment.  Ironically for these families however, its the girls who are used as pawns in the royal game to advance their families and make them rich.  This book brings all of this to life as well as tells the story of the little-known Mary Boleyn, sister to the infamous Anne. Mary accepted her role as a pawn reluctantly, and only to obey her father and uncle.  Anne embraced this role with open arms and exceeded her families expectations, as she tirelessly schemed for her place on the throne and in history.  This is a wonderful twist on what you thought you knew about the tudor court and will undoubtedly make you want more.  This book will be fascinating to anyone with an interest in Women's studies, The Tudors, and british history.  Although some liberties are taken, just roll with them and take this as a peice of entertainment -- you will not be dissapointed.
5 ANYONE WHO IS FAMILIAR WITH THIS AUTHORESS WILL WANT TO HAVE THIS BOOK IN THEIR LIBRARY. IT IS ENTERTEINING AS USUAL.
5 The Boleyn family, being a favorite of King Henry VIII, puts ambition before all else in their quest for more power and prestige.  When 14 yr old Mary, already in an arranged marriage, attracts the King's eye and becomes his paramour, her controlling Boleyn family demand her siblings, George and Anne, to do everything to keep her in the King's good graces whereby the family enjoys gifts of lands and titles.  While Mary recovers from childbirth, Anne is pushed forward to catch and hold the King's attention and keep fortune funneling into the family coffers.  This is a tale of sisterly devotion and rivalry told from Mary's point of view.  One sweet sister, and one calculating and cruel, wrestles with the greedy demands of their family and each other in their continual quest for more.  Eventually, they answer the question: Is happiness attained with a crown on your head or rather with your head on your shoulders?The allure of pomp and pageantry of life at the court of King Henry VIII is irresistible until it begins to wear thin and the ruthless ambition of the players shows through.  A highly addictive book!  What I like about this book is it didn't get bogged down in political details where other books seem to just confuse their audience.  Phillipa Gregory drew from actual events and filled in the spaces so beautifully, that although this is fiction, she could have nailed it.  After finishing the last page, I was immediately inspired to learn more about the people and events of England in the 1500s.  Fantastic!*The movie with Natalie Portman and Eric Bana, was, I thought, based on this book. But after watching it recently, I found it only shares the title. Stripped down, everything sucked out of it, and the story line turned completely inside out.  There is no resemblance. Even the true historic details Gregory was so careful to include were omitted! For shame.
5 This is one of the most wonderful books I've read in ages.  I finished it in 2 days which is a record for me since I have so much going on at home on weekends.  I just plopped myself on the couch and grabbed a blanket and didn't stop till I was done.  I highly recommend for all who love the Tudors...this is one from a different perspective which puts a fresh spin on old information.
4 Philippa Gregory's &quot;The Other Boleyn Girl&quot; is an utterly fascinating and masterfully written story. While there are a few places where Gregory has taken more artistic liberty with history than I would have liked, the overall effect of the book as a story in itself is terrific. Most people will have heard of Anne Boleyn, the ill-fated second wife of England's King Henry VIII and mother of Queen Elizabeth I. Little attention, however, is paid to Mary Boleyn, Anne's sister. Mary was one of Henry's many mistresses and had two children by him, but few texts say much else about her. She is, in every sense, the &quot;other Boleyn girl&quot; of the title. Therefore, Gregory's choice of Mary as the narrator for this story lends it a fresh and intriguing perspective on life in the Tudor court and her sister's well-known rise and fall.The book opens in 1521, with a young and naive 13-year-old Mary watching the execution of her uncle, the Duke of Buckinghamshire. It then skips ahead to the following year, when Anne returns from France and enters service alongside her sister as a lady-in-waiting to Queen Katherine of Aragon. Though historians are not entirely certain which Boleyn girl was the eldest, the author has chosen, for this story, to place Anne's birth one year ahead of Mary's. As it becomes apparent that the Queen is unlikely to provide the King with a male heir, and also that Henry has taken a fancy to the nubile Mary, the Boleyn family is quick to push this youngest Boleyn girl into the King's bed. Their hope is that she will bear him a son and that Henry might eventually marry her. They would then be blood relations to the future King of England, making them the most powerful family in the country.Mary quickly provides Henry with two children - first a daughter and then a son. After the second child is born, however, the King's attraction to Mary begins to wane. It is then that Anne decides to play for the King's favor herself. The two sisters find themselves to be both fierce rivals and each other's only allies at the same time. Eventually Mary steps aside as Anne aspires to the greatest prize of all, the Queenship of England. From here on we see the Boleyn girls take very different courses in life. Anne must do everything she can to hold Henry's attention and maintain her position. Mary, meanwhile, wants nothing more than to leave the duplicitious world of the court behind and settle into a peaceful life in the country. But she cannot be free while Anne needs her help. We watch Mary struggle with her opposing duties and desires right up until the end of the story in 1536.While the story is excellent, I do have a few quibbles with Gregory's twists on history. The real Anne Boleyn was not so cold and heartless as she is portrayed to be in this novel. She was simply highly ambitious and lacking in propriety and discretion. Likewise, Mary was not as overwhelmingly innocent and virtuous as Gregory would have us believe. She, too, was ambitious, and schemed along with her family. I must admit, however, that for the sake of the story these adjustments by the author are beneficial. What disturbs me more is Gregory's implication that Anne had an affair with her brother, George Rochford. This was, of course, one of the accusations that led to her execution, but most modern historians agree that it is highly unlikely that it actually happened. An excellent book for more information on Anne Boleyn is Alison Weir's &quot;The Six Wives of Henry VIII&quot; - I highly recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about any of Henry's wives.Despite the fact that Gregory made some alterations to Mary's and Anne's dispositions, she nevertheless did a spot-on job with most of the other key players in the book. Her portrayal of King Henry VIII in particular was excellent. Based on all I have read about him (and I've read quite a bit), she has captured his personality perfectly. We see his transformation over time from the robust, fit, flirtatious youth to the obese and moody tyrant of his elder days. In fact, Gregory seems to have a gift for showing changes in a character's personality over time. She has done the same thing with Mary. At the beginning of the book she is young and almost irritatingly naive, but by the end she has grown into a strong, intelligent, and well-rounded woman. It is fascinating to watch these changes unfold.This is the first of Philippa Gregory's novels that I have read, but I'll definitely be reading more in the future. She is a gifted writer and I like her style. There is enough of a factual basis to keep the story plausible, but she adds her own interpretations that lend much intrique and excitement. Though the book takes place in the 16th century, Gregory has modernized the dialogue to a point where it still sounds authentic but is much easier to read. This is definitely a worthwhile book for any historical fiction buff, and while it's not a completely accurate history of the time, it is nevertheless a colorful look at the Tudor court and a fascinating story. Don't take it as a history lesson, but definitely do read this book.
4 I guess I should first put out a disclaimer that I know barely anything about English history.  Therefore I don't look at this book from a historical perspective, but rather just read it as I would any fiction book.  Out of all the ones I've read from Gregory, I do have to say that this is probably my favorite.Mary Boleyn is the younger daughter of a great house.  Already married, that doesn't stop her when her family decides to use her to seduce King Henry VIII as he has shown interest in her.  She bears him two children and while she is doing so, her older sister Anne then catches his attention.  Anne has bigger plans though, plans that include the crown if she can manage to convince Henry to quietly remove the current Queen who has produced no heir for him.  Mary has to help her sister despite being heartbroken herself, and the game becomes dangerous with intrigue as each step must be played right or they will face the hangman.I liked Mary as a character.  She may have been too sweet and good at times, but as the narrator there is a certain charm about her.  She just seems down to earth when compared with the rest of the characters and she wants the same things I do from my life.  Anne was a snippy thing and I think Gregory made it hard for any reader to like her as she was full of ambition without a care for hurting anyone.  King Henry was as selfish a King as he was in Gregory's other book, The Constant Princess.  He is also another hard to like figure in history.  Mary and Anne's brother George was an interesting character.  He had a bright personality despite all his troubles in the court.Since this is based on history I thought that it flowed pretty well.  There was enough of a draw that I had to keep reading and didn't want to put it down.  It did move slowly in some parts but luckily that never lasted to long.  I would have much preferred to hear more about Mary's life but she is slowly taken over by Anne in the book, even though she is the narrator.  For those faint of heart there are some somewhat graphic scenes about childbirth, miscarriages, and sex in this book.  They aren't horrendous descriptions but still enough that if you picture it in your head you might be queasy.An interesting tale.  I found it engaging and will definitely read more by Gregory.The Other Boleyn GirlCopyright 2001661 pagesReview by M. Reynard 2011
4 This is an amazing historical fiction about Mary, the sister of Anne Boleyn. The historical details make you feel as if you are really there. It seems to be very historically accurate as well. I mostly enjoyed reading it... except that after a while the politically charged, cruel, and sometimes evil feel of the life at Henry the VIII's court can be smothering. Towards the end I just wanted to be done with it.
5 This book was wonderful from start to finish. The characters came alive and seemed very real. A difficult book to put down as the story was always in my mind when I was not reading. During this very difficult time of war and uncertainty it was a welcome escape from the real world. The only disappointment for me was that the book ended. I would have loved to follow Mary's life after she left the court, as well as her children's lives. I'm hoping this is the first in another trilogoy!
5 What can I write about this novel that hasn't been written before? I loved this novel, it was fascinating to read about the sister of such an infamous historical character, who so often gets passed over in the history books because of her famous sister. And the cover, the cover art is absolutely gorgeous.
3 I will preface this by saying that I love anything to do with Anne Boleyn, but I have a very low tolerance for books that disregard historical facts. That said, I'll start my review. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found it to be very entertaining. However, I did not like the author's portrayal of Anne. Mary seems to be the perfect character with no flaws while Anne is made out to be a terrible sister. It shouldn't have been that black and white, since life has no black and white. I also didn't like the fact that the author used the idea that Anne resorted to incest in order to get a child. This fact made Anne actually guilty of the crimes she was accused of. The author did not need to do that. The fact that Anne had a fake trial is so much more fascinating and mouth dropping, it really doesn't need any more drama. The Tudor period is so full of it, I found this just to be put in for shock value. From all of the books I've read by Gregory, I think that Gregory has a low opinion of both Anne and her daughter Elizabeth, so I'm not surprised she made Anne out to be such a vicious woman. However, she has no compassion for Anne at all and I found I was frustrated towards the end that she tried to put as much drama and shock value as she could into the novel. That said, if you're interested in an entertaining read, I would recommend this novel. Despite the fact that I disagreed with her view of Anne did not keep me from enjoying the book. Although Gregory may not be the most historically accurate author around, she does know how to tell a story that will keep you hooked until the very end. Just a warning to look things up before you take them as truth.
4 This isn't the deepest book I've read, but it certainly filled the hours while I was lying in bed sick for days. The story line might be compared to that of a soap opera in parts, but it actually got me thinking quite deeply about the plight of women, even those who were considered upper class, in earlier times. The book offers a fascinating perspective on the difficult choices - some horrifying by today's standards - women may have been forced to make in order to retain a place in their family and society.
5 This book kept me riveted!  Amazing how women were treated in the days of Henry VIII.  Be glad you live now &amp; not then.It was wonderful to learn of Anne Boleyn &amp; how Queen Katherine was ousted from the throne. Ms. Gregory does a good job of staying true to historical facts while weaving lots of love triangles in the story to keep you turning the page.
3 Interesting piece of historical fiction set in the court of King Henry. I enjoy how the story was told by the point of view of Anne's sister. However, for the first 2/3rd's of the book, the cycle is repetitive- the sisters resume their activities at court, they argue with each other, feelings get hurt, one of the sisters gets sent away, she comes back, repeat. Of course there are little side diversions which vary, but I felt the first portion of the book to be redundant. On the flip side, the ending came too quick. I am sure Anne Boleyn felt the same way.A little trashy, but oh how I did look forward to reading it every night!
5 This book was full of drama and plenty of backstabbing. I found Anne and Mary's relationship to be the most interesting. These two sisters both hated and loved each other. I though George, the Boleyn brother, was another very interesting character. I found this book hard to put down and it kept me up late at night reading. I enjoyed every minute of this one and highly recommend it. But before reading this one, I do suggest reading Philippa Gregory's The Constant Princess which is about the Princess of Spain who later becomes Henry's wife. It's not necessary to read that one first, but I think it's nice to get the storyline behind Henry and Queen Katherine's marriage.The writing in The Other Boleyn Girl was great, the plot fantastic and the characters are well written. The story is narrated by Mary and you can't help but feel bad for her, she is thrown into a life of lies and deceit at an early age. You also wonder how she continues to put up with Anne and be loyal to her. I liked the dialouge between the three Boleyns; Anne, Mary and George. Just when you think the plot can't thicken, it does.
4 Years go I was addicted to historical novels but haven't read many in the last couple of years and really looked forward to reading The Other Boleyn Girl by Philippa Gregory when it was selected for a book club read.The other Boleyn girl of the title is Mary Boleyn, whom little if anything has been recorded about in history books.  But  Philippa Gregory has taken thsi young woman and drawn a vivid picture of her, first as a young woman and then a maore matrue woman who not only suffers at the hands of Henry but then at the hands of her sister, Anne, in her quest for power.Married at 12, Mary is a lady in waiting for Katherine of Aragon, wife of Henry VIII, when Henry expresses a lively interest in Mary.  Despite that Mary, now 14, already has a husband her parents, uncle and brother George are pleased at the idea that in time and if she plays her cards right she will become Henry's mistress.  And what if she gives him a son?  They can only imagine all of the good things which will come to their family if this happens, never considering what Mary's opinions or feelings are about all of this. Then Mary's sister Anne arrives from the court of France and she becomes Mary's chief advisor and confidante in the pursuit of the King's affection and love for Mary.  But outward appearances may be one thing and despite how kind Anne seems towards helping Mary, she really has her own agenda in mind concerning Henry.  Even the birth of Henry's two illegitimate children -- a daughter and son, makes no difference to Henry and in time he does spurn her for Anne.  Mary is once again relegated to being a lady in waiting when Henry divorces Katherine and Anne becomes his mistress and Queen of a very different England.I often say as a reader that its not the destination that matters but the journey. In the case of The Other Boleyn Girl, I'm sure that most readers know the fate of the famous Anne Boleyn to say nothing of what becomes of her daughter Elizabeth I.  But before I read this book I knew very little about Mary Boleyn or her family in general.  Therefore I looked forward to reading this book from both a historical viewpoint as well as the fictional characterizations the author penned. Unfortunately I was somewhat disappointed in this title considering the raves I heard about from other readers.  At over 650 pages, I found this book quite repetitive and at times downright boring.  I thought early on it could have used a better editor and some pages might have been eliminated as well.  While many of the passages describing court life, the entourage of Henry's court traveling from one place to another set the stage for the book, it was the scenes between Anne, her sister Mary and their brother George which at times became most irritating.  As I read on, Anne became more and more of a shrew, being abrasive and abusive towards her silently suffering sister and at one point I wondered if I wanted to continue the book to the end. I did persevere but did think that the book could have been shorter and none of the tale would have been compromised.  In addition, despite the amount of research, there were some pretty obvious inaccuracies which took away from my reading pleasure.Ultimately I did give this book a B rating based on the authors efforts in writing a book about this woman and her family and there were some parts which I really did enjoy.  Finally in closing, recently a sequel of sorts to The Other Boleyn Girl was recently published called The Queen's Fool.  As I am scheduled to read this with a book club shortly, I do hope I enjoy this title more than The Other Boleyn Girl.
4 A friend recommended this book a year ago.  I wasn't interested in this era before and thought it might be a romance novel.  I was wrong.  Excellent book.  I couldn't put it down.  I read it in record time and then moved onto Boleyn Inheritance, Queen's Fool and Constant Princess.  I would also like to thank the publisher for the excellent Kindle price ($7.99).  The White Queen is waiting in the wings.  Keep up the good work, Philippa!
5 "The Other Boleyn Girl" is without a doubt the most intresting, vivid, colorful and entertaining piece of historical fiction about the Tudor court that I have ever read. Philippa Gregory is my new favorite fiction author and this book is most definetly my favorite("The Constant Princess" is a close second).The novel is narrarated by Mary Boleyn, the younger sister of Anne and often thought of as the forgotten mistress of Henry the Eighth. Throughout the novel we see Mary grow from a love struck girl in love with the attention of the King,a slave to the wishes of her family- to a strong woman who has learned that life at court will never offer her what she wants(a home, to raise her own children, a loving husband) and defies her family by choosing her own husband and in the act of throwing away fame and power she manages to save herself and her children the fate that was to befall her sister Anne(and several others but I dont want to give the story away). If you enjoy historical fiction, pick up this book and then go out and buy "The Constant Princess", "The Virgin's Lover" and "The Queen's Fool"(in that order). Im counting down the days till Gregory's next book about the Tudor court 'The Boleyn Inheritence".
5 The Other Boleyn Girl is a very enjoyable read, and perhaps even more engaging because it's based in history.  This book was a fun way to lean about Tudor dynasty drama.  There's sex, scandal, betrayal, politics... everything.  Pages and pages of fascinating plot.Also, the character Cersei from Game of Thrones is basically Ann Boleyn.  If you wish George R. R. Martin would write a Cersei spin-off, well, I guess history is way ahead of ya.All in all, Philippa Gregory did excellent work in writing this book.  You can tell she has done tons of research, and her writing style is just very easy to read.  I highly recommend this book if you're looking for something to keep at your bedside end-table.
5 ...and enjoy this engaging historical soap opera!  A novel approach to the Henry VIII/Anne Boleyn love affair, told from the point of view of Anne's sister, Mary...largely ignored and unknown by history.  The author paints a deliciously shrewish Anne...it's a medieval Melrose Place, rich with vivid detail!
5 If you like Tudor history, you are in for a treat with The Other Boleyn Girl.It is obvious that Philippa Gregory did her homework, as with all of her novels.As a British history buff, it was a delight to see a story about a woman who is rarely mentioned in popular history, but who had a major impact on the court of Henry the VIII.As Mary, sister to Anne tells her story, The Other Boylen Girl gives us a taste of the extreme difficulties, pressures and hardships even the most privileged encounterd in the Tudorian age.The story is enchanting, haunting and addictive. This is a very memorable read.  Enjoy!
5 My star rating for a book usually comes from a combination of whether the book met my expectations and whether it conveyed what the author intended. For these reasons, I think "The Other Boleyn Girl" deserves at least five stars.Serious readers of history, especially those who like to stick to the facts, probably should avoid this novel. But it was perfect for me, an avid reader of fiction, who had forgotten most of the history surrounding Henry VIII. For all reviewers who said this book seemed similar to a romance novel, I wholeheartedly and unabashedly agree. Like the heroines of most romance novels, Phillippa Gregory's heroine was not extremely complex. But she was admirable, which made the book extremely easy and enjoyable to read. No, the characters in this novel aren't very mutli-faceted, but they do seem very realistic and they are all very compelling.I don't think Phillippa Gregory meant for the book to be a strictly detailed rendering of Henry's court. She even says in an interview in the back of the novel that the first thing she wants readers to take away from the book is a "terrifc reading experience." I read the book at every chance I could get for a week straight, talked about it when I wasn't reading it, and even dreamed about it one night. I don't think my "reading experience" could have been any more vivid or enjoyable. I highly recommend this book to people who enjoy history and fiction and are looking for an easy--and fascinating--story.
5 Narrated by Mary Boleyn, the lesser known of the Boleyn sisters, this book touches on every aspect of a good fiction novel.  Love, trust, deceit, passion and romance.  The author is extremely vibrant in her writing, you find yourself glued to the book and without realizing it, you have finished another 100 pages. Awesome book! I'm so glad it was picked as a book group choice.
3 I think I would have liked this book better if I hadn't heard the story so many times before.Henry just isn't really that great a guy and there is barely a person who knows anything about history that doesn't know that.Meh.
4 Going against Tudor historians, Gregory developed her own Da Vinci Code by writing a story that embraces the charges levelled at Queen Anne Boleyn.  What if the charges were true?  Anything is plausible.  Gregory scores major points in just being able to write such a tomb of a novel, however, there are some choices made that are hard to swallow.  Mary being the youngest of the Boleyn sisters is one, their ages for another.  What happened to the part of the story where Mary was KICKED OUT of French Court for her promiscuity with King Francis I?  She was closer to 18 than 12 at the time this story began.  A small thing, but it's Anne Boleyn behavior in this book that was very hard for this reader to believe.  Screaming at the King in front of his court.  Are you kidding me?  The last act is also a hard one to swallow.  All historian agree that once Mary was banished from court, she never returned (and she went on to have a total of 14 children).  Which is more feasible than Gregory's suggestion that the whole court would forget about Mary and not involve her in the intense interrogation scenes. At bare minium George's wife would have brought up her name.  Still, this is an engaging read and do offer some ligit possibilities and this novel is definitely worth your time and money, but do not learn your history through fiction novels.
5 I love the history behind her books, very informative and entertaining! Have read all her books! Would love to read more of these type of books that make reading history FUN!
5 I can't describe how much I loved this book.  Even knowing from history how it would end, I could hardly put it down.  It was a great love story but even more fascinating to read about life in the 1500's and the games played by the top political families vying for the throne.
5 This is probably one of the best if not the best historical book I have ever read. I study Art, and have been through many history books and novels, but never have I read one that was so captivating. It takes you right to the Tudor era, where you see everything vivdly in your head, the places, the castles, the people, even the outskirts of London City.The story revolves around Mary and Anne Boleyn (Daughters of Elizabeth Howard). Mary beacme King Henry's mistress under the influence of her family, and was in the courts favor for some time, while Anne , her sister, overshadowed Mary by marrying King Henry and becoming Queen.The book is a mixture of a lot of things, drama, romance, politics, history, that when you've finished reading it, you'll know a lot more about the Tudor age, courts in the 16th century, the King and some of his wives...The close connection and rivarly between Anne and Mary, is astonishing, you'll cry with them, laugh with them, feel happy for them, and sometimes sorry. The story is narrated by Mary Boleyn, which gives a nice change, since most books on this particualr period are from Anne's point of view. Gregory goes into so much depth and detail that the books you read after this one will seem to lack them. It's one of those books, that you can't stop thinking about it till you've finished it, and will probably think about it after it too. I also recommend reading The Queen's Fool, and the Virgin's Lover, after this one, as they are basically sequential.A great read, a great subject, and only a great author could have wrote it. This book is a winner.
3 This provided some nice historical information about the times; but was a little slow.  The way sex was presented was somewhat reflective of bodice ripper novels.  The character development was a bit weak.  Although I'm an avid reader, I only finished it because it was selected by my book club.  It never 'grabbed' me to where I wanted to pick it up and see what would happen next.
5 This is the one Philippa Gregory book to begin a rewarding journey of becoming a fan.  She writes about this time period as an expert.  She knows it so well you become engrossed in the story.  Mary Boleyn's story comes to life in these pages.  This is historical fiction at its finest.  And the best part is that there are more books to enjoy after this one!
5 As I said in my review of &#34;The Boleyn Inheritance,&#34; this series is quite addictive, meaning it is quite hard to put down--literally.  Whenever I think I will go to bed at the end of the chapter, I find myself sneaking a peek at the first few paragraphs of the next one, then suddenly it's 2:00 a.m., and I am still reading.  The characters here display all their ambition, love, confusion, terror, disgust, and machinations that will stun you.  Gregory has quite a talent for making history exciting by conveying it in novel form.  You must read this series!
5 A very enjoyable book. It spans the years 1521-1536 and brings to light the high handedness of King Henry VIII as well as the plight of women. The sisters Mary and Anne Boleyn and their brother George are front and centre in this story serving up a brew of corruption, rivalry, greed and incest.Servants were used to accentuate the feelings of importance in the upper classes, where everyone aspired to be. Cruelty to animals was common - bear baiting was among the king's favorite past times.The plague was rampant at that period and to escape it King Henry would take off to the countryside away from the crowds of beggars and supplicants.Interesting to note that at age 45, he was fat and aging with a stinking wound on his leg, thwarted by what he most desired - a male heir to succeed him.Has society improved much since that period? I sure hope so.
5 I was very surprised at how much I enjoyed reading this book.  I couldn't put it down and thought it was great.  I would highly recommend this book.
4 I typically don't read these kinds of novels, but this one kept my attention.  Gregory's writing style is excellent.  She gives what is an ordinary history lesson a fascinating look into a world of intrigue and deception.  I'm now hooked on her style of story telling and have started reading the first book of her trilogy, "Wideacre", and again, I'm not dissappointed.  BTW - I saw the movie (the Other Bolyen Girl).... read the book, it's better.
5 A wonderful explorative look at the position of women's place in the family unit of society. Philippa did a wonderful job bringing these women to life. So masterfully written to make you feel as you know them.
5 This book was on the lists for must read for summer, I was not sure about it and I am not into historical fiction until I read this book. I picked that for my book club and I read it in a week, my copy is 820 pages. I loved it, so did my partner at my book club. I learned about Tudors era and enjoyed the Mary and Anne's story.Excellent book, looking forward to read another book of the writer.
4 This was the first novel by Ms Gregory that I've read and I did enjoy it.There were some flaws. First, I question some historical accuracy....that brother George was [...] for example. In truth many historians portray him as quite a womanizer. Secondly, how could Mary, sister to Anne Boleyn and Henry's first mistress, be so utterly unaware of what life at court was all about? Her sister was so astute...as was her brother, father and mother.  Mary is portrayed as almost witless at times and she could not possibly have been such a dimwit and survived a week in that hot-bed of intrigue and deceit that was Henry's court. At this time, woman were merely chattel so the high ideals of woman's rights espoused by many characters didn't quite work.  On the other hand,  I do think Ms. Gregory's prose moves right along, and she  was accurate on major political details. In addition, she captured wonderfully the ambiance of court life, the beauty of the gowns, the lavish feasts and celebrations, and the totally decadent lifestyle.  She also  captured the character of Henry the VIII, a man so deluded by his own place in life he thought he could usurp God. How could he not see himself as an abolute ruler with all the fawning and false admiration from his courtiers? I saw him as a sad man, facing old age and diminished physical strength without an honest and loving companion, without a single person he could truly trust. He had everything and nothing.This book held my interest throughout which is saying something for a book of what, 700 pages? and made we want to read non-fiction books about this time.
3 I like historical novels.  In particular I love reading Bernard Cornwell or Wilbur Smith.  This is because of their gifts for meticulous attention to historical detail and their richness of character development.  You're there, feeling their lust, their fears, their hatreds, and their triumphs or defeats.  So I read "The Other Boleyn Girl" with anticipation, hoping for the same.  In a way, it wasn't fair: we already know Ann Boleyn was beheaded.  It was sort of like the first screening of the movie, "Fatal Attraction:" you knew someone was going to die!Also, the principle protagonist in this book was more the shadow of a character -  sort of like Diego Velazquez de Silva's famous painting, "Las Meninas (The Maids of Honor)" where the actual subject of the painting (King Philip IV) is not in the painting, though everyone else is clearly depicted. Here, Mary Boleyn is a weak character in the center of a malestrom of selfish vanity, pure naked power, and fawning syncophants who in fact are clearly portrayed and ruthless in their grasping for power.  Vivid is Henry VIII, a randy, narcissistic, spoiled brat, proving that absolute power corrupts absolutely.  The real villains are the Howards and the Boleyn's.  These parents of the daughters ruthlessly risk all for wealth, and callously sacrifice their own daughter's lives in the process. You could say that they all got what they deserved.  I'd like to see more from Philippa Gregory.  I'd like to see better character development, too.
4 This was an interesting novel about a time period that I enjoy to read about.  It is fluffier than some other great authors who have touched on the period.  The story was nicely woven with artistic license and entertaining.There were parts that droned on... and parts that surprisingly wrapped up quickly.  It was a good read, but your expectations of the author and historical time period may sway you to LOVE the novel or ABHOR the style.Keep in mind that it is historical fiction and it is a good read. And if this is the first you've read of the era... keep reading.I really enjoyed Eleanor of Aquitaine by Weir- a more serious style.
5 I found this book very inetresting, hard to put down, and it's characters so intense that I could see them in my dreams. This book is also an excellent history tutor for people like me who never developed an interest for it, now I did and I'm looking forward for the next novel by Philippa Gregory.
5 This book is a wonderfully and thrillingly written account of the machinations of the Boleyn-family to get close to the throne at the times of Henry VIII. Mary Boleyn is ordered by her family to be at King Henry's command whatever his wishes and whims. She obeys her family, since she is barely 13 when first presented to the king. She succeeds in keeping him at her side for a while, until his eyes begin to wander again and he seeks fulfilment (in every way) elsewhere. All of a sudden she is commanded to stand back and let her sister Anne bathe in the king's glory. In my opionion Mary was quite helpless, whereas her sister Anne is portrayed as a scheming whore. The author has a fabulous way with words and if you are interested in English history written at a wonderful pace as well as a thrilling account(in other words: you will probably be utterly, competely, totally unable to put this book down, once you have started) this is a book you simply cannot miss!
4 Lately I've read/watched so much about the lives of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn that I almost convinced myself that I lived in that time. But more about the book....I LOVED IT! Historical fiction has never been this great. It is entertaining to the core. I read it and couldn't put it down...and more than that I wanted more. It is a long book but I never felt overwhelmed by it...it goes by smoothly. Unlike a lot of historical fiction books that weigh you down with way too much history...Gregory puts in a good mixture of history, facts and exciting fiction.As from what I've read of the movie script ...the book is a million times better. So read this first!
5 I never had much interest in historical fiction, the Boleyns, or royalty for that matter, until I read The Other Boleyn Girl. I was engrossed from the beginning. Philippa Gregory made me feel like the third Boleyn sister living at court with them. I liked that some of her prose were 21st century because it added spice to the book. It may not be historically accurate, but who cares? This is fiction, afterall. There are plenty of history books out there if you want to read accurate accounts. Overall, this book was hefty and satisfying!
5 This novel was my first introduction to The Tudors, and it had me hooked from the start.  I thought it was brilliant to tell the story of Anne Boleyn through her sister.  I remembered that feeling of sisterly competition, and appreciated the honesty from the main character, Mary.  I read most of the book on a 36 hour flight itinerary, and couldn't have chosen a better time because I had the luxury of reading for hours on end.  I now realize that this book is actually #2 out of 6, and intend to start reading the others.
5 I found it to be a wonderful read. Very insightful, alluring, and brings to the readers attention that desperate times call for desperate measures. Blood isnt always thicker than water. ***** 5 STARS!
5 Anne Boleyn is one of my favourite history characters and she never ceases to amaze me... The authoress has portrayed a very different side of her full of vanity and vindication.... And yet one can't get enough of Anne and as you read you wish the book doesn't end soon ! This book is full of juice juice and more juice! Mary though comes across as a doormat with her affection for Henry and Anne all throughout, but the incestuous relationship between Anne and her brother George still remains a question....fantastic book..the motion picture doesn't do justice to the book so I suggest read this book first . Thumbs up to Philippa Gregory !!!
1 I would like to join other readers who have identified this novel for what it is:  tawdry, sensationalistic, and grossly inaccurate.First, I should say that as a college literature professor I appreciate the challenges of rendering history as fiction.  The historical novelist has to use her or his imagination to convey the inner life of historical characters, not to mention inventing some purely fictional ones.  Also, streamlining and changes in the historical record are inevitable when forcing actual events into the tight structure of fiction.Still, how would one feel if one read a historical novel about Anne Frank that represented her as surviving into old age?  Wouldn't that be a gross distortion of the historical record?  A historical novelist has responsibilities as well as rights.Other irate reviewers of The Other Boleyn Girl have pointed out the novel's egregious inaccuracies and distortions.  Just a note on this subject before moving on:  I knew we were in trouble from the first scene, which shows us an execution on Tower Green (and later in the novel the men accused of adultery with Anne are executed there too).  Almost all executions of the period took place on Tower Hill, not Tower Green.  Tower Green was reserved for a handful of executions, mostly of victims with links to the royal family  (Anne herself, Katherine Howard, Lady Jane Grey). OK, it's a small thing, compared to the more horrific errors Gregory makes, but it says something that she couldn't even be bothered to research a fairly basic and well-known fact.  Not a good sign.(By the way, I will not address the even more ghastly historical distortions of the movie, except to say that the film makes Gregory's story even more cartoonish.)Actually, what I'd like to focus on here is the novel's disturbing misogyny.  It's bad enough to reduce such a significant moment in English history to a catfight.  Even worse, though, are the sexist stereotypes that structure the narrative.  There's the sweet young thing whose sole desire is true love; then there's the rapacious shrew with political ambition.  Guess who we're supposed to prefer?  This novel's about as subtle in its ideological bias as the movie Fatal Attraction.  Needless to say, the Bad Powerful Woman gets her comeuppance while the Good Unambitious Girl is rewarded with romantic love.  Is anyone gagging as violently as I am?And, yes, how offensive to show Anne actually committing incest.  As my husband pointed out, this is like portraying the victims of Stalin's show trials as really guilty.  No self-respecting historian believes any of the dirt thrown at Anne; as the Lord Mayor of London remarked after her trial, he could see nothing in any of  it but that they were out to get rid of her. Anne was accused of having sex with men who weren't actually anywhere in the palaces she was staying; she was accused of having sex right after Elizabeth's birth, when that wouldn't have been physically possible, etc.  The incest and witchcraft accusations were cooked up to vilify her so completely that people wouldn't protest the shabby way in which a crowned Queen of England was murdered so that her husband could marry another woman already waiting in the wings.Anne was no saint, but she doesn't deserve this gratuitous vilification.  But Gregory wanted to throw in lots of kinky sex and shock value that would sell, hence the peculiar sensation of wading through sewage one gets when reading this novel .Again, though, the sleaze is inextricably linked to the misogyny. As a feminist scholar I was particularly revolted at the hypocrisy of Gregory's claim that she was inspired by Retha Warnicke's The Rise and Fall of Anne Boleyn.  Warnicke--a feminist Renaissance historian--argues that Anne's death must have been linked to rumors stemming from her miscarriage in early 1536; Warnicke thinks Anne's fetus must have appeared deformed to spawn the witchcraft accusations.  Now Warnicke is a very fine scholar in a lot of ways, but this theory unfortunately has no evidence to support it.  For instance, the one actual reference to the miscarried fetus describes it as having the appearance of a male; if it were deformed, wouldn't that have been noted?  Still, Warnicke came up with her theory, unsubstantiated as it was, because she thought it reflected the kind of misogyny that, in that era, would define a powerful woman as a witch.  What outrages me about Gregory's manipulation of Warnicke's theory is that she uses it in order to propagate the kind of misogyny Warnicke is criticizing.  In the novel, Anne is a monster and of course (especially after incest with her brother) she spawns monster babies.Honestly, I wish this site had a no-star rating available; one star for this novel seems overly generous.
5 Seldom, if ever, did I read an almost 700 page book in such a short period of time.  Even though I knew how things would turn out, I stiil couldn't put it down.  This is the first "account" told by someone in the inner circle who was neither Henry VII nor Anne Boleyn.  I love, recommend it highly and will probably rent the movie.
1 Historical fiction is a favourite guilty pleasure of mine, and I came to this book with no pre-conceptions; in fact, I actually expected to like it.  Unfortunately, and many reviewers have said it more eloquently than I, TOBG is poorly-written, vulgar and offensive on a number of levels.  It is reminiscent of self-indulgent internet fanfic, where the only constructive criticism received must have been along the lines of "Soooo need more!!1!!!"  I am still mystified as to how it even got published in its current form.I get that this is historical _fiction_, and that that means an author is free to make up details as he or she sees fit. Of course, one can never expect complete accuracy; I am pretty tolerant of historical errors and literary licence, provided that these are acknowledged and disclosed to the reader.  I've enjoyed numerous historical novels, most of which could never be regarded as classic literature or accurate, but which bring to life the era and the personalities vividly.  I did not expect the definitive biography of Anne and Mary Boleyn by any stretch of the imagination. What I did expect though was at least an attempt at treating the characters with a modicum of respect and remaining true as far as possible to what we know about them, as well as a gripping and enjoyable story. TOBG provided neither.This author claims to be a "feminist historian." However there is nothing "feminist" about the portrayal of the women here, in fact like a previous reviewer, I think it's bordering on misogynist: Mary and Anne are reduced to one-dimensional representatives of the "Madonna/whore" stereotype, with Mary being the ultimate Mary Sue, embodiment of all that is pure and virtuous (complete with some 21st century attitudes about marrying for love), and Anne a vicious, megalomaniacal, amoral troll with no redeeming qualities whatsoever.  Mary's reputation - which comes to us from contemporary accounts - as a good-time girl of the French court is completely whitewashed over; in this universe, she is a sweet, innocent teenager when she becomes Henry VIII's mistress. There's no sign of Anne Boleyn, the cultured, very well-educated, multilingual Renaissance lady and Queen, who produced the great Elizabeth I and during her lifetime, patronised the arts, generously dispensed charity and was deeply interested in religious reform, to name just a few things.This novel does both of these women, as well as the other characters, a disservice with this flat, caricatured portrayal. There is no light and shade, no complexity; in fact, some of the characterisations are completely implausible. The dialogue is frequently anachronistic, the prose is often turgid and heavy-handed - Gregory tells, rather than shows - and I found myself skim-reading a lot of it just to finish it.  The language evokes little sense of the period, with characters being attributed with modern attitudes and opinions.  It takes some doing, but TOBG manages to turn interesting, dramatic and complex events into a dreary, tedious family soap opera, with a substantial dose of gratuitous and disturbing sleaze.Fiction dealing with people who really existed is tough to write, as I believe there is a responsibility to remain as close to the facts as we know them as possible; one must have very good reason to diverge from the accepted historical record. This means researching the era and the personalities almost as thoroughly as one would a biography.  As other reviewers have pointed out, Gregory's research - if the listed bibliography is all that was consulted - appears shoddy at best: she ignores the definitive biography of Anne Boleyn by Eric Ives, for example. Some of the plot elements are so removed from the historical record (let alone basic human psychology) and thus so implausible that it is hard to take the novel seriously. Mary becoming Henry's mistress at 13 - why make her so young? Anne marrying Henry Percy? Being sent to France as "punishment"? Henry VIII fathering both of Mary Boleyn's children? The Boleyn parents effectively being pimps for their daughters? Anne seducing Henry away from her sister?  "Stealing" or "abducting" Mary's son to establish him as a "potential Tudor-Boleyn heir"? George Boleyn sleeping with Francis Weston (this element did nothing to advance the story whatsoever, and seemed to be included for the sake of it) but also happens to be sexually attracted to his sister ... and acts on it? Mark Smeaton being _ Weston_'s musician? Deformed incest babies? The list goes on. Sorry, just no.Again, an author is entitled to take liberties and deviate from the historical record for dramatic purposes, but here, there is no disclosure that this has occurred; in fact, there has been repeated insistence to the contrary.  Further, it is difficult to see how the plot and the central themes of the novel would have suffered had some of the above elements been accurate.This would have been a far better novel had it focused on purely imaginary characters, set in Tudor times.  The same themes could have been explored just as effectively had the protagonists been say, two fictional noblewomen vying for the attention of the Duke of Whatevershire, and there is no restriction on how the personalities are portrayed or the course of events.I respect the fact that many readers have enjoyed this novel for what it is, but I sincerely hope those whose interest in the period has been sparked by TOBG will go beyond this frankly bizarre alternate universe and sketchy bibliography, and discover the fascinating story of the _real_ Anne Boleyn. Excellent non-fiction sources include Ives' "The Life and Death of Anne Boleyn"; and Antonia Fraser and David Starkey's works on the six wives. As for novels about Anne Boleyn - although dated, the best I've found are probably those by Margaret Campbell Barnes ("Brief Gaudy Hour") and Jean Plaidy ("Murder Most Royal").
1 There is nothing like being able to tell oneself how virtuous and intellectual one is being by reading historical fiction, whilst enjoying  a mildly pornographic novel. Or not enjoying it. This reader prefers historical fiction to concentrate more on the politics and society, and less on graphic descriptions of king Henry VIII's sexual preferences. Or at least to include a warning that a period of great religious change and debate will be happening outside the bedroom door.
5 Flawlessly and artfully written, I can't say the last time I so enjoyed a book! This book takes you deep into the intrigue of the English court and the story of the Boleyn family's strategic political rise through the bartering of it's daughters to a lecherous, philandering king.  Told from the perspective of the less infamous oldest sister, and the king's first Boleyn mistress, Mary;  Historical fact is seamlessly blended with fiction in an exciting tale of political intrigue, backstabbing sibling rivalry and one woman's insatiable and unstoppable ambition to be crowned queen.  I couldn't put it down!--This isn't the history they taught you in school!
5 This is fun soap opera sort of novel that resembles actuall historical events.  The characters develop nicely and the read is easy and enjoyable.
5 I have always been a fan of historical fiction, especially the Tudor era. When I saw that there was a book about the Boleyn girls I was very intrigued, since Mary Boleyn is an ancestor of mine. I already knew much about Mary and Anne, but this brought everything to life.It was a phenominal read. I literally could not put it down. When I wasn't reading the book, I found myself thinking about the characters and the events constantly.I suggest this book for anyone who likes the Tudor era, but anyone in general. Don't be intimidated by it's length. There was never a dull moment, and you won't want to miss the end, which is the most exciting part.
4 I found this book entertaining despite the romance novel devices. Anne Boleyn fans beware - this is not a multi-dimensional portrayal of the historical figure. This Anne is more Scarlett O'Hara or Becky Sharp - willing to use anybody and suffer anything to achieve her ambitions. She does have a few vulnerable moments that make her sympathetic occasionally, but mainly she is a foil to Mary's blondness and relative niceness (the historical Mary Boleyn's alleged sexual escapades are toned down or omitted in this novel). This Anne is far more bitchy than spiritual or charitable - but of course that's why the book is so popular. After all, several enduring novels use this classic device of one nice girl and one nasty one and the sibling rivalry makes this story all the more emotional.Mary narrates the story, so that could excuse some of the negative portrayal of Anne. They are both rivals for the king's attention and rivals for their parents' affections. The coldness of the parents and Uncle Norfolk make the closeness between the three siblings George, Anne and Mary all the more poignant. George is charming and witty in this novel, Anne is self-centered and witty, and Mary is the romantic heroine, but she is not totally likeable. Before she defies her family to marry for love, she repeatedly betrays Queen Katharine by spying on her and seducing the king right in front of her - then she grovels before Katherine and declares how much she enjoys serving her. She knows she's a little hypocrite - she repeatedly uses snake imagery to describe herself and her relatives. My favorite line is: "George and I smiled encouragingly, the Boleyn smile: a pair of pleasant snakes."The author used many of the more controversial theories from Retha Warnicke's biography of Anne Boleyn as historical background, rather than a more well rounded and historically accurate sampling - but it made an entertaining story. The relationship between the 3 siblings is what kept me reading: perhaps closer than is healthy, but understandable considering their awful parents. This novel should have made a great movie due to the lurid story and historical characters - it is just a shame that neither of the movies made picked up on any of George's, Anne's or even Mary's charm - that is what really makes me want to read the book again.Now for the bad. First, Some of the dialogue is incredibly annoying unless you like romance novels. The siblings repeatedly call each other "silly whore" and stuff like that to excess, more like modern reality show trash than young Tudor aristocrats. Second, most of the other characters are one dimensional: The family elders are all self-serving, ambitious and cold with no redeeming traits whatsoever. The king is a spoiled brat, and the queen is pious and regal, but you don't find out much about her inner mind - she is developed in another book by the author. Mary's second husband is just too good to be true: he never loses his temper, super lover, super stepfather, helps deliver his own child, etc. etc. Oh, her kids are perfect little angels too. Third, I do have a respect for history and I would have preferred a more factual story, although that didn't stop me from enjoying this book. The queen committing incest with her brother - come on, most people understand that the incest charge was always used against top ranking females when they wanted to ensure a death verdict (witness Marie Antoinette) and historians have proven to most people's satisfaction that the incest charge against Anne was trumped up. I think the story would have been just fine without that prurient scene, since not very believable in fact.All in all, a very enjoyable story if read purely as entertainment.
3 So, with the Tudors on DVD and the newest Elizabeth movie out, I'm looking for an Elizabeth meets Mean Girls movie when this one comes out. The book was entertaining, told from the point of view of Mary, Anne Boleyn's shallow and clueless sister, and details the rise and fall of her family's place at Court. Both Mary's dalliance with the King and the snare of the King by her sister Anne, and Anne's fall are the setting of this fluffy romance novel.
5 Yes, it is THAT good.  I must say that so far this is my favorite read of the summer.  I didn't know what to expect, the concept of a common history told by an uncommon character (Anne Boleyn's sister Mary) is touchy.But I loved it, for Gregory not only writes well, but she has quite an imagination.  I was impressed and intrigued by the way she took a history known to many, many people (we all know Anne's fate here) and made it fresh with murder and tons of dark little Boleyn family secrets. Mary, Anne's younger, obedient to the end, golden sister tells the tale of how the family gave, risked, and gambled everything, often at too high a price, to put Anne in the King's bed and ultimately on to the throne.And I also love the way she has made Anne Boleyn out to be a complete monster in this novel, when she did meet her fate I have to say that I didn't feel too bad for her.A must read for anyone who is looking for a great story!
5 I picked this book up as something to read on a recent trip. I had not heard of the author or the book, but I have an affinity for historical fiction.  I found myself enthralled in the description of life at court.  From the descriptions, I felt like I was there among the ladies in waiting.  I have passed this book along to many of the my friends and family and they have only had wonderful things to say.  I plan to read her other books as well.
3 there's a child-like innocence or simplicity in the writing-style that really irritated me more and more as I read this.
5 This book got me started on the Tudor family.  I first read it because Scarlett Johansen and Natalie Portman were in the movie and I love them.  I read the book before I saw the movie and I liked the book even more than the movie.  Don't get me wrong, the movie was great but in my opinion it ignores the best parts then totally makes up it's own ending.  The book was so much more juicier with scandal.  You are horrified with how manipulative Anne Boleyn was and how she harshly she treated ger sister Mary.  Anne would do anything to be Queen which is what got her killed.  A MUST READ!
5 this novel tells of the tumultuous period before elizabethan england from the point of view of one of its courtiers. rife with intrigue, sex, and betrayals, 'the other boleyn girl' presents the dark, fascinating world behind the glitter and grandeur of henry VIII's court as the infamous king flits from one paramour to another, seeking a male heir, as well as for affection and love where love is forced to be pretentious and often ambitious, ultimately for the sake of claiming the throne and ruling a kingdom almost on its knees. ms gregory is a master storyteller, bringing to vivid life characters and historical events that became the impetus of the tudor dynasty.the story highlights, among others, the insidious and overwhelming power that the women in henry's court wield as they resort to trickery (even witchcraft) and depravity. amidst the raging political conflict lying just beneath the veneer of the most powerful people in that time, readers will continue to experience the emotional battles that the 'other' boleyn girl has to go through as she is first swallowed up in the world of henry's court but later determinedly struggles to carve a life for herself and her family, as far away removed as it can be especially when her sister anne howard became obsessively bent on a destructive path to put her own stake to the throne.a wonderful read for anyone who wishes to experience historical england in the guise of superb storytelling. never loses its momentum, and is sure to deliver until the last page...
5 Once I got into it, I couldn't put it down!  It was so interesting, and I fell in love with Mary!  She was a great character!  It made me interested in the Tudor history and was entertaining as well!
3 I saw the movie and thought the book would be pretty good, after all the books are usually better then the movie. This was not the case here. The book is well written, but in that sort of your English teacher makes you read it cause it's a good example of well written technical fiction. Its not too enjoyable, it doesn't flow well. I found it very hard to relate to the characters or feel anything for them, regardless of the fact they were real people.What was even harder for me was the age of the main character and her lust for the king, I mean the girl was 13 or 14 in this book. The author talks about lust, passion, and love  -- the age of the girl in the book made it very unbelievable. I had to force myself through it. I wouldn't recommend it -- if you are looking for anything similar to the movie here you won't find it.
4 such fun, so hard to put down, beautifully written, engaging and absorbing. Of course its famous now because of the film but the book as always is so much better. You  know whats going to happen to poor Anne and yet because its so well written your heart pounds for her anyway.
4 This is probably the most well known of Gregory's historical fiction novels and a movie version did come out a year or so ago. I enjoyed this book because it was entertaining, I felt like the characters had some depth to them so I cared about what happened to them, and it was an interesting story. That being said (as I said with The White Queen), there are loads of historical inaccuracies. This would not bother me so much if Gregory did not present herself as such a wonderful, through, and in depth historian/researcher. The story covers one of the most intriguing times in British history - Henry VIII's need for a son and break with the Catholic Church. Most people know about Anne Boleyn - Henry's second wife that he moved heaven and hell (literally!) to marry. This story is not told from Anne's point of view but from her younger sister Mary's point of view.Mary comes to Henry VIII's court a young, innocent girl who has recently married. She is pretty and catches Henry's eye. Her power hungry and scheming family see this as their ticket to bigger and better things and they pretty much shove Mary into Henry's bed. Mary ends up falling in love with the King and baring him two children. She constantly disappoints her family though as she is not really cut out for the manipulative game they're playing. She also has moral qualms about what she is being made to do which directly contradicts what her family expects from her and she struggles with this throughout the story. Despite her family's ambitions, she feels loyalty to Queen Katherine and constantly apologizes for what she is doing on her family's bidding. She is eventually set aside in favor of Anne and watches her astounding rise to power and fame as an unwitting accomplice., knowing that she will forever be in her sister's shadow. Mary takes things into her own hands though and marries a man for love, gaining the animosity of her sister who banishes her from Court. In the country she learns the life of a country wife and realizes she would much prefer it to life at Court. That life catches up to her and she has to return to help Anne through miscarriages and Henry's quickly declining favor. Mary is able to avoid the arrest, imprisonment, and eventual execution that awaits Anne and their brother George.This is an intriguing and entertaining story to read. It has everything that keeps most readers occupied - love, hate, sex, betrayal, greed, backstabbing, political intrigue, etc. It is NOT, however, the wonderful piece of HISTORICAL fiction that it is promoted as being. There are just way too many historical inaccuracies. Mary, for instance, by most accounts was the older sister though the sisters' exact birth dates are uncertain. Anne, while I do believe she was a very intelligent, shrewd person, I do NOT believe she was the horrible person Gregory portrays her as in this novel. There is also no proof of George's sexual preferences or the possible incest between him and Anne. In fact, the charge of incest between the siblings was most likely concocted by Cromwell and others in order to further damn Anne at her trial. These are just some of the bigger issues with the book (there are a lot of other smaller, more nit-picky points though). I have no problem with Gregory including these things in her story if that is her interpretation of history but she should not be trying to insist that this is absolutely what happened.The characters in the story are interesting enough for me to care about. I feel sorry for Mary through much of the story because of the way her family treats her. At times I really do not like Anne and at others I can pity her (especially towards the end). Henry really comes across like a selfish little boy and I don't particularly like him either. Queen Katherine is a likable figure (must more so than in the Gregory story about her, The Constant Princess) and I do have to feel sorry for her on occasion.Overall it is a good read and one that I think most people will enjoy if they don't care about the historical aspect too much. This book has really brought historical fiction to the forefront again and I am extremely grateful to Gregory for this.
5 Well,actually this book is too much fun to qualify as a lesson. Instead,it's an engrossing,can't-put-it-down dealing with two sisters, Anne Boleyn and her lesser known sister,, Mary,whom King Henry the VIII had a relationship with (as well as fathering two of her children )before Lady Anne caught his eye. The book shows(in vivid detail) how Anne manages to get the notorious womanizer undivided attention,first by stealing him away from her more placid sister,then trying to get him to make her Queen,in spite of the Church,people's negative view of their marriage,her own highly outspoken nature,in a time where women had to know their place(or else).And, most importantly,not giving him a son,which leads to her tragic downfall. This book takes you on a journey,makes you think and best of all,is truly entertaining..
5 I loved this book. As an aspiring writer, I've become a critical reader. I wouldn't buy one of Phillipa Greggory's books because I didn't believe they appealed to me. Although I love history, I couldn't believe that King Henry VIII's court would be interesting. Out of desperation for something good to read (because other reviews said it was an outstanding book) I bought it. This was one of the best decisions I've ever made. I love Phillipa Greggory's prose, her ability to absorb me into the time and place. I am awed by her intelligence and ability to take history and weave her story between the lines of actual events. Praise to the author. I bought another of her books today.
2 The book prompted me to do some research into the historic facts and figures, and for that alone, I am grateful. As for the book itself, I was glad to be done with it. The characters had no development and seemed very one-dimensional. There were too many scenes that seemed redundant and too many conversations that kept reiterating the same points over and over. As a reader, I wished the author had respected me enough to allow me to make my own conclusions instead of beating me over the head with hers. How many times do you need to read about the treatment of the Boleyn girls by their family to grasp that they were a commodity rather than human beings? I got it the first time. All the other references to the same point felt slightly insulting.I liked the details of life in court: dresses, fashion, political events and developments in the background. I did not like that each main character represented ONE personality trait: Anne is an embodiment of blind ambition, Mary is the obedient female, George is a calculating, spineless brother, uncle and father (interchangeable, by the way) together represent the dominating, heartless male, and mom is a cold witch whose character is so underdeveloped it's hard to picture her altogether.In the end, the book felt like a dessert you eat because it's there, not because it's irresistible or worth the calories.
3 First, let me state that I enjoy Philippa Gregory's writing style - she is exceptionally descriptive and I can almost imagine everything as she writes it, which I enjoy.  I even felt myself wanting to go into the book and punch Anne in the face myself for some of the things she's done, that's how good and intricate her writing is.  That being said, I enjoyed The Kingmaker's Daughter much better.I get that there are what some consider to be "historical inaccuracies".  That may be true but Ms. Gregory doesn't tout the book as a true recount of the history of the period.  It's a story and a fairly good one at that.  My main problem is with the character, Mary.  Without giving too much of the book away, Mary was, in my opinion, a sad little character.  I understand that the women of that period were deferential to their men and their king.  I get it but Mary seemed to be "unfinished" for lack of a better word.  She was a pawn in the game of her family's grasp for power and basically resented it but did it as her duty.  When she was no longer needed to be a big player, she made her own way, carving out a life she could be happy with but never truly letting go of her old life.  Perhaps it's my personal thoughts that cloud my judgment of the book in that I am damn glad I was not a woman in that era because I can't imagine cleaving to my husband in every sense of the word.  To that end, the final part of the book didn't hold for me as far as Mary was concerned.  I ended up liking George and Anne better as characters - they at least lived what they strived for and never apologized.  Mary is that person...the 'pleaser' - basically a human doormat.  Whether or not that was historically true, I don't know.  But for the sake of this book, it kind of dragged the rest of the story down for me.
5 It is a very good historical fiction. Almost all based on true events.Very easy reading.Much better than the movie.
5 Let me say that this is my favorite of the Gregory Tudor novels.  Gregory does a masterful job of illustrating just how claustrophobic and poisonous the life of the court was, and how it destroyed relationships even between family members in the ruthless struggle for power.  This is particularly clear in the Boleyn-Howard family, where power is the reason for everything and love takes a decidedly secondary role, if it even exists at all.  I was very struck by the behavior of the mother, who simply abandons her daughters to their fate, never even physically touching them even once throughout the book.That Mary, the narrator, manages to remain warm and kind in this atmosphere is amazing, but she does.  The reader is certainly relieved when she escapes the court with her true love, even at the cost of her brother and sister.  Her relationship with Anne was very well done: the mixture of love and resentment was poignant.I did feel that the character of Anne could have been more well-rounded and have more depth.  She's so nasty that it's hard to see why Mary gives her any love at all; her story would have been even better told if Gregory brought forth some of her redeeming characteristics, such as her love for Elizabeth.  Still, the relationships examined in this book were all very compelling and fascinating.  It makes you wonder: would it have been better to live as a common person during that era, with all the hardships that entailed, or as a courtier, with all your physical needs being provided for, but your love and humanity sucked out of you?
5 I don't know why this book had such bad reviews. From the first page of this book to the very last this book kept me interested, awake, and well-immersed in the Tudor courts. I may only be in middle schoolbut I have read many adult books, mostly historical fiction, and this is one of the best I have ever read. Sure, this may be historically inaccurate at some parts (like the age difference in this book goes Anne is the oldest, then their brother, then Mary when in real life it went Mary, Anne, and their brother) but it is still a good read, a very interesting read, and a very needed record of the forgotten Boleyn girl who bore Henry two children and was his first mistress who established the Boleyns at court. Anne is shown in the light she should be told in this book: power hungry, beautiful, a devoted girl to her closest of friends, and simply someone who wanted to make it in the world but went too high and was brought down. Mary will be sympathized in the book and may seem a little whiny at times but you will be scared, happy, upset, and carefree along with her through all the chapters. I recommend this book to all people from 9th Grade+ because of the adult references and I am sure you will enjoy it no matter how inaccurate it may be and how girly it can be. Can't wait to read Phillipa Gregory's next novel, historical hopefully!
3 Let me just say that I found this book to be a good &quot;fluffy&quot; read.  I didn't love it, nor did I hate it--and I think that's because I kept wanting to slap the main charactor for being so weak willed.  By the time I reached the end, I threw down the book and exclaimed, &quot;Well, it's about time!&quot;  This book is a cross between Tudor England and Cosmo magazine: juicy with gossip but lacking any real depth.  But, if you've got nothing better to do, and you happen to be a junkie for the Tudors...have at it!
4 I am a big history buff (American mostly) and am often skeptical of historical novels. This was an exception for me. I don't know all that much of England's long royal history. I do know enough to be aware of the high-level intrigue that used to go on in those days to achieve power, but it was really interesting to see it so well-developed and told in this book. A gander through the internet will give you a more accurate picture of what is today accepted as truth and what is in fact the author's imagination. In the back of the paperback edition, the author also tells some of what she invented and what happened to some of the characters after Anne's death. If you realize all this, this is one immensely enjoyable read. The almost 700 pages are turned very quickly and I think you will learn some very valuable things about life in the English courts and England/Europe in general during the 16th century. I think the author's intentions are to pique our interest in either the period or the personalities enough that we might be interested in seeking more historical information. That's what it did for me. I would not mind reading the book that followed this one, watch the movie "Elizabeth" again or even read an actual history of this episode in British history. Although the main protagonist (Anne's sister, Mary) is historically obscure and without a lot of documentation, many of the other characters are significant enough in history that it should have been easy for the author to do enough research to present portraits as accurate as any historian could. What I came away with regarding Henry VIII, Wolsey and other royals, is not much different than what I came in with. For those sticklers for absolute fact, there are history books. This is a fine introduction for the more casual reader that, to me, gives an accurate enough picture of those days and a plausible description of Anne's life and reign.
4 The Other Boleyn Girl is a book that has haunted me since the movie was released. Although I didn't see the film until after I had read the book (and thank goodness, too!), the book kept calling to me, mostly because I had heard the title and the concept sounded interesting -- the story of Anne Boleyn, told from the perspective of her sister.Who doesn't know the story of Anne Boleyn, the woman who dethroned Catherine of Aragon and married King Henry VIII? It was Anne Boleyn who helped Henry to found the Church of England, and it was Anne who was the first executed wife of King Henry the VIII, put to death on charges of incest, adultery and treason.The stories of the other Boleyns are less-told: George and Thomas, Mary and Elizabeth (Anne's Mother, not her daughter) are less well known. The Other Boleyn Girl begins to tell the story of Anne's siblings, Mary and George, and the relationships that they had with one another and with Anne.In spite of my intense desire to read The Other Boleyn Girl, I was disturbed the idea that I believed the book would be dry. I pondered the length of the novel (nearly 700 pages) and the content (I am no a history buff by any means) and several times overlooked the book. I couldn't bring myself to spend the money on this novel.When I ran into The Other Boleyn Girl at a used book store, however, I snatched it up eagerly and perhaps a bit greedily and read it promptly.While Philippa Gregory takes some license with the story line regarding Mary, George and even Anne, I felt that this book was a wonderful, fast-paced and easy read. I was able to pick it up and put it down during waiting periods and still finished reading it within a week of having started the book.I highly recommend The Other Boleyn Girl and look forward to reviewing other books in the Tudors series!
5 The Other Boleyn Girl...I wanted to see BBC's version of the book so bad because I thought I would love it, I couldn't find the video and started the book instead.At first I din't like it at all. Everyone is so selfish, immature, evil-minded and all they care about is money, titles and [physical activity], the women are mere [physical activity] objects but even that only until they can make baby boy heirs, they have no voice, no power, no money of their own, no control of their lives, there's too much adultery and while the men are justified, it's the women that face the hurt, and I hate hate hate books with sisters that are each other's rivals and knife each other's back. But I told myself, I'll read just a little bit more to see where it's going and will definitely not continue if this is how it's going to be.And I found myself unable to put it down.- Maybe it's my current classics and historical books obssession- maybe it took a while to settle into the period in which it is set and at last come to terms that this was 1530s after all...I think this was a bit difficult to sink in because the language has a modern feel to it- maybe it's Mary's narrative voice, especially during the middle of the book, where one can feel sympathy for her.- maybe it's Queen Katherine, the Spanish princess of Aragon and her quiet dignity and strength- maybe it's Mary's love of Queen K, inspite of all Mary's betrayals of herbecause of her family- maybe it's because I want to see Mary do something for herself and stand up to her Boleyn and Howard family's evil machinations- maybe it's because I want to see Anne, quite probably the most ambitious woman of her times, succeed because she is so ambitious, willing to work for it, and independently competant; but I am torn because I also want her to redeem herself through some failure, because she is so selfish, and stomped everyone in her way to get there including her sister who means her no harm, I want her to realize it's not all worth it.- maybe it's George- maybe I'm still waiting for the sisters to love each other as sistersI don't know which of the above but I'm still curious about it and reading it.
5 Gregory crafts a masterful tale of ambition, lies, deceit, and heartbreak in "The Other Boleyn Girl." As a young girl, Mary Boleyn becomes Henry VIII's mistress. It's a sweet relationship, but not without its price. Mary loses her innocence as the Boleyn family travels down a path which will force the members of it to lose their souls. Gregory's characters are rich and vivid. Her account of Henry and Anne's relationship will keep the reader riveted to the page.Gregory starts her story in 1521. Mary Boleyn, newly married to William Carey, is fourteen, but she soon captures the king's eye. This does not escape the notice of her family, headed by the Duke of Norfolk who conspires with the Howard and Boleyn sides to have Mary become Henry's mistress. William Carey takes the family decision well, and soon Mary becomes Henry's lover.Henry is initially besotted with Mary, even naming one of the royal ships after her. Young Mary falls in love as a teenage girl would fall in love with an older man. During the period Mary is Henry's mistress, she has two children which Gregory implies was sired by the king.As Mary recovers from the birth of her son in 1525, the family conspires to have Anne hold his attention until Mary can resume her duties. Anne performs her task all too well, sparking Henry's complete fascination with her. Soon, Anne takes over Mary's role in Henry's life and Mary is allowed to go back to her husband.Initially, Mary's relationship is strained with William, but as the months go by they become reacquainted. Unfortunately, William dies of "the sweat" and Mary loses her chance at happiness.As Anne's star ascends in Henry's life, Mary is all too happy to watch. Soon, she falls in love with a commoner, William Stafford. Sadly, Mary has a ringside seat to her sister's fall from grace. Mary, however, by bucking her family's orders and marrying for love, manages to escape the devastation brought on her family by Anne's fall.Gregory tells the story in the first person from Mary's perspective. She captures a rich voice which allows Mary to endear herself to the reader. The book is full of lush descriptions and gripping emotions proving Gregory's done her homework. The dialogue is easy to read and doesn't slow the reader down. "The Other Boleyn Girl" will leave the reader with a unique perspective of Anne Boleyn's rise and fall in Tudor England.
3 This book was fun to read because it was written from Ann Boleyn's sister's point of view.  This was convenient because you get to know Ann Boleyn and George Boleyn and King Henry very well, without the disappointment of having the narrator beheaded.  The author portrays the sordid immorality of King Henry, the narrator's craving for family and love, and Ann Boleyn's unstated desire for power and wealth.  Obviously, the narrator survives and the evil sister, well, has another well known fate.  The vague reasons for Ann Boleyn's death are logically theorized in this book.  It's just pretty fun to read and historically accurate, as far as we could know, but it has some kind of sexy scenes in it.
1 Clearly, I'm in the minority here, and I did only read 112 pages, or the first two chapters.Abominable.  Painful in its lack of subtlety or craft.The language of the book does nothing to evoke the 16th century.  At one point, the main character practically says "Whatever!"  (I forget her actual comment, and I'm not going to torture myself by turning on my Sony PRS to search for one line in a crummy book.)It should be a good movie.  It clearly goes for the gusto with sex and intrigue, but that's all it has: enough to float a movie for 90 minutes, but I've already wasted one afternoon on the book, which is more than it deserves.  I enjoy a sexy film as much as the next girl, but I'm not going to spend hours reading this vapid tale.
4 This is one of those fastpaced "can't put it down" novels.  I have heard several people complain about the historical inaccuracies within the novel.  However, if you can put those aside and accept the book's universe as Gregory unfolds it, it is a joy to explore.  If you enjoy historical fiction and are interested in Tudor England, I would highly recommend reading this book.
5 I work in a book store, and whenever I walked by this book, I thought the cover was gorgeous, and so one day I signed it out and I absolutely loved it. I read it in about 3 days (totally neglecting schoolwork) and I was caught up in all of the family drama. I've read other of Philippa's books as well (The Constant Princess, Queen's Fool, Virgin Lover) and she is a wonderful writer. I love how these books tell almost the same story, just with different people. I absolutely recommend this book, it's amazing!
5 This is by far the best book that I have read in a long time.  A beautiful historic novel, couldn't put it down.  Never a dull or boring moment, just flawless.  Highly recommended!
4 Most fans of historical fiction are probably familiar with the story of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn. His divorce from Catherine of Aragon, and the events leading to Anne's execution have been dramatised many times. But not much is known about Anne's younger sister Mary, who is known to have interested Henry well before these events."The Other Boleyn GIrl" is told from Mary's point of view, and highlights the cut-throat atmosphere of the Tudor court. Once her family realise that Mary has caught the King's eye, they instruct her on every move, hoping that the king's affection will translate into positions, titles and power. And when Anne eventually fascinates Henry even more, they plainly discard Mary to back her more ambitious sister.But the book deals with Mary's feelings as well. We watch her grow from a girl who is married off at 13 to someone she barely knows, to a teenager smitten with the attentions of a powerful sovereign. Eventually she becomes a mother and finds love with a simple country man. But even so, her personal life is forever at the mercy of the changeable court, and so often she must drop her personal concerns to aid her family retain power, a job she doesn't relish.Since there is little historical fact known about Mary Boleyn (it isn't even sure when she was born), Philippa Gregory has chosen a protagonist who is involved with interesting actual events, but can be conveniently moulded to fit the form of fiction. So beware, not all you read about Mary and Anne may be strictly true. But the story is constructed so well, and the writing so entertaining, that I wasn't even concerned by the parts I knew weren't correct.This is good quality historical fiction which I recommend to any lover of the genre. Enough of the book is based on fact, so the educated reader doesn't feel duped, and the fictional parts blend seemlessly. Not to mention, they make this book a dramatic and entertaining read which I had trouble putting down.
1 I see from the other reviews here that I will be in the minority, but this may be the most moronic book I have ever read. If you care anything about history, avoid this book at all costs. Frankly, if you have any self-respect at all, avoid this book. I doubt my opinion will change the Cult of Philippa Gregory, but I feel compelled, by the very awfulness of this book, to speak my mind. It's no more than a jazzed-up Harlequin Romance with a few historical references thrown in for kicks. Absurdity on every page and an insult to anyone of intelligence.
1 I did not begin reading this novel expecting anything other than an easy weekend read, but was more disappointed than I could have imagined.  An educated reader knows that in historical fiction, real characters are blended with fictional ones, and events are created or recreated to advance the plot.  If the plot and writing are good, then the reader may suspend the facts momentarily for the sake of the work.  In this novel, however, the historical inaccuracy and writing are so far-fetched as to cause the reader to pause frequently, thus interrupting the flow of the story.If the book is about Mary (older sister, younger sister - historians in dispute), we are not given a very accurate picture of her true nature.  There are established facts about Mary, such as that she was considered loose and had affairs with several men (including King Francis I of France, who called her "a great whore, the most infamous of all") which led to her dismissal from the French court.  She was not the simpering dolt portrayed in the book.The other interuption for me was the language.  In places the dialogue represented the crisp, well-versed language one would expect of courtiers, while in others I felt like I was overhearing 21st century teenagers at the mall.  One pet peeve of mine is the overuse of a word or phrase throughout a work.  I feel that the writer simply could not bother to think of other descriptors or was unable to.  For example, Gregory uses the word 'sulk' (not a bad word if used a time or two) and every other variant of the verb...'sulky' (adj - not very good word choice), and the worst...'sulkily' (adv. - I wasn't even sure these last two were real words - they are- but she uses this adverb form over and over.  I actually wanted to go back and count how many times she used it.)  Another instance of questionable usage was "D'you?"  This was always used in dialogue, and I don't know if it was intended to be the recreation of a commonly used diction of the time.  If it is not, it doesn't seem to fit in with the otherwise learned, courtly, formal speech used in every other case.  In actual speech the pronunciation  of "D'you" is probably much the same as "Do you." No where else is diction implied, so this contraction seems unnecessary and anachronistic.At best the reading of this novel may inspire readers to become more informed about the Tudor period and the actual historical effects of the events in the book, which reduces the history to a mere backdrop for the unseemly behavior of a greedy and two-dimensional family.  There are some excellent websites devoted to this period.  You may find the portraits of the actual participants quite interesting as well.Worse books have, of course, been written.  For that reason only, perhaps this one deserves two stars - one and a half.  Judging by sales, many people like Harlequin Romances.  This book is probably a fair success on that level.Unfortunately, I can't recommend this book as anything other than a Harlequin Romance, complete with heaving bosoms, soap-opera dialogue, and predictable, static characters.
5 i realize this wasn't completely accurate, but if you can get past that and not stress over the details that did or did not appear, you will like this book.  it didn't take long at all to hook me and within a couple of chapters i had a hard time putting it down.  i knew little of the monarchy back then, and it was interesting - and kind of horrifying - to learn how it went.whether mary was actually as simple and sweet natured as she was in the book, she was the perfect voice for the story.  she undoubtedly was not as sharp and ambitious as her sister (older/younger - who cares? they couldn't have been more than a couple of years or so apart). i especially enjoyed her time as the king's favorite.  though the rest of their family had no hearts and only saw each other as pawns to move them further up the food chain, mary was just a lovestruck teenager who fell in love with king henry and took his wooing seriously.  there is one part in particular that shows this - the king asks mary for her silk scarf so he can wear it next to his chest during a jousting.  in the activity the scarf becomes loose and visible to the queen.  mary, who loves the queen like a mother (since her own is so heartless), is devastated when she realizes this, and sulkily tells the king.  his reply is frosty, telling her she can go to france if she is unhappy and ignores her for a week.  her family is furious with her for showing emotion and she has to learn through anne and their brother, george, how to swallow her feelings and do what is expected of the family.she learns it well.  but when the king tires of her and his attention turns to anne, mary wasn't as upset as i expected.  she did her best and gave the king a son as was requested of her.  but when she saw little difference in the demeanor of her little boy and the spoiled king, her feelings for him changed as well.  she was fortunate to find a man to marry for love and for the most part, escape her family's scandal - at least the executioner's axe.anne was a woman way ahead of her time - she would have been better suited for the 1980's - one of those women that made having a career &#34;fashionable.&#34; if only she hadn't been such a jerk - she treated everyone around her like dogs, including her own family (with the exception of george for the most part) - and when she finally became queen she thought she was untouchable.who knows if the charge of incest between anne and george was true - more than likely it was a trumped up charge to ensure they would both be exiled or executed.  *spoiler* but when you realize that anne's miscarriage of a severely deformed baby was likely because, in their desperation, anne and george were determined to get a son in her belly, no matter the cost.  maybe that didn't happen - but who knows? that was a different time.it did make me see king henry in a new light.  not knowing much about him, i always pictured him as a big fat jerk.  well, he was.  but through a young maid's eyes, he was seen as dashing, charming and handsome.  in reality he truly was a spoiled brat that didn't think twice about changing laws, breaking up churches or killing people to get his own way. even though i basically knew what was going to happen, i found myself chilled when he began to favor the seymours and hate the boleyns.at any rate, it was a good read and i will be sure to look for more from ms. gregory in the future.
4 Very interesting history of the famous era of Henry VIII.  Great to read and entirely entertaining.  The characters are vivid.
5 On reading, this rose immediately to the top of my favourite books.  The intrigue, the heartbreak, the family dynamics combined with the sense of helplessness that comes from knowing how its going to turn out, makes this book a fascinating read.  Gregory's portrayal of Henry as he evolves from a passionate lover to a coldhearted killer is beautifully done while the romance of the main character, Boleyn's sister and Henry's early lover, Mary, is touching and provides the uplifting ending such a dramatic - and ultimately, tragic - story needs.
3 Many other reviewers have mentioned the historical innacuracies found in _The Other Boleyn Girl_.  I noticed them as well.  The changes in the Boleyn girls' birth order did not trouble me as much as the disputed parentage of Mary Boleyn's children (why would Henry, whose first illegitimate son he made a Duke, ignore his son by Mary Boleyn?) I also found it odd that the author seemed to give creedence not only to the charges of witchcraft against Ann Boleyn, but to the charge of incest between Ann and her brother George.  These charges, which were ostensibly the reasons why Ann was beheaded, have been generally dismissed by every historian since they occurred.So why, then, did Phillipa Gregory treat them as, if not fact, then at least possibilities?This would not have bothered me at all had she included an author's note that explained her reasoning.  I understand that the hints of Dark Doings and intrasibling sex make for a much more intriguing read, and if that was Ms. Gregory's intention, good for her.But why, then, would you not include something to tell your readers what liberties you've taken with the facts, and why?The fact that she did not do so is why I gave this book such a low rating.As a story, it's pretty good.  A bit heavy on the purple prose, but that didn't bother me too much.  The detail about life at Henry's court was quite good and the portrayal of Katherine of Aragon and Mary's guilty affection for her was touching.Is the book a tad too long?  I think so.  I didn't need page after page to remind me that Mary Boleyn loved farming and her children very, very much.  Got it the first time.  But it was an enjoyable story, and the characters were well-crafted and for the most part believable (though they veered towards charicature near the end).All in all, it wasn't bad, and I would read another book by this author.  I'm merely disappointed that she took such liberties with the facts (Mary's daughter in the Tower with Ann?  Huh?) and did not explain to her readers why she did so or what the truth was.
5 I admit it. I was completely ignorant of the story of Anne and Mary Boleyn. I guess it's historical or something. And I had no intention of reading something that at first glance looked like some bodice-ripper in need of an editor. But one chapter in, and I was hooked.The medieval (or maybe it's simply "historical", I don't know) setting is expertly crafted. Scenes, props, costumes, dialogue -- all of it feels authentic. The book sucks you into a king's court, and provides a fascinating glimpse into the minds of several courtiers. At its core, the book is perhaps a champion of women's rights, but the intriguing gamesmanship of the major players turns it into something more than message-y melodrama.The whole thing hinges on the relationship between the two sisters, and the complexity here is far beyond simple sibling rivalry. I think it's to your advantage if you slept through history class, since you won't see the twist ending coming. The story definitely took a different spin once Mary Boleyn began to wane and Anne Boleyn began to rise. The final pages provide a shocking conclusion. I'm sure liberties were taken to make the story more "cinematic," but it's a fine novel worthy of the time investment.
5 I thought that upon first "judging this book by its cover" that it would be long-winded and probably somewhat off-focus historically.  Wow, was I wrong!  Once I picked up this book, I couldn't put it down.  As a student of history, I must say that the author does a wonderful job of integrating a story into a fascinating time period.  Throughout the book I kept asking myself, "Who exactly is the other Boleyn girl - Ann or Mary?" and I bet you will too.
3 I understand the need for a historical novel to be entertaining, to be liberal in the interpretation of historical facts and to invent when the records themselves are lacking.That said, I often wonder why writers (and film makers) feel that they must attempt to re-write history in order to have an exciting product.  To begin with, most Tudor historians agree that Mary was the older sister of Anne, with a birth date of approximately 1499.  She was also not the blushing bride of the novel, as information appears to point to her being the mistress of Francis I while she spent time in France in service to Henry's sister Mary.  So much for the 12 year old virgin.Our own knowledge of Mary Boleyn is not that extensive; irregardless, the storyline itself is quite interesting and keeps one turning the pages.  But it is important to keep in mind that what one is reading here is fiction with very little basis in fact.I'm not sure what credentials Ms. Gregory has as a historian, but almost right off the bat she indicates that much "wine and water" was drunk at a royal feast.  In Tudor England no one drank the water; it was extremely unhealthy to the point of transmitting fatal diseases.  Mostly "light" or "short" beer was the beverage of men, women and children due to this fact.  To her credit, the author then seems to have come round and has everyone drinking the proper brews, but that one slip up was a harbinger of things to come.A positive side of this novel is the way Ms. Gregory teaches us how ambitious and vicious the court of a monarch was.  Aristocratic families jockeyed for power, watching, waiting and trying to win even the slightest favor from the king.  Women were, as she illustrates, useful only as pawns in gaining more prominence and power for the family involved.  And unfortunately, it was also not unusual for a woman to be cast aside once she had fulfilled (or failed) to advance the family's fortune.What I can't understand, however, is why Ms. Gregory felt that she had to demonize Anne and George Boleyn to the extent that she did.  We know from contemporary writings (both pro and con) that Anne was a high-strung, nervous and sensitive woman given to bouts of hysteria and often works of cruelty.  In that sense, she departed from the ideal court lady, and she ended up paying a heavy price for it.  But she was also well-educated, holding opinions about religion and politics that was unusual for someone of her gender and station.  None of this comes out in the book.Anne is made so vicious, I suppose, in order for Mary to appear as the soft-spoken woman she probably was.  But I doubt very much that the sisters' relationship was filled with so much vitriol and lack of feeling on Anne's part as this book portrays.  It would not have hurt to have given the relationship between Mary and Anne a bit more sensitivity and understanding.The one who suffers the most in this novel is George Boleyn.  There is absolutely no evidence that he was in love with, and had intimate relations, with Anne.  This was typical slander and an accusation so bizarre that at his trial it caused much mumbling and anger in the spectators, so much so that some were betting that he would be acquitted.  Unfortunately, we know this was not to be the case.All in all, if you want to read an interesting novel set in the court of Henry VIII, then this book will satisfy that need.  Just remember that most of it is conjecture and goes out of its way to make Mary Boleyn appear as an angel while Anne is the Wicked Witch of the West--or at least of Hever Castle.P.S.  Publishers need to assure that their books are proof read not only for spelling, but also for grammar.  This work is replete with commas all over the place, mostly where they do not belong and make no sense.  Perhaps this is just the sad result of a dumbing down of the English language in our modern era of "internet speak" and texting messages.
5 This is #2 in the Tudor Court series, taking place in 16th century England.  Mary Boleyn has fallen in love with King Henry VIII after much prompting by her family to leave her husband and go after the king (for the good of the family.)  When things do not work out for her, they prompt her sister, Anne, to try out for queen.  We all know how that ended.  In this very entertaining version Mary is portrayed as young and naive, while Anne is coniving and ambitious.  It is a great read as historical fiction.  There is also a movie out on this book, and there are 7 in the Tudor series.
5 I absolutely LOVED this book! It was my first experience with Philippa Gregory's work, and now I'm reading *all* of her novels. This is a fantastic transporting in time to an amazing period in history with all the intrigue of the Tudor court, and unforgettable characters. It takes an amazing level of talent to dive into the past, research real historical figures, then bring them to life on the page. Best of all, Gregory's plot twists and turns create real intrigue. It's an effort to *stop* reading on some nights when my tired eyes just won't stay open long enough to enjoy more of it.
5 The Other Boleyn Girl is an intriguing historical fiction novel based on the infamous Anne Boleyn and her often overlooked sister Mary, overshadowed by her sister's brazenness and tumultuous relationship with King Henry of England.  However, the story focuses on how Mary, too, rose to be one of the most powerful women in England as mistress to the indulgent King Henry. It also shows the way in which women were used solely as pawns in the royal game of chess and how as soon as one started to lose her luster and the king's eyes began to roam, she was quickly withdrawn, virtually forgotten, and replaced in the blink of an eye by a woman often younger and even more beautiful. Mostly, though, it passionately illustrates the seduction, corruption, and intoxication of power that existed in the royal court. I couldn't put it down.
5 It's quick paced and features characters and people that have been a source of interest over four hundred years.  However, after reading the book and following it up with nonfictional accounts of Mary and Anne, the truth is Mary was no puritan.  She supposedly was quite free with herself in France and only had one child with Henry.  But since this is fiction, it was a great read and one must take historical fiction with a healthy grain of salt.  The nonfiction accounts are just as riveting as the fictional accounts and I recommend readers follow up with Carrolly Erickson's biography of Anne.  Anne also was no saint and had quite a temper.
5 I picked this book up by chance at the grocery store and read 300 pages the first day, staying up way too late. The next morning I was late to work because I foolishly picked up the book again during breakfast and could not put it down. So many people know the fate of Anne Boleyn, and you would think that knowledge would spoil the suspense of a book like this, but Gregory plays it so masterfully that it becomes an asset, especially since the narrator is her sister Mary, about whom most people know nothing. The language and pacing of the novel are nothing less than genius, and the characterization is stunningly real. I can't say enough about the wonder that is The Other Boleyn Girl. Get your copy ASAP.
5 The Other Boleyn Girl is the best piece of historical fiction that I've ever read; there were several nights when I couldn't put down the book and read until the early morning hours.Historical fiction is not generally my preferred reading choice, but I thoroughly enjoyed Phillipa Gregory's portrayal of Henry VIII's court, the ambition of the Boleyn family, and the tragic demise of Anne Boleyn, the oldest of two sisters in the Boleyn family.  The story is told by Anne's younger sister, Mary Boleyn, who was married off at the age of 13, became the king's mistress until he lost interest in her, and then after many years of being a pawn in her family's ambitious plan to rise to power, whatever the cost, began to make her own decisions.Anne and Mary were both beautiful young women who were members of a powerful family that felt it could never have too much power or too much wealth.  It was fascinating to read about the choices each of these women made along the way, and where their choices led them.  It was also eye opening to read about what life was like for women in the 1500s.The English court during Henry VIII's reign is a poignant reminder of what can happen when corruption and abuse of power dominate, no one is safe.Even if you're not someone who typically reads historical fiction, read The Other Boleyn Girl.  It will not disappoint!
5 This book was the first Gregory book I ever read.  Then I lent my copy out to someone and low and behold...it's never been returned.  Since it was so good, I had to have another copy of it.  Perfect!
5 "The Other Boleyn Girl" is a wonderful story about the power of siblings and what status and favor can do to a family. The Boleyn family is brought to the kings court when they are children. The three siblings, Mary, Anne and Gregory, grow up around the king's court while their uncle plots for the family to move up in favor.Mary, the story's narrator, is chosen by the family to become the king's lover at barely 14 and produces a son and daughter for him even though she is already married to one of his courtiers. It is then decided that it is to be Anne that takes her place as the king's lover and the family's hope is for her to become queen in place of Katherine of Aragon.Through lies and plotting Anne eventually marries Henry and strives to give him the son he always wanted. When after a few attempts, she fails to do so, she and Gregory commit the ultimate sin so the family stays in favor even though he is in love with another man. As history will tell, Anne is eventually executed and Henry marries four more women before his death.The story is extremely engaging and the book kept my attention throughout. I was sorry for the story to end. I would definately recommend this book to anyone looking for a good story.
3 You've got to find this book appealing because of the time period it covers - the early Reformation.  It was a time of great upheaval in the Church, and many Europeans were forced to re-examine their core beliefs about papal supremacy, the authority of God's word, and the sanctity of marriage. In such a vital, dangerous, and exciting time, two sisters from the Howard family, Anne Boleyn and her sister Mary Boleyn, emerged to become rivals for the affections of King Henry VIII.As we all know, Anne Boleyn fought her way to the throne, eventually becoming queen of England and the mother of Elizabeth I.The first thing I noticed about the book was its length of over 600 pages.  Normally, I'd be wary of such a contemporary novel, as they nearly all seem to go 400 pages (frequently for no good reason); however, in this instance, I think it is necessary for Gregory to drag her story out.  Even though I knew what was in store for the Boleyn sisters, I began to wonder if Anne would ever get to the throne of England in this book, and perhaps there was a sequel to the book that I just hadn't noticed.  By taking the steps slowly, Gregory makes us feel all of the impatience and frustration that Anne felt, if not the desperation.  So, for pacing the novel, I give the author high marks.Some readers have criticized Gregory's portrayals of the Howard family and of Anne specifically.  Some call the portrayals overly negative, judgemental, harsh, and one-sided.  Obviously, Gregory feels comfortable painting a heartless picture of many characters in the book, whether deserved or not (and I suspect, though I don't know, that some of her characters in her other novels suffer a similar rendering).  It's Gregory's story to tell, and if she wants to pit greed and selfishness against sweetness and light (as in her characterization of Mary), then have at it, I say.  As a reader, ask yourself if you would have kept turning the pages of this book given a more nuanced, historically accurate portrayal.  Clearly, Gregory is very familiar with the concept of oppositional elements, and these elements combine to tell a romping good tale, one that, as the evidence shows, met a highly successful reception in Gregory's chosen market.TOBG has some rather glaring grammatical errors. For that reason, it  doesn't get my highest rating.  If you're not annoyed by such things, read the book. It is a work of escapism and a perfect distraction from the stress of modern life.
2 Okay. There are a multitude of things that struck sour with this book. I have to wonder why Philipa Gregory seems out to get Anne Boleyn; so determined to paint this ambitious, intellegent woman as a sexually predatory harpy. What was I supposed to take from this book? Wanting power is bad? Marry a country man and have lots of babies?But I wouldn't have minded that if the book had been well-written. Gregory is entitled to espouse whatever philosophy about history she chooses, and of course she can play fast and loose with the facts, as it's fiction. But the book was slow and too long (and keep in mind, I adore long books), and man, was her characterization all over the place. Mary Boleyn varies between painting herself as a sexually innocent bystander and a knowledgable schemer, vying for the reader's sympathy while at the same time betraying her own sister's trust. She spends half the book longing for a simple country life, but when it's offered to her, demures she couldn't possibly lower herself like that. It's hard to get into a novel where the main character is so unlikable -- and on the other side of the fence, Anne doesn't develop AT ALL as a character. Oh, everyone in the book makes lots of references to the change in her personality, but such does not for character growth make. She begins the book as a conniving witch, she ends the book as a conniving witch who happens to be a dead queen.Which leads to my greatest complaint.Ms. Gregory -- please, for the love of God, grab the nearest dictionary and look up the word "subtlety."If you studied even ONE of Shakespeare's plays in school you know that Anne Boleyn, mother of Queen Elizabeth I, was imprisoned in the Tower and then executed after only a few years of marriage to Henry VIII. So I do not understand Gregory's constant need to HINT AT IT. Reading this book is the literary equivalent of dodging anvils. From the first chapter (and it's a long book, people), Anne is saying things like:"Do [such and such]? I would rather lay my head on the block!"Ka-BOOM!"This room makes me feel as if I were locked in the Tower!"Ke-RUNCH!"I would lay down my life to capture the king."Ka-POW!And it doesn't stop there. With every page characters discussed the hardship of choosing between sisters, what the Bible says about bedding one sister and marrying the other, etc, etc. I wanted to shout, "I get it! I get it!"Which is not to say the book is a total waste of time. The historical events were interesting on their own, and it was a lot of fun to read about Gregory's conception of court life. But overall, reading it made my brain feel bruised.
5 WOW...what a book!  I don't know why I feel like the last one on earth to read about Henry VIII or Anne Boleyn--I don't even think I knew who they were before reading this (sad, but true)...and now-after days and nights of nonstop reading- I feel like I could teach a class on these two (a short class...for toddlers)  I was totally drawn in by the powerful wills, rivalries and love described by Gregory--it seemed both real and impossible.  Is it possible that Anne Boleyn was truely the enormous BIT#*!H that was given to us in this novel?  Is that possible?  If so, then I regret ever assigning that word to any living being because no one-and I mean NO ONE - holds a candle to Annie B.  and amazingly, as she walked the block, somehow I began to manifest sympathy for her-despite hundreds of pages of hating her.  The story also satisfied the great romantic in me-no better love has been described than that of Mary and William Stafford.  How Gregory is able to breathe those first passionate feelings of love into the pages is amazing.  You put the book down but somehow find that everything around you looks a little different.  Feelings become charged.  Little sparks of passion emerge.  You can't read about this kind of love and not find yourself in love again.  (unfortunately, reading about Henry and his infidelities kind of kills these feelings and I was torn between loving men like Stafford and feeling disgusted by men like Henry, not that I've ever known a king...but I know plenty of men who think they come close)  I loved this book.
4 I admit, at first I thought this book was a bit of fluff. I realized it wasn't when I found myself unable to leave the story to so much as eat. Don't give up if you've just begun, this book will take you on a ride of intrigue, scandal, ambition, lust, incest and greed. The writing seemed very simple to me, but the story was complex enough to fill in the gap. I loved reading about the Tudors and although I knew it wasn't entirely true, the story was entertaining & shocking enough to keep me reading until the last word.This story is told from Mary Boleyn's point of view and and tells the tale of the Boleyn family's ambition to get the to the top of the English crown, no matter what the cost...and oh what prices they pay! Mary was chosen by her family to put herself in the king's (Henry VIII) favor (mainly with sex) to rise to the top to benefit her family. Everything seemed to be going well for Mary until her highly ambitious and beautiful sister Anne came to court and stole all of her thunder and did whatever it took her to get what she wanted, and more. In the king's quest for an heir, a son, he leads the country to the height of scandal by divorcing Queen Katherine, who is barren, to open the door for a new marriage...perhaps to a Boleyn.It's interesting to see the dynamic between Anne, Mary and their brother, George. Rivals from the crib, Anne and Mary were born to be in competition with eachother and were raised for the sole purpose of landing an advantagous marriage. Anne will stop at nothing to land a sucessful marriage to a duke and once that prospect is squashed she goes straight for the heart of the country...the king. She is a shameless, uncaring, evil, ambitious woman, but something about her makes you root for her, in a sick way. For years and years she stops at nothing to get what she wants, but the road she takes to get there is wrought with scandal that puts Anne and her family of unwilling supporters in grave danger.If you want an engaging read, this is it. How many times did I say the word scandalous in this review? A bunch? That's because it is! Read it, you won't regret it. Also, I think thay are making a movie that is to come out this winter. It's a great time to take in the book.
1 I may be the only person in the world who didn't really like this book. And I tried...I really did.This is actually the first Philippa Gregory book that I have read. It was the first historical fiction I read.  It came highly recommended to me by a friend, this friend and I have so much in comment and I usually can trust her taste implicitly...not so much this time. I know people have praised this book ad they are certainly entitled to their opinions. I know my feelings on this are extremely unpopular.I would love to give a good rationalization as to why I have such disdain for this book but unfortunately I can't. I want to say this I adore Philippa Gregory, despite my distaste for this one I did not let it drive me away from her books. And if you look you will see I have reviewed some of her other books and I gave them positive reviews. It's not her as an author, it's just this story...even the best authors have a failure and that is this one. I am sorry to those enjoyed.I found it almost unreadable. The character development was shoddy and the story just felt like drug on and on and on...it was borderline painful. Yes, there were historical inaccuracies (this is not the only story of hers that has historical inaccuracies). I know most people who took issue with this book took issue with inaccuracies. Fiction will be fiction...I get that. I just don't like this book.I do not recommend this book to anyone but that's just my two cents. This was a hard review to write considering my love and admiration for Philippa Gregory as a writer.
5 This was a GREAT book, I'm an avid reader and I highly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in Tudor English History.  Althought is not technically a true account, it does have some historical truth and the thoughts and feelings of the main character are absolutely riviting..  Great Read A+++++++
5 Could be your favorite historical fiction novel, if you like to learn about history, certain time periods in a way that's entertaining.I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  It is written through the eyes of Mary Boleyn, Anne Boleyn's sister, who is a courtier of the court.  From this viewpoint, the reader is allowed to experience the &quot;whole&quot; Boleyn story.  Starting with the relationship between King Henry and his first wife, Katherine of Aragon.  Through, the influence Anne Boleyn had over the court, politics, and eventually the Church of England.This book also introduces major historically influencial characters in this time period, and explains about the establishment of the Church of England and the seperation from the Roman Catholic church and why.There is a lot discussion about whether Mary was the elder Boleyn or the younger.  Philippa Gregory depicts Mary as the younger Boleyn, which recent studies and theories believe is TRUE.  The fact that Anne was sent abroad to study in the French court, while they settled on a suit for Mary, supports the claim that Mary was younger.  Also, there is some historical information that the Boleyn's were attempting to marry the eldest daughter, Anne to a suit that would have been beneficial to the Boleyn's.  During that time, Mary was married, while they negotiated Anne's marriage.  As history can prove, Anne did not marry in that &quot;advantageous&quot; suit, but later married Henry the VIII, as his 2nd wife.  The first to be beheaded.Totally mesmorizing, engaging and spellbinding.  This ranks as one of my favorite historical fictions.  Very well written, and complete.
5 I saw the movie monday and went out the next day and bought the book...I am not even done with it yet but all I want to do is read this book...it is a totall page turner. Excellent book can't wait to see what happens next!!
4 For several years, I have picked this book up on many occasions and turned right around and set it back down.  Perhaps, I should have stuck with my original inclination and left it on the shelf. It's not bad - and quite entertaining, but draggy.  I got mid way through and wondered if I should finish it - deciding that I'd like to see the movie (I'm a sucker for grand period pieces) I pushed through.  The historical story itself is vastly interesting.  I'm not enough of an English scholar to sift fact from fiction, but I image the bones of history are intact.  In general, Gregory's language does not seem authentic - perhaps her publishers wanted a lightened up version for mass market/general consumption - - I understand how that could happen.  I suppose it's a story that we know the ending, so it seems like it takes a long time to get there - - Looking forward to the costumes and elaborate set designs.
5 This is an old tale told from a new angle which is fun. My book club read it and we all enjoyed it. I will definitely bookmark this author.
5 I have Philippa Gregory to thank for my new interest in history.  It was a snooze in high school and now I am hooked on the stories and am learning about history too.  I started with "The Constant Princess" which was an OK start, but then moved the "The Other Boleyn Girl" got hooked, and had to go on to The Boleyn Inheratance" and "The Queens Fool" - ALL great stories.I am now driven to learn as much about the British monarchy and other European monarchy as I can and am reading other authors to fill in other time frames. Still, Philippa is consistently the best (although there may be better stories on Elizabeth than "The Virgin's Lover").  Great period movies to see AFTER you are hooked are Elizabeth I (the HBO version is my favorite) and Queen Margo (French film).  I got my friends hooked on Philippa too, so there is something interesting here, it's not just me.
2 "Henry the VIII and his fistful of wives" has been popular reading for me and my contempraries who grew up in Indiain the 1960s. I recently had time to read "The other Boleyn girl". I inhaled it rather quickly because the topic was of interest to me and also because Phillipa Gregory cast of characters was very predictable. I agree with C. Spinney "tunispinney" (Reston, VA United States) that it is more like a pithy gossip novel. The historical facts could have been handled more delicately and the characters brought to life in a more sensitive manner. They do appear predicatable like a comic book. Mary is the "dumb-blond" Anne is the" Mata-Hari". Henry is the "pompous-...". Jane Seymour the " Simpering-ninny".....I think readers who loved this book just like to eat their meals predigested. I have an interesting idea though, I wonder if someone else would write this book with a modern twist. What if ultrasound, amniocentesis and genetic counselling was available to KIng Henry and his wives? Probably Endland would have considered artificial insemination????Boggles the mind, but perhaps fewer queens would have gotten the axe.
5 One develops a solid understanding of one of the lesser known persons of this time. a good, enjoyable, gentle read
3 I enjoy reading historical fiction and the Tudor/Stuart period of English history is one of my favorite settings.  It was for that reason that I purchased this book without really knowing anything about the author.Soon after ordering the book, I looked at some of Philippa Gregory's other works and I became concerned that I might have bought a Harlequin romance.  I was somewhat pleasantly surprised therefore when the book turned out to be a very pleasant and entertaining read.Despite the fact that it exceeded my lowered expectations, however, I can safely say that I've read better treatments of the subject matter, most notably by Margaret George.  And for those that rave that this is the best historical fiction they've ever read, I can only say two things: 1) There is no accounting for personal taste, and 2) broaden your horizons and take on such authors as Michener, Clavell, McCollough and even the aforementioned Margaret George.That having been said, I did learn a little about this brief phase of Tudor history, told through the eyes and ears of the older sister of Anne Boleyn.  I was not familiar with Mary Boleyn or their brother George and the suspicions regarding his homosexuality and incestuous relationship with the Queen.  I suspect that the author took great liberties with the facts in this regard.  Again, a pleasant but somewhat average read overall.
4 I have long been fascinated by English history and have read various books about monarchs by assorted authors. This was definitely the easiest, and most entertaining read. But be warned..if you're looking for accurate history, this is not the place to turn. Basically, The Other Boleyn Girl is a NOVEL based on a handful of facts on Mary Boleyn. It was written to entertain, not educate. No one knows a whole lot about Mary, but the story is a wonderful tale of finding oneself and true love. My main complaint is the sexual content. Of course, a story about the king's mistress is not going to be completely innocent, but there was a lot of dialogue and descriptions that could have been left out. It's a good story, but a dirty one so be careful who you give this to.
2 Couldn't keep my interest.  I love historical books but it seemed too long for me.
1 This book may be fine as a fantasy, but I feel it is ridiculous to rewrite actual people's lives and rewrite history just for a buck. Much of this book is a complete fabrication, and I am afraid many will take this book as factual. Now it's a movie so even more people can be misguided.
4 Before I get started, I'd like to first and foremost admit that my knowledge in history is severely lacking. I was not a good student in school, and of all the subjects I floated through, history was certainly one of the subjects that took the hardest hit. Plus, they didn't have the History Channel when I was in school, which would have been WAY better than the lackluster instructors that turned me off to the past. That said, the only thing I really know about King Henry the Eighth is that he existed at some point in time and there is a children's song about him (and I do not even know the lyrics to said song).Given that I have no previous knowledge or opinion of King Henry the Eighth, his first wife Queen Katherine, or any of the Boleyns for that matter, I went along with the story just fine, finding things quite believable (even though, as a work of historical fiction, we all know that they are not truth). I was not shocked, upset, or disappointed with Gregory's treatment of the characters like some readers have expressed, simply because I was a blank slate that knew next to nothing about these historical figures or their lives to begin with. So, while I found the work to be pretty entertaining, I accept that it is in all probability, to some extent, a deviation from historical fact.The book sucked me and kept my attention quite well for most of it's duration (600+ pages) however it did lag a bit about 2/3 to 3/4 of the way through. It just hit a couple of points when all I could think was "Is Anne ever going to marry the King already?" and "Is Anne ever going to get pregnant and carry a baby to term again?" Of course, given the nature of the book, the drama carried me through. And although many people have said the depiction of Mary's character was historically inaccurate (as well as the King's and Anne's for that matter), it didn't mean I couldn't relate to her wanting to get the hell out of that court and live a more pure and simple life with the man she loved in the country. I'd churn butter any day over having to deal with the stuff that went down in the court.So, overall, a pretty entertaining read and a page turner.
4 This was one of those stay up late to read type books. I picked this book because the description on the back flap sounded interesting, not because I wanted learn about Tudor England or any other historical facts related to this period. I read this as I would read any other fiction, which by the way is a class of literature comprising works of "imaginative narration". After some reviews on this site, did I realize that not everything in this book is accounted for and can be proven, such as birth order of Boleyn girls, etc. Those quetsions didn't bother me only because I was reading this book for entertainment purposes, not for historical accuracy. I do have a newfound interest in this period of time in England and will look into more non-fiction works to get more factual information.I would recommend this if you want to a read an intruiging historical FICTION.
5 I won't go into detail about what the book is about you will just have to read it.  But it is FAB, FAB, FAB, and FAB.
5 I am not going to be talking about the historicity of the story, as I cannot speak much to that aspect - I'm sure other reviewers have taken care of that.I will admit that I had a bit of trouble getting into this story as it feels heavy on details in the beginning, but by the fourth or fifth chapter I didn't want to put it down.This book is all about life in the Court of Henry VIII. Life as a courtier is always glamourized and I felt like this story brought a little more reality to it - how women were used as pawns, marriages were alliances and not for love, and everyone was out to make it as far as possible, no matter who they had to step on.I did find the relationship between the sisters hard to read at points; I have a sister and she and I would never treat each other that way.  But again, it was another time.  And we aren't vying for the affection of a king.It was a well written story, though I'm sure there are some inaccuracies. I can't wait to read the next book in the series.
4 A Historical Fiction novel can be expected to draw a certain critic, almost immediately, which is the person that tells you the book is not historical and is not fact, but merely a well-dressed Harlequin Romance novel.  Here's the situation:Very little is actually known about what happened during Henry VIII's reign; it was then treason to speak against the King and also the world had not quite developed it's achival talents in 1536.  What Ms. Gregory's novel does is study a wealth of research by other authors and spins a possible story from what little we know of this point in history.  There is fiction sprinkled in to fill the gaps of course - otherwise you have non-fiction.  That's the "fiction" part of Historical Fiction.We don't even know for sure if Mary was the elder or younger sister to Anne.  Historians disagree on that fact and put her birth anywhere from 1500-1507.  This book chooses a position that she is a year younger than Anne.What has been documented in history is followed closely here.  Dates and times, locations, etc.  The rest is a enjoyable, plausable story.The book was a great read and was easy to follow.  I prefered "The Queen's Fool" to this one however, perhaps because it was my first of Phillipa Gregory's.
3 I am actually a bit torn between a 3 star and 4 star rating on this one. I enjoyed the book and thought it was at least an interesting picture of sibling rivalry. I loved that it took a different sort of look at this time in Henry VIII's court. But I felt that the characters were a bit vapid--especially Mary, who seemed to change her mind depending on which way the wind was blowing. Still, the novel as a whole was fairly historically accurate and did keep me interested, even though of course I knew how it would end--at least for Anne.
4 I agree with "Literature Queen" who posted on 26 February. This book interests with its 'insider view' - but does not have much basis in fact, except in the large overall themes. I still sometimes really like a book like this, though, or a program like Masterpiece Theatre's Henry VIII (with Helena Bonham Carter) because - even if there aren't historically accurate - they breed new Tudor fans.Though the characterization of Anne is exaggerated to the nth degree, think for a moment what type of woman it would take to cause a TOTAL upheaval in a society, especially in the 16th century when as you can see as you read this book, woman are little more than property.Because of Anne Boleyn, the UK became (and still is) Anglican - basically, Catholicism without the Pope (an IMMENSE presence then). Because of Anne Boleyn, the Catholic hierarchy in England was pulled down so violently that it caused a huge revolt. Because of Anne Boleyn - this the novel points out well - NO wife in that time, especially one of Henry VIII's would ever feel secure again.There is no doubt that Anne became completely impossible for her family to deal with - indeed, even Henry couldn't deal with her. That, more than any other one reason (even the absence of a son), was the reason she was done away with. So, her portrayal here - as an intelligent, ruthless, striving young woman with a blackened heart out to get her way - is probably not TOO far off the mark. That's the lasting image I come away with.In my mind, good historical fiction writes non-real people into real historical situations accurately recreated. Leon Uris is a master of this. The writers others' mention in their reviews are probably equally as good. I guess it's a harder task to create plausible personalities, motives, and dialog when writing about real people from history. Obviously, though this book is a page-turner, Gregory found it too hard to stick with the basis facts so changed them to fit her story.Use this book as 1) a fun throw-away beach read, or 2) the introduction to wanting to learn REAL Tudor history.
1 I'd love to read the book but I'm not paying $7.99 for delivery to my $300 Kindle when it's available in paperback for $6.40.
3 I usually love historical fiction.  I think it's fascinating when a writer does her research and presents a story that, while true in its historical accuracy, manages to bring a character to life and lend it a bit of modern sophistication.  I love feeling that connection with a character from the past, so I was looking forward to reading this novel.  The problems are many.  First of all, Ms. Gregory has cast aside much of what modern historians accept as fact; namely, that Mary was the older sister, that her children's paternity was always questioned, and there is no evidence to suggest their brother was gay.  The addition of these elements serves to cheapen this novel, relegating it to a tabloid of sorts.  Historical inaccuracies aside, I also found flaws in the writing itself.  Run-on sentences abound, affecting the overall fluency.  Also, the characters are so exaggerated as to be quite unbelievable.  Anne is portrayed as purely evil, seeking her own selfish ambitions with no regard for her family, while Mary is portrayed as a pure and innocent child who is used unwillingly by her ambitious family.The reason I decided to give it 3 stars is because, if you can ignore the "historical" aspect, it is a riveting tale.  The 600+ pages went by fairly quickly for me, and I was honestly interested in the story, particularly that of Mary and William's courtship.  It takes a large imagination and no small amount of talent to invent such a touching courtship, and for that, she is to be commended.
4 The Other Boylen Girl is a fantastic portrayal of Henry the man-slut saga told from the perspective from the 'other' Boylen girl.The characters are wonderfully described, and the court intrigue fun.The main concerno of this novel is the mammoth near 700 pages. I'm pretty sure around 200 pages of them could be cut. Most of the last part of the book is a slow decline into the inevitable beheadings and remarriages. Perhaps the author wanted to keep to some degree of historical accuracy, but the last act lacks tension and is a bit of a drag.Required reading for fans of Henry-man-whore and victorian type dramas, perhaps too long to frivulously read on an afternoon whim.
5 I enjoyed the book very much. Philippa Gregory is an excellent author and historian. I am anxious to read her other books.
5 One of my favorite books, I've read it many times. So very pleased to have it n hardback.
5 Prior to this book I had never read anything by this author, and I am not usually one who reads historical novels; however, this was excellent. A local book club here chose this book, so I was "forced" into the reading and glad of it. Once I started, I could not put the book down. Historical accounts and background seem accurate and the lives and actions of the characters are highly believable. Wonderful pacing and characterization.
3 If you approach this book as being almost purely fiction, you'll be fine - because that's what it is.  Phillipa Gregory has taken enormous liberties with what few facts there are about Mary Boleyn, including her place in the birth order of the Boleyn family and her age when she returned to the Tudor court after being raised in the French court.  Most likely Mary Boleyn was not married at thirteen and did not become Henry's mistress at fourteen, and her reputation as a woman of loose morals while she lived at the French court is well documented.  It is possible that her first child was Henry's (though there is considerable doubt about this), but her second child most probably was not.  Her second marriage, traditionally thought to be for love alone, might also have been a shrewd attempt on Mary's (and possibly her family's) part to get her out of the picture at the time when Anne Boleyn had obviously begun to fall from grace and was likely to take members of her wildly ambitious family with her.One frustrating aspect of all historical fiction is the application of modern thought and modern philosophy to the characters of people who lived at other times in history.  Mary's frequent feminist musings about the "plight" of women in the Tudor era is probably entirely Gregory's imagination.  Such thoughts and ideas simply did not exist in Tudor times.  Girls in Mary Boleyn's position were raised from the cradle with not so much as a notion that there was any life possible for them other than arranged marriage, and their sole purpose in that marriage was to produce children, preferably male, and to advance their families in any way that they could.  There was no remote possibility of self-determination - they were strictly the instruments of their fathers before marriage and their husbands after marriage.  When authors attribute modern feministic thought to Anne and Mary Boleyn (Gregory is not the only author to have done this by a long shot), they are taking the wildest liberty of all with history and the social mores and practices of the time.Most historical fiction tends to lose me when modern words, like "sexy" are added into the thought processes or speech of characters living in times like the Tudor era.  This is simply sloppy writing and thinking on the part of the author - a blatant attempt to "update" things for the modern reader.  The word didn't exist then.  Sure, there were probably words that meant the same thing during the 1500's, but "sexy" is a modern invention.  It sets the teeth on edge if the reader has much knowledge of the era the book is purportedly set in.If you approach this as strictly fiction, based loosely on rather spurious historical fact (almost nothing is really known of Mary Boleyn, and since Henry had most images and belongings of Anne Boleyn destroyed after her execution, information about Anne, including her real birthdate and her actual appearance, is vague as well), it's an interesting read.  Just don't think it's any kind of accurate portrayal of Tudor women or life in Tudor times - or even of the historical records that do exist.  Much manipulation has been applied to the facts to make Mary younger than she probably was at the time, and to "justify" her actions (her supposed devotion to Katherine of Aragon in the book is a case in point).  Mary Boleyn would have had no will of her own - if her father had directed her to attract the attention of Henry VIII (and there is no proof that this was the case) or if the King had decided that she would be his mistress, that was what would happen - period.  She would have had absolutely no say in the matter, and likely would not have even considered her position as royal mistress in any way wrong or harmful to Katherine of Aragon.Take the book with a grain of salt, and enjoy it as fiction.  Perhaps it will make you curious and ready to read more about the real lives and times of the people involved.
5 If you've seen the movie and were disappointed, don't neglect the book for that reason! This book is a great example of its genre and is historical fiction at its best. The movie was almost embarassingly bad and was no credit to this book.
5 I have never read historical fiction so I borrowed The Other Boleyn Girl when it came recommended by a good friend. I was a little wary at first but, wow! You will not be able to put this down! Phillipa Gregory embraces Mary's character (the other Boleyn sister) and brings her to life. Gregory brings emotion and details to the story that are better than any prime time story line.I am very curious to read more from Gregory. If you are a frequent reader of historical fiction or Phillipa Gregory, I would love any recommendations. Please comment.The Other Boleyn Girl is a great book to curl up in bed with. You will be pleasantly surprised.
5 I chose the book that displays the original cover because the newest film version cover makes me sick....the movie was so lousy compared to the mastery of this book!!!The book is captivating so much in the depth of it's characters, the richness of the content and the rawness of her descriptions - that I could not put it down.  It honestly made me delve into this whole new (well not new....just more publicly noticed) genre of Historical Fiction.  I acutally was inspired to learn more about British history, to compare names, dates, and places in the story.  It was such an adventure to me - and I learned a lot with the facts in the book, mixed in with the fantasy.It's such a great read, that the only disappointment I had was trying out every other Gregory book, and being sorely disappointed.  The Virgin's Lover comes close - but not nearly as tantalizing. Every one knows the factual endings to these stories....but it's the means to the ends that captures you!If you enjoy reading a little bit about history, but in a more imaginative "what if?" way - you will LOVE this story!!
4 "The Other Boleyn Girl" is one in a long line of Tudor historical fiction books that I have read.  One thing in particular that stood out to me to recommend this book in particular is its point of view.  Not only does it explore the perennially-neglected character of Mary Boleyn, but it also provides a rare complex portrayal of Anne Boleyn.  Most historical fiction books either love Anne Boleyn or hate her - she is either the heroine or the villain.  But in "The Other Boleyn Girl" the unique perspective of her sister allows her to be seen flexibly in both roles.  Another quality to recommend this book is its perspective on time.  Most other books that I have read pare down the long, long courtship of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn and it was not until I read this book that I realized how remarkable it was that she held on to him so long.  "The Other Boleyn Girl"'s strength is its portrayal of characters and attempts to understand their motives.
5 It's hard to sum up such a awesome book in a few words. Plus, it's huge- over 600 pages. First, I went into this not knowing much about this subject and the people, so if you're in the same boat this review might be helpful to you.I loved it! The writing was so easy to get into and it was very easy to read. I was hooked after about 20 pages. And for me that's saying a lot. I really got into these people's lives and I often had to remind myself that this was not fact, but a lot of fiction. However, I find this story compelling and likely to be very close to the truth.I really don't have a complaint about the book. I enjoyed everything about it. Most of all learning about life in the royal kingdom. As I said, I have never read any books on this subject or studied much about it in school, so I was thoroughly enthralled. If you're looking to try something new or kingdoms of England are a favorite of yours I really recommend this book. Beware that it's not all proven fact, but I think you won't mind once you see how fun reading this book is!
5 I really appreciate a book, especially historical fiction, in which an author painstakingly researches the material. You could tell by the writing of Philippa Gregory that she is an expert when it comes to the matters of King Henry VIII and his court. This expertise of the author makes the story much more enjoyable and believable. Her writing and descriptions in this book are incredible. She definitely has a grasp of the English language. You will understand what I mean when you read this book.This is definitely a "chick book" but I read it anyway because I enjoy history and stories of the kings and queens of Europe. I have to admit that I was never once bored with this book throughout the entire 661 pages. The story moved fast and the events took place one right after the other. The cool thing was that I really had feelings for the characters which is always important to me when I read a book. In this book I felt for the characters, some I loved and some I despised. And I found them believable as well.There are plenty of other great reviews on here that can tell you what this book is specifically about, but in one sentence it is simply a book about two sisters competing for the love of the king. I am very surprised to have liked it as much as I did.A quick warning to parents who may be deciding if there kids or young teenagers can read this book: there are some very graphic sexual depictions in this book. I would read it prior to them to decide.
5 The book wasn't in the best condition, but I'm happy I got my hands on a cheap copy.I'm obsessed with the Tudors.
4 I know this book has gotten a lot of buzz and reviews already, even more so now that there's a movie coming out, but I'll go ahead and throw in my two cents.Since I was a teenager I've been an avid reader of everything to do with the Tudor dynasty, from the Wars of the Roses through Elizabeth's reign, so there was no chance I wasn't picking this one up!  I applaud Philippa Gregory for going at this through a previously obscure viewpoint - that of Mary Boleyn, Anne's older sister.  Before this book, I don't think most people were even remotely aware of her existence.  Not that they should be - the poor girl was just another one of Henry's playthings, but Gregory fleshes her out beautifully.  At only fourteen years old and already married to a courtier her family had chosen for her, Mary catches the king's eye and soon becomes his mistress.  This is at a time when Henry is still young and virile, and considered one of the most handsome men in England, and Mary, like many other women before her, is enthralled by him.  She bears him two children before her ambitious younger sister, Anne, displaces her in Henry's affections.  Not an unusual or particularly gripping circumstance in and of itself, but it's Gregory's portayal of the Boleyn/Howard family and their ruthless ambition to win court favor and power that is so compelling.  Both Mary and Anne are simply pawns to be used by their parents and uncle, and personal happiness is of absolutely no importance whatsoever.  They're bartered for like common prostitutes, and the brutal coldness of it sends a shiver down the spine.  The complex relationship between Mary and Anne - part sisterly love and devotion, part bitter jealousy and rivalry - also rings uncomfortably true, and illuminates just how insidiously a larger family dynamic can wreak havoc on a relationship that might have been healthier had it been allowed to flourish away from all the scheming and manipulation of those with a bigger agenda.  We all know how it ends - with Anne's head in a basket - but we come away breathing a sigh of relief, at least, for Mary, who manages to elude the axe herself and live out the rest of her days in peace with a man she loves.  It's that personal growth of Mary's that will hit home for a lot of women.Readers should remember, of course, that ultimately this is a novelized account and there are some things that shouldn't be taken as fact, such as the always-titillating accusation against Anne of having a sexual relationship with her brother George and bearing a horribly deformed, stillborn child by him.  That and other speculation has always been bandied about, but none of it is proven fact.  Keeping that in mind, this is a wonderful read that brings that particularly fascinating, troubled period in history to glorious life.(For a great read about Anne Boleyn herself, I recommend Mistress Anne by Carolly Erickson.  I read it last year and thought it was terrific.  It doesn't shy away from the truth - that Anne was ruthlessly ambitious in her quest to become queen - but it's one of the few studies that really portray her as a whole, flawed woman and not just a scheming witch.  Highly recommended).
3 This book starts out wonderfully. Gregory leads us through the court of the king and through the many plots of the various families attempting to come into power. I liked the relationship amongst the Boleyn siblings, it was fascinating and made it feel like you knew these historical characters.However, by the middle of the book the story started to drag. Too much time is spent on how long the sisters waited and waited until they could each marry or have a relationship with the king. Also, something that bothered me, but perhaps not other readers, was that the story become one about sex by the end.Overall, this is a good book that introduces us to this time period, but too long and slow.
1 I'd give this book zero stars if I could. Historical Fiction is one of my favorite genres, and this is not fit to be included in that category it is so filled with willful errors. I won't labor the point, just suffice to say I agree with all of the other one-star reviews. This book is awful, and it infuriated me to read it. I have devoured every book about Anne Boleyn that I could find since Junior High, and have loved them with few exceptions. This one is absolutely dreadful. I hate to think of all the people who have read and love this book and now believe a pack of lies about a historical event. Just a few examples that others have also listed: Anne was the younger sister, Mary Boleyn was not sweet and innocent, but rather the mistress of the King of France, and kicked out of the French court for prostitution before she returned to England and got involved with Henry. He was not in love with her, and pretty much gave her the boot with no regrets. Anne Boleyn is universally believed by scholars to have been completely innocent of the charges leveled against her, and indeed, most historians think that probably her accusers didn't even really believe them. It was just a way to get rid of her. And, must upsetting to me as I read it, Gregory didn't even include the fact that most accounts say that Henry offered Anne her life if she would just sign a document agreeing that their marriage was illegal due to his relationship with Mary-thus agreeing also that Elizabeth was a bastard. If she had done that, he would have spared Anne's life, but Elizabeth would have been disinherited. Because of her love for her daughter, Anne chose to die to preserve her daughter's rights. And so, England got one of its greatest monarchs. For whatever reason, Phillipa Gregory decided to go against all established research and known facts about these events and historical figures and write this piece of Tudor Trash. Please don't waste your time. If you want wonderful, interesting books about Anne Boleyn, try any or all of these: Murder Most Royal by Jean Plaidy, The Secret Diary of Anne Boleyn by Robin Maxwell, or Anne Boleyn by Norah Lofts.
5 I love buying books, especially when they go for a small price like $4.00. This book was purchased used, I was hesitant at first but received it and was very pleased. Great condition. The cover has shelf wear but overall it's readable.
4 Perhaps not historically accurate, but a beautifully written, nicely detailed, compelling story. It was refreshing to read about these familiar characters from another perspective. I will read more of Philippa Gregory's books.
5 But of course I didn't. This book was wonderful! A thick book but def a page turner! It starts out with a beheading and ends in the worst tradegy but I hope Mary went on and had a wonderful life.What it must have been like to be made to marry someone you really don't want to and to have to do various other things. I would love to read a sequel to this book to see how Mary and William are doing!!We follow Mary as a preteen and her love with the King and her slow decline while her sister has caught the King's eye. The jealousy of sisters! WOW! George the brother has quite a part in this story, more so I am sure! There is death, love, friendship, although not much and more in this book!BRAVO!! Def one of my fav authors now!
5 I had more or less given up reading historical novels when I ran out of books by Jean Plaidy to read. For me, she was one of the truly rare authours (saving Sharon Kay Penman of course) who got the feel, tone and character of her subject matter right. So that I had more or less stopped looking out for new books in this genre to read. And then I saw "The Other Boleyn Girl" at my local bookstore, and after sampling the first chapter, I realized that I had to buy this book. And I'm awfully glad that I did. What a simply wonderful read!! Phillipa Gregory did a really splendid job of evoking the splendor and turbulence of Henry VIII's court. I also thought that her choice of narrator, Mary Boleyn (the elder of the Boleyn sisters) was an inspired as well. Most historians (and perhaps I've only read the those that espoused this majority view) tend to dismiss Mary as an empty headed good time girl because she was used and cast aside with very little ceremony; and because she never rose as high as her sister, Anne. But you have to wonder: Mary was also the only Boleyn sibling to survive the vicissitudes of Henry VIII's reign, and the fall of the Howard-Boleyn fortunes; she also managed to marry for love (and a happy and lasting marriage it proved to be too) the second time around. So perhaps there was a lot more to the 'other Boleyn girl' than everyone credits?Gregory's novel opens and closes with two executions -- it begins with the execution of the Duke of Buckingham in 1521, and ends with the execution of Anne Boleyn in 1536. With this rather grim events framing her book, the novel proper starts in 1522, with Anne arrival at the Tudor court, where her elder sister, Mary, is already lady-in-waiting to Henry's wife, Queen Katherine. From the very beginning we see that while there is a bond that ties the Boleyn sisters together, there is also a deep rooted rivalry between them. It is a tense time at court: the queen (already quite a few years older than her husband) has yet to produce a male heir to the throne, and people are beginning to question if the aging queen will ever be able to bear children again. Some of Henry's advisers are even began to gently hint that he should put his Spanish wife aside and look for a younger more fecund wife. In the midst of all this intrigue, Mary soon catches the king's roving eye. Although she is married and still quite loyal to the queen, her family (her ruthless parents as well as her uncle, the powerful and equally ruthless Duke of Howard) decrees that she put her marriage and loyalties aside and cater to the whims of her king. Bedazzled, it doesn't take Mary very long to fall in love with both her golden king and her role as the his 'unofficial' wife. A few years and two royal by-blows later however, Mary is shunted aside when the king begins to loose interest in their relationship and her ambitious family fearful that they will loose all the power that they have gained, throws the more ruthless and seductive sister, Anne at the king's head. From then on Mary, her eyes finally wide open as to how low her family will stoop in order to gain power, watches from the sidelines as her family, led by Anne, begins their high stakes play for the queen's crown. Finally realizing that she can only depend on herself for her own future, Mary is inspired to take a few risks herself in order to gain some measure of happiness and security.The sheer scope of this novel is gigantic -- there were so many things that were going on both on and off stage and the number of people that were involved in all these shenanigans! So that it was a treat to find that the novel unfolded smoothly and effortlessly, and that Gregory did not drop the ball once. She kept each chapter short and succinct, and yet still managed to give the reader an enthralling and exciting account of what was going on. I also liked the manner in which she depicted all the characters in this novel. From Queen Katherine who was portrayed not only as a loyal and loving wife, but also as an intelligent woman who saw and understood what was going on around her, even as she clung to the hope that the king would recover from his obsession with Anne; to the authour's chilling portrayal of the Boleyn family (father, mother, Anne and George). With a few well chosen words and phrases, she's paints them as wildly ambitious, ruthless and pettily cruel individuals, willing to use each other in order to achieve a particular goal. But the authour's characterization of Mary Boleyn was probably the best thing in the novel. Here we see a young and intelligent woman with a heart and a sense of morality that is constantly at war with her feeling of familial obligations. How Mary struggles with this dueling feelings and the decisions she makes -- sometimes good, sometimes bad -- is what makes this novel worth reading.All in all, I'd say "The Other Boleyn Girl" is a rich and rewarding read.
5 Ms Gregory did it again.  Beautifully written Historical Fiction about the court of King Henry 8th.  A lot of back stabing, and a lot of court "espinanosih"  A definatel must read.  This book follows The Boley Girls twhom try to win the affections of King Henry.  A must have for those who like Historical Fiction writting.
5 I think I could read this book again and again and never get tired of it. I've enjoyed every Philippa Gregory book, but this is my favorite. It's a tale of two sisters born into one of the most ambitious families in the court of King Henry VIII. Rivals since birth, best friends and worst enemies, their scheming uncle positions them to catch the eye of the king, a calling that leads them in vastly different directions. Full of suspense, sensuality, emotion and delicious detail that recreates a court in which a smile could change your fortune and a whisper could send you to the scaffold.
5 This was one of the first historical novels I read (I started withThe Constant Princess (Boleyn)) I was already familiar with this period in history, but I loved reading it from Mary's perspective.  I was surprised how cruel and calculating the Boleyns (the parents and Anne as well as their Howard uncle, the Duke of Norfolk) were portrayed.  Anne was especially cruel to her sister and Queen Katharine.  Though Mary never gained much in the way of titles and riches, she fares the best out of the clan.Gregory took some interesting takes here on the incest that Anne and George were accused of, as well as working Retha Warnicke's theory on George's sexuality into the plot.  Many Tudor historical novels I've read show Henry VIII stooping to mind boggling depths of self delusion and hypocrisy to justify his actions and this book achieves that as well.  It is hard not to see him as a spoiled child rather than a great ruler.
5 Great book. Couldn't put it down. The first chapter took me a moment to remind myself that thankfully we are living in different times.
5 The Other Boleyn Girl tells the notorious story of Henry VIII and his second wife, Queen Anne Boleyn, from the perspective of his mistress, Anne's sister Mary Boleyn. The novel begins with the execution of the Duke of Buckingham in 1521 and ends with the execution of Anne Boleyn in 1536. The story itself is rather well known to even casual history readers, but Philippa Gregory makes the story intriguing by telling us what went on behind the scenes.I found this book to be enchanting, enthralling and difficult to put down. As it is put forth as historical fiction, and not a text book, I did not read it with an encyclopedia on hand to detect historical inaccuracies. I don't think that we should negatively critique fiction because of liberties taken with the story. Yes, Gregory puts a decidedly sensationalist construction on the famous story, and her choice to use the lesser known Mary Boleyn as the narrator means that a lot of the story can't be verified. But I didn't care about any of this when I was reading. Instead, I found myself swept away into another time and place - Tudor England was truly brought alive in Gregory's thorough description of the places and atmosphere of England under Henry VIII's rule. It is a riveting story of love, scandal, ambition and sibling rivalry at its worst. I devoured it in a few days and I've already moved on to The Boleyn Inheritance.The best part of the book for me was the fascinating development of Mary Boleyn as a character. At the beginning of the novel she is a slightly idealistic 13 year old girl forced into a marriage and later into an affair with the King of England. Through heartbreak, loss and betrayal, she develops into a courageous woman who makes the choice to rebuff her powerful family and marry a man of her choosing. The scenes between Mary and William Stafford are breathtakingly romantic and beautiful.This is one of the best pieces of historical fiction that I have read in a long while. I enjoyed it from beginning to end and recommend it to all historical fiction lovers. Enjoy!!
5 I couldn't put this book down, it was intoxicating!  It really transports you to the court of Henry IIIX and watch out, you're in for a wild ride! I loved this fictional account of what life might have been like for Mary and Anne Boleyn.  It's always a time in history that has fascinated me, and this book truly shares a captivating story of the times, the King and the Boleyn family.
5 I'm not much of a history buff but this book was really intriguing from beginning to end.  It brings to life what life must have been like back in the 15th century.  Philippa Gregory does a wonderful job of setting the scene and holding your attention, so much so that I want to buy more of her books and find out what happened to all the wives of Henry the 8th.
5 Love to read.  Did not know this was now a movie until after I read the book.  If you like this era this is a book you will not be able to put down.  It is an easy read and absolutely wonderful.
4 I think there's been enough debate within these reviews that Philippa Gregory's novel is not the most historically accurate and presents a biased view against Anne Boleyn that probably isn't true.  I'm in agreement there.  But I still give this book 4 stars because at its heart it's a fictional romance novel.  Dare I say a "trashy romance novel"?  It's a good read.  And relatively quick given it's 660 pages.  I refer to it as "trashy" (in a good way) because there are some parts that are better read on a weekend beach blanket than on your bus ride to work.If you're in to Tudor history, this is not the book for you.  But a good summertime read?  When I finished it, I passed it to my friend on the beach blanket to the left.
5 I can't remember the last time I enjoyed a book so much.  The greater than 600 pages was a "quick read".  After finishing I was interested in researching the facts about that era.
3 I used to work for a bookstore and for a while there, this book was flying off the shelves.  Big with book clubs.  I always considered it a bit too bodice-ripper for my tastes, but when I got a free copy of it a few weeks ago I decided to give it a chance.  I'm a fan of the Tudors, and HIGHLY recommend Alison Weir's bio of Queen Elizabeth I.  I was definitely pulled along by the twisting plot, but goodness, the dialogue is cheesy.  I found myself rolling my eyes many a time.  My worry with it is that people will believe it's entirely accurate, when it isn't.  Gregory says herself in the endnotes that she's basing some of the plot on theories (about her brother as well as an unfortunate pregnancy) put forward by another historian.  Those theories haven't been proven accurate (and in fact there's some proof they're just wrong), but they certainly make for a juicy story.  And as another reviewer said, Gregory's characterization of Anne as a cruel woman do not do justice to everything she accomplished.  She had serious brains and guts, and yet is made to look like a thoroughly unpleasant person who cared only for ambition.  If you're honestly interested in the tale of the Tudors, look to Alison Weir for a fun, interesting, factual read.  These people were fascinating enough as it is- fictionalizing them isn't necessary.
2 With so many BETTER books about the Tudor court available, why bother to read this flighty one that reads more like a cheap romance novel than historical fiction? The dialog is insipid; I don't need the characters to speak in authentic period dialog, but I do need them to sound like the intelligent and well educated courtiers they were. I haven't read any of Gregory's other work, but after starting with this book I won't be back. The best thing about the book is that it reads quickly and is over fast.
5 These books are well written and I have enjoyed every one of them that I have read!  I highly recommend!
5 Gregory has a true gift for historical fiction.  This thoroughly enjoyable novel makes you feel as if you were there, in that place, in that time, with those people.  Rich characterization of the members of the Boleyn family and King Henry VIII's court, rich descriptions of the life of the courtiers (full of pettiness, social climbing, gossip, scheming and intrigue) , and vivid explorations of the circumstances of Anne Boleyn's scheming rise and abrupt, precipitous fall, seen through the eyes of her sister Mary, all combine to make an absorbing and entertaining read.  When finished reading, I felt, "It definitely really could have happened exactly that way."  Well researched and well written; you won't want to put this one down because you will be engrossed in this slice of history.
4 Brought the book after seeing the movie, somewhat a long read but generally a good book, having some issues finishing it, but I will...if I had not seen the movie I don't think I would of got the book. I really enjoy the author Allison Weir, a British writer who writes on this topic. However she is a very dry writer and shocking enough I prefer that style when reading on this topic. Still a good read.
5 This book is divine.  You will not want it to end.
5 Though many may view this as yet another sympathetic retelling of Anne Boleyn's rise and fall, one could not be more mistaken.  Gregory (Virgin Earth), a noted historical novelist, tells the story instead through the eyes of Mary Boleyn, Anne's sister.Mary comes to court and captures the wandering eye of King Henry VIII, putting her marriage aside to become his mistress.  All of this is prompted by her ambitious family, the Howards, led by her powerful uncle, the Duke of Norfolk.  Anne and their brother George play key roles in Mary's seduction of the king, each tutoring her in a different way.Eventually, Mary is put aside in favor of her sister, who will be content with nothing but the wife of Henry.  As we watch Anne's tiring and sometimes frantic attempts to keep hold of fickle Henry for six years, we feel Mary's exasperation.  Of course, we all know what happens now...Henry divorces Queen Katherine for Anne, Queen Anne gives birth to a daughter (the future Elizabeth I), and it all goes downhill from there.  When Anne is put aside and executed, and Jane Seymour takes her place, Mary keeps her own head by denying her family and following her heart.Though the book has many inaccuracies, such as Mary was actually OLDER than Anne, whereas in this novel she is younger.  Also, Mary's affair with King Francois of France is never actually mentioned.  Aside from this, The Other Boleyn Girl is a wonderful retelling of the rise and fall of the Boleyn faction through the eyes of an unexpected heroine.
4 Everybody knows something about Henry VIII.  It's the favorite story of lust, excess and irony for more than 400 years.  But is it worth reading a 661 page book to learn a little more?  If what you want to know is history, The Other Boleynn Girl is a little short.  (You can learn a lot more on Wikiipedia.)  For insight into the human condition, you'll fare better.  Phillippa Gregory has a special gift in that regard.  But you're probably reading the book now because the movie just came out and you want to read it before you go to the theatre.I chose the book as research for my Film and Literature class hoping that I could find some new material.  I enjoyed it for many of the same reasons other reviewers have mentioned (even the negative comments) but after viewing the film, I was a little disappointed.  Most films made from literary sources are by nature abbreviated, but the film of The Other Boleynn Girl is literally a  shorthand version of the book.  I don't know how you could follow it if you didn't have some knowledge of the events before you entered the theatre.  It wouldn't hurt to have a computer handy to review the real histories of the characters and events.  You'll find lots of discrepancies but you'll be able to lord them over your friends at coffee after the movie.While the book is colorfully detailed about locations, clothes and personalities, the film is dark, the personalities shallow (except for the sisters), and the men all seemed to look alike. But two of my favorite actresses, Natalie Portman and Scarlett Johansson, were splendid in the scaled-down script they were given.You don't have to see the film, but you'll find it irresistible after you finish the book--if only to show off your knowledge.
5 I really liked this book.  I found myself swept away in the moments.  It was quick-paced and dramatic.  With a long book like this, I usually find myself getting bored with the characters and I begin anticipating a quick wrap up.  But, I found myself covering the bottom on the pages so I wouldn't skip to the bottom to find out quickly what had happened... I was savoring the drama. I just purchased my next book by the same author and I hope I get the same results.
1 Anyone who treasures good historical fiction will, after reading--or trying to read--THE OTHER BOLEYN GIRL--see at once that they stumbled upon what we once called a "dime novel"-that pejorative  characterizing hack writing, which in our time is seen most often in historical romances-novels peopled with superficial modern characters costumed in period dress.  THE OTHER BOLEYN GIRL is such a novel.  In our time of computers, the internet and blogs, the dime novel has been given new life through heavy promotion and phony critiques.  It's a world where lies flourish, and publications such as "Publishers Weekly" with their fatuous critiques, become co-conspirators in this deception.
3 "The Other Boleyn Girl" is not great literature but it is a quick/easy/fun 600+pages page-turner.  I found myself staying up late to read it -- even jumped onto the internet at 1am to check historical facts and review what is known about Henry VIII and court intrigues of the time.  That Hank was a sleaze is common knowledge.  I didn't realize the extent to which the power players put young girls into his bed or the involvement of the siblings.  I definitely would have enjoyed the book more if Phillipa Gregory's style was less Jackie/Joan Collins.  Mary's romantic attraction to her second husband was a bit far-fetched (par for made-for-tv-movie).  My book club buds most objected to the women's libber sentiments attributed to the book's main characters in sixteenth century England.  And we had an interesting conversation on nature v nurture when Mary (unlike most courtesans abandoned to nursemaids from birth) had such strong maternal instincts towards her own children.  We'll definitely drink margaritas then go see the movie when it comes out (Ann-Natalie Portman, Mary-Scarlett Johanssen, Henry-Eric Bana).  From the book's characterization, I would have cast Angelina Jolie as Ann, but then that's what the professionals get paid to do :)C
4 I really enjoyed this book although you need to read some of the great biographies of Anne Boleyn to appreciate fact versus fiction in this fun read.
5 First, I loved this book. It was very intriguing and difficult to put down. Second, I read reviews by people who hated this book because of it's historical inaccuracies. Well, that's why it's called FICTION!! It's not like the author is trying to pass this off as a biography. Read the wikipedia entries on Anne and Mary Boleyn to get a general idea of the historial facts, and then just enjoy the book!
5 There is nothing quite like a true inside look into the chambers of British Monarchy.I found myself getting swept in the dark, dank castles where Phillipa Gregory sat,watched and wrote her novel while Anne Boleyn made her manipulative moves to ensnare the infamous King Henry VIII.I became so totally engrossed in this authentically written piece of literature that I often lost track of the fact that I really lived in 21st Century America.Phillipa Gregory is a master of her craft, may she continue to write so beautifully.-Yvonne Bornstein, Author, Eleven Days of Hell.
5 Very interesting. Learned much about the era, and the history of England.  Glad was not born during that difficult  time for women
5 Very different from the movie, however, much more thorough.  Book places a much stronger focus on Mary Boleyn.
4 Yep, another one of those Brit chick comedies that popped up so suddenly after Bridget Jones went mad. This book stars Minty Malone, an all-too-nice radio journalist who gets jilted in front of 280 people and must deal with the fact that she let her ex-fiance walk all over her. With laugh-out-loud moments and serious romanticism that all works out in the end (of course) this rather mindless read is a lot of fun.
4 I'm currently plowing through the Thirty-Year Old Woman's reading list (Getting Over It, Welcome to My Planet, Otherwise Engaged, Lucy Sullivan is Getting Married, etc.).  If you like those books or those kinds of books,  this one is definitely worth checking out.  It's less, ummm,  &quot;literary&quot; than books such as &quot;Otherwise Engaged&quot; or  &quot;Welcome&quot; nor as it as quick a read as those two books. It's not  as much of a cartoon as Bridget.  It's really more like Lucy Sullivan, but  I liked this book MUCH more.  It is a book with a sense of humor, but not a  laugh-out-loud book.What I like so much about this book is that you  can't help but wonder if Isabel Wolff is watching Oprah when Dr. Phil comes  on (Does Oprah even come on in London?).  Dr. Phil preaches that &quot;We  teach people how to treat us,&quot; and that there are no victims.  And  THAT is the message of this book.  You'll read in the other reviews that  this is a story about a woman who got jilted at the altar.  Yep- sure did.  And it is a story about her recovering from this- but it's MORE than that.  It's about her having to realize that SHE could have prevented the jilting,  and that getting jilted was not the worst thing in the world (The 28,000  pounds spent on the wedding, notwithstanding). She has to realize that she  was too nice and too much of a doormat and that the fault is not all his,  nor is it all hers.This seems to me to be a new sort of theme for  these kinds of books. This genre of books tend to be more about &quot;Oh  poor me- Bad men treat me wrong and I need to find a good man.&quot; Minty  Malone is more about learning the lesson of, &quot;I *chose* the bad men  who treated me wrong and that's my fault.  I need to value myself  more.&quot;  It's a subtle but important difference.  I really liked that  message.  Along these same lines, it's about realizing that the negative  things that happen to you in your life may actually be positive. I very  much like Wolff's philosophy and attitude towards life.My only  complaints about this book are as follows:  First, Minty is SUPER wimpy at  the beginning, but I expect that's necessary to show her growth. In other  words, it's not really a fault with the book- I just don't think that  early-book Minty and I would have been friends.  The same goes for the  roommate/cousin Amber- She's SO bossy- I wanted to squash her.Second,  Minty and her roommate/cousin Amber take a trip which is extremely  distracting. It's is an element of the plot, but there are extremely  distracting elements to it.  It's almost like Wolff took a trip there  herself and just HAD to write about it.Other than that, I really  recommend it- I expected a superficial, cute romance novel, but there was  slightly more depth to it than that, which I very much appreciated.  Don't  get me wrong- it ain't a work of Shakespeare- but it is definitely  worthwhile reading.
4 For the most part, I really enjoyed this book.  It was the smartest piece of chick-lit I've read and I liked the story and the character.  Both were consistent throughout the book.My problems were small ones.  First off, although I enjoyed the character and felt she was pretty realistic and well-rounded (and she could cook!), I was seriously annoyed that she allowed herself to be walked all over by everyone.  She realizes that this is her problem and even takes a class for it, but still allows her cousin to stay with her for months without paying rent or bills or anything and even allows her cousin to change her furniture around and take her bedroom.  I don't know anyone who would just allow herself to be stomped on like that and past wanting the character to succeed, I wanted to knock some spine into her.I also felt that the book was a bit too long.  Cut out about one hundred pages (and the mom-charity debacle and peripheral-characters-getting-theirs subplots) and it would have been just about perfect.  She could also have cut out about 90% of the &quot;mint&quot; puns.  &quot;New Mint&quot; as a way to show that Minty's changing is only clever once.Overall, though, I strongly recommend this.  It's more drama than comedy, but it's still funny and witty and thoroughly enjoyable.  Definitely one of the top tier of the genre.
4 As the book opened up, I wondered what Minty was doing marrying this guy. We soon saw that her "darling Dominic" jilted her at the altar. Once Minty got over the shock of it all, her life truly became a whirlwind!This was truly a light, entertaining read! Minty's escapades were truly cause for laughing out loud.  The characters contributed so much to the overall humour of the book. Minty's mother and her crusading for any cause at all. Melinda the hopeless radio presenter, and all of Minty's many friends.This is a great book to tuck into your suitcase as you head off for a vacation! I look forward to Isabel Wolff's next novel!
2 If you're looking for a light, witty read with an engaging main character and an interesting plotline, this is not the book for you. Making Minty Malone is one of those books you feel obligated to finish reading simply because you started it. When Minty is dumped unceremoniously at the altar, you almost don't feel sorry for her because of the preceding recitation by Minty that makes it crystal clear what a cad her fiancee is. So you begin by being frustrated that she would even consent to marry such a man in the first place. Apart from her being &quot;too nice&quot;, there are no hints about what her finacee's redeeming qualities may have been - he is a one-dimensional &quot;bad guy&quot; and Minty is a one-dimensional &quot;good girl&quot; who allows herself to be used by everyone including relatives, and co-workers. Aren't people more complicated than that? If they are, Wolff gives no hint of her characters' depth, and for that reson, my frustration only got worse as the book went on. It progressed until I had no remaining genuine curiosity about what would happen to Minty and couldn't have cared less whether she found true happiness and fulfillment in the end.
5 Isabel Wolff does it again!Minty Malone is all set to marry &quot;Mr. Right&quot; ~~ or so she thought ~~ only to be ditched at the altar in front of nearly 300 people. And that's just the beginning of a fun, self-discovery journey that Minty takes you upon. Devastated, she and her bridesmaid fled to France ~~ courtsey of the dumping Dominic ~~ there, she meets Joe while playing table football.From then on, it's a merry tale of Minty trying to adjust to single life again. Her wacky cousin Amber moves in, Minty's job suffers upheavals and comic actions, Dominic gets engaged AND dumps his next finacee and TRYS to get back with Minty ~~ only she's smarter this time around. And there's Joe who keeps Minty at arms' length. This book is chock full of happenings ~~ it can leave you quite breathless. But I can guarantee this, you won't be bored.You will find yourself rooting for Minty as she works to get through the embarassment of being dumped in front of the altar on her biggest day. There are chuckles aplenty in this book and lots of sighs over romances gone sour and/or gone beautifully. It is just a positive book and one that I will definitely read again! Don't delay ~~ pick it up as soon as you can. It's such a fun read ~~ you can't beat it.
5 &quot;Making Minty Malone&quot; by author Isabel Wolff (Author of &quot;The Trials of Tiffany Trott&quot;) is a wonderfully delightful and charming romantic comedy about a woman who never thought she'd face a hand  like the one she got dealt.  All set to marry a man who she believed to be  &quot;the one,&quot; Minty faces the realities that maybe God is just  laughing at her.Dominic is gone.  She's alone.  And, now the question  of what to do next looms great and loud.  So, what's a girl to do but, take  those honeymoon plane tickets, grab the girls, and head to Paris.  There  she meets a man who could change everything.  If she'll let him.&quot;Making Minty Malone&quot; is a very sweet, fun and wildly romantic  tale that captures the hearts of anyone that will read it.  I found it as  enchanting as &quot;Bridget Jones,&quot; &quot;Jemima J.,&quot;  &quot;Getting Over It&quot; and &quot;Come Together.&quot;  If you loved  those....CERTAINLY give this wonderfully written book a chance on your  summer reading list.  Great Book!
4 I enjoyed this book and found it light, funny entertainment.  However, there may now be too many of this &quot;Bridget Jones&quot; or &quot;Lucy Sullivan&quot; type book in the marketplace.  They all feature a single  heroine who lives and works in London.  She navigates the rocky shoals of  her love and career lives with an assortment of oddball characters.  This  novel has many charms but all of these books do.  Dominic, the fianc&eacute;,  literally leaves Minty, the heroine, at the altar in front of 280 wedding  guests.  This is a huge blow to her self-esteem and the remainder of the  book details her recovery.  In that process, she also meets the hero and  gets a leg up on her career in talk radio.  Secondary characters are very  funny.  There is her cousin, Amber, who does not ever need to take  assertiveness training but who goes for it with Minty.  Minty's  charity-addicted fundraising mother embraces every weird cause that exists.  Her news anchor at work, Melinda, can't pronounce her &quot;r&quot;s but  finds her true calling in an early morning show for insomniacs where she  reviles the guests.  Plus there's an obnoxious interviewee who lauds  herself as mother and wife for the radio show, while dumping on all other  women not married and with children.  The comedic possibilities with  Dominic, an insurance salesman solely focused on his upscale career and  lifestyle, could have been more fully exploited.  The funniest scene in the  book is his backing out of the wedding by telling the minister he thinks  &quot;not&quot; when he asks him if he will take Minty as his bride.  Without any explanation, he then turns, marches down the aisle, alone, and  leaves the church.
1 I have no idea how anyone can get past the first 20 pages of this book! All she does is go on and on and on and on! Come on...we don't need all of this useless information..ok Dominic is an jerk and shes a pushover - there done and it took me one sentence!I'm the type of person that can't read a book when I can't stand the main character...and I CAN NOT STAND Minty Malone!!
2 You've read one, you've read them all. Yes, I know I'm being a little bit harsh, &amp; I know that some of the &quot;contemporary-light-easy to read-supposedly modern romances&quot; are better than others. But after  having read at least 20 of these, I'm starting to feel as if I've read one  too many.&quot;The making of Minty Malone&quot; by Isabel Wolff was one  of the books I bought this summer, while on vacation &amp; desperate to  have something to read on the plane. The truth though is that I could have  chosen it anyway, in a bookstore, since I have a soft spot for this kind of  book after reading everything by Marian Keyes &amp; Helen Fielding. But  that's the point: Marian Keyes &amp; Helen Fielding write well, &amp; their  books stand out &amp; would have done so even if they had decided to write  about something else. The same cannot be said about all the other writers  deciding to write this kind of novel: it's as if they all follow an exact  formula. Single woman, living lonely &amp; sad &amp; usually ditched in  London preferably. Two or three close friends around her. A job that, as  the book develops, gets better, as new opportunities appear out of nowhere  &amp; our heroine becomes more assertive by the moment, &quot;gets in touch  with her true feelings&quot; &amp; grabs these chances. And of course in  the end, there's always an almost perfect for everyone, (but definitely  perfect for the heroine) man. They live happily ever after &amp; we're left  to wander what the hell is wrong with our everyday life, since it doesn't  seem to change so dramatically &amp; so easily...Isabel Wolff's book  follows the above formula exactly. So it's both good &amp; bad. It's a good  plane-ride book, good for a few laughs (sometimes because of the  incredulity of everything that's going on). But after the plane-ride (&amp;  the read) is over...so is the book. You immediately forget about it &amp;  go on to discover the next Minty Malone-Lucy Sullivan-Bridget Jones etc  etc. The only thing I could wish were that more women had these heroins'  luck because the world would be a better (&amp; easier to live in) world.  Since it's not, we can only dream, &amp; once in a while, pick up one of  these books....
4 I first heard of Isabel Wolff because I had been recommended the book Tiffany Trott, and because I couldn't find that book, I found this book, so I decided to give Minty Malone a shot.  And I'm very glad that I did because I thoroughly enjoyed the book.  It was funny and witty, and emcompasses all the hardships that single women have to go through.  Well, maybe not all of us have to go through an ordeal of being jilted at the wedding, but we can relate to Minty because of what she goes through with the opposite sex.  This book was treat, and I just couldn't but it down, and I'm sure you'll enjoy it too!
5 Dumped. Ditched. Deserted. Jilted. Minty Malone's ultimate nightmare comes  true. Her fiance, Dominic, has run off on their wedding day. Minty, a  sweet-mannered radio reporter, is suddenly single. After having suffered a  mild nervous breakdown, she decides to improve her life. She is a pushover;  everyone walks all over her. Well, no more Miss Nice Guy. With the help of  her novelist cousin Amber, Minty throws the bouquet over a bridge, demands  a promotion at work, and attends meetings that will help her overcome her  sweet temper. In the process of a complete emotional transformation, she  meets a charming novelist and screenwriter named Joe. But will she ever get  over Dominic? And will she give love another chance? I couldn't put this  book down. The wit, charm, humor, and compelling characters make this  single-at-thirty-living-in-London novel utterly irresistible. I wanted to  indulge in this book the same away I indulge in a delicious strawberry  cheesecake. It is, without a doubt, addictive. Having said this, you should  know how to handle it. Don't say I hadn't warned you!
4 Minty hates confrontation and knows how to compromise all too well, she's a bit of a pushover. When she is jilted by her fianc&eacute; at the altar in front of 280 people she is mortified and blames herself. The book goes on to follow Minty through the aftermath of this catastrophe. The woman that rises from the dust of the fall is stronger, wiser, and happier. Her antics will have you smiling from start to finish.Wolff writes with humor and panache. It is her writing style that brings me back to her books. THE TRIALS OF TIFFANY TROTT, her first book was equally as entertaining. I would give this book 4.5 stars...
4 I really enjoy Isabel Wolff's character development and plot-lines, and The Making of Minty Malone doesn't disappoint.  It's not literature, but it's slightly more weighty than fluff, so I never feel like I'm wasting my time diving into an absorbing story.  Ms. Wolff has a flair for writing dialogue, and believable plot points and characters, and this story about a less-than-assertive British woman who finds her voice and doesn't lose herself in the process is a satisfying read.
4 It will be a challenge to catch your breath while you're reading Minty Malone.  After she is stood up on her wedding day, Minty's struggles to regain her dignity and self-respect.  With the help of her varied colegaues at work, including one daft reporter, a friend who winds up moving in, an erstwhile and eccentric writer and some strange parents, Minty's manages to look inside herself and identify that she is the cause of many of her problems by being &quot;too nice&quot;  (kind of the flipside of Nick Hornby's &quot;How to be Good.&quot;)  Minty becomes more confident and self assured and soon, good things happen to her.Minty's story is only one facet of this book.  Amber, her roommate (picture &quot;guess who's coming forever&quot;, is hilarious as an author who can't sell any books so she buys her own books.  Her parents - a mother who overindulges in social causes and a father who is starved for affection - are in worse shape than Minty, if such a thing is possible. And her workmates are a riot - from the producer who can't get his girlfriend pregnant to the inept reporter who can't pronouce her r's (but it somehow got Barbara Walters millions) and a boss who is afraid of his wife and stepdaughters.  In comparison to these people, Minty's life is a beach.The best part but subsequent weakeness is with the ending.  Minty and Amber go on a wild goose chase to Los Angeles to look for a writer that Minty falls in love with.  This whole succession of events borders on the bizarre but is also a wonderful steroptype of the Hollywood mentality.  But after Minty finds her love, we're left asking &quot;What's So Great About Him&quot;?  About the only characteristic that is ever revealed about him is that he is good-looking (he is also very abrupt and honest to the point of being insensitive).  After Minty is revealed as being shallow for getting engaged to a msn based on his looks, she promptly goes out and finds the same type of man.  And after 400 and some odd pages, we're told very little of why she would be so attracted to this man.  So what's the lesson here - that it is ok to be shallow?  Fine but I guess that is why the world is in the state i's in.  Doesn't honesty and decency count for anything?  I guess not.I like Isabel Wolff's writing but it does not yet compare to her contemporaries like Nick Hornby and Lisa Jewell with regard to being able to tell a story as succinctly as possible and being able to create characters that you would truly love.  With Hornby and Jewell, I think of their books for days after finishing them.  With Minty Malone, I came away thinking &quot;is that it?&quot;.  Minty comes across as being a British combination of Rhoda Morgansetern and Mary Richards and both characters are still the standard for the outrageous and single and flawed woman personna.
5 I loved Minty Malone from the first page where she is found searching frantically for her grandmother's tiara, getting ready for &quot;her day, exactly as SHE wants it&quot; all alone! Of course, after nearly driving  herself into hysterics she looks in the mirror and finds it on her head.  &quot;Her day&quot; went downhill from there.This author, Isabel Wolff,  is new to me, but I am ordering her prior book immediately after reading  Minty Malone. Minty takes a good long while getting over her engagement  gone bad, swinging from blaming herself totally to blaming him totally. She  comes to the conclusion, as most of us do, that the relationship was a bust  because both were at fault, although she has to painfully acknowledge her  own shallowness in the process. Her class on how not to be 'nice' is so  hilarious I think I'll either look for one myself or start one. The way she  learns to trade insults with the gorgeous Joe gets wittier and wittier as  they happily draw stares from the crowds of people who overhear them. How I  love to laugh!
5 London radio reporter Minty Malone is a nervous wreck as her wedding to insurance guru Dominic is to occur in front of 280 guests. However, when the minister asks Dominic if he will marry Minty, he says &quot;no,&quot;  leaving her literally jilted at the altar. Dominic feels he can not live up  to the seriousness of their vows.Minty and her bridesmaid use the  intended honeymoon trip to travel to Paris where Minty meets an English  writer Joe over a table football (soccer) game. He wants her number back in  England, but she refuses to give it to him. She remains in denial believing  that Dominic will return to her, begging her to marry him. However, Joe  pursues Minty and soon they begin to fall in love, but will she be willing  to risk a second jaunt down the aisle?MAKING MINTY MALONE is a  humorous romantic romp predominately seen through the eyes of the  leadprotagonist. The audience will enjoy the comic tale, but at times,  Minty's introspective panic seems real but slows the story line. Still,  Minty is a wonderful lead character and the support cast brings London  alive in this overall jocular contemporary romance.Harriet Klausner
4 Minty Malone is an appealing character, and in MAKING MINTY MALONE, Isabel Wolff has written a novel far superior to most of the rubbish on the market.  Wolff has created multiple supporting characters who are believable and well-detailed, and she also provides many different subplots to resolve.  In fact, Wolff struck me me as a contemporary, post-feminist Charles Dickens.  MAKING MINTY MALONE is easy reading, well-paced and fun--this is light fiction at its best.
4 Well, the premise of this book came off a little bit different than the current trend. Here you have a heroine who's actually getting married instead of just wishing she were. Only...she doesn't. From then on, in discovering her lousy ex-fianc&eacute;, we start discovering more about Minty. I'm so sure many people will be able to relate to her niceness and the tendency to start tolerating things and not be able to stop (Dominic's abuse, the bossy Amber, her mom, her useless coworkers).I'd read The Trials of Tiffany Trott but enjoyed this one more. I found it a bit more refreshing to embark in Minty's adventure to discover herself and actually see her succeed at it than in the journey of a single girl in search of a man. What better way than to have Minty discover so many things in the company of well-written and developed characters? (you'll be annoyed by Melinda, trust me)I found it freshly written though some of the passages do tend to drag on for a while. It's still very enjoyable and if you enjoy the Brit-chick trend, you'll get a kick out of this book.And Tiffany Trott even makes a cameo!
3 If you're a regular reader, you'll figure out every plot twist in this  book WAY before poor Minty! Very formulaic, but cute and sweet at the same  time. If you're looking for a romantic little get-away that won't tax your  brain (in the least), you might enjoy this beach book......
4 If you've ever proclaimed that you were no longer a nice person, you'll probably identify with good old Minty Malone, a heroine with an understandably fragile heart.Whether you find yourself exhilarated by constant emotional waves, or just nauseated by them, I'll bet you won't want to miss what's going to happen to Minty Malone next. And when Minty begins to make those things happen, I'll bet you'll become absolutely engrossed in this novel.Okay, it's long- maybe a little too long. And it's too sweet to enjoy as a literary staple. And it's naive, in a Bridget Jones' Diary kind of way. But it's enjoyable, simple entertainment.What's the shame in that?
4 Another good vacation or break-up book.  Nice women falling for boorish, selfish men--who can't relate to that?!?  And it has the Brit factor--can't go wrong.
4 Books like this one are the film equivalents of When Harry Met Sally and Sleepless in Seattle. They are slices cut out of life, full of humor, love, and sometimes a little pain. Making Minty Malone is one of these slices, often compared to Bridget Jones' Diary, the most famous of the popular &quot;single gal in London dealing with men, family, and life in general in a stream of consciousness way&quot; genre. You won't find any finely wrought similies, you won't find philosophical musings on the meaning of life. But that's ok. Making Minty Malone is a fun read, full of clever characters and interesting plot turns. It is one of those books that's difficult to put down, one of those books where you feel chummy with the characters. I also recommend Marian Keyes if you liked this one, and a more obscure title, Run, Catch, Kiss. An enjoyable gal read.
4 Unlike Bridget Jones obsessed by her diet and man, Minty Malone shows her life is more than that: relationship with the person around her, success in her career etc..  I might be one of many girls who keep being nice to the others, and feel good when she yelled &iexcl;No&iexcl; or lied &iexcl; I&iexcl;m busy&iexcl;.  And I empathized her when she had her hair cut.It&iexcl;s very hilarious and delightful.
4 Are you looking for a delightful paperback to read on the beach? Get  Making Minty Malone! It is a fascinating novel about a woman who's had  enough. Her fiance has left her. Instead of crying her little eyes out, she  decides to throw her wedding bouquet over a bridge. Her new and exciting  life has just begun! Read this fabulous book. You will love it.
4 A very distancing, oddly chatty first person style is overcome by fine characterization and lively, comic situations. The secondaries are often more fun than the main characters. I would have liked more time devoted to Minty's blossoming romance(a better balance between romance and comedy) but as it is, an amusing read and lively way to pass an afternoon. I'll look for more from Isabel Wolfe.
5 In fact- I loved it enough to have re-read it half a dozen times. Its annother great brit single 30ish woman type book. I really liked it though. If you liked Bridget Jones- you'd like this . It is not the same, but similar humour. Cant wait for the Bridget Jones film coming out this month!!
5 I read Minty first(before her other book "The Trials of Tiffany Trott"), glad that I did or I probably wouldn't have read it.  Was fun and exciting, highly recommend!
4 I enjoyed Minty Malone evn more than I enjoyed Tiffany Trott.  This novel is accessable and realistic.  It was especially interesting to explore the  idea that women are sometimes in love with being in love.  And all of us  should be made (once in a while) to face the shallow part of our  personalities. Minty is a character who is familiar to many of us.  She  can't say what she really feels and tries to be nice all of the time. I  read this novel in about two days, while traveling, and it sure made the  plane rides fly by. READ THIS BOOK if you can laugh at yourself.
4 Wolff is a very engaging writer, and this book was well worth the read. It took me three days to read it, and a few times I even hid it on my lap under my desk at work, so that I could get a few pages in here and there...The character development was at its best with Minty- who had a lot of growing and maturing to do. Unlike many books, where personality flaws are suddenly overcome in a lazy rush in the last chapter, the subtle growth of Minty was flawless- never was it &quot;in your face,&quot; and the end result was a very convincing and realtistic.This book was not humorous in the 'laugh-out-loud' sense- though, it did have its moments..Only one scene comes to mind that I considered to be truly &quot;funny,&quot; and that was the party at Jack's house.This was much more on par with &quot;Out of the Blue,&quot; both in layout, plot, and style, as opposed to &quot;Tiffany.&quot;I couldn't put it down- Isabel Wolff never disappoints.
5 I finished reading Making Minty Malone last week and I enjoyed it so much. I found it highly entertaining and so funny. I fell in love with Minty and her life. This book is great for anyone, married or single. I laughed out loud so many times and was really sad when it ended! I just ordered The Trials of Tiffany Trot and hope it will be just as great as Making Minty Malone was. BUY THIS BOOK!!
4 Sometimes tragedies (like being jilted at the altar in front of 200+ of your "closest friends") can reveal our inner strengths and bring us to places much better than we ever imagined.  Minty Malone learns that important lesson when her fiancee, a self-righteous and social climbing insurance agent, leaves her stranded at the church, claiming that he can't go through with the wedding.  Left alone and forced to realize that she's been "too nice" all of her life, letting people walk all over her and conforming to their opinions of her, Minty takes an enlightening journey of self-discovery over the following year.  She begins by celebrating her honeymoon in Paris with her best maid.  From there, she undergoes a delightful series of adventures (and horrid catastrophes, too) including allowing her obnoxious cousin Amber to move in with her (along with her outspoken parrot, Pedro), meeting the man of her dreams only to be horridly insulted by him, and achieving enormous success at work. Through it all, Minty finally learns to stand on her own feet as a single girl before she's able to find love again.  Smarter, sassier and more self-confident, Minty ends the book with a rosy future!This was a really fun read with a good message, too.  Isabel Wolff has a great vocabulary and literary knowledge, so the book is a nice blend of fluff and substance.  Great for a quick read on the beach or on a canal trip in Venice (just a little spoiler there!)
4 I actually should, given my rating system, likely give this book only 3 stars. But it's better than The Trials of Tiffany Trott, to which I gave 4 stars.The story has already been described - Minty gets dumped on her wedding day, and the book covers how she gets over that hurt. Right from the beginning, Wolfe had me hooked. She used flashbacks in the initial chapter to introduce me to the main character, so I was better able to empathize with her situation. Anyone who gets dumped like that deserves empathy, but in a more 'global' way. By the time Dom dumps Minty, I had a sense of 'knowing' her, so I cared more. I was invested in the outcome. I loved that Minty did grow as the book progressed, and that her growth didn't occur too quickly.The secondary characters were hilarious, and more effectively fleshed out than in some books of this nature. I genuinely was interested in the people Minty worked with. Her family was hilarious, too. The subplots worked, in that they were there to flesh out Minty's character, without taking away from the main story. They helped show who Minty is, and why she behaves as she does. I found myself laughing out loud quite often, which I haven't been able to say about a novel of this sort in quite a while.There were a few things I didn't like about the book - for example, I didn't think Joe was particularly well defined. I actually thought Wolfe may have rushed with the Minty/Joe relationship at some points. But overall, the book was so funny (I absolutely adored the last quarter), that those complaints were minor. If you like chick lit, light summer reading and/or British fiction, you definitely want to read this book.
5 Read other readers' comments for plot descriptions.  Yes, there are a lot of British imports, but this is clever, ebullient and a terrific read.  I laughed aloud, and bought her other book right away. I did prefer this one to THE TRIALS OF TIFFANY TROTT.
5 This book is a comedic yet poignant delight from the first page to the last. I cringed as Dominic (the fiance) jilted Our Heroine, cheered her on as she got a makeover, both beauty/fashion-related and personality related (she takes a class in order to grow a spine), almost cried over the sickly kitten everyone thought would die but instead got well, and cheered when Minty at last found love with Joe ... This book is EXCELLENT and am waiting for a sequel
5 I bought this book based on the fact that other Amazon.com customers recommended it. Kudos, guys! As with &quot;Bridget Jones&quot; and &quot;Lucy Sullivan is Getting Married&quot;, I devoured this book in no time flat (which is saying something, since I have 2 kids under the age of 3 and rarely have quality reading time). Araminta- Minty, for short- is standing at the altar when her fiance Dominic answers the &quot;will you take this woman&quot; bit with a resounding &quot;no&quot;.  What is Minty to do after she watches him walk calmly out of the church and her life?  Take her 280 guests to the reception hall for a depressing dinner. Minty and her maid of honor decide to hightail it to the honeymoon suite in Paris to nurse Minty's broken heart and help her decide where to go from here. Little did Minty expect to meet handsome Joe, the London writer who is also on holiday.  Will she take Joe up on his offer to call her once they return home? What WILL this London FM reporter do now that Dominic has dumped and humiliated her? She'll take a good, hard look at her life, herself, and her bogus job where her co-corkers take advantage of her. She'll realize through &quot;The Nice Factor&quot; that being nice to a fault has led her to many of the circumstances she's in, and more importantly, she'll finally understand that being dumped by Dominic was the only good thing he ever did for her. A wonderful read, with many references (not the least of which is a phone-in call from Ms. Tiffany Trott herself- an added bonus to those who read Wolff's first novel &quot;The Trials of Tiffany Trott&quot;)you'll love and recognize. Enjoyable throughout!
4 I like this book , interesting characters overall. I like the part where minty suddenly understood herself better. Great book!
5 Having read and loved &quot;The Trials of Tiffany Trott&quot; I was eager to dive into &quot;Making Minty Malone&quot; - and I was not disappointed.  This is a very funny and touching book.  If you are one of millions of women who feel the need to be &quot;nice&quot; because you were raised to always be aware of other people's feelings, then you will relate to this tale.  Minty has always been too nice and too willing to bend to other people's wishes.  But when she is jilted in the middle of her wedding vows, this marks the beginning of a reincarnation for her.  It takes her a while to get over her fiance (we as the reader know full well why he is such a louse!) but when she pulls herself together and gets on with her life and career she really blossoms and takes full control.  This is one of those books where you really like the main character and want so much for her and I found it very hard to put down once I started it.  A really fun read.
5 Miss Garnet's Angel is a book of luminous beauty which I have known and loved for 12 years, and which always reminds me how to see goodness beyond the immediately obvious. The book's heroine visits Venice for her first time, late in life, and discovers not just the treasures and beauties of the city but something deeper and more real within herself than she has ever known before. It is not too fanciful to say that in Venice, Julia Garnet discovers her soul.But there is more to it than that. There is something in the way Salley Vickers tells the tale, something that makes it at once personal and universal. In part this is to do with the story of the Book of Tobit from the Apocrypha, interwoven with Miss Garnet's present-day story in a way which adds an authority and a timelessness to her experience. In part, it has to do with the breadth and the richness of Miss Vickers' characters, and the clear-sighted empathy with which they are drawn.It is a book about the power of quietness--the quietness of Julia Garnet herself, and the quietness of the forces that start to work on her when she arrives in Venice. The power is shown the more clearly when Miss Garnet's friend Vera Kessel visits from London, untouched by the few weeks' transformation that Miss Garnet has experienced, and full of the cynicism of the lifelong communist and the certainties of ignorance.More than that, though, there is an immediacy, an intimacy and yet a timelessness about the journey on which Miss Garnet finds herself. There is an inevitability, an innate rightness, about the character and her experience, which makes me as a reader respond with something equally deep inside myself. It is the same deep inevitability that I felt on hearing the third movement of Benjamin Britten's Violin Concerto after twenty-something years.This is, I suppose, one of the hallmarks of great poetry too: that it can take the personal, the intimate, however transient and inconsequential, and elevate it to the level of the universal. (Look at any of Shakespeare's sonnets, at Ted Hughes' animal poems, at the poetry of World War I, at... well, at any poet from John Donne to John Hegley.) That remarkable fusion--of an experience or an image that belongs to the poet and the reader and to everyman; that can remain personal to each, even if it means something quite different to each--that is one of the ways that language binds us together. And our response is to say, in one and the same breath, "I have known that since the beginning of time" and "I had never seen that before".That fusion of experience or of image is as crucial to the author and the book as it is to the reader. Speaking in Winchester a couple of months ago, Salley Vickers said, "Until the reader engages with the book, I'd say about 45 per cent of the book isn't even there." Transposing this to the musical environment for a moment, Britten spoke in his 1964 Aspen speech of "this holy triangle of composer, performer and listener". The idea that by reading a book or listening to music I am effectively completing it, is a heady one.Part of that process of completion, of course, is about giving your whole attention to the words or the music--an under-rated skill in these days of instant gratification. For me, though, perhaps the greater part of it is the willingness to contribute something of myself--something of my experience, something of my soul.When I first read Miss Garnet's Angel I was wholly enthralled by Salley Vickers' gift for description of character, setting and mood. I was able to fall in love with Venice, which I have only visited once at the age of 11, and of which I have only the most rudimentary memories. But Miss Garnet's greatest gift to me was the shock and heady excitement of meeting a fellow-traveller on my own journey of discovery--one who, as Tobias found in the Book of Tobit, and as I found on rediscovering Britten, has been there all along.
5 Retired school teacher, Julia Garnet, is lonely and at a loss with what to do with her life after the death of her flat mate of many years, and decides to spend 6 months in Venice. A confirmed communist, she is amazed at the ease with which she is falling under the spell of the magnificent architecture, especially the churches, which at first she finds decadent, in view of her strict anti-church attitude. She befriends a young couple who are restoring an old chapel and becomes very involved in their lives, as well as meeting- and being totally charmed by a very dashing art dealer- who wines and dines her.Julia falls in love for the first time in her life and is shattered when things don't turn out as well as she'd hoped. I found this book to have an other-worldly feel to it as though Venice itself was responsible for normally prosiac people acting differently, just as if they were somehow charmed and under the influence of old paintings and statues, particularly those of the angel Raphael, whose biblical story interweaves with that of Julia. It's a gem of a book with such a luminous feel to it that I'm sure I'll read it again fairly soon.
5 Salley Vickers is one of two writers whose discovery in the last year has once again made me glad I can still find wonderful writing. It is always a delight to discover an author to add to the "must read all they do" list.  A few years ago it was Michael Chabon, and I await his next with baited breath, but in the last year there have been Charles Portis ("Masters of Atlantis" and more), and Salley Vickers. I saw this book in the library and read reviews online before reading it.  It is NOT a quick and easy read, as someone suggested in these reviews.  It is a parallel rendering of the story of Julia Garnet and the biblical book of Tobit, and the point is the realization that our lives aren't as cut and dried as modernity would have us believe.  Raphael the Archangel is the central protagonist really, and his presence seems to seep into the story at every turn.  How Julie grows and blooms is the surface story, but underneath there is a stream of the ethereal which also runs through Salley Vickers other two books, "Instances of the Number 3" and "Mr. Golightly."  I read these two right after this one.  I highly recommend them all.
3 This is a sweet and entertaining, easy to read book, which poses no real challenge. The story is nice, an older woman that discovers herself toward the end of her life, being intoxicated by the magic of Venice. It is a story about self discovery devoid of the struggle that comes with it, which is probably my biggest criticism. There is a lack of depth in the characters, especially in Ms. Garnet, who seems to accept the new feelings and thoughts that start to invade her as soon as she sets foot in Venice.The book, however, is enjoyable and it makes for a fun read, just don't expect it to be mind blowing nor illuminating.
2 I wanted to like this book. Badly. Maybe that's why I kept turning pages, seeking for some redeeming feature or moment. Alas, I found none. The theme of the novel is obvious from the beginning: Miss Garnett, the main character, finds herself living a meaningless, loveless life, with (probably many) barren years stretching in front of her. This, the theme of a mid-life crises that sometimes prompts people to make the most daring, sublime...or idiotic...things, is a fruitful one in literature, and many a great writer has chosen to subtlely convey this message inside wonderful stories.However, subtlety is not to be found here. We are repeatedly hit on the head with this theme from the beginning, and know from page one what is the matter with the character because the annoying authorial voice keeps telling us every two lines in case we forget. We also know from the beginning what is the element that will save Miss Garnett from her loveless life: from the moment she first steps on Venice she keeps having the oddest feelings whenever she enters a church or looks at religious imagery.Now, don't get me wrong, I feel the greatest respect for religion, and know jungian analysts state that our interest in religious issues increases (or should increase) with this mid-life crisis . Also, I love Jungian theories, and the use they make of religion,literature and art in general -and, surprise surprise, the author has been a Jungian analyst for some time.In fact, there is no problem at all with the theme, only with the way it is conveyed. And with the main character. Because she's so passive that the only thing she does in most of the story is feel oooooodd feelings whenever she steps into a church, and of course to ask herself "what would Marx or Lenin say of all this?" (hint: she has been a leftist all her life). And, while she goes about feeling oooodd and doing nothing, you ask yourself how can other characters (such as Carlo)feel interested in her. But then, it's not long before you learn they are all just cardboard people, characters with no flesh and bone. Utterly boring characters that are used by the author to repeat again and again (without making us feel for one single moment the pain, fear, awe they are supposed to feel) the OBVIOUS message of her novel.And when the voice shifts and we get a narrator from Biblical times....oh, boy!! What this narrator says sounds so modern and didactical (as if the author wanted to make the story of Tobit understood by VERY STUPID modern-day children, presenting all kind of plausible explanations, like, how could this biblical character have really lived for 180 years?!....logical explanation for stupid children:maybe they didn't count the years in those times as we do now!!!) as to be actually insulting !!!So, OK, I got the message. But, having been given it by page 5, and having been offered no interesting characters, whose conflicts I can learn something from, or story to delve deeper in the theme and explore it, I wonder why I wasted more time in this book.
5 This is a love story, about a woman falling in love with a city, with her unknown possibilities.  It is a story of forgiveness and repentance, a woman who sees her small wrongs and sets out to correct them.  It is less a story of a guardian angel than of a teaching angel -- the archangels are NOT guardians, they are mediaries between God and man and Raphael is a teacher rather than a protector.The prose is precise yet languid and the proof of the pudding is in the emotional evocation: Julia Garnet's confession to the Monsignor made me turn my face to the pillow for a couple of fast, hoarse, honest sobs.  It made me realize, as well, that of all the cities I love, yes, in fact, Venice is where I would want to live for a while or forever.
5 After reading so many of Donna Leon's books about the venality and corruption of Venice,  it was a real pleasure to read something as heart warming as this book. It is well worth the time.
1 no time to read it b4 argentina.  i will do so when i return.
4 I picked this book up on a whim while visiting London earlier this summer.  Like many other such purchases, I found a small treasure - a visit to a place I could not have expected.  This is made even more interesting by another trip to Europe last month - to Italy, in fact.  I just wish now I had found the time to visit Venice.  But with the experience of reading this book, I can now look forward to the next trip - and this time it will include Venice.But more than just the ambience of Venice, this book using a device which I found reminiscent of A. S. Byatt's &quot;Possession&quot; with the juxtaposition of two narrative strands in very different historical contexts came together to produce a truly lovely and satisfying novel.Try this!  You won't be disappointed.
5 This is no hokey and banal Touched By An Angel melodrama, peopled (or angeled :-) with dubious beings who are anything but magical, but a serious and fine work that delves deeply into exotic religions (and the place of guardian angels in such religions) and art/art restoration/and art restorers, replete with enigmatic, enthralling characters and an intelligent albeit twisting plot. The other reviewers have supplied the high points of the story and summarized it, so what I have to add is that it gives exquisite pleasure to readers, much like the Murano glass manufactured in Venice gives pleasure to those who buy or view it. It shines, it sparkles, it's one of a kind...we know Miss Garnet so well by the time the tale is told...and we hate to lose her. This is an inspirational novel that will stick in one's imagination for a long time, and it's encouraging to know that this is Salley Vickers's first book. She can only get better and better. For those who welcome something out of the ordinary and who have an interest in myth, religion, art, magic, and the vulnerability and frailty of human beings just like us. Venice, that beguiling, mysterious city, is a character as much as anyone or anything else in Miss Garnet's Angel.
5 This is an enchanting novel.  Slow paced, it reveals more than describes the spiritual peregrination of an aging woman, retired, and alone, who seeks comfort and meaning for life while travelling to assuage the loss of a life-long friend.  Schoolmarmish and void of an interesting personality, Julia Garnet's paced awareness of her being both physical and spiritual is the making of the novel. What touches her at first is art. Then, it is story of Tobias and the angel, of which she learns in passing and which she pursues doggedly to the end of her days. The weight of centuries, so evident in Venice, and the seduction of paintings and architecture help in her path to self knowledge, for they add a sense of continuity to ways of thinking and believing which Julia had not been aware of.  Her stay in Venice changes her, and her spritual growth touches the reader.  This is a must read novel not only for those who like good writing, but principally for those who believe in the power of art as a means of redeeming one's soul.  Five stars, without a question.
1 I could hardly finish this book. I found it incoherent. I think it is just simply unfinished. Did this writer have any professional help from the publisher? There were nice bits of writing but too few and far between. I find writing this review difficult because I'm just so bored with the book. A total waste of time. Sorry.
5 Miss Garnet has a dry and emotionless life.  She vaguely realises this, but is never moved to do anything about it until her friend of many years dies, and she decides to spend time overseas.  Her destination of choice is Venice, and there the beauty and history of the place, and the different people she meets, touch her soul and makes her think and re-evaluate everything she has done with her life.  Cleverly interwoven with this is the story of Tobias, who is accompanied by an angel as he too ventures on a journey that will also change his life.This all sounds very deep and meaningful, but it is a lovely, lyrical book, where the central character is charming in her self analysis, regrets and realisations of things lost, and we appreciate the small pleasures that she derives from a beautiful painting, a new lilac dress, and the discovery of new truths from her own research into the story of Tobias and the angel which has so fascinated her.  The other characters who populate her journey are equally enchanting, all of whom are not really who they appear to be, but all who help Miss Garnet appreciate what she has in life, as to a degree she does them as well.If there is one small drawback with the book, it is that it immediately imbues the reader with a great desire to visit Venice, and to gaze upon paintings of angels.  But I'm sure I will get over this.  I will however, continue to remember this enchanting story, and I recommend it highly.  This is a first novel, and I trust that it is the beginning of a great career for a talented and insightful writer.
4 I read this novel with the Book of Tobit in my Oxford Bible beside me.  The other novel that I'd done this with was On the Road with the Archangel by Frederick Buechner.  I'd suggest that to readers also.  Miss Julia's Angel was well written but not nearly as well done as Possession which several reviewers have compared it to. I found some of the parts about Tobe and Sarah to be confusing and not much in line with the Aprocrophal book. And their wedding really didn't make sense to me. I read the novel in one day so I really did enjoy it.
3 Miss Garnet's Angel immediately hooks the reader with its promise of life altering experience, its aura of mysticism, and its ability to evoke a feeling for the special place that is Venice. As it develops, however, the plot grows entirely  predictable, which diminishes the reader's sense of mystery. Conflicts are resolved rather abruptly, and except for Julia Garnet herself, characters are incompletely developed. If you love Italy and religious symbolism, though, this is an easy and fun read.
5 What a joy to read this lovely book shortly after returning from a trip to Venice. Steeped in the art and history of Venice and in an obscure story from the Apocrypha, the novel is multitextural, haunting, and ethereal just like the serpentine streets of that most Serene of Cities. The subject matter sounds weighty but it is never dull.  Elements of a mystery are part of this story of the spinster English school teacher Miss Jula Garnet who is changed forever by her stay in Venice and the people she meets there.I kept turning pages to find out what would happen next. Just a wonderfully literate,and thoughtful book. It will stay in your memory.
2 I could never get into this book. It was chosen for our book club, and I tried really hard to read it, but it just simply was not interesting to me. There were too many things going on. I read about 1/3 of the book. Others in the book club felt the same way, but there were some who liked it and it made for lively discussion for those to did read it. There were still unanswered questions even from the ones who read it - not understanding everything.
3 On the surface, Miss Garnet's Angel seems to have all the elements necessary for a great piece of literature.  There is an exotic setting, a well defined central character to assume an "everyman" role, good supporting characters that bring out facets of the central character's personality, and a solid narrative which explores several themes.  The most visited theme is how travel can create a more complete person by opening up different aspects of one's persona.  Also, an examination of art's power to invoke spirituality and an exploration of the meaning of love frequently reoccur throughout the book.With all of these elements, one could reasonably expect a solid, if not spectacular, novel.  Yet, for some reason, Vickers never quite puts all of these pieces together.  The setting, while adequately described, is never established as the only place where this story could've occurred.  The main character never transcends her commonness to become memorable.  The themes, while frequently discussed, never seem to reach a resolution.  Finally, the unrealistic fate of the several characters, especially Miss Garnet and the twins, leaves much to be desired.There are enough elements that are adequately presented in Miss Garnet's Angel to make it a perfectly acceptable choice for reading.  But, by never fully developing these elements, Vickers produced an average book instead of the great book it could have been.  Because of those shortcomings, one might be better off looking at other books before settling on Miss Garnet's Angel.
4 (3.5 stars) Miss Garnet, a recently retired English school teacher does one of the more impulsive things in her life by renting a flat in Venice after the unexpected death of her flat-mate, Harriet. She surprises herself by making friends and becoming intrigued by not only the architecture, but the churches, despite her long time involvement with communism. Her new companions include an American couple, her land lady and boy related to her, and two young people who are restoring a chapel near her apartment. Miss Garnet is entranced by the story told in a series of panels that relate to the biblical story of Tobit, which is interwoven into the chapters of her story. She is surprised to find a connection with the angel Gabriel and even finds the spark of romance. Things change for her when she realizes that her romance is not what it seems and that the young woman restorer is troubled. Miss Garnet begins to realize how much Venice means to her and must decide what to do at this crossroad in her life. This is a quiet novel with some bittersweet realizations for a woman who is just beginning to blossom in her twilight years.
4 And, though reviews can sometimes lead you astray, this book is a marvelous read!  I enjoyed it from beginning to end.  To see how far Julia Garnet travels, and how much she learns during this story, moved me.  And the changes move along slowly.  You aren't battered with them.  The reader sees Miss Garnet trying to work things through, so that she can move forward as she needs to.  A wonderful character.
5 This novel follows approximately eleven months in the life of Miss Julia Garnet, from the Feast of Epiphany to the Feast of Raphael.  Her friend, Harriet, has just died suddenly.  With her habits already shaken up by the death of her companion, Julia decides to rattle them even further by jetting off to Venice, to enjoy the kind of holiday that Harriet had been planning for their joint retirement from teaching.  Miss Julia Garnet is a Communist who's never been kissed, so it's something of a surprise to see her falling in love, and to learn of her abounding interest in an angel.At first glance, this is a Death in Venice/Don't Look Now kind of book.  Carlo, the man for whom Julia falls for big time, turns out to be quite an apocryphalcharacter, in the modern meaning of the word.  Thankfully, Harriet wasn't in the habit of wearing lurid red anoraks, and Salley Vickers' new novel, The Instances ofthe Number 3 also opens with a death.  However, Julia does encounter the twins who are restoring the Chapel-of-the-Plague (which Salley Vickers seems to have invented for the novel), similar to the sort of work carried out by Donald Sutherland's character in Don't Look Now.  However, there is the scene where Julia abandons her guidebook by  the Reverend Crystal in St. Mark's Basilica (a reference to A Room with a View perhaps?), and this is where she meets Carlo for the first time.  St. Mark's Basilica is very beautiful, but as Carlo tells Julia, all the art has been nicked from other cultures and appropriated by the victorious Venetians of past history.  One could say that Salley Vickers has gone about doing the same thing (especially with regards to her new novel), yet there is a more apt simile to describe what she is doing here.  Like Gianantonio Guardi, Salley Vickers could be said to be borrowing poses or motifs from other artists, but she recasts them in her own vivid manner (to paraphrase Emil Kren and Daniel Marx's description of Guardi's painting  'The Angel Appears to Tobias').  The quotes that Salley Vickers uses in this novel always seem appropriate, and always seem to be leading somewhere, whereas the quotations in The Instances of the Number 3 seem forced and appropriated.  Although I thought there could be more behind Salley Vickers' naming Julia's school as 'St Barnabas and St James'.  There's a thread throughout the novel concerning St Mark, who let down St Barnabas and St Paul by returning home early from one of their first journeys, and I couldn't see a link between St Barnabas and St James. Towards the end of the novel, Julia traces Tobias's journey on a map.  In so doing, she's conveying the importance of such journeys, to our  common history and our own personal development.  For interested readers, I've created a page concerning the cultural context of this novel.We are invited to see Julia as several archetypal figures.  She could be Saint Ursula, watched over by the Angel Raphael as in the cover picture of the book, cropped from a painting by Carpaccio (although it's hard to see her pupils following her anywhere willingly, especially not to a massacre, since they tend to regard her as a joke and sing rude songs about her).  She could be the legendary traveller of the folk story of the Grateful Dead, as embodied by the dramatisation of the Book of Tobit within the novel.  Or she could even be the embodiment of the Angel Raphael himself ('You must be my guardian angel,' Toby says at one point).  Although, to see Miss Garnet as the Angel is to play the tricks with the title of the book that don't work in the same way that 'Finnegans Wake' could mean any number of things.  Certainly, Julia feels that the Angel Raphael is watching over her, if only in the form of a statue. To some, the ending of the book may come as something of a surprise.  It did to me the first time, I'm afraid to admit.  But when you dig deeper into Salley Vickers' research, you cannot avoid a deep sense of foreboding.Salley Vickers has managed to whip up everything she can think of about Venice into this book.  John Ruskin invites Julia out to consume some prosecco (if nothing else), Tintoretto pops in for tea, the House of the Camel really lights up to illuminate William Blake, Vivaldi lectures, and Shakespeare puts on some plays.  However the Venice ghetto does not really provide a refuge for Julia, but may have done some time in the past for the sparkling Monsignore and his pug dog.  Whilst reading Tucker Malarkey's An Obvious Enchantment recently, I did kind of wonder what the links between Christianity, Judaism and Islam were, and Malarkey missed the (now) obvious source of monotheism: Zoroaster was the first prophet to call for the worship of one true God (rather than Akhenaten).  This isn't hacked onto the text by Vickers: it's a natural growth throughout the novel, from the gifts of the three Magi celebrated in the Epiphany, to the Feast of the Apocryphal Raphael.  Just as Venice seems to be in peril, so do the Zoroastrians, with ever declining numbers predicted.  One gets an indication of how intricately plotted this novel is by the revelation that there was a Fair Maiden on the Zoroastrian Bridge of Separation.  Salley Vickers magnificently bridges Christianity, Judaism, Islam, and Zoroastrianism via her dramatisation of the Book of Tobit (and her translation of the tale is a tad bit more successful than Saint Jerome's, despite all it's tail wagging).  And what better place to build bridges than Venice?
4 A delightful page turner set in a beautiful place.  Good writing that reads well.  Perhaps a bit far out in believability at a few points in the story, but endearing tale, most enjoyable characters and well worth the time to read.
5 My third reading of Ms. Vickers works, and another enjoyable read. She writes with great characterizations and clarity that I thoroughly enjoyed. The last part of the book reads like a mystery novel, so don't lose your focus...
1 This book is offensive if you are:  female, single and over 50; if you are politically liberal; or if you are Jewish.The condescending tone to all of the above really took me by surprise.  I do not understand why this book was received with such enthusiasm.
4 A repressed spinster in her fifties, retired from her career as an uninspiring school teacher, a communist and anti-religious, Julia Garnet travels to Venice, falls in love with it (devotees of Venice will relish the evocations of the city), is gradually thawed out by its beauty and stimulus and by people she meets there.  She has rented an apartment in the Campo Angelo Raffaele, behind the church dedicated to that angel.  She gradually comes to learn the story of Tobias and the Angel Raphael and indeed to show increasing interest in it;  and she is also drawn closer and closer to Catholic imagery and to a Catholic priest.Salley Vickers intersperses her narrative with instalments, with some additional inventions of her own, of the Book of Tobit in the Apocrypha.  With each instalment she adds a little more to the account in the Book of Tobit.  At first these additions amount to very little, but the later ones are based on research that has been done which has found that the Book of Tobit (written during the time when the Jews were living under Persian rule) probably has Zoroastrian roots, and each subsequent instalment veers further and further away from the original.One has the feeling that Julia's experiences in Venice should have some bearing on the story and vice versa; but it is difficult for a long time to see what these might be.  For much of the book, the inserted instalments relating to the Book of Tobit seem to have no relevance, either directly or indirectly, to the passages on either side of the insertion - only towards the end do they converge.Julia  meets an English pair, a young man and a young woman, who are restoring the masonry in a chapel (invented by Salley Vickers) which also has a sculpted Raphael and also a painted panel of him.  Rather obviously they are called Toby and Sarah (like the characters in the Book of Tobit - though at this point a reader who has not already read that book would not yet know this).  The closest correspondences between the Book of Tobit and the plot of the novel are with this pair; and these begin only about half-way through the novel. Only once or twice are there correspondences with Julia herself.The story of Julia in Venice and of her interest in the Book of Tobit would stand well on its own, even if one does not look for any parallels.  It has many wise reflections about human relationships and personal development.  There are allusions to other literature;  there are digs at arid rationalism and a reference  to a destructive Freudian analysis (Salley Vickers is a Jungian analyst).  The book reads easily, though there is the very occasional slight clunkiness of expression or description which betrays that this is a first novel.  If I feel that I cannot give it the full five stars it is because I felt I was being invited to look for a more satisfying connection between the novel and the story of Tobias and the Angel, which the book, perhaps teasingly, withheld from me for so long.  It is true that the revealing of psychic histories has something in common with a detective stories, but for me the way the two genres were mixed in this novel did not quite come off.A website ([...]) has alerted me to the subtlety with which picture on the cover has been chosen.
4 Really good story well told. Set in Venice and I felt like I was there.
2 It started out pretty good but then got boring.  I wouldn't suggest this book to anyone.  The cover made it look like it would be a good book.
3 As with the Cleaner of Chartres, the book is a non-challenging read and no more. Again, too much of the Mills and Boon approach.
3 It took me a while to get into this book, although I enjoyed the way it was written - the elegant, elevated prose with lots of delicious, arcane words.  This created an air of detachment, as though the events were happening to the protagonist, instead of her controlling events.  I'm not so sure whether the intertwining of the two stories completely succeeded.  it was sometimes hard to switch from one epoch to another, especially when one was counter-realistic.  i would definitely read other books by this author.
5 When I picked up this book, I knew nothing about The Book of Tobit and how did Parsis live and what were their origins or anything about them. I just had a couple of Parsi friends and yet I never bothered to ask them about their heritage, till I read Miss Garnet's Angel.I do not know under which genre would this book fall in, but I do know that this book has a class of its own. The characterisation of Julia Garnet - reminds me of so many Muriel Spark characters - Miss Garnet was my companion while I was reading this book. The setting of course was amazing - venice! hmmm...the narrow bylanes in the water, shadows of Miss Garnet and her life, the friends she makes in Venice, the heart ache, the revelation, the search - all of this and more make the book so magnanamous - so rich in detailing - that one wants to stop at many places in the book and ask themselves: What would I do if I was in her place?It's not only Harriet's Death that prompts and evokes feelings in Miss Garnet's heart. It runs deeper than that. There is more to be discovered - Go read this one!!
5 This beautifully written gem of a book is a spiritual treasure trove for those who don't especially warm to pop culture's view of angels.Here we have an almost cliched spinster lady (yes, the word certainly applies to her), Miss Garnet, who has lost her long-time companion (not romantic) and uncharacteristically decides to take a pension in Venice for 6 months. So she lets out her own house and off she goes...to a voyage of discovery that is at once so subtle and yet so beautiful that it is a pleasure to read.Is there an angel watching over our heroine? Or is it just a long-awakened spirituality within her? How does one account for this long-denied, long-overdue blossoming of the inner flower that is Miss Garnet? It sounds so pat, but it is just the opposite.And the story within the story, an ancient Hebrew text, is just as fascinating as the story itself.This is simply a magnificent book. Highly recommended.
3 Jack Higgin's character Dillon was very entertaining character in previous books.  He was calm and knowledgeable with a dry sense of humor. In this book I think that Higgins has underplayed Dillon's character to the point  of insignifigance.  The plot itself was a bit calm with the same idea as a  lot of earlier books.  Higgins is stretching his star character so much  that you have to wonder if Dillon is ready to retire.
1 In a suspense thriller where the characters are unashamedly one-dimensional, at least the details of tradecraft should be convincing. But here Higgins sleepwalks through an embarrassment which lacks credibility, never mind artistic integrity, in every way possible. Should disappoint even the comic book enthusiast.
4 I'm surprised that people have rated this book so low.  I enjoyed this book.Day of Reckoning by Jack Higgins is a Sean Dillon book.  In this book the wife of a white house secret group is murdered by a crime syndicate.  The white house operative, Blake Johnson, calls on his friendship with Sean Dillon of the United Kingdom to bring down the crime syndicates boss, Jack Fox.  Dillon and Johnson avoid some tight situations and take care of the bad guys.
3 I picked this book up on a whim, read it quickly, and enjoyed it for the most part.  I was surprised by the overwhelming distaste for this book by Amazon reviewers.A few words of warning ... It is a highly simple story with no real surprises.  The characters are stilted and the dialogue is indeed choppy.Even with these faults, for some reason, I found myself drawn into the story and truly enjoying the downfall of Jack Fox.Not the best book I have ever read, but definitely not the worst!  If you like invincible heroes, over-the-top action, and vindictive revenge, give this one a chance.
2 Am I the only woman reviewing this? Oh well, Higgins is a favorite when I want intrigue and action and a fast read. I am big fan.  I love Sean Dillon and the rest of the gang, but this book was a little lame. However, having said that, please know that I bought and read this book with relish. I can see why the 'guys' were disappointed. This was really not his best but it got me thru a plane trip!
5 I must admit that I am adicted to Higgins' Sean Dillon character and all the other regulars in this series. I especially like them because they a predictable and fairly uncomplicated. I can sit down, enjoy a good story, and not have to get my head too deep into it. This is another that fits  this template. Dillon taking on the Mafia - what else? Dillon helping his  friend Blake - what else? Dillon upsetting yet being admired by his  co-worders in the Prime Minister's Private Army - what else? Dillon  recruiting some of his former assocaites - what else? See, good predictable  readiing. I like it and, if you are like me you will too.
5 This book is what I exactly want to see in more books by great authors. The beginning is perfect. And what an Ending!  I could not have guessed what happend.
1 In this pathetic effort the &quot;good guys&quot; are all&quot;bad guys&quot; gone good; Mafia types, IRA terrorists, Massadgoons. Officially sanctioned murder is the only solution to every problem. Nothing bad ever happens to the good guys, and everything bad always happens to the bad guys. There is no tension, no suspense, and the double spaced wide margined format has succeeded in squeezing 200 pages of mediocre text into nearly 400 pages.If you want to read Higgins at his very best, I strongly recommend Storm Warning, one of his less known earlier efforts. In that he engages the reader with three separate and distinct plot lines inexorably converging on a single point in space an time with no hint of the outcome until the very last. By contrast, this dud telegraphs every plot move, every outcome with the panache of a cortege of police cars with their lights and sirens in full action. These matchstick characters don't even enjoy the fire of emotion that was common in earlier efforts.Perhaps it is time for Mr. Higgins to try his hand at writing a cook book. It would have a more gripping plotline.  END
2 The Jack Higgins for the new millenium is identical to the Jack Higgins of  the old.  Clear cut heroes and villains.  A tale of delicious revenge,  exacted by a group of superheroes.  But oh, how boring, how incredibly  predictable this tired plotline is.  Go read some earlier Higgins, or grab  some other, newer author's action thriller off the shelf.  This one is all  washed up.
1 In this writing Higgins seems to have run out of new ideas to keep the reader interested and involved.  He presents us with a mish mash of unrelated characters that appear to be falling over each other and getting nowhere.  I wondered what purpose some of them served for the story line.Every once in a while an author will experience a period when he will dry up and be at a loss for a plot, and even words, but eventually he rescues himself at a later date with a plot line that one finds intriguing and captivating.  Hopefully Higgins will find his way out of his doldrum and return to the insightful prolific writer we know.  Take your time, Jack, it'll come back to you'E.J. Walden, author of "Operation Snow Owl"S
4 I began by liking this audio version of  Jack Higgins &lt;Day of Reckoning&gt; very much, mostly because of the pleasant reading--nay, dramatization--of Patrick Macnee. I am particularly fond of mysteries or  adventure tales that concern detailed and elaborate step by step plans to  accomplish this or that goal. For example, the Poirot mystery &quot;The ABC  Murders&quot; or &quot;The Great Train Robbery.&quot; On top of that, they  are great fun.The work under scrutiny here, however, takes itself  very seriously--which is certainly laudable--and starts interestingly  enough when the Good Guys decide upon a campaign to wipe out the Bad Guys.  The problem is that so many sidestreets are entered that the artistic  pattern of the story is pretty much lost half way through. Now this would  be no Bad Thing if it weren't for the fact that the characters are not only  uninteresting but even the Good Guys are pretty unpleasant people.  Consequently I would never recommend this book as a good read.On the  other hand, Macnee is so good at his reading, despite the silly inclusion  of sound effects, and so multi-voiced as he lets each character speak in a  different voice (so far as is reasonable, that is) that I would be willing  to give the AUDIO version four stars instead of the three I would give the  book itself. Is that fair?
3 An amusing story, but not Jack Higgins at his best. Fine if you're on the beach and don't want anything too complicated.
5 I call this type of book &quot;popcorn for the mind&quot;, a refreshing mental interlude between my reading of weightier tomes. It requires no mental effort, just page turning every minute or so, to race along with the  plot. It's not great literature, but I don't think Mr. Higgins intends it  to be, he simply wants to entertain his audience, and to me, that's what he  does! More of Dillon and Co., please!
3 Like most of Higgins' novels, the story spans a short time period.  With the characters moving between many settings, the individual settings tend to be treated somewhat superficially.  Also, some parts of the plot seem a bit clumsy.  The story brings back Sean Dillon, Bridadier Ferguson, and others, this time dealing with the Mafia.  Overall, it is an interesting story as the good guys move about disrupting the plans and businesses of the bad guys.  Both sides make use of their in-house computer hackers, and the good guys don't always stay within the law.
2 I have never missed a Jack Higgins novel. But the last couple of his books have been extremely monotonous reads. Same characters, same predictable conversations. I know I am not going to be reading his latest books more than once. But these books may still provide for exciting reading to those who are not used to his work. I hope he can come up with a better book next time around (and with different characters).
1 This has to be one of the worst books I have every had the displeasure of reading. First and foremost there is no character development at all. In an effort to write a book that moves along at a quick pace he pushed the story along at a pace that nothing is enjoyable. As to what characterization he created was in many cases offensive. Especially of people of Italian decent. I think Mr. Higgins has let his prejudices shine through in his work. I would suggest he do a little more homework on his subject matter if he is going to create a believable reality for his stories. This is the first book I have ever read by Higgins and I think it will be the last. Thank god I purchased this book at the bargain table.
5 Don Marco Salazzo is the CEO of the Mafia. His organization conducts business in gambling and prostitution as well as many legal enterprises. His nephew Jack Fox manages those companies that are above board. On the  surface Jack seems like the All-American success story, but that serves as  a faade for his international criminal activities that the Family would  never sanction.Reporter Katherine Johnson has gathered information  that will expose Jack as a brilliant psychopathic criminal, but he knows  she is closing in on him. He orders a hit that successfully kills  Katherine. However, Katherine's former husband, Blake Johnson, heads a top  secret White House agency, The Basement. He obtains Katherine's tape that  explains what she learned. Blake vows vengeance by tearing apart the empire  until the emperor is left naked. However, Jack's connections warn him that  Blake is coming for him.Jack Higgins' latest action-packed thriller  triumphantly blends Puzo with Clancy. The excellent cast and mouse story  line stars two powerful individuals working outside the law towards an  inevitable collision. Though Blake and Jack follow the same path, Mr.  Higgins leaves no doubt of who the hero is and who the villain is. Genre  fans will gain much pleasure from DAY OF RECKONING.Harriet Klausner
3 I have never read or even heard of Jack Higgins. My friend gave me this book and I took a while to even open the book. Finally I decided to go for it and I was surprised. It's a quick read and has plenty of action.The story centers around Blake Johnson and Jack Fox. Blake is a professional hit man for the President and Jack is a mafia guy. They will battle each other since Jack killed Blake's ex-wife. From that point on it moves very quickly and Blake meets up with his friends in England and in this tale they battle not only Jack but also Arab fanatics and the IRA.My only complaint and why I gave it only 3 stars that at times things were moving way to fast. There wasn't much character development, but some reviewers have pointed out that this is a series so that explains that. I also thought it was a little unrealistic how they were able to unravel the mystery so easily but hey I wanted to have a good read not a documentary. :)Overall, I did like it and plan on reading another Jack Higgins novel.
2 I really like the Sean Dillon character, but the books are getting worse and worse.  There is no suspense.  There is total casualness in every  character because they know they won't die.  They could face the Red Army  single handed, any one of them, and come out unscathed.  So what is their  motivation?  None.  What is mine to buy the next book?  None.Also, I am  not what one would call a liberal, but the way Ferguson and Blake Johnson  run around like judge,jury, and executioner offends even me.  If they think  you are a mobster or terrorist they kill you, and apparently the PM and  President trust them so much that they would never reign them in.  I'd  really like it in the next book if Blake Johnson would find dirt on some  guy who gave a couple of million to the presidents campaign, and plan to  indiscriminately kill him.  It would at least show something that I could  beleive when then President told him to just cover it up.
5 I DITTO EVERYTHING I SAID ON MY OTHER REVIEW.  THIS IS IN THE SAME SERIES.  I ALSO RECOMMEND THIS BOOK.
1 Dross. Worse than that.  Puerile dross.  Worser still.  Clich&eacute; ridden puerile dross. Worst still. Badly lazily written, clich&eacute; ridden puerile dross
2 I didn't enjoy this book very much. There's a large number of characters in the book. These characters seem very underdevelopped and it can be hard at times to remember who everyone is. Plus, at least to me, the whole plot and series of events seemed rather predictable and not overly exciting. It just seemed like the "good guys" did too much damage before the "bad guys" even realized what was going on and decided to retaliate.
1 Reading this was a waste of time.  Don't bother.  The plot, characters and dialog are totally cliched.
1 I bought this book on the reputation of Jack Higgins. Unfortunately it is a complete waste of time. This first chapter has no relationship to the rest of the book, his plot bounces all over from mafia, massad, IRA and god knows what else. He has all his characters from all his other books thrown together without rhyme or reason.  Maybe someone wrote it for him.  Or just senility
2 Story is OK but characters are uninteresting people.  Edits and/or research is sloppy.  One of the bodyguards has a twenty-five millimeter Colt automatic.
1 What suckers we mortals be!  I've no idea whether the author has been or  is able to write a good book.  Apparently he has developed some following  among readers of formulaic derring do.  But that aside, every book should  stand on its own, and this one was obviously tossed off in a week or so by  a bored and complacent writer and produced by an equally bored and cynical  publisher confident that the author's fans would shell out once again. This  piece, aside from its cardboard characters, ridiculous plot, and total  failure to develop any atmosphere for the numerous locations among which  the protagonists hop, is replete with grammatical and typographical  bloopers that no self-respecting writer or editor should commit. However,  this quality of work is becoming more the norm than the exception in pop  fiction. The state of modern fiction of this sort may be one good indicator  of the state of our educational system.
1 Had I not been trapped in a car for hours with nothing better to do I would never have finished this horrid mess of a book.  Eventually I decided to enjoy it as camp and parody, as if SNL had done a spoof of spy novels, and that made it a bit more fun.  The book proper probably only deserves 2 stars.  The characters are charicatures, the plotting vacillates between predictable and inconsistent, and there really isn't anyone to root for in the whole story once we get past the first couple of chapters.  The most interesting characters are either killed off or just disappear from the story for no good reason.  But this version gets a single star because this has to be one of the worst narrations in the history of recorded books.  The breathy, melodramatic reading by Patrick Macnee almost drove me crazy until I decided to shift to parody mode.  Then it fit.  Maybe Macnee had to go there himself to get through this disaster.I have great admiration for anyone who makes a living writing, and for Mr. Higgins other successful books, but not every word put to paper has to see print.  This one should have been left in a drawer somewhere.
5 Jack higgins did it again for me with this Sean Dillon Book. I f you get a chance also get the audio book read my Frank Muller - amazing accents bring the book alive :)
5 Another action packed book by Jack Higgins featuring Sean Dillon at his BEST against the mafia.  I couldn't put it down and you won't be able to either!
5 Thuis book is as all of his other books a true masterful tale of intrigue.  I simply had to find out how he was going to end the book, he did not let me down.  I was hooked and could not put this thriller down.  another un-down-putable book. The pro is Jack Higgins.  Another great job!  Another winner.
2 It takes to read this sophmoric novel. Cliche'd, predictable, abrubt, summarized. Reads like cliff notes. Worst Higgins novel I've read. Please take your time with the next book Mr. Higgins
2 The Day of Reckoning is an exemplar of a novel at its worst. Sean Dillon and his all-star cast of superhuman vigilantes hardly inspire, and infact tend to irritate.My advice: This book is worse than the plague, so run away from it.
2 I listened to this book on tape and was not at all impressed with it. There are so many flaws it's hard to know where to begin. The &quot;hero&quot; is Blake Johnson, a Rambo like character who has little personality. He mainly gives menacing looks to people who get in his way and says things like &quot;I'll make you sorry you were ever born.&quot; The main villain, incidentally, Fox, says the very same thing a few dozen pages after Johnson . Is Higgins trying to make a subtle point about the underlying similarity between the two? I don't think so; more likely he was simply sloppy. To root for the good guys in this book you have to believe that killers who work for presidents and prime ministers are morally superior to those in the mafia. Aside from some truly disturbing political implications --Higgins seems to celebrate the existence of hit squads who carry out secret vendettas-- there is another problem with the high level affiliations of Johnson and friends. In a suspense story, it helps when the hero is something of an underdog facing seemingly impossible odds. In this book, Johnson and his allies have all the resources of the American, British and even Israeli governments at their disposal. How can they lose? Overall, Day of Reckoning has the tone of a propaganda piece, glorifying  militarism. In an especially distasteful scene, or series of scenes, a young street kid named Billy is initiated into the ways of killing and learns that shedding blood is lots of fun. You don't have to be a pacifist or even a liberal to find it a bit sickening to see violence glorified in such a mindless and simplistic way. If a book is well written and has human characters and an intelligent plot, almost any point of view is justified. This book has none of these virtues.
1 I must preface my remaks with two facts. First I have read every one of Jack Higgins books and two I always buy them when they come out, I don't wait for the deep discount.That being said, Mr Higgins has always  written wonderful adventure books without the need for graphic sexual  descriptions or terrible violance, just what was needed to make the plot  work. I am by far no prude I love descriptive books.Day of Reckoning is  so sad. Here is an author who has had it all. He should have quit period.  He lumps all the characters from his previous book into a series of  impossible plots. They happen so fast that they make no sense. Had I not  read his other books all these characters would be meaningless, he  introduces them with, I guess, the premises that the reader has read all  his books. There are so many new characters that the reader can't remember  who goes with what. Irish, English, Maffia, American, Arab, Jew and so  forth. They just keeping turning up.The saddest is the lack of skill in  the plot and the horrible dialogue that is all through the book. You get  the impression that he wants it over, I don't blame him. Who could not  figure out who wins and who loses in each mini adventure. One  &quot;hero&quot; gets shot in the arm other then that the good guys always  win.The first chapter doesn't make sense in relation to the book. Why  is it there?Please don't waste your money and encourge Mr Higgins to  write any more. For me it is like losing an old friend.I saw how fast it  hit the best seller list and his name was what did that not the book. That  is the advantage of fame, it's too bad he used his to sell this disaster. I  am sure that his reputation was the mittigating factor with his publisher.
2 No doubt, the ingredients of a great thriller exist in Day of Reckoning.  The villains are evil, the locations are exotic and the heroes are gallant.  Unfortunately, all of these assets are thin and flat.  The villains are dunces, unable to appreciate or even emotionally react to threats and disasters.  The heroes are cool, almost  bored.  While revenge for a brutal murder is at stake, no real danger threaten them.  It's a sleepwalk to the final page.Please understand, I am a big Higgins fan that found the Dillon/Blake partnership to be entertaining in The President's Daughter and The Whitehouse Connection.  As a paperback, Day of Recknoning offers some value.  I trust Jack Higgins can boost the emotion around a successful formula in future yarns.
4 Sean Dillon is back and this time he is helping Blake Johnson avenge the murder of his wife.  It is a good read but it is not up to Jack Higgins' usual best.I read all of Jack Higgins' books and anxiously await each  book.  I especially love the Sean Dillon series.. This was good but I was  hoping for more development of the characters.  Disappointed that there is  not alot of Hannah Bernstein in the book.but all in all it is still a  good read..
5 I really can't fault this book, and feel that other only can because they're silly nitpicking twits.What do i look for in a book...well,  ...I personally think this is one of Higgins's best books in years. Lately, he has produced a real string of absolutely stunning thrillers. Right from Drink with the Devil, and up to Midnight Runner which was published in the UK in feb, and is due to be published in the US in April. All of his most recent books have been excellent.  They are fast paced, exciting, with likeable characters, interesting and intelligent plots, and good settings which span the globe.This is no different. A recurring theme of his latest three books (Day of Reckoning, Edge of Danger, and now Midnight Runner) is revenge. This time the revenge is sought by Blake Johnson against the killers of his ex-wife, a mafia don whom she had been doing a jounrnalistic expose on. Johnson sets out to bring the don (Jack Fox) down, with the help of Sean Dillion and co. What follows is a truly exciting adventure which speeds along at high pace. The speed at which it switches from place to place is stunning, and the events unfold before you like a rollercoaster ride.Higgins's writing is pitch-perfect. Some writers, in their quest to write well, overwrite their stories tremendously. And others, knowing the dangers of over-writing, try desperately to avoid doing so but instead they drastically oversimplify their work so it readsa like a ten year old's. Jack Higgins gets it just right. Not overwritten, but not oversimplfied either. just perfect.A criticism of this book is his lack of characterisation of some of the major characters. Personally, i don't notice it, as i have come across them al before, and know them very well. That is a problem of series writing. You develop your characters in the early books, and as the series moves on there is very little developement left which you can do, and they run the risk of appearing 2d. However, this didn't spoil the book at all. This is an extremely high-class adventure story from a real master of modern fiction, powered by high emotion.
1 I began reading Higgins's books more than 25 years ago before he became a best selling author. I have enjoyed his many books, especially his very early works.  But, as with many authors who reach the best sellers plateau, he does not know when to retire. He now has seemingly joined the ranks of  former best selling authors who are merely writing for the sake of  publishing a book to trade on their past reputation.  His new books,  including this one, are poor examples of his former novels. The plots are  oversimplified, uninteresting, and entirely predictable.  The characters  are poorly depicted.  In particular this book even carries the wrong  messsage of a  lack of respect for the rule of law.  Higgins has the  protagonist,Sean Dillon, simply executing many of the gangsters he  encounters without the usual justifications in the author's prior books  (i.e., self defense, war time, etc).  Higgins depicts some of these  killings by Dillon as whimsical and revengful. Jack, we enjoyed your  past  work, but unless you can go back to your prior plots, it is time for you to  give it up and enjoy life on your island.
4 I like the book very much I felt the character were very balanced. A fantastic read.
2 Normaly i like Jack Higgins but this was terrible. The characters were under developed and the plot was unbelivalbely far fetched and completely nonsensical
2 If this had been an early work by a writer, it would have ranked pretty decently.However, coming from Jack Higgins, writer of The Eagle Has Landed and other exciting books, this book is a pathetic rehash of worn-out formula, reusing Sean Dillon in its umpteenth time as a nemesis operating outside legal jurisdiction.The premise was very simple, and almost like the last several Sean Dillon's novel.  The ex-wife of Blake Johnson was murdered for trying to expose Jack Fox, a new generation of Mafia don in America.  Blake Johnson was a personal friend of the US President as well as the head of the Basement, a clandestine US agency which answered only to the president.  Clandestine my foot, Jack Fox easily got a gambling addict of a computer don to hack into government computers and found out all about Blake and the Basement, and no warning was triggered in one of the supposedly most secure computer systems in the world of intrusion.Deciding to strip everything away from Jack Fox before killing him, Jake learned through the assistance of British G4 - Ferguson, Sean Dillon, Hannah Bernstein & recently added temp member hacker whiz Roper - that Jack Fox needed to snag several big illegal deals in Europe & Middle East to make good the financial losses he incurred in legitimate businesses.What followed was a series of computer arcade style of shoot, bomb and destroy mission, with Dillon & Johnson targetting every one of Jack Fox's illegal business deals outside the Mafia.Readers would get no kick as the heroes blast their way across from New York to London to Lebanon to Ireland.  The villains did absolutely nothing to counter Dillon and Johnson, except for a few minor attempts at reprisal.  Not even the flash-forward in chapter one whereby Johnson was captured and brought to Hellsmouth did anything to increase the excitement.Higgins made a pathetic attempt to add dramatic tension by Hannah Bernstein's moral delimna of her boss Ferguson and her colleague Dillon's impunity at operating outside the law, and add another female gunner to balance her.  However, these fizzled to nothing than a few phrases to state she felt upset.On the whole, there was nothing added to the recurring characters and the villain Jack Fox who was supposed to be a Desert Storm veteran played mafia like a backyard bully - and was even derided by Dillon and Roper as not lasting a minute in Belfast.This book may suit those into the shooting arcade game culture, but nothing more.
1 I'm not sure I've ever read a book as bad as this.  It's as if Higgins sketched out a brief plot in a couple of days to give his publisher a glimpse of a future novel, but ultimately forgot to flesh out the outline.  I feel cheated by Higgins and his publisher.  They can obviously do much better.
2 Here's the cliff notes version:Within the first 10 pages of the book, the reader learns the good guy wants to ruin the bad guy by doing A, B, C and D. Two hundred plus pages later, the good guy has done A, B, C and D. The end.Next book, please.
2 Unlike most of the authors that I read, with Higgins I now pass on the first-run hardcover publication and wait for the paperback version or for the hardcover to hit the &quot;bargain book&quot; rack.  Higgins' early material is great, but, over the years, he has grown complacent.  The book is only 295 pages in hardcover, with very large margins, larger-than-average type face, and several blank filler pages between chapters.  I want a book that is a page turner because the story and action force the reader to blow through the book, not because the word count per page is so low (as is increasingly the case with Higgins).  The storyline (revenge) is good enough to warrant two stars, but it lacks depth.  Character development outside the recurring characters is minimal to non-existent.  Dialog is terse and choppy.  The book is not so much of a disappointment for what it is but rather for what it could have been.  If Higgins keeps this up, I will not only swear off the new hardcover versions but will take a pass on the paperback/bargain book versions as well.
2 This book was so forgettable I had to search Amazon on the names of the lead characters to find the name of the book only a few days after finishing the novel!You see this book coming a million miles away.  Higgins simply phones in the effort.I've read other books as part of larger series and I never felt left out.  This book was the exception.  Unlike the Master and Commander series, or the Leaphorn/Chee mysteries, this book depends on previous books.  At least that's my assumption since this book is so lame on its own.  For example, you start this book with a lead character, but once we meet the series' principal characters, the first character gets third billing.This book is NOT recommended.  I gave it 2 stars because I was entertained moderately and did finish it.  (If it was really bad, I would have cut bait!)  The character Dillon is somewhat interesting, perhaps more so if you have interest in the IRA, Northern Ireland, and all that.
1 I should preface this by saying that I absolutely love historical fiction, and - for that genre - Philippa Gregory is my favorite author....WHEN that historical fiction is based on actual historical figures or events.  Gregory does a beautiful job of opening the reader's mind to the what-ifs of the history lesson that you didn't learn in high school or college, and for that reason she's a fantastic author of historical fiction.Unless the characters are entirely a product of her imagination and not at all based on historical people or events.  And then you might as well skip it.Such is the case with "The Wise Woman."  This book was a complete waste of time.  I read another reviewer compare it to a Stephen King novel, and I really think that reviewer hit the nail right on the head.  If you enjoy Stephen King and you're not looking for historical fiction, you might like this book.  If not, skip it entirely and look toward her much better books like "The Other Boleyn Girl" and "The Constant Princess."Bizarre, unrealistic, demonic and creepy are the only adjectives I can come up with to describe this book.  I will certainly be more discerning in my future Philippa Gregory selections, as this isn't the first time I've been burned.  I could say the same about the "Wideacre" series which was like watching a train wreck.  You know you should look away, but you just can't help yourself and so you keep reading, only to wish you'd looked away when you had the chance.
1 Let me first say, I have read everything Phillipa Gregory has written, and have loved nearly everything she has written. This book, however, left me feeling like I needed a shower. This book was like a car wreck I couldn't look away from, and was the first book of hers I did not pass on to a friend. I really, really, disliked this book, and I can't really see where the author was going with it. Very disappointed.
3 It was an okay story- it got very lengthy in parts with too much information/details. I would say for this book, the price needs to be lowered a LOT because the price doesnt match the quality of the book.
3 Warning...if you dont want a detailed review of the book, dont read any further. For starters, remember that this was an early book of the authors and should not be used as a judge for future books. Ive read other books by this author and loved them but this one...if your a person who get emotional about books dont buy it. During most of the book (90% to be honest) i was furious with the heroine and hero. Hes a man whore, shes the dog he pushes around. She watches, and hears him having sex with his wife on one page and on the next shes having sex with him(although what else can a home wrecker expect?) The story is just not believable. He hates his wife, then he wants and loves her? He chases after alys then he forgets her. A lot of weird s&m stuff, a threesome that made me gag, and plenty of rape. Then theres the wax dolls...and the wax miscarriage. Like i said, unbelievable and gross! But mostly gross. If you have never read this author chose another book(they all have man whores though). If you have read everything shes ever written...im sorry. Guess you will just have to wait for a new book with her, hopefully, good writing and plots, like ill have too. Good luck...
1 Having read many Phillipa Gregory books, I decided to give The Wise Woman a try - I am so sorry I did.  It was just plain gross.  It is full of witchcraft, weird graphic descriptions, and gratuitous sex.  Come on, Phillipa Gregory, you are much better than this.
4 The Wise Woman / 1-4165-9088-9This is now my fifth Philippa Gregory novel I've read, and the fourth I've reviewed, and I cannot understand how Gregory can be so radically different with each novel, in terms of prose, technique, and sheer quality. "The Constant Princess" was wonderful - crisp, clean prose, with a little bit of didactic dialogue, but it fit Catherine's character perfectly. "The Other Boleyn Girl" was terrible history, but a decent fictional story, even if Gregory did rely a little too heavily on virgin/whore stereotypes, and even if she deliberately reduced her heroine into an idiot in order that everything could be explained to her in dialogue. "Earthly Joys" was so painfully boring that I simply could not finish it, and "The Virgin's Lover" was just awful, with characters' motivations just told to us in hurried prose, rather than shown to us properly in actual actions and dialogues. And now we have "The Wise Woman".The writing in "The Wise Woman" is simply wonderful. The plot and the characters are so compelling because Gregory skillfully takes every stereotype and shortcut in a writer's manual, and turns each one on its head. The entire cast of stock characters are here: the Reformed Rapist Lover, the Bitter Barren Wife, the Kind Supportive Old Father, the Cruel Uncaring Hag, the Sweet Understanding Foster Mother. And just when we realize that we're dealing with historical romance stereotypical characters, and figure that we know the outcome of the story, Gregory chooses that moment to show the ridiculousness of the stereotypes and the reality of her own characters."The Wise Woman" does not have a happy story to tell. Entitled, rapist nobles do not reform into loving husbands. Bitter, barren wives have good reasons to be bitter. Noble fathers who seem kind to simple peasant girls have very different standards when it comes to marriage eligibility. Evil hags can still contain a kernel of kindness, and the nicest mothers are capable of cutting judgment and prejudice. Because these characters are so real, the plot is unpredictably bleak and shocking. Gregory seems to be asking the reader: Did you really think a lifetime of rape can be washed away by a pretty face? Did you really think that a lifetime of plotting and calculations would be abandoned simply because an old man is fond of a young girl? Did you really expect a happy ending?Refreshingly, our heroine is also allowed to be a real person. She isn't a Virtuous Heroine, who will win marriage because of her pure heart. She's not a Schemer, destined for greatness because of her clever political wrangling. And she's not an Anti-Heroine, determined to tear down her tormentors at the cost of her own life. No, she simply is a real girl, full of the same virtues, vices, hopes, fears, angers, and loves. Gregory doesn't pass judgment on her character; we're not expected to see her as greedy for wanting a warm castle over a dirty hovel, and we're not expected to judge her for her actions, even as she becomes increasingly desperate and spirals into madness. For the characterization alone, I would give "The Wise Woman" five stars, and would point it out as an example of how to do a historical romance right.However, there's a big caveat to all this before you rush right out to buy this book. There's a lot of material here that many people will find very objectionable. Of the many graphic sex scenes in this book, they all involve extreme violence, rape, forced drug use, or forced group sex. The scenes are often necessary to propel the plot, but they are certainly disturbing and will turn off a lot of readers. I wasn't offended by the scenes, but I did feel a little queasy after many of them - this isn't light reading material.Secondly, Gregory has decided to make magic a real force in "The Wise Woman", and some of this magic could be disturbing or offensive to some readers. I think, in retrospect, that I would have enjoyed the novel more if there was a possibility that the "magic" was all in the heroine's mind as an indication of her spiraling insanity. As it is, Gregory makes it pretty clear that the magic our heroine works and suffers from is completely real, and not a hallucination. I would have preferred a little more subtlety.The only other thing that keeps this from being a five-star book is the ending. I don't have a problem with the ending itself: it's realistic, it's cyclical, and it works. But I do have a problem with the way the ending seems rushed and tacked on, as if Gregory had a page limit to maintain and realized, twenty pages from the end, that - oh no! - she needed to wrap this baby up fast. Her careful, foreshadowing prose gets tossed out the window in favor of a dash to the finish line. The result is an ending that seems technically right, but feels horribly wrong.Bottom line: If you are offended by graphic, violent sex scenes and/or graphic, violent magic, you will not enjoy this book. If you are a fan of historical romances and you would like to see some common stereotypes followed through to a dark and subversive conclusion, you may enjoy this book as I did. For all its joys, there are better novels out there, but if you are looking for something unusual and different, this is the Gregory novel for you.~ Ana Mardoll
2 This book started out well enough. Gregory always has a flair for imagery, and this book is no exception. However, about a hundred pages in i found these folks began to suffer from what I like to call dumb a** character syndrome. Particularly, the main character-Alys/Ann. It seemed that she frequently chose the most difficult route for the sake of the story, ignoring common sense and sanity. Right from the start, Gregory asks us for too much. To believe that Alys loves a woman as her mother, then in turn, loves almost on sight the man she knows to be responsible for her death. And what of her being able to manipulate people, places and events with the aid of candlewax dolls? Alys, our brilliant heroine comes up with the idea that, in order for her and the man she loves to be together, she'll have him impregnate her, so that his wife will be sated and content with their child and hero and heroine can be alone. Umm, what? Why not put you and Hugo together, ask for the love and affection of his father, etc. etc.? That took me about two seconds. Hmmm. And as for that ending, I was far from moved. I felt cheated. Alys hardly seemed ready for martyrdom up to that point. I thought that section a dream and looked for more and realized the book was over. More than once in this book I wished for the death of not only the main character, but several others, they seemed so vile. And we won't even GET into the grotesque imagery in a few of the scenes, most notably that of Catherine in labor. I liked to have vomited. And that from a Stephen King fan. Gregory fan's, stay away from this AND Wideacre. Look for other works, if you want quality from Gregory.
2 All I can do looking back at this book is laugh. What the heck did I just read?!! This is by far the most bizarre and badly written book by Gregory I have read yet. The only reason I finished it all the way through was because I had unfortunately purchased the book, and felt I needed to get my $15 worth. HA!First of all...this book was strange, as I mentioned before. She casts spells on people with these little wax dolls that have private parts. The wax dolls come alive and chase after people. A woman even gives birth to a wax baby because of the spell that was put on her. ha...I am still laughing at this book...bear with me.Second, Alys has this constant struggle between "God" and the "devil". And without giving away too much of the book...this struggle was poorly put together. The only time you see that she really wants to stick on God's side...is in the beginning. Then its satan, satan, satan. Then the ending??? I can't say it here, but if you read the book you know what I mean.Third, I really never expected Gregory to write a cheap, trashy, romance novel. This comes pretty darned close. There are some very ILLICIT and DESCRIPTIVE sex scenes in this book. Holy moly...I felt like I needed to take a shower after this book...it was so dirty. And the scenes really were totally unnecessary to the plot of the book. A simple "and they lay in the bed together" would have been fine. Really. There's even a threesome. Not joking.So for comic relief...this was a good read. You will, however, feel you wasted a good chunk of a couple days when you are done. I love Gregory's novels...and I was SO dissapointed in her for this one. What a let down. But thanks for the good laugh Philippa! (The only reason this book got two stars and not one, was because it still was somewhat well written. Though the editor must have been drunk, because they say one thing on one page, and then say the exact same thing on the next. Like Lady Catherine's "face lines" coming back after the birth. Umm...how many times do we need to say that in one chapter? Must be four...because that's how many I counted!) And I guess you can't hate the creativity. haha...oh man.
1 I am extremely disappointed with this book.  There were hundreds of wasted pages in the middle where there was so much repetition and boredom.  I felt like I could have written something more spellbinding and who could possibly write better than Philippa Gregory?  But more than that, I was actually angry when I finished this book.  I was like, "Um, yeah.  I want those 20 hours of my life back."  The ending is absolutely horrible.  It was bad enough that there were parts actually laughable (ridiculous science fiction that didn't begin to be believable) but to have put up with that through those many pages and then be literally left hanging at the end... was nothing short of cruel.  I wish the publishers would have sent it back and said, "Not until you finish it."  It is literally unfinished and I am stunned.  The book ends with a dream sequence immediately following a huge upset so we are left with no justice, no finding out how Alys will interpret her guilt and turn herself for the better and NO resolution at all.  If this were a movie, there would be BOOING at the end.  Do not waste your time on this one.  This is absoulte TRASH.
4 I thought I had read every Philippa Gregory book out there except one ('A Respectable Trade'), so I was surprised to come across this novel at the book store and see how long ago it was written.  The style is definitely earlier Gregory (story told from one point of view, dark characters, somewhat deviant sexual exploits) but is well-written and fast-paced in typical Gregory fashion.  The author often likes to weave aspects of the dark Old Magick into her stories (think Wideacre trilogy, 'The Queen's Fool' and 'The White Queen'), and this book is no different.  Some may find the mystical elements a bit weird, but I thought the author did a good job of integrating them into a mostly straight historical fiction plotline.  I gave the book four stars because I did find it a good read, but even so 'The Wise Woman' was not one of my favorites.To very quickly sum up the novel, the story is set in Tudor England, but unlike many of Gregory's other books, Henry VIII's exploits happen on the periphery of the plot rather than in the center.  We learn of Anne Boleyn and her tragic fate through letters and gossip rather than actually being present at court.  The main character, Alys, is a 16-year old girl whose survival instinct is stronger than anything else:  honesty, loyalty, honor or even a basic sense of morality, and her deep desire to be Lady of the castle often drives her to act in ways that are more destructive than helpful.  Alys is knowledgeable about herbs and the healing arts, so when the local lord becomes ill she is basically kidnapped to take care of him.  The lord then discovers that she can read and write and drafts her to become his clerk.  Alys also has enough skill with magic to exert minor control over her life and that of those immediately around her, and she recklessly invokes her powers in an attempt to raise herself in the social hierarchy.  Alys, a typical teenager, is unfortunately too impulsive and naive to thoughtfully weigh the consequences of her actions, so when she falls in love with the lord's handsome, married son her immaturity leads her to dabble in black magic in an attempt to win his love in return.  Chaos ensues.  I wasn't sure how the novel would end and will confess I was surprised, but while some might think it a sad ending, I found it redemptive.  Unlike many of Gregory's other novels, I put this book down pleased with the way she chose to finish the story.If asked, I would absolutely recommend this novel to a friend; however, I would do so with a word of warning that the author does tend to explore the dark side of humanity.  If one is hoping for a lighthearted read or is squeamish about explicit sexuality, choose a different author and certainly bypass this book.  Philippa Gregory's imagination is not for the faint of heart.
1 My copy of &#34;The Wise Woman&#34; is in the trash, covered with coffee grounds as it should be. I'm too embarrassed to put it in the &#34;garage sale box&#34; and unwilling to foist it upon some other unsuspecting victim. Where to begin... The English Reformation is the setting of this &#34;historical fiction,&#34; but except for a few mentions of codpieces and stomachers, there is very little history involved, and what there is, appears in a suspiciously incorrect timeline of events. But that is only a minor problem compared to the dearth of unlikable characters who lie and scheme their way toward goals that change with every page. Find one character that you find interesting or care about. I'll wait....None! And not to &#34;nit pick&#34; but Alys arrives at the castle, bald, dirty and covered with lice, but put her in a pox-ridden whore's red gown and she's suddenly the belle of the ball! The lord of the castle literally says &#34;she looks hot.&#34; I know, a minor detail, compared to the repetitive, stilted dialogue and plot which were probably written off and on over a period of years, it is that disjointed. Speaking of years, how did Alys' hair grow so fast? One minute she's bald, and ten months later she has long flowing hair. According to the abbess, the abbey burned down &#34;ten months ago,&#34; so wow, that is some fast-growing hair! OK, I know I'm rambling, just like the Wise Woman that I am. So skip this book, and read &#34;A Respectable Trade&#34; which had genuine editors who were awake and cared about us silly readers, unlike the editors of &#34;The Wise Woman&#34; who must have been off in one of Alys' last dreams, which, by the way, was the worst ending ever!
1 I am a big fan of the author and have almost every book she has written.  And as I like to read books over and over again I never give them away.  I was so disappointed in this one that I sold it in a garage sale as a protest as to how bad it was.  The characters were not belivable, their was no sympathy or understanding for the main character and dark is not the word I would use (as I am also a Stephen King fan).  It was just awful.
4 As with all books I've Read from Philippa Gregory, I was impressed and entertained. I really enjoyed reading this book, although it was not my ultimate favorite of her novels
5 I loved this book so much the first time I read it that when my "friend" disappeared with it I actually re-bought it and am re-reading it. It does get rather graphic compared to many of her novels and isn't quite as politically centered as her better known novels but still a great read. If you're anti witchcraft stories dont get this. However if you enjoy a little more chaos and imagination this is a great novel for you.
5 This is, by far, Philippa Gregory's best novel - bar none!  It is so far removed from her typical historical novel that if it had been published under a pseudonym, those rating this book less than five stars would have loved it.  That may be their problem as this exciting novel explores themes not typically part of Gregory's usual book.It is a love story, a supernatural horror story, and a psychological study rolled into one.  Yes, it deals with witchcraft.  More conservative readers may be outraged at the way it goes right to the edge in mixing religion with that subject, but it is an integral part of the story and is critical to plot and character development.The book is compelling beyond belief.  I started reading and couldn't put it down; in fact, my spouse had to cook his own dinner so I didn't have to be interrupted.  Yes, the book is that good.If you read Philippa Gregory's novels of 'Merry Olde England' and expect more of the same, this isn't the book for you.  If you want an outstanding novel with well drawn characters and a plot that charges along, then pick up this book.  You won't regret it.
3 In Philippa Gregory's "The Wise Woman," the reader tunnels back into a time when the options available to women were not exactly friendly with regard to a future that could be autonomous or controlled.  The ambitions of men and the interests of their families jockeying for position and land relegated women to perhaps a little more than the role of a bargaining chip.  Because women functioned as brood mares and the dowry deliverers, they were forced to scheme and manipulate within, and at times, outside the bounds of their limited world.  Gregory also explores this universe inThe Other Boleyn Girl, where one of the main characters, Anne Boleyn attempts to gain control of a king through her sexuality and ability to provide a male heir.  In "The Wise Woman," main character Alys works along similar guidelines, resorting to somewhat blacker arts to secure her place in a flimsy foundation of promise with what she discovers has in reality the substantiation of straw.Gregory creates a story rich with characters harsh in their practicality; she drives home her point that the desires of women mean little in the grand scheme of things and because of this they must strike when they can, in whatever way possible.On a larger level, is she suggesting that this sociological structure that is fostered and buttressed by centuries of patriarchy combined with the nature and physicality of women narrows the options available even to the modern woman? Given that the modern woman has somehow evolved through history with a full complement of wiles and strategies honed through ancestry.  Her woman does not operate within the framework of a team; she usually works alone--insinuating her thoughts and desires with little hints here and there that eventually move events in a way that follows her carefully planned agenda.  Does Gregory condone the use of devious means--suggesting that it is a natural evolution in the struggle for survival? Is she excusing the lengths some women are willing to go without a thought to their integrity as a strikeout at male dominance? Or is she merely telling a story about how misjudged women are--their attempts at healing with herbs misinterpreted as witchcraft--their ability to "bewitch" a man with their sensuality a sign of devilry rather than biology?Nonetheless, if one thinks of another "community" of women as depicted in the novel, "The Physick Book of Deliverance Dane"--the time: circa the 17th century--the locale: Salem, Massachusetts--is the author Katherine Howe saying the same thing?  Is she portraying a severe injustice or proving that,in general, sadly, jealousy and a need for comeuppance rides women to misunderstand, gossip or snitch on their neighbors, call them `witches' and eventually have a tribunal of men dispose of the accused through trial, torture and execution?  In the modern day, popular television series like "Gossip Girl: The Complete First Seasonl" or "Pretty Little Liars: The Complete First Season" glorify the malicious strength of those in power who lie to, cheat and destroy anyone who gets in the way of their objective.  Integrity does not come into play--those with this "virtue" find their friends few and far between and laughing at their naivety. Ultimate loner Lisbeth Salander ofStieg Larsson's Millennium Trilogy Bundle: The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, The Girl Who Played with Fire, The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nestfame strikes at the brutal misogynists in her life with a brain that can shape technology.  Was she born this way or did she change in order to survive?  Is it nature or the necessity?Such speculation puts an added dimension into an otherwise moralistic predictable plot.  Girl wants better for herself and must do whatever she can to get it.  In the long run, she discovers that what she thought she wanted means nothing because in the process she loses not only her sense of self, but her peace of mind.  Simple.In particular, this Gregory offering ventures into the world of women during the time of Henry VIII's transition through the first three of his wives and the religious implications for those on the wrong side of whatever faith was fashionable.  The characters live in the town of Castleton where the aging Lord Hugo, his son Hugo and Hugo's wife Catherine preside over their small domain from the vantage point of their castle.  The younger Hugo, a lusty man with "too much time on his hands" decides with a mind to the politics of the time to rid the area of a Popish nunnery where little Alys has taken vows and lives in a reasonably well-off contentment, learning Latin and Greek, tending the herbal garden for the mother superior, the Lady Hildebrande, and becoming the sweet favorite of the convent. No drama or intrigues for her.  That is--until . . .When Hugo maliciously burns the nuns' sanctuary, Alys escapes death with the full ironic knowledge that her safe life as a nun has come to an end.  Her only option is to return to the cottage of her early childhood to Morach, the local "cunning" woman who had reared her as a child in the harsh life of a wise woman keeping the secrets of others, a paucity of food and a hearth devoid of warmth.  Knowing that a life of misery underscored by the constant threat of being accused as a witch awaits her as Morach's apprentice, Alys wants only to go back to the comfort of the convent.This is not to be.  At first, she is appalled when she is commanded to move into the castle in order to dose the old lord with herbs as he battles a stomach flux.  However, after she lays eyes on the young lord--the burner of the convent--falling hopelessly in love with him on the spot--she gradually abandons her high-mindedness and lofty dreams of a cloistered utopia and utilizes her natural cunning and her wise woman's training to ensure that she procures her heart's desire in whatever way it takes.Gregory's knowledge of this time period and her gift for describing the ambiance of suspicion and malice that surrounds the era when Henry VIII broke away from the Roman Church and outlawed all things Papist, allows her to endow her story of Alys' ambition with just the right amount of fear for the repercussions.  Alys' loss of integrity in the face of her objectives for status and control push her to use her knowledge in a way that will not be deemed acceptable by the authorities of the day.  Gregory's descriptive passages with regard to Alys' dabbling in the supernatural, real or imagined by a frightened yet willful girl not yet seventeen, keeps the reader on the cusp of a paranormal unknown, fearing for problematic results of some pretty strange goings-on with a concern for their conjurer's eventual undoing.It is this descriptive excellence that keeps the story engaging and not just another `girl gone wild' tale.Bottom line?  Philippa Gregory in "the Wise Woman" depicts a world where woman are either evolving into spiteful witches due to male-centric society or are nurtured by circumstance to be what the actually are.  Recommended as an interesting albeit predictable read that fosters thought about the nature of things.Diana Faillace Von Behren"reneofc"
1 I have enjoyed Gregory's novels of the Tudor era & expected this to be the same. How disappointing! It's like medieval porn. I could not even finish it. I would never recommend this book to anyone. I'd like to removed from my Kindle as I don't even want to own it.
4 Well-written book though I don't like the very graphic sexual content, that I don't recall from her other books.I could have done without it.
1 i don't want porn going on in my brain. this was one of her worst books. i didn't even finish it. it was very graphic & sexual. i couldn't take it. my husband even read some of it & said, lets get rid of this book. disappointed.
4 Good book.  I like historic fiction and this is the way I get my history &#34;fix&#34;.  I admire the research that goes into these books, something I never would have the patience for. Philippa does a great job!
3 "The Wise Woman" is a far cry from some of Philippa's other, first rate historical novels, but indeed can hold one's interest. I found myself eager for the next chapter to see what Alys' turning point or fate would become. Unfortunately, there was no resolution - and Alys is not a 'wise woman' by any standard.Whether this was intentional or not, the book's over-riding theme was how a desire for power, with ample doses of envy and avarice, leads to overwhelming hatred. Alys is a sympathetic figure at first - a teenager, used to the life of an abbey where she was safe, contented, and under the wise guidance of a superior whom we shall see is highly learned, loving, and of impeccable ideals. One can see Alys' fear and confusion, in an era where the life for which she was bred has become treason. Mordach, the 'wise woman' whose path is very different from that of the abbess, yet who is compassionate, dedicated, and loving in her own way, has been the closest equivalent Alys had to a mother before she entered the abbey - and one can equally sympathise (at first) with Alys' repugnance at returning to Mordach's cottage in desperation, though she initially intends to keep her vows and return to monastic life.However, sympathy for Alys cannot last long. Without providing spoilers, I shall comment that her scheming, overwhelming jealousy, and eventual evil which rejoices in others' grave misfortune (even murder) seems demonic as the plot progresses.There are many sexual references - degrading and manipulative rather than in any way romantic or affectionate. The only two characters who are indeed wise, poles apart though their approaches are, remain Mother Hildebrande and Mordach, and Alys is the cause of their destruction. Every other character is a power hungry, deceitful sort, and there is no sense of any humanity in most. Though there are references to the Tudor era which are basically valid, the changes in religious approaches actually have little to do with the novel's action, save by indirect reference. Indeed, Alys initially is a nun who is exiled because of an attack on her monastery - but the attacker is so scheming and wicked in himself, and her downfall so totally evil, that Henry VIII seems nearly amiable by contrast. The few historical references are forced. Indeed, the clergyman who sends both witches and heretics to their deaths is one of few sympathetic characters, with the slightest integrity, in the entire novel.Though this is not a 'fantasy novel,' there are several outcomes of witchcraft which Alys practises which are utterly ridiculous (and which figure hugely in the plot development.) Since the rest of the book's content is presented as natural happenings, the entire 'wax doll' theme is so utterly fantastic as to be more laughable than ominous. Alys goes from understandable to wicked to both evil and mad - and the reader will discover that the symbolism of wax candles becomes so bizarre and dominant that it in no way fits in with the otherwise credible, if upsetting, plot.It is an enjoyable book if one is looking for a few hours' entertainment, and it vaguely captures elements of the period. Nonetheless, readers will be highly disappointed if they expect anything like what Philippa produced in some later novels of the period.
5 A story about an interesting time period.  If you like history you will enjoy this.  I felt it was an exciting read. and I shared it with others.  I keep all copies of her books because she is a fantastic author.
1 Typically I really enjoy Philippa Gregory's work. However, there have been a few exceptions and this is one of them. If you enjoyed her Wideacre trilogy you will probably like this book. However, if you disliked that trilogy you will dislike this book as there are many similarities in the characters and in the depravity involved in both.  The so-called heroine would be more aptly labelled the villain in both narratives and with just cause. This novel was not about the redemptive power of love or the temptations that face a young woman feeling desire for the first time or even about hard choices when faced with the need for survival. It was about a selfish girl who is never fulfilled or satisfied by her own quest for power and dominance. She has no redemptive qualities and even from the beginning I did not connect to her at all.  Also, aside from the disturbing characters in this story, the horror-like aspects (clay dolls coming to life) were nearly comical and so ill-conceived.  It felt like a Hollywood B-movie horror, with dolls coming to life with Psycho-inspired music dominating the background.  This is no nuance or depth of character, no sincere struggle between doing what you know you should and self-preservation/temptation. Alys throws out a few pithy comments about God abandoning her but it is never convincing and all too obvious that she was always just looking for the easy road in life, caring for nobody but herself. In the end I felt no pity for her, no empathy. And though the ending was abrupt, it was my favorite part of the whole book.
5 i really enjoyed this book the suspense and details kept me up late at night to read "just one more chapter!"
2 The other reviews for this book were so good, but I was really disappointed.  I love her other Tudor books, and this one didn't even come close.  I never felt any emotional connection with the characters, or even between the characters.  Then again it is difficult to feel any sympathy or attachment to a cruel and self-destructive character, like the main character, Alys.  The story wasn't nearly as fleshed out as say, The Other Boleyn Girl.  I would not recommend this book.
2 Like most of the other reviewers here, I'm a big Philippa Gregory fan, and I was really excited to read this reissue of The Wise Woman, thinking it would be as wonderfully transporting as The Other Boleyn Girl and The Constant Princess. Again, she successfully infuses every page with the uncertainty of the period immediately following the establishing of the Church of England and the accusations of witchcraft that spring up as a result, and in that way, and that way alone, is the book a pleasure to read. Everything else about it made me want to throw it down. Alys, our protagonist (for lack of a better word), is completely unlikeable! I didn't feel for a second that she was honestly driven to commit any of the horrible acts she did, regardless of the fact that Gregory gave us the reasons. And though it is the world of fiction, the historian in me refuses to accept the synonymous use of "wise woman" and "witch." Could wise women also be practitioners of the dark arts? I guess. But when I wrote a paper on witchcraft in college, every author I read made a clear distinction between the two (wise woman being a healer/midwife), and I couldn't get that out of my head.
3 The book arrived in a reasonable amount of time and was in great condition.  I would buy from this seller again.
3 This is the first Philippa Gregory novel I've read, and although I wouldn't class it as a great novel, it hasn't put me off the author and I shall read her other books.I agree with many of the less favaourable reviews here, in that some of the witchcraft content - particularly the wax dolls - verge on the completely ridiculous, and I do think that this element of the plot could have been written with more subtlety, which I think would have made it darker and more suspenseful. I too was disappointed by the ending, which was abrupt, and seemed totally out of character for Alys considering how she had changed during her time at the castle.What kept me reading, though, and what has made me give this book 3 stars, is the disturbing attitudes towards women that were presented, and how these influenced Alys and contributed to her downward spiral. The notion that some women are fit to be a 'lady' and others can only be regarded as 'whores' is something that sadly lingers to this very day. I could understand how Alys who, as an innocent but skillful 16 year old, considered herself to be as good as anyone else, might feel betrayed, and ultimately be corrupted, by the prevailing belief that she was a whore to be used in any way, and at just about any man's whim. I found myself thinking about this aspect of the book long after I had finished reading, and it bothered me far more than the sex.
5 Again the author keeps to as much facts as she can.  Great book about the times and lives of people around the king
5 I first read all of Gregory's other Tudor novels, and I didn't think I would enjoy this one as much because I did not recognize any of the characters when reading the summary. But this book ended up being one of my favorites, I did not want it to end! Philippa Gregory's books are all amazing. But among the best I think are The Boleyn Inheritance, The Other Boleyn Girl, The Queen's Fool, Wise Woman, and The Virgin's Lover. And Virgin Earth! I love them all...if you are considering reading one of Gregory's books, you won't be disappointed. I was hesitant with buying a few of her books after reading some of the reviews on here, but I have read most of her novels (still working on the 18th and 19th centuries) and I was NEVER disappointed.
5 This is a facinating tale told from the point of view of a seemingly minor character.  The ins and outs of her involvement as she touches the lives of a family of gentry vividly display the sway of superstition and fear in medeival life.
2 I would not recommend, and I have read the Philippa Gregory Henry the VIII series, to the point I could not wait until they were published.I was angry when I finished this book because I made myself read it despite the idiotic twists and turns.  I cannot believe Philippa Gregory herself wrote this book.  She had to have had someone else write it.  It is awful.  No one with an ounce of talent, and this includes Ms. Gregory, had anything to do with this book.
1 I've read almost everything she's written and loved every one of them. This was pure trash! Babies melting into ucky wax in the womb, cursed dolls haunting people---- Come on. She's a historical writer. That is her strength. This was pure junk.
4 I have just started the book, but as usual Phillippa Gregory will not disapoint me... If this is your type of reading you cannot go wrong.
4 I liked the book but didn't find it as exciting as the rest she has done.  When I finished the book.  I was finished.  Unlike her other books where I hated for them to end....
1 Reading this book was like being trapped in a nightmare I couldn't wake up from.  Like many other reviewers here, I am a Gregory fan and have read her other works, some of them more than once, with great pleasure.  I was so disappointed by this one.  I can only echo the other reviewers who say the main character is not likeable as she tries to undermine the marriage of the lord so she can take the lady's place.  Alys even attempts murder, betrays those who love and help her - she is monstrous.  There wasn't a single sympathetic, likeable character in the whole book.  I read to the end just because I had invested so much time in the story already, I wanted to see what would happen - specifically, without revealing too much, with the dolls - to see if Gregory could save the work and make it worth my while.  It failed me utterly.I imagine the author would say Alys is so awful in order to create an opportunity for redemption.  But by the end you care so little for her that you don't want to see her redeemed.  You want to see her get what she deserves.  She is evil, scheming, and heartless, betraying everyone, everything, and every impulse of basic human decency.  I was so relieved when this book was finally over.  If I could have given it zero stars, I would have.Also regarding the sex scenes, of which there are plenty, they left me pretty cold.  It was like this was an excuse for women's porn, i.e. the kind you find in a cheap romance novel - which no matter how amateur the writer, I personally find is usually more titillating than this was.  I hope you won't waste your time or money with this poison book.
5 I am a fan of Phillipa Gregory from way back.  I must admit that I had a rather difficult time getting through the first few chapters, a first for me with one of her books, but once I got into it I could not put it down.  Very imaginative and a terrific story.  I expected the "heroine" to be typical of the period...she is definitely a surprise. I really enjoyed the originality of the story.  Another Gregory winner.
4 I couldn't put this book down.  I know it's one of her first books, but it's the reason why I started reading this author.  I wish she would go back to this type of writing.  The story was very good and held your attention.  If you are a true Gregory fan, you want to read this book!
1 I have read many of Philippa Gregory's books and enjoyed them all, until this one.  While I realize none of the other novels are clean, I was surprised at how dirty this book was.  This is nothing but erotica, and the writing was terrible.  The characters kept having the same conversations over and over.  Not much here but sex.
3 OK, I really love her books, but this one really was early on in her career. It starts out well enough with the main character, Elys, being an escapee of a nunnary that was ransacked.  She escapes and does not aid her mentor and adopted mother which then haunts Elys.  So, she goes back to her old "mother" who is a wise woman, healer etc. and begins to dally in the dark arts.  Elys gets to go to the big castle to aide the ailing master ((not the king of England)) but the big land keeper of that area.  She gains importance in the castle and then takes to his son and more dark arts follow.Gregory really is a master storyteller and I do love her work, but I didn't love all of this book.  I mean, when Alys' wax figures become real and when an important character has a wax miscarraige, due to her dark arts, I find this the Steve King part of the book and completely rediculous.This book reminds me most of Wideacre and The King's Fool, but with an really odd, rather science fiction kind of twist.That said, I did like the ending, which I won't reveal, and I do recommend you check out the book and read it, but skim the wax doll parts as I think all of that just detracts from the book.  I wish she could rewrite and edit all that out, and she'd have a smashing book.
2 I couldn't put this book down. And yet, when I was finished, I was extremely disappointed. (It's kind of like eating fast food--you enjoy it while you're eating it and then afterwards you just feel "ughhhh.") There were so many loose ends that never got tied up. Some truly fascinating ideas/thoughts/dreams that aren't explained. Prophecies that didn't come true combined with ones that did. The love/hate she had for Hugo, the way she felt about Mother Hildebrande--all never really developed. Unlike Anne Bolyen, whose obsession for power I understood, I couldn't really understand and sympathize with a girl who at first felt happy and satisfied because the convent was "clean" and then, once she was in the castle, suddenly would stop at nothing to reach the highest possible position. Her lust for power seemed to come, like her lust for Hugo, from out of nowhere. The ending of the book was cruel and too quick--so little about Alys was resolved before this surprising and disappointing ending. I didn't like the Wildacre series--I hope SOME of Gregory's books live up to the quality of The Other Boleyn Girl!!
4 Interesting story, well written a little strange though, but it does give a good read.
2 I have read several of Philippa Gregory's books and loved them. This book was a struggle to finish, I lost interest, I was grossed out by the whole wax figure thing and I never identified with this selfish, shallow character. I love her books because she champions strong women living in difficult times, but Alyce although she started out well got boring, predictable, and wierd. Instead read Lady of the Rivers, excellent read.
5 Each of her novels are well researched, written, and interesting. I lay aside everything else when one of her books arrives.
4 Although by the end of the book I hated Alys, the main character, it was still the usual good writing.  Gregory has a way of building a character so you think you personally know them. The ending was unexpected and not too pleasant.  It took courage for Gregory to do that - give the main character what she deserved instead of sugar coating.
3 A good read, but not an excellent one.  I much preferred Gregory's novels of historical fiction, and I read them all.  Her lead character, Alys, is a mixed bag, even given the surprise ending.  I can only give a moderate, rather than hot, recommendation of this book.
1 The only other Gregory book I have read was Respectable Trade, which I enjoyed and thought was well written.  I chose Wise Woman because of the subject matter, it sounded intriguing.  The writing was awful.  I mean, the story is supposed to take place in England in the time of Henry VIII.  Did they really use expressions like "he was hot for the wench?" It would be laughable if it wasn't so sad.  I think Philippa Gregory must be one of the more highly overrated writers in the "historical" genre, not really serious.  I couldn't finish this book.  You know, life is too short.  Still looking for a good "Wise Woman" book, though.
5 this book had a really great story. The main character is a girl named Alys. Later in the book there are times you will hate her but she redeems herself in the end. Its a bit different than Philippa's other books because most of the action isnt happening @ court & the King is hardly ever mentioned. It was still a great pageturner.
2 I didn't really enjoy _The Wise Woman_, and I think that's mostly because I hated the protagonist, Alys, so, so much. Her first act within these pages is one of selfishness and cowardice. I chalked it up to the harrowing circumstances, and hoped she would be more sympathetic in the rest of the story. No such luck.It might have been fun anyway, if I could have reveled in rooting against Alys, but I can't stand the other characters either. The whole novel is an endless, joyless parade of nasty people doing nasty things to each other. It got dull rather quickly.The best part was the ending, which dovetailed with the beginning in such a way that I wondered whether I was meant to think that Alys had never escaped the first situation at all and that most of the novel was a fantasy she dreamed up as her fate closed in. I think I'm probably overthinking it, though.
5 Goodness me there are a lot of sheep out there that want boring perfect heroines. I guess thats why tripe liti 50 Shades of Grey gets so popular.This is one of PG's bests books - a dark grown up fairy tale - if only there more of them!
3 This book has a lot more mystical elements than the other books that Gregory has written. I did not get as "wrapped up" in the character as I have in some of her other books, but it is engaging none the less. There are surprised elements, and the ending is unexpected. I like this book for the fact that when you are done you are not quite sure what your opinion of Alys is. Was she really as bad as her actions portrayed her? It's worth the read.
4 Philippa Gregory spins a good tale and the Wise Woman captures your imagination for the time when Henry VIII was persecuting the papists and the witch hunts were on. This story drags just a  little and really has little to do with the court and mostly about a family who is jockeying for power. Very entertaining.
5 I held off reading this book for a long time due to the negative reviews. Boy, were they wrong!! I loved this book it is one of the best I've ever read. I couldn't put it down. I snatched time whenever I could to read it. I will never go by the reviews again because in this case I feel they were very wrong. If the story interests you then read it you won't be disappointed. I just hate that I waited so long to read it. One of the best books I've ever read and I've read ALOT of books!!!!!
4 A good story, well developed with interesting characters. I liked the unexpected ending. It is set in troubled times and kept to the historical truth as far as we know it.
4 Woken from a deep sleep, Sister Ann is terrified by the crackling of fire and the shouts of men who have set her convent alight. Under Henry VIII, the Church as been cast out of England for failing to honor Henry's request for an annulment of his marriage to Catherine of Aragon so that he can wed Anne Boleyn. Monasteries are systematically looted and destroyed, the rich proceeds accruing to the king's treasury and to the local lords who claim the sacred treasures. Failing to heed the nuns trapped in the flames, Ann flees the burning building, her beloved Mother Hildebrande left to fend for herself. With nowhere to go but the past, Alys sheds the saintly convent name for one more familiar, banging on the door of the wise woman who sheltered her since her youth. Morach welcomes Alys back to her shabby hut, the dirt floors and filth in sharp contrast to the whitewashed walls and welcoming hearths of the convent.Sent to the sisters on a pretext, Alys stayed, readily embracing the spiritual life, mistaking security and a full belly for a vocation, at home with the sisters and her new "Mother". Now Alys bitterly accepts her fate, the wise woman acutely aware of the expedience of the girl's beliefs. Morach knows Alys hasn't the heart of a nun; she understands her charge's desperation to rise above her circumstances. Indeed, Morach encourages Alys to develop her own power as a wise woman, including exercising the dark arts. Soon women appear at Morach's door, paying for spells and herbs, love potions and hexes. The arrival of two soldiers alters Alys's fate once more: the "young wise woman" is needed at the castle of the ailing Lord Hugh. With no choice, Alys accompanies the men to the castle, where she facilitates the recovery of the elderly man.But Alys is undone by Lord Hugh's son, Hugo; his flashing eyes and brilliant smile render her speechless with desire. Hugo's wife, the brittle Catherine, has been barren for the nine years of their marriage. Catching Hugo's appreciative glance at the beautiful young woman, Catherine is immediately alerted to the danger of yet another conquest, Hugo's legendary lust insatiable. Alys is caught in an inescapable trap- her attraction to Hugo and the luxuries of the castle and memories of the convent, the deep appeal of an as yet immature desire for a spiritual life. Everything in the castle is seductive, the promise of Hugh's adoration and a more powerful position than what she would ever have dreamed for herself impossible to resist. Trapped in Hugo and Catherine's twisted marriage as one of Catherine's ladies and her emerging role as clerk for Lord Hugh, Alys begins an elaborate, if innocent, seduction that is soon distorted by carnal desire, betrayal and witchcraft.I had some ambivalence about this novel. Given the evolution of the protagonist's character, I let Alys lead me where she might (albeit two hundred pages too far), left to finally consider this wise woman's fate- the moral duplicity of life in the castle or a more esoteric leap into the improbable territory of selflessness. Still, the emotional context of the novel deserves serious consideration, the position of medieval women without family or name to protect them, bartered or thrown away at will, completely at the mercy of men. Given the daily terrors of absolute powerlessness and the paucity of advantage to such a woman as Alys, any source of power is irresistible. Luan Gaines/2007.
5 A story full of twists and emotions.  Pity, anger, lust and love.  I was spellbound till the very last page.Excellent!  Awaiting a mini series.
3 I love her book but this one compared to her other novels wasn't as good, but it was still a really good book and I recommend it.
4 When I was a young girl my mother always told me to 'be careful what you wish for'. Too bad Alys, the young girl around whom this story centers, didn't heed that admonishment when her mentor/mother Morach made it. At an early age Alys came to live with Morach, an old wise woman who lives alone in a remote cottage out on the moors. Morach trains the young Alys in the healing arts of an herbalist. When Alys falls in love though it is the young man's parents who literally offer Alys to the local nunnery.Still a child, Alys takes one look at the luxurious life of the nuns (as compared to her own life living in Morach's hovel), and is happy to join them. She is fostered by Mother Hildebrande who treats her like a daughter. Shortly after Alys has taken her vows, the nunnery is raided and torched by Lord Hugo acting under the orders of King Henry VIII. Fleeing for her life in the dead of night, Alys realizes that her fellow sisters have all burned in their beds and that she is the only survivor. She finds her way back to Morach's filthy hovel and is taken back in. In no time at all she is back to being Morach's apprentice although she tries to keep to her vows as best she can.When the old lord of the area, Lord Hugo's father, becomes sick he sends for the wise woman from the moors - not Morach, but Alys. She goes unwillingly but in time she wins the heart of the old lord and continues on at the castle to work as his clerk since she can read and write.From this point on it becomes the familiar love triangle - Alys falls in love with Lord Hugo (who burned down the nunnery). Hugo is married however to a seemingly barren woman who has produced no heirs and he is prone to taking his pleasures everywhere else. Alys wants no part of him since she is trying to maintain the vows she has taken. In due time though she succumbs to Lord Hugo's charms and falls completely in love. When she finds that he thinks of her only as a pleasant diversion she brings in Morach. Morach warns her that in order to turn Hugo towards her it will take more than Alys may want to give up. In short, black magic or a pact with the devil. But Alys has her sights set on being the lady of the castle and nothing short of marriage to Hugo will please her. So she turns her back on everything holy and uses everything at her disposal to secure her future. But is she truly secure?After getting pregnant with Hugo's child Alys believes that she is Hugo's chosen lady, especially since his wife suffers an ugly and unspeakable miscarriage. The tale concludes with a twist that is unexpected and brilliant. To say more would be anticlimatic.Note: There are some explicit scenes not for the faint of heart.
2 I have thoroughly enjoyed several of Philippa Gregory's novels.  However, I did not like this one.  It started out interesting enough, but just got weird.  When I finished this book, I just shrugged.
4 This book was not what I expected... but in a good way. In my opinion, it's more of a horror/supernatural book than anything else. Gregory does a good job of making you love and hate the main character.
2 I absolutely adored The Other Boleyn Girl, and I finished The Constant Princess in a few very looong nights. Perhaps it was foolish of me to assume that this book would be as amazing as the others, but when I was finished I was angry that I had devoted so much time to a novel that was not only slow, it had terrible resolution. Really, there's not much to recommend about this novel. If you are just picking up a Philippa Gregory book for the first time, do yourself a favor and start with the Boleyn Girl, not this one!
1 This is the first book I have ever put into the recycling before finishing. It was so bleak and discouraging that I didn't even want to put in a yard sale. It was so depressing that I felt compelled to write about my feelings before someone else read it without warning. I have read many other books written by Philippa Gregory they were all insightful and intelligent. The main character Alys is not a female character that I would like my students to explore as she is so weak and her choices mere reactions to her circumstances. She is a puppet to the whims of others.
2 Even more so than Wideacre, this book was disturbing.  I agree that Alys is not a likable character, even thought she kind of redeems herself (in my eyes) at the end.  The sex scenes and witchcraft is so twisted that it gave me the heebie-jeebies.  However, I think it was necessary to create the plot, and make Alys' story unfold into one of desperation and regret.  Gregory does a good job in making this crazy story work and showing us inside the character's minds.
3 I wasn't prepared for the considerable suspension of disbelief required to read this novel.  About half way through, a startling scene makes it clear that we have left the realms of reality and taken a turn to the fantastical.  (Those who have read the book will recognize the moment referred to.)  From that point forward, what had been a fairly standard work of historical fiction became a work of fantasy.  Just be ready.Gregory does her usual good job creating the world of the 1500's and I appreciate her efforts at historical realism.  Her characters are essentially believeable and human, including Our Heroine, a young nun, Alys, who has fled her convent as it is burned down around her ears by Our Anti-Hero who later becomes the object of her sexual obsession.  The underlying theme of the entire work is Alys's ambitious determination to become the Lady of the Manor, despite not being nobly born and there being a rival already occupying that position.  Alys's skill with healing herbs shortly morphs into perilous experiments with dark magic in order to achieve her aim.  She scruples at nothing in performing magical operations to enthrall Our Hero and disadvantage her antagonists.  It is a truism that such magical acts most often rebound against the conjurer, as they do here, to her ultimate undoing.I appreciated Gregory bringing the narrative full circle with the final scene mirroring the opening events.  The action moves briskly, the dialogue rings true and I remained interested in the plot development throughout.  Unlike others, I was not in the least offended by the sexual descriptions which were necessary to advance the plot.  Despite the fact that Alys is an unscrupulous, grasping, ruthless protagonist, I was still interested in finding out what happened to her and felt the conclusion to be quite satisfactory.  This is not a serious work of historical fiction a la Penman, for example, but not a trashy bodice ripper either.  Entertaining, but ultimately silly.
1 I have read several of Gregory's historical fiction of the Tudor era and thought I would enjoy this one as much as the others.  Not so.  This book was a tremendous disappointment and I had to force myself not to abandon it.  I enjoy a book in which I am captivated or at least sympathetic to one or more of the characters, but I felt nothing for any character in this book.  I was reminded of daytime television soap operas where a character can change his or her character at the drop of a hat if a new storyline twist is needed for the sake of ratings. The author seemed to use this element with every major personality in the book. Even worse yet, fiction became pure ridiculous fantasy.  I was very disappointed that Gregory resorted to "actual" witchcraft (hocus pocus) as with the wax moppets that came to life and a woman delivering a wax baby.  I lost sympathy with Alys early in the book when she suddenly turned into a greedy conniving "witch" rather than a young frightened girl.  Woman of power?  Wise woman?  Not in my opinion.  I lost count of the people she murdered because of her own selfishness...including her unborn child.
3 I am a huge Philippa Gregory fan with regard to her books about Tudor England, but I haven't liked the other books I've read. This one started off interestingly, but it goes into a very convoluted mix of black magic and very dark thoughts and actions, becoming unbelievable and not very enjoyable. The ending is somewhat redeeming, but I wouldn't read it again.
1 I've read several of Ms. Gregory's historical novels and enjoyed them tremendously.  This was the exception.  It was too fantastic even as a fantasy and I was surprised at several extremely erotic passages which could have been dealt with much less explicitly and achieved the same goal.  This one was a waste of my money.  The lead character was an extremely selfish child, seemingly without any moral code and I developed a serious dislike for her halfway through the book
3 I love Greggory's books. This one, however, had a slow beginning, a captivating middle, and a horrid resolution. I still cannot believe the ending - but, if you're looking for something out of the ordinary, this is it. Just don't expect to enjoy it.
3 I've read a lot of PG's books including the wideacre series and the tudor series and now this one. I thought all those  books were awesome. I thought Wise Woman was just ok in that it was an entertaining story. I'm disappointed in how it ended, I thought it came to an abrupt end and there were a lot of unanswered questions.This was an ok story, entertaining, quick read nothing more. Don't waste the money buying  this one...get it from the library.
5 I love Phillippa Gregory's work. I am currently reading the book and of course the writing is exquisite; whoever, I am not finished with the book as of yet. It is not a historical book like some of the author's others, but it does use historical facts to support the setting. Ms. Gregory is always a good read.Enjoy,Olga
4 The Wise Woman is the story of Alys, a teenage girl in the time of King Henry VIII.  Like many women of that time period, Alys recognized that life could be hard unless she used her cunning to gain power and greater positions throughout her life.  Therefore, the novel tracks her through her rise from common to a companion of the Lords at the castle in the town.  However, Alys betrays many people on her way up and turns to witchcraft in order to get what she wants.  Will she gain the perfect life she so desires or will the witchcraft take her over instead?  She is playing a risky game.I didn't enjoy this book as much as Gregory's later novels, such as the Other Boleyn Girl and the Constant Princess, but still found it entertaining and interesting.  Alys is not always a likeable character but the reader needs to consider the limited opportunities for women at the time and the fact that she is only 16!  I never completely made my mind up about how I feel about her, even after finishing the novel, but it gives you things to think about!  If you want a glimpse inside the life of other people besides the royals of the Tudor time period, I recommend you give this book a try!
3 I didn't like this as much as the Wars of the Roses and Tudors books. Main character is selfish and will manipulate and betray anyone for her own ends, although she redeems herself in the end.
4 This was a very exciting book with lots of twists and turns. I had a hard time putting it down. I was alittle disappointed with the ending but it was still a very good read!
2 Normally I am a big Philippa Gregory fan; I love her work.  But The Wise Woman left me disappointed and disturbed.This is what I think of as a historical dystopia.  It has all the characteristics: everyone--and I mean everyone--is nasty and mean.  Society is cruel and sadistic to everyone, especially women.  There is no love or kindness.  Every parent is abusive.  Every child is ungrateful.  Every marriage is bad and abusive.  Every sexual act is perverted.  It is always winter.  It is, in other words, really flat and boring.I think what Gregory was trying to do was show how a patriarchal, caste-based system like that in 16th century England destroys people, both men and women.  But it comes across as a cross between a feverish witch-finder hissing stories about liaisons with the devil and a 21st century person sniggering and saying, "Boy, weren't people awful back then?"  I mean, no one--not the heroine, not her mother, not the young lord, not the old lord, not the wife or even Alys' old boyfriend--had any redeeming characteristics.  I couldn't really get involved with the story because I frankly didn't give a damn about anyone.  They were all so disgusting you just wanted to kill them yourself.The parts about witchcraft might have been good--if Gregory hadn't, as I said, taken the tone of a witch-finder.  All the spells and magic scenes were creepy, but so cliched that you half expected Alys to start dancing naked with demons under the full moon.  Gregory also doesn't play up the medicinal side of 16th century craft either: the beneficial role that wise women played in society as doctors and midwives.  The magic also didn't feel real: it was like Gregory was trying to shove magic into a historical fiction without it really being magic because that's not very historical (?!).  And why didn't these people start suspecting witchcraft earlier?  Especially when the lady gives birth to a wax baby and somehow Alys gets away with it?  Get real: a 21st century doctor would start suspecting witchcraft if that happened, never mind a 16th century noblewoman.It was sort of interesting reading about the relationship between Alys and Morach.  Gregory successfully gave the impression that, if society had been nicer to these two women, they would have been nicer people themselves.  You certainly understood why they would want a better life.  Their occasional flashes of kindness--Alys defending a fellow lady-in-waiting from the churchman, Morach befriending Lady Catherine--are all the more interesting for being rare.  But there's not enough of this side of their characters. Mostly they're two unspeakably hateful women, and you start praying that someone will please burn them at the stake.So, all in all, I was disappointed and surprised.  This is not up to Gregory's usual standard.
1 The book is so unlike any of her Boleyn books - too unrealistic to believe even a fraction of it could happen, althoug the story of a main character repeats the fate of Anne Boleyn, save for difference in how they died. There are obvious similarities between this book and The Other Boleyn Girl book, but writing here is choppy, very little on history and heavy on erotica writing, not that there is anything wrong with it, but the book just does not flow......
5 This is a brilliant dark story of a young girl and her quest to live like a queen.  She wants the prize of 'lady of the house' and will stop at nothing to get it.  She uses her power to reach for her dreams, only to  realise that the prize wasn't hers.  She is a false woman, and slowly  becomes entrapped in her own lies.Despite the bleakness of the story and  the wickedness of Alys, I still liked her!  She felt she was destined for  an important role, and went out to claim it.  She sought love and didn't  know what to do with it when she had it.  As l was approaching the last few  pages of the story I was wondering how on earth it could end, I was so  looking forward to the birth of her child etc.I am currently making my  way through all of Philippa Gregory's books.  Her novels, both historical  and comtemporay are always so vivid and the endings never fail to be  anything but thought provoking.  Keep writing, because l will certainly  keep reading!
1 will read when i get the time to go through all her books one right after the other.  heard great reviews from a friend
3 I, as many others, am a HUGE gregory fan..I have read most of everything she has written, Wise Woman being one of the last. I have to admit, this wasnt my favorite book. Some of the scenes, espc the witchcraft and sex, were espc disturbing for me..similar to the incest theme and madness in Wideacre.I did however like the underlying message this book and many of Gregory's books protray..that of the non exsistent value of women from this time in history.I will put this book next to Wideacre on my bookshelf, prob not one Id read again.
5 Phllippa Gregory did it again.  I just loved this book.  It was so interesting.  If you like Phillippa Gregory's books, you won't be disappointed.  Highly Recommend.
1 Unsympathetic characters, ridiculous plot, terrible ending.  I'm so sorry I spent money on this book.  Hard to believe this was written by Philippa Gregory.
4 For whatever reason, I had thought I was getting a hardback book.  I had specified that in my search.  Anyway, I have this book in paperback already and know that it's a great read.  So I've given this one on to a friend who's also in the thrall of Tudor Era books.  It came in the condition specifed and very quickly.  A day ahead of the estimated arrival date.  It was just my own folly that led me to believe hardback and not paper.
1 I have read almost all of this author's novels.  She starts off strong in all her written works but many seem to lose the energy as they near the end. It is as if the author has become bored with the story line and just wants to end it and perhaps move on to the next novel.  Like other reviewers have said, the main character was all over the place.  I try to finish any book I start hoping that the story will get better. This one never did.
2 I yield to no one my admiration for Philippa Gregory, but I suggest fans pass on this one. What an ugly book, full of yucko sex and unattractive people. If you want soft porn, there are better books. And that's what this one is.
3 So was Alys good, bad, evil, selfish, psycho, healer, witch, all of the proceeding?  Who knows?  It became unbelievable that the main character could do such a turnabout as a human being.
5 As always, Phillipa Gregory spins a good tale. She sucks you in fast, and holds you with her knowlege of the period--you feel you are there !  Her research pays off-for her and for us !  Great read !
4 I really loved this book. But, I love almost anything Phillipa Gregory writes. I was hooked from the first few pages. Alys is a very different type of main character. She isn't exactly likable, she isn't exactly innocent, and she can be pretty selfish - most of the time. But I still found myself liking her. I felt bad for her and found myself wondering what I would do if I was faced with the same situations. Out of all the characters in this novel, I don't think there is even one real protagonist. Actually, they're all antagonists in their own way. I think that's what I found so fascinating about this book. It's not often you read a novel with so many dark and dangerous characters.
3 I love Philippa Gregory, but this, not so much. Granted, it's one of her earlier books, but I don't understand how such a talented writer suddenly produced this train wreck.First, let's talk about anti-heroines. I'm a not a huge fan of Gregory's WIDEACRE, but Beatrice Lacey was an excellent anti-heroine. Alys is no Beatrice Lacey, and not, in my opinion, a very effective anti-heroine, either. And unlike Beatrice (or a more famous anti-heroine, Scarlett O'Hara), Alys does not inspire hatred or even deep dislike in the novel's readers, which is what a good anti-heroine should do. Instead, Alys leaves you somewhat irritated and incredulous at her sheer stupidity. The reader can plainly see that her choices throughout the novel do nothing but cause damage to herself, and Alys seems to be completely blind to her own folly. She's not smart, cunning, crafty, shrewd; she's not anything a good anti aspires to be. She's just stupid and greedy and annoying. I don't mind it when main characters are selfish or malicious or spiteful, but I cannot abide annoying characters.None of the other characters are particularly likable either. Again, I will reference WIDEACRE and say that at least that novel had its share of likable supporting characters. In fact, reading this novel makes me appreciate Wideacre much more than I did before, and you know there's something wrong if WIDEACRE suddenly starts looking good to you. Alys is surrounded by people who are just as off-putting as she is. Lady Catherine is revolting, so pathetic that she's not pitiable (though, in fairness, that might have been Gregory's intent). Hugo is  a confusing character, one who seems to be dominant and cruel and powerful at the beginning of the novel, but becomes nothing more than an empty character as the book moves on. Morach was colorful, but, again, as the book wore on, her actions became puzzling as well. Hildebrande was strangely grating, and her pretense of motherly love seemed like some sort of cruel irony to me. Not convincing.However, the book does have its strong points, as well, because despite these God awful characters, Gregory somehow manages to keep the story interesting. You still find yourself wanting to find out what happens, and THE WISE WOMAN's macabre setting is perfect for horrific suspense. The whole story has a feeling to it that I can't quite explain, something sort of like suffocation, as if the reader is in a claustrophobic space during the entire read. That sounds terrible and depressing, but it's actually a perfect setting for the story. The passages about witchcraft are especially engrossing, and I only wish there was more magic and less Alys in this story. The story's ending is a disappointment, as it leaves some loose ends and is, in general, absurd. I had the sense, even as I was reading the last paragraphs, that the ending was a little too melodramatic for my taste.If you don't mind being stifled in darkness for a while, and you think you can put up with Alys, rent this novel from your local library if you can (mine didn't have THE WISE WOMAN in stock, or I would have). But the ending will surely disappoint, the characters are unconvincing, and you'll find yourself not really caring what happens to them. THE WISE WOMAN is not a terrible story, but you need a will of steel not to become aggravated with it.
5 I received this book in the mail just two days ago.  What wonderful writting Philippa Gregory does. This is a definate must read again from this writer.
1 I've read other Philippa Gregory books and found them extremely well written.  But this one was very disappointing in the fact that she goes far beyond anything that could be called reality.  I like to read things that at least "could" have been true for that time period.  This was NOT!!
3 Not Gregory's best, but interesting. I like all historical novels anyway so enjoyed the story and the old intrigues a lot.
5 This book, in the Tudor section of Gregory's extensive list of books, is very different from the other's I've read so far.  The main characters don't interact with the Royal house of Tudor but instead are out in the northern hinterlands of the country. Great characters - vividly described and emotionally open to the reader.  I'm only about half way through it but I've enjoyed it so far.
2 I've read almost all of Gregory's book about the royals (including The Queen's Fool) but none of her other work. I have to say, I hope her other series isn't as disappointing as this one was. The main character was scattered all over the place: she's good, she's bad, she accepts her power, she shuns it: make up your mind, already! You're supposed to be The Wise Woman. It says so on the cover.Maybe that's the deliberate irony coming into play? (gag cough). Uh, no. Unfortunately, this scattered persona contagion spreads to just about every main character in the book. For example, the Young Lord: he loves her, he doesn't love her, he's sincere, he's a cad. Oh, pick one already.The plot wanders about listlessly with the occasional softcore bodice-ripping page or two to pique your interest before finally flinging itself on the merciful suttee of a conclusion. But I suspect once you close the back cover, you'll feel this was (2, 4, 6?) hours of your life you'll wish you could get back again - to read one of her much-better written historical novels instead.
5 beautifully written story about a nun gone bad! a true story about be careful what you wish for! perhaps she is the &#34;not so&#34; wise woman! By far my most favorite novel by this author.
5 When this book arrived in the mail I was SHOCKED at how thick it is! I tend to just randomly look around on Amazon and buy chick-lit that I think I will like without knowing much about the book. Most books that come are a standard length, and when I saw that this was huge I was worried it wouldn't be an easy, light read (I think too much all day long with work, and prefer a book I can relax with in the evening). This has surprised me at being an enjoyable, quick read!
4 Cathy Kelly is a most enjoyable author to read.  Her contemporary stories feature likeable women facing problems we can easily relate to, and the characters grow with a lot of self-motivation and help from dear friends.  WHAT SHE WANTS follows this pattern beautifully as readers meet Hope, Sam, Virginia, and Nicole and are intimately drawn into their lives.Hope is a young mother with two small children and a handsome husband she never feels worthy of.  Hope lacks the courage of her convictions and meekly adjusts her life to whatever Matt decides, even when it comes to uprooting her family, quitting her job, and moving to a strange town where she knows no one so that Matt can &quot;find himself&quot; and become the author he has always dreamed of being.Her single sister Sam is a career-driven executive at a major record company in London.  She has an impressive resume, money in the bank, a designer wardrobe, but lots of fears as her fortieth birthday arrives.Virginia is a widow with three grown sons.  The unexpected death of her husband Bill leaves her alone and depressed.  She struggles with finding the strength to face each day and becomes a virtual recluse until a chance meeting sets a new life in motion for her.Nicole is young, beautiful, and talented.  When a colleague of Sam's discovers Nicole at a karaoke bar, the possibilities of fame and fortune open up for her.  But does she have the ability to leave her mother, grandmother, and little sister behind?You will enjoy spending time with these four plucky women and the friends and lovers who enter their lives.  Follow them as they each confront a personal crisis and find fulfillment in unexpected ways.
5 Open Cathy Kelly's newest novel and you enter a world full of characters you would like living in your neighborhood. They instantly warm the atmosphere around you with fresh cooking aromas, English gardens and pets so adorable you'll ache to cuddle them. Curling up with WHAT SHE WANTS is an ideal way to pass the lazy days of summer. It's a great feel-good book.Hope Parker has a gorgeous husband, Matt, and two children whom she yearns to spend more time with. But when Matt unilaterally makes the decision to uproot his family and transplant them to Redlion in County Kerry, Hope balks at the idea. He argues that he needs the freedom and atmosphere to write the great novel that is bottled up inside him. Always compliant, Hope bites her lip, smiles and agrees. Writer's block isn't the only problem that faces the couple in Ireland.Hope's sister Sam lives the life of the high-powered businesswoman in London, pushing herself through a daily grind that constantly assaults her physical and mental well-being. It takes a medical scare and a trip to Redlion to make her step back and see herself as those around her do. A surprising change comes into her attitude and, ultimately, her life. What had at first seemed a pesky new neighbor blossoms into an enchanting new male friend. Their verbal sparring lessens, but there are still rocky roads to travel.Meanwhile, Nicole --- young, beautiful and talented --- has hopes of becoming the newest pop star. Darius, Sam's business colleague, discovers Nicole at a karaoke bar one night and falls hopelessly in love with her and her husky voice. Nicole, feeling her usual responsibility for her mum and little sis, wrestles with her conscience over her newfound love and freedom. She wants to share any success with all of them.Widow Virginia Connell, a year out from losing her beloved husband Bill, picks up stakes and moves to Redlion, her goals manifold. She wants to cherish his memory, but without painful everyday reminders. And her three grown children and their families worry about her too much. Being a greater distance away, she hopes, will give her the breathing --- and grieving --- room she longs for. Then along comes Kevin, a Redlion widower, and he and Virginia strike up a friendship. The awkwardness of seeing a member of the opposite sex is quickly apparent to both of them after lengthy, happy marriages. Settling into a rhythm with each other proves challenging.Mary Kate, founder of the Redlion Macram&eacute; Club --- a euphemistically named group organized as an excuse for the ladies to get together and indulge in cocktails and frank talk --- is the voice of reason, dishing out sage advice along with her wild martinis. She is the glue when their lives fall apart.Cathy Kelly has a Maeve Binchy style about her. There is something so wholesome about WHAT SHE WANTS, yet primly erotic, that it's seductive. Don't try to put it down. Hope, Sam, Virginia, Nicole and the Redlion community will beckon from the pages, drawing you deep into their lives, their problems and their joys.--- Reviewed by Kate Ayers
4 Thoroughly enjoyed this book. Easy reading with likable characters. Shes one of my favorite authors. A really nice heartwarming story.
5 I LOVE YOUR STORIES CATHY.  PLEASE WRITE MORE.  I DO LIKE THE STORIES ABOUT A FEW DIFFERENTPEOPLE AND THEIR LIFES
5 A terrific story !! Very well written and easy to read. Each chapter made me want to read on and on. I was sorry to have it end. If you like small town tales of everyday life in Ireland, you will really enjoy this book.
5 I loved it and wished it was twice as long. A real human story and a good read when you dont want to do anything but enjoy it. Totally stress free
5 "What She Wants" is Chick Lit at it's finest.  Like Maeve Binchy's books, this will leave you feeling like you just returned from an Irish holiday, and missing all the new friends you made.  Even before I had finished it, I ordered another one and sent it to my mother-in-law.Perfect for a rainy day, with a glass of chardonnay.
4 Happy to discover this author.  Like when books draw you in.  I love Maeve Binchy books and CK is along those lines.
5 Yet another great read by this author, she never fails to deliver a really enjoyable read you want to keep reading yet you dont want to get to the end. Thank you.
4 There are so many Characters in this book and it is so bulky, 656 pages... but don't let that scare you, the book is a very good read.Hope Parker a 37 year old mother of two small children and wife to Matt, allows Matt to make all the important decisions in their marriage, this is why they end up moving from London to sleepy town of Redlion in Kerry. Even though this means Hope has to leave her job in a building society to chase Matt's dream.Sam Parker, Hopes sister is a career orientated character. Living in London an illness makes her realise that she has to make changes to her life and at the age of 39 she is starting to consider settling down, maybe there is more to life than a good career!Nicola is a 23 year old insurance broker with a love a karaoke but can her voice take her further?Virginia Connell has lost her husband at the age of 58, she decides to get away from the memories and moves to Redlion from Dublin.This was a very good read, like all of Kellys books.
4 What She Wants by Cathy Kelly is a compulsive read. Kelly tells the story of six women who all have different issues to deal with in their lives. She tells how with the help and support of others they overcome their difficulties to live full and rewarding lives. The story is about following your dream and never giving up. It also illustrates the importance of positive role models in everyones life no matter what stage of life you are at.I think many women would enjoy the book and recommend it for holiday reading.
3 While I enjoyed this book, as well as others by this author,I am confused. The description and most reviewers talk about Nicola and her story-but she was nowhere to be found on my kindle copy. The description also talks about Marc-but he is Matt on my kindle. A good book- but not exactly as described.
4 You know her books are going to have happy endings which is the kind of book I want sometimes.  This book, which I think is the best Cathy Kelly book I've read, is full of interesting people who are all connected or become connected in some way.  It made me want to move to the town of Redlion in Ireland which is where much of the action takes place.Cathy Kellys' books aren't literary triumphs--they're sort of middled-aged chick-lit.  However, they are entetainment triumphs.  I don't think many writers can keep readers interested for over 700 pages like Ms. Kelly can.
4 A heartwarming story,and the characters were really true to life. I found this book could not be put down. It shows you that all over the world these situations are going on and when you know this, it makes the story even more real. I will certainly be looking for more of Cathy Kelly's books
1 I have owned this book in paperback form for years, and I love it. I was excited to get it in Kindle version. However, it's missing Nicole's entire story! She's even listed in the Kindle book description- how can you just cut her out? In addition to leaving out one of the 4 main characters outlined in the book description, it leaves out minor items, like when Hope buys her chickens, and when she discovers the cottage yard has rats. They are a small part of the story, but they still added to it. If this is how they translate Cathy Kelly's books to Kindle, I will NOT buy any more.
4 I have become a big fan of Cathy Kelly's books and have read six of them and enjoyed them all.  Her ability to bond women of all ages (from a young aspiring singer, a single businesswoman, a married mother of two, and a widowed woman) all meeting in a small town in Ireland, sharing modern situations that probably everyone can relate to, either in their own life or someone they know.  Cathy Kelly can show you that women can make changes in their lives, especially with a good support team!
5 This is the first book of Cathy Kelly's I read a while back. I have read every word that I can find she has written since then. I just love her work. Believable people in believable plots. A great way to spend some time away. Hope she continues to write her books for a long long time.
4 smoothly moves back and forth across 3 generations to tell a beautiful, well-written story of love and persistence.  I enjoyed the descriptions and the lush settings.
5 A rich, colorful explosion of Indian culture spanning from Madras to Demerara, this novel is so vividly told and so skillfully woven that you'll find yourself visualizing the story as you go along, in full color with surround sound, smells and all.Three children, two countries, three stories, three different decades - separate, yet cohesively bonded into one epic saga.Nataraj (Nat), plucked from an orphanage in India by a white doctor, is given the chance to receive a good education, and quickly discovers within himself the power of healing.Sarojini (Saroj) lives a comfortable life in British Guiana, until she encounters racism and hatred, and repeatedly defies her ethnically blinkered father, having recognized inner beauty in other people despite external appearances.Savitri is a cook's daughter from Madras, the central character of the book, who despite her strict Indian family, manages to tie herself to the white family who employs her father, leading to a heart-rending sequence of unfortunate events.Flitting like a butterfly between the three stories, the author explores deep, dark issues of humanity, but these are not permitted to consume the story, as they are beautifully counterbalanced by love and respect, by breathtakingly descriptive passages and exotic settings.It's a period piece, a geography lesson, a mystery, a tragedy, a drama, a soap opera, but most of all a love story, not only for the central characters, but for the author to pay tribute to two countries that have made their mark in her heart.If you like sweet, sappy love stories, or rich Indian culture and tradition, or even if you just liked the movie "Monsoon Wedding", this book is highly recommended for you.Amanda Richards December 12, 2004
5 This is one of the best novels I've ever read. It brings to mind works by Khaled Hosseini and Amy Tan: epic and poignant. The characters are portrayed realistically, and with sympathy. At first the three different narratives were hard to keep straight and it was difficult to see how it would all come together, but Ms. Maas does not disappoint.Towards the end, I was sure I knew what was going to happen, but it turned out completely unexpectedly. This book was hard for me to put down and by the end I felt like I had been through an emotional roller coaster. Ms. Maas has a way of making you empathize with her characters to the point where you are emotionally invested in their story.What's also great is that she provides realistic historical contexts and educates while entertaining. I'm Guyanese and I didn't know about a lot of the events that Ms. Maas mentions in the novel and I had to go back and do  my own research to find out. I rarely take the time to write reviews for novels, but I had to come on Amazon to recommend this novel.
5 Of Marriageable Age is definitely filled with intrigue. The twists and turns will keep you turning the pages of this book!
5 When speaking of the book Of Marriageable Age by Sharon Maas it is difficult not to use such words as tapestry, intricate and woven.  Each thread of the story seems to be woven in such a way as to create an intricate tapestry which presents a delicate picture of the lives of the characters in this book.  It is true that author Sharon Maas believes that there exists a grand scheme to our lives and that if we are sensitive to, in her words "the magnetism" we will indeed benefit.  This belief is aptly demonstrated in the book.The setting for the book is on three continents, India in Asia, Guyana in South America and Britain in Europe and the time span is from the 1920's through the 1960's. The main characters are tied to each other in intricate and mysterious ways.  The older generation who grew up in India, are David, an English boy and Savitri, daughter of his servants and the younger generation, Saroj a young girl of Indian descent growing up in Guyana and Nat, an Indian orphan.  For those of us who came of age in the 1960's in the United States it is interesting to see that people of other countries and cultures were dealing with similar issues at that time.  For Saroj, a young woman from Guyana and Nat, a young man from Indian the issues of rebellion and independence from the older generation were part of their struggle for maturity.Saroj grows to adulthood nurturing a hatred for her father who she feels is all things evil and who  wants to control her and subjugate her.  When she is a young teenager he arranges a marriage for her, which she desperately fights against.  Her dream is to become educated in England and to achieve that dream she feels she must wage a successful battle against her father.I would encourage readers to follow Saroj, Savitri, David and Nat in their journey through life to see what composite picture is finally revealed as their lives interweave.
4 Enjoyable story of three Indian families, found the jumping back and forth from the 1920's to 1960's a little confusing at first. But close to the end you realize how they all fit together
5 Wrapped up within the pages of Sharon Maas' novel, "Of Marriageable Age," is a philosophical primer for those who adhere to the tenet that all religions lead to the "One," better known as "God" and that we, as both creations and creators, strive to reach that point of Oneness where we all become one and one becomes all.Please, don't let that last sentence frighten anyone--especially those who simply want to read a good novel that follows its three main characters from their early life to those pivotal moments where integrity is gleaned, and monumental change takes place. Reading, "Of Marriageable Age" will provide much drama, comedy, tragedy, pain, happiness---in short, all the facets that make up the roller coaster of life--all within 550 pages of extremely thoughtful, colorful and rhythmic prose.In this reviewer's opinion, the mark of a true storyteller is evident when the reader can envision him/herself sitting comfortably, listening avidly to the words of a story that he/she does not want to miss.  The soft, slightly sing-song sentence structure without too much dialogue marring its cadence allows a bit of mesmerism to take place.  For nearly two weeks, this reviewer anticipated my nighttime read where I would slip out of my day and suddenly be migrated through Maas' literary wormhole to a village in India, a home in South America, and a London street--back in time to the British Raj, to a Brahmin's thoughts on caste and race, to the dawning of Gandhi's India, to the self-indulgence of the London hippies/hipsters and into the mind of a young girl who sees the world for what it is--a place of ephemeral things--where all that matters is her affinity with all of creation and through her mind and hands can channel comfort to those who need it.Structurally, Maas alternates three main story lines in a format of alternating chapters.  It all begins with an orphan named Paul who is adopted by an English doctor and taken to a village in Madras State.  From the get-go, the reader understands the doctor's world and practice from the eyes of this young boy.  Halfway around the world, Saroj, a beautiful young girl of Indian heritage, is growing up in British Guiana with her old-fashioned parents, Ma--calmly effective and Baba whose Brahmin sensibilities dictate a strict, no nonsense household where Saroj as a dutiful Indian daughter will be expected to marry respectably at fourteen.  As a member of the after WW2 generation, Saroj has definite ideas of her own with regard to her ability to choose for herself--the reader will enjoy becoming a part of her mindset as she learns to fend for herself and have a greater respect for those who have come before her. The last protagonist is the enigmatic and empathic Savitri who holds her world within her capable hands;of all the characters, she is the one who seems to have the answer from the start and although she suffers as we all do, she is able to always see to the heart of things no matter what challenges she faces.How these three people are interrelated is what makes "Of Marriageable Age" such a compelling story.  Not only does the reader get caught up with seeing each of their worlds--complete with detail that fleshes out locale descriptions, cultural differences and political happenstances--the knowledge that, of course, there is a connection and what must it be?--will become more and more evident as the reader immerses him/herself into these universes. Maas does keep even the most practiced reader guessing--this along with her ability to press the reader into a mindset that may be culturally alien is one of her greatest strengths.Like all good storytellers, Maas has a larger story to tell that allows the reader entry into her personal mind space.  This reader/reviewer thanks her profusely for the key to her thoughts on life's meaning.  As someone who has visited India and lived amongst its people, she has a finger on the pulse of a country of many contrasts.  More importantly, for me, is her philosophy and her ability to create her characters to illustrate her ideas of religion, God, love, healing, and humanity in the context of a novel--quite simply she has achieved a Vedanta for Beginners.  Here the reader can see what happens when ego gets in the way--eventually it blots out joy and happiness.  Only when the characters undergo an ego-shedding do they achieve their true growth--truly a lesson for us all on many levels no matter what your personal faith.Bottom line?  Sharon Maas writes a quintessential novel of India and its people in "Of Marriageable Age."  Readers, be fully prepared to enjoy the characters that Maas places before you--clear your reading calendar for at least ten days--and savor the cadence of a writer who is truly a good storyteller. I am eagerly awaiting this author's next work. Highly recommended.Diana Faillace Von Behren"reneofc"
5 As lush and as breathtaking as the bougainvillea, the hibiscus, and the vibrant oleanders that enrich the landscape of Madras, India, Sharon Maas weaves a mesmerizing tale of custom, culture, love, and human resiliency in the pages of her novel, OF MARRIAGEABLE AGE.And these accolades come from a guy who wouldn't know a 'sari' from Saran wrap--who before now couldn't even find British Guiana on a world map the size of my brother-in-law's ego.  And not only that, the story involves--shuddering--romance, a sure-fire factor to guarantee a premature toss into my ever-growing 'yawn bin.'  Yet the author's fluid, engrossing, compelling, tragic, poignant story of three remarkable characters spread across the world--in three different places and times--easily overcame my chest-thumping machismo and allowed me to enjoy, to savor, Maas' seductive tale.Nataraj.  Savitri.  Sarojini.  Three unforgettable characters, three lives involved in a cataclysmic clash of cultures--of the ancient, and the modern:  three lives as intertwined and interdependent as the notes on a piece of music.  Maas directs and orchestrates their lives with an engaging talent that draws the reader in, makes him or her care--and care deeply--what happens next.  The author draws from an abundant well of both personal observation and painstaking research to breathe life into vivid people from three continents--and her work resounds with ringing credibility.This is good stuff.OF MARRIAGEABLE AGE is an absorbing read, and highly recommended.  The ending is a bit sappy, but what the heck, Maas' characters are due a few hard-earned breaks. And said ending might stick to the roof of my mouth, but it still tastes awfully good.--D. Mikels
5 Of Marriageable Age is one of the most innovative novels I have ever read.  Within this one book, the reader can enjoy a thoughtful look at arranged marriages, travel through the formation of a individual's character from childhood, explore the rich tapestry of multicultural heritages and religions, appreciate the sources of generational conflict, obtain new perspectives on overcoming prejudice, and unravel some delightful mysteries all within an intertwined story line built around the lives of three rather different kinds of characters.  Ms. Maas is a master story teller and has a sure touch in tying all of this together in a simple, profound way.Let me mention before going further that this book contains many scenes of intense inhumanity that will disturb you.  For the most part, these scenes are played as tamely as possible without losing their significance.  Nevertheless, this is not a garden and flowers romance novel, in the usual sense that most readers think about novels that deal with love and marriage.The book builds its structure around three separate timelines that begin in different places tied to the three primary characters, two in the state of Madras in India (one in 1921 and the other in 1947) and the third in British Guiana in 1956.  As time passes, you begin to notice bits and pieces of the other two story lines crossing over into each one, helping you anticipate a greater joining of all three in the end.  A few things won't quite make sense along the way.  Pay particular attention to those, for they are clues to parts of the story that will remain below the surface until near the end of the book.All three characters are Indians by cultural background.  Savitri is the cook's young daughter in an English household in Madras who keeps company with the English family's son.  The English family is enlightened for that day and age, and encourage the children to be together.  They grow up like brother and sister in many ways.Nat begins in an orphanage in Madras until he is miraculously adopted by a single English doctor who serves the poor for no fee, and is raised as though he is the doctor's own son in a poor village.Saroj is a young teenager in an Indian family in South America whose prominent lawyer father is most eager to arrange her marriage.  Saroj doesn't like the idea at all, and is soon in full rebellion.  She gains sustenance for her rebellion from a black friend and her friend's very liberated mother.One of the remarkable things about this novel is that the book intensely and fully develops all three main characters, plus gives you quite full development on three others.  Compare that to Madame Bovary, for example, where only Emma Bovary's character is fully established.  Ms. Maas is quite inventive and broad in her methods for character development, being equally comfortable with dialogue, letters, actions, internalized thoughts, and physical changes in the body.The story is woven mostly out of everyday events, much like normal life is.  Although there are dramatic events occurring in the background (like World War II and eventual Indian independence), mostly the relationships within each family and neighborhood frame the story's action.I was especially impressed with the handling of the book's various mysteries.  Most books give you the barest minimum of one clue to open the door to filling in the blank spaces.  Ms. Maas is very generous with her clues, yet keeps her mysteries adequately hidden . . . just around the corner.  Only by connecting a rather broad set of dots can you see the whole picture before she is ready to expose it to you.  I enjoyed unraveling the mysteries.Finally, the book does a nice job of applying Indian philosophy to the circumstances that occur in the novel, so that you can see how the philosophy affects one's perception of oneself, as well as one's own behavior.  In the contrast with the Western cultural standards (or lack thereof in some cases), the Indian view looks remarkably noble and practical at the same time.After you finish reading this story, I suggest that you think about what purposes human freedom should serve.  What is the cost of providing human freedom that serves no noble purpose?  How do the benefits compare to the costs?Look beyond what you think you want to appreciate the beauty and truth within you!
5 A wonderful tale that weaves back and forth between present and past with a surprising ending. I will read more books by this author.
5 When my copy of this book, OF MARRIAGEABLE AGE, arrived from Bookouture, I feared I had asked for something I could not manage, with so many book reviews waiting for me in my TBR stacking up. The length was daunting in itself, and then because it is about India, all those weird names.What a wonderful transformation I felt as I read the first chapters. The writing style is exquisite, with descriptions of character and setting. The hold the British have on Guyana as well as "back home" in India makes any freedom lover despair over imperialistic colonization.But Maas could not have imbued her novel with this big theme without interesting the audience in the characters. The chapters are narrated first person from the point of view of Savitri in Madras, Nataraj in a rural Indian village, and Suroj in Guyana. All want a better life, free from the restrictions of their Indian culture. All want free love, not love by contracted marriage.Their children's games turn into more serious assaults on their parents' beliefs as they grow to adulthood. London is their mecca, the place they will be free to do what other people do: obtain a higher education, date anyone they please, for the women, wear short skirts and short hair.The freedoms we often take for granted are underscored as stepping stones to autonomous adulthood for the Indian characters. And yet, with the exception of Baba, the adults are not heavy-handed slave drivers. They are parents who understand the world and want their children to find joy in their ethnicity.Maas gives Savitri compassion, Nat a two-sided personality of both love and guilt, and Suroj a dispute with her mother. With these elements in place, the plot dashes forward in complications of love and duty.The book reminds me of my favorite multi-generational epics of love and war: DR. ZHIVAGO, THE LAST CONVERTIBLE, MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA. All of these are long books with characters I will never forget, heartaches I will never forget, beautiful writing I will never forget. Maas captures the big picture while also feeding her reader's love of language and craving for detail. This is absolutely a stunning book, carefully crafted and expertly told.
5 This is a masterful book! It has everything a reader could want in a novel. Intricate, flowing plot, memorable characters, romance, mystery, and more. This is a book that will stay with me. I recommend it highly.
2 When I started reading this book, I was sure I would end up awarding it five stars.  The writing was lovely, the characters were engaging and the settings were lush and exotic.  I especially loved the book's sophisticated structure, i.e., telling the story of each of the three main characters in alternating chapters and gradually letting these stories converge and overlap.I'm sorry to say that the further into the book I read, the more disillusioned I became.  Many of the characters who seemed to hold so much promise at the beginning of the book became flat and stereotypical, e.g., the domineering Indian father, the rebellious teenage daughter who isn't going to do things her parents way!  Another problem for me revolved around the character of Savitri.  As hard as I tried, I simply couldn't reconcile the child Savitri was with the adult she became.  For me, they were two completely different persons.I simply didn't like the character of Saroj.  She was a spoiled brat as a child and a spoiled brat as an adult.  This is a character who underwent no development at all and as a result, was very unsympathetic.The real problem for me regarding this book was all the coincidence (and I mean a lot).  Almost every plot twist was the result of coincidence.  While I don't mind one or two coincidences in a book (it is fiction after all), I do object when most of the plot is built on outrageous coincidence.  I began this book with admiration; I finished it with a very bitter aftertaste.I do think Maas has a special talent for writing about children.  The early chapters revolving around Nataraj, Saroj and Savitri as children far, far outshine the later chapters which are more than somewhat trite.I've heard criticism of Maas's writing style as being &quot;too flowery.&quot;  While a few passages were overwritten and &quot;purple,&quot; most of the writing was pretty straightforward.  Maas does have a tendency to &quot;tell&quot; her story rather than dramatize it in scenes and I found this much more annoying than the occasional &quot;flowery&quot; passage.This book's downfall, however, is the extreme use of coincidence.  It caused what began as a lovely story to end as sheer tripe.  Would I read a second book by Maas?  No.  She lost me with this one.
5 This is a very enjoyable novel with memorable characters. Set in India, England, and Guyana, the story centers around an orphan and his adopted father, the mystically endowed daughter of a cook, an Indian family in Guyana and an English family in India at the end of the British reign.The characters all have a bit of India mythology associated with them. Each has something magical or mysterious. Each takes on a different guise or identity from time to time, like the multiple personalities of the Hindu gods and goddesses. On top of all this lies a very well-told tale of love lost and found, with some nice surprises right up to the end.My only criticism of the book is that from time to time in the book, Hindi words are used that most people may not be readily familiar with. While some of the words are common ones, others could have been replaced by the English equivalent with no loss to the atmosphere they provide. There is a glossary in the back of the book, however, so this is a minor issue.I give it five stars because I am going to re-read it right away!
5 It is some time since I read this book but the emotions are still with me.  The book provides an insite into earlier life in India. It focussed on the  lives of a number of people from differing races and portrays the hardship  and brutality they endure because they love outside their race.There are  amazing twists and turns but reality is this is probably one of the best  books I've ever read. I simply couldn't put it down. Family can triumph.  Read it and enjoy.
4 &quot;Of Marriageable Age&quot; is a fine, exquisitely written novel, one with unique locales, fully defined characters &amp; an engaging plot. Another reviewer on this site refers to it as a mystery, but in my estimation, the only mystery involved is why this book isn't available from a U.S. publisher!Ms. Maas opens her book with 4 year old Nat in late 40's Madras. The next chapter also focuses on a small child, a young girl in British Guiana (Belize). Then it's back to Madras, only in 1921 with another young girl. At first, all that seems to tie the 3 protagonists together is that they are all Indian, living in Hindu communities. These communities &amp; the individuals that comprise them are so indelibly delineated by the author that the reader feels no confusion between the storylines, instead being drawn further into each life before abruptly switching to another.Over the course of 500+ pages &amp; 30+ years, the reader discovers how the 3 protagonists are linked, intimately. I'll admit I cheated by reading the end part-way through, but it is to Ms. Maas' credit that I still was interested enough to continue with the book.This novel may be too literate &amp; well-written for the Danielle Steel/Jackie Collins public, but it certainly deserves a chance in the U.S.! C'mon, someone, pick it up!
3 Another fun read about Indian culture and mores.
5 Black Africans, brown East Indians, white Englishmen (and women) -- all come under the scrutiny of writer, Sharon Maas, in her engaging novel, OF MARRIAGEABLE AGE, -- and all are found lacking, that is to say, human.  There are no sacred cows here, except, of course, for those contentedly wandering the streets in which this story plays out.Like most Americans, I knew nothing about the subcontinent of India and the people living there, their history and culture, their daily lives.  After reading OF MARRIAGEABLE AGE (and thoroughly enjoying it), I know a little.  But, more importantly, I want to know more, lots more, for writer, Maas' has whet my appetite for novels about the Indian world.OF MARRIAGEABLE AGE is a story that unfolds in two different timelines and on two different continents.  Saroj's story is set in what used to be British Guiana (in South America) during the 60's.  Like the United States, this country too is rocked by racial tensions and social upheaval.  Saroj contends with the demands of school, the distractions of youth (rock music, boys), and a strict, orthodox Hindu father.  Half a world away in India, Nat starts out life in an orphanage, but is soon adopted by a Sahib (an Englishman) doctor. They spend their days ministering to the poor and societal castoffs in a small village.  Also in India, Savitri's story unfolds on the Lindsay estate.  The daughter of an Indian cook employed by a wealthy English family, she lives out a blissful childhood, falling in love with the Master's son, David.  Theirs, of course, is a love that can never be, not in the world of Gandhi's India.  For, like the English, the Indians too, have their caste system, and in this novel, many succumb to its appeal, causing them and their families grief, and making for a good read.  OF MARRIAGEABLE AGE is engaging and moves along at a good pace, leaving the reader to wonder how these three different threads will be woven together.Despite the title and the plot point of arranged marriages, this is not strictly a women's novel about sexual equality.  It is, rather, a panoramic novel about human life.  Toward the end of the novel, one of the Indian characters shows an 'overseas-born' Indian through the streets of Madras, India, pointing out the awful poverty and squalor as well as the beauty, embodied in the food, the colorful clothes, and the humanity of the people.  He says to her something like, "This is India, embrace it!"  This is what Sharon Maas' novel, OF MARRIAGEABLE AGE, does.  It says to the reader, "this is life.  It's horrible, it's beautiful.  Embrace it, love it, live it!"
5 Of Marriageable Age is a cleverly crafted and intricately woven story dealing with the complexities of arranged marriages.Sharon Maas has captured a certain innocence in her writing. This story grew inside her and was finally born in an ancient farmhouse where she typed in the depth of winter. Sharon pours the warmth of her very soul into the pages. This story will bathe you in balmy thoughts and entice you into its pages the way the ocean entices you to swim in its depths. She remembers what it feels like to be a child in the comforting safety of a mother's love or how it feels to embrace a moment in time, so thoughtfully, it always clings to your memory.Her intense power of observation enables her to set up situations, which bring out the characters deepest fears, sublime longings and internal tortures. She creates tension at the end of each chapter, propelling you forward to read the next exciting detail. Each chapter in the first section focuses on one of the three main characters.This rotation of chapters invites you to follow the lives of Nat, Saroj and Savitri who in the first section are like streams of water moving towards a river. The second and third sections are more like a waterfall in which moments of enlightenment flow through you suddenly, as you realize how these three characters' lives intertwine. Each life is richly textured with cultural details as they move from the innocence of childhood into an adult awareness. The character development is outstanding. As the story grows and changes, hope grows within you that the characters will find the happiness they deserve.The Blue Morpho butterfly on the cover seems to represent Saroj, who must struggle through countless battles of thought to finally shed the insulation of her old life so she can embrace her destiny. She at first spins protective silk thoughts around herself, trapping herself so she can grow her wings. She is living in British Guiana, South America, in the 60s. I love her free spirit when she emerges from her cocoon, her imagination, her beloved places."...she also went there to escape to the seashore, to get a glimpse of the ocean, to run for miles along the Sea Wall, to wade, barefoot and curly-toed, into the foaming sheet of warm brown water when the tide rolled gently in and licked the beach. The ocean was freedom. Standing at its edge and gazing far out into the horizon, eastwards, she felt a deep, yearning ache that rose out of some unknown kernel within her, that reached out, far far out, to that distant horizon, to the unseen shores that lay beyond, and further, to the endlessness of the sky, to the endlessness of time....the tower room was all windows, without shade. Open the glass panes and the wind sailed through, a cleansing, vigorous wind that swept away care and uprooted disquiet. Up here you felt tall, free, strong. Up here, nothing could touch you. It was a refuge from the heat of the day, a sanctuary from the pain of living. An escape...." pg. 47, 48Saroj tries to control her life and hurriedly rushes down paths as they are presented to her. She fights and wriggles free from her controlling father (an orthodox Hindu lawyer) only to see his true intentions years later. She finds a childhood friend named Trixie who seems to understand her rebellion. Trixie rescues her from the tapestry of a deeply rooted tradition.The men in this story seem more willing to follow tradition, to accept their fate. Nat is adopted by a doctor working in rural India (Madras State, 1947) and not only has the ability to heal, he later has the ability to water thirsty souls and women are drawn to him. He longs to find a woman who will invite him into her secret life. He realizes women are seeking spiritual unity and that true strength is gentle. Women long for a connection of the soul. He also wants to uncover the mystery of his own life.Savitri understands silence. She lives from the inside and knows that the man she loves is the other part of her soul. Forbidden fruit is irresistible to her, yet she also has the ability to love unconditionally. She is a servant (cook's daughter) of the Lindsays, an English family living in India. She falls in love with the master's son. Her story starts in Madras, India, in 1921. She and David observe one another from a distance, living separate lives, wanting to find some connection that threatens to dissolve them both into a sea of troubles. While the storms of their lives threaten to tear them apart forever, somehow they manage to find a few moments of absolute bliss.While Nat and Savitri's stories are essential to the plot, Saroj is definitely the main character who evolves through a process of choices and situations thrust upon her by life. Her exuberance for life is woven into thoughtful prose. You enter her world, one which she is trying to abandon. Her very soul desperately cries out not to be tied down to duty. She wants to make her own choices, especially when it comes to choosing a husband, her lover for life.Standing at the window of her mind, you will observe the most intimate of thoughts. She will capture your heart. Instead of embracing various moment at times, she dreads her fate, the impending doom. She is dramatic and horrified at the thought of being forced into marriage at a marriageable age. She knows that in life, there is one man who is worthy of her intelligence and beauty. Locked in the prison of her father's discontent, the depths of her passion give her mind buoyancy. She at times flies away on her thoughts.An impressive masterpiece of delicious thoughts. The prose will drip like mango juice into your thirsty soul. It will touch your life in a way no other story ever has.Exquisitely Meditative. A vivid exotic mystery to unravel inthe labyrinths and gardens of your mind.~The Rebecca Review
5 There are books that you fall in love with, books you enjoy so much that you do not want them to end. Books that capture your imagination and do not let go long after the last page, so that, even though you are an avid reader, you do not want to open another book because no other will match the beauty, the magnificence of the one you've just finished.  Books whose characters you do not want to part with, just yet. Sharon Maas&#8217;s Of Marriageable Age is one such book. Spanning three continents and five decades, this is a colourful tapestry woven with words, the descriptions so breath-taking that they create an instant sense of place. Maas&#8217;s mastery over language is such that we experience each event along with the characters. I reveled in the joy and bustle of Stabroek Market, Guiana, with Saroj and her mother. I roamed the grounds of Fairwinds, India, with Savitri. I despaired of the flood that almost washed away his village in Madras with Nat. I felt for Savitri, riled against the constraints imposed by a dictatorial father along with Saroj and I enjoyed life with Nat. Three stories, three lives coming together in a spectacular crescendo, this book is an epic of vast scope. A must-read.
5 My first book by this author. It is quite long and intricate but I loved it. I am from Trinidad with Indian background. It is very refreshing to read a well written story that I can relate to. I think I will try another book since this one brought back memories of my family and my life. Thank you Sharon Maas.
5 I loved this book. Having spent a lot of time in Tamil Nadu it brought back many wonderful, and some painful, memories.  I couldn't put it down.  It was a wonderful story, and I look forward to reading other books by Sharon Maas.
5 Really wonderful book...lots of beautiful imagery.  Great story.Pay attention to the timeline of the different characters though...Sivitri's story is set in an earlier time than Nat and Saroj...I missed this at first, but caught up when it became obvious that their YOUNG lives were not parallel.
5 I'm not going to make this wordy. Just know that it is a beautiful story, deeply detailed with purposeful depth of character that lends rather than detracts from the thematic elements: Love, loss, and healing, tradition and modernity, duty and desire. Try it out.
1 I'm not a Raving Fan of Raving Fans. The authors belabor their three points by hiding them within a story that is off-putting with the generic Area Manager being the guy whose shoes we're suppose to slip into so we can be guided by Charlie. Yet I recognize some of their techniques in the latest customer-centric policies that Walmart has tried to put into place within the last year. Other contemporary retail stores also trying to follow the idea of flouncing all over the customer and smothering them half-to-death while all the same time, never having enough cashiers to get people in and out. I think the authors really undersold themselves by presenting their ideas in this fantasy-driven format because it does not make it applicable to the real world and working with real people.So far the strongest driving home point was talking about customers saying they're "Fine" or silent. According to the book, this means that customers aren't telling you their real thoughts. I agree this might be a problem. However, as a cautionary warning, some customers like myself, just aren't chit-chatty and are just there to get my stuff and get out quickly. I'm not looking for a best friend in a retail store. Also from experience working retail, customers hate it if you call them by name. It's creepy and invasive.My other complaint is that despite my suspicions that the examples in the book are suppose to be a metaphor of some kind, I kept getting annoyed that the examples were in no way realistic to how REAL LIVE customers behave. Most notably were the valet parking and carpeting in a grocery store (you should have heard my dad laugh!) and giving people no limits on how many clothes they can take with them into a dressing room (has the author ever worked retail?!). I understand that this isn't the point of the reading, but I got so distracted by these hilariously poor examples that I can't take the book seriously.
1 I felt compelled to review this book in order to shake off that feeling of intellectual abuse I got when I finished reading it.  As with so many 'it's so easy to change' manuals many of us do not approach these literary equivalents of junk food by ourselves.  Managers,supervisors and gurus find in such books the justification for their positions and like the faithful at the temple mount they really believe things are so simplistic and people so gullible.Raving fans is what all customers should be is the general thesis of this book.  if you go out of your way to provide exceptional service customers will want to come back to your store.  Somehow golf gets thrown into this groundbreaking revelation - I thought that the author Kenneth Blanchard was going to announce that he received this message from GOd in 5 tablets. Of course as with all thse guides nothing is mentioned to the employer about the possibility that service does not improve all by itself and that a good salary and working conditions may induce a more positive work attitude. Certainly, many managers may even get more out of their staff if they avoid giving them books like these to read, or worse sending them to the seminar. A One star rating is one too many.
4 I recently read Raving Fans: A Revolutionary Approach To Customer Service by Ken Blanchard and Sheldon Bowes.  Written as a parable designed to illustrate why the key to greatness in business is developing "raving fans," this book was informative and fun to read.  The premise is that "satisfied" customers just aren't good enough!It's so common for us to focus on satisfying our customers and feel that we've done our job, but in a nutshell customer satisfaction is not a very lofty goal - and mere satisfaction doesn't keep customers coming back.  The book is written as a story about the newly promoted "Area Manager" and his male fairy godmother, Charlie.  Charlie exposes the Area Manager to a number of different successful businesses that are going above and beyond with the services they offer and creating loyal and devoted customers in the process.Think about it: we are so accustomed to mediocre or bad service these days, that we just accept it as the norm.  The book does a great job of pointing out that if you think that you're doing a good job for your customers because they're not complaining, you're missing the point.  A lot of customers walk away from a bad experience - or a less than satisfactory one - disappointed or unimpressed, but not upset enough to call it to your attention.That really hit home, because I know I've been there. You go to a restaurant, your meal is okay, but the food is cold, or the service is really slow, or you have to go find your server to request your check.  Then, as you walk out the door, the manager or host asks, "How was your meal tonight?" and you answer with an unenthusiastic "It was fine, thank you." How likely are you to recommend that restaurant to the friend you bump into later?  But, the manager has no idea about the laundry list of things that could be improved.  You were satisfied, but you're not going to end up being a force in growing his business.I found the story in the book to be a really interesting way to introduce three critical steps for increasing customer loyalty.  You must first decide what you want to do with customers, realizing that you can't be all things to all people and focusing on what you do well.  The second step involves discovering what your customers really want within your what.  And, finally, you aim to always "Deliver Plus 1 Percent" on your what, which means being consistent and always improving just a little bit.  In return, you'll be creating customers who are so thrilled by what you do that they go around bragging about your service and recommending your business to others.  Who couldn't use an army of raving fans promoting their services at every turn?The concept is so simple - the book has been around since 1992 and has a solid reputation - but the idea could almost be considered revolutionary.  Because the three steps are described in a story, the book doesn't have a lot of very practical step-by-step guidance.  But, I did find my mind racing a little bit with new ideas as I read.  It was a pretty easy read and there is also a good audio version of the book that could make it even easier to fit into your schedule.I highly recommend this book for anyone who finds himself thinking, "What's next for my business?"  If you're looking to improve your client relationships and their experience with your business, this book is a great way to start.  It's really a very commonsense approach - and it's surprising that more businesses don't adopt it, particularly in their customer service departments.  Imagine the power of even just half of your customers turning into cheerleaders for your business?  It's word-of-mouth advertising that is literally priceless - and it's "advertising" that you can "pay" for by just improving how you care for the customers you have.
4 Another wonderfully practical but deceptively simple work from these authors. Through the usual storyline you are presented with a three step plan, interlinked and integrated, that you can immediately apply to the  work place. In the electronic age we should all be using this work to frame  the way we are going to manage our relationships. Quality is all about how  your product or service works in relation to the customer's needs. Customer  service covers all needs and expectations.When competition is intense, how  your vision defines your choices, how you listen to your customer's  unarticulated needs and how you keep on delivering what you said you would  better and better will differentiate you from the others.
5 In RAVING FANS, authors Ken Blanchard and Sheldon Knowlesconcentrated on the importance of delighting customers . . . in GUNGHO!, they focused on how companies could become the &quot;employer ofchoice&quot; and attract the best employees . . . I liked both thosebooks and thus looked forward to listening to the taped version ofBIG BUCKS! . . . this third book promised me in its subtitle &quot;Howto Make Serious Money for Both You and Your Company,&quot; somethingthat could be done by focusing my time and energy.Like other works by Blanchard and Knowles, the points arepresented in a parable . . . here, we're introduced to a man strugglingto make ends meet . . . he goes on a journey to discover the secretto becoming rich and meets three wise (and successful) peoplewho present simple truths that can be applied to virtually anysituation.I liked the above fact; i.e., that when listening, I found myselfthinking that this stuff makes sense--and I should and couldapply it to my situation . . . there's nothing overly earth-shattering,yet I should add that it got me thinking . . . and it made sense.Also making sense was the conclusion, in which the authorsreviewed the simple tests that should have been learned fromeither reading or listening:The test of joy . . . you can't make money unless you're having fun.The test of purpose . . .you can't make money unless making moneyis more important than having fun.The test of creativity . . . incomes, less expenses = profit.And, lastly, there's perpetual prosperity . . . which comes to thosewho help others.
4 This is a quick and easy book to read.  The concepts presented in this book to improving Customer Service is very possible.  The ideas presented is interesting and really makes me aware how I have been "just satisfied" with all the bad customer service all around us.  Ken gets his points across by using short events and dialogs between the characters.  However, the short events, products, etc... seems to be too fantasy and very fictional.  I would have been more convinced if he had used real life examples.  The concepts presented, however, are very logical and very implementable.
5 Having satisfied customers is no longer enough. "If you really want a booming busines, you have to create Raving Fans", is what the new Manager hears in this book. "Is your customer service slogan "NO WORSE THAN THE COMPETITION?"This book is written in the parable style of the One Minute Manager. It is a very enjoyable and quick read. If you are paying attention, there are regular, well-marked, and powerful truths taught about creating Raving Fans!
5 The new Area Manager is wondering on what could be done to retain his customers and his job. Just then a fairy godmother &quot;Charlie&quot; appears and takes him around to businesses that create raving fans through exemplary customer service. Let us take the case of a visit to a departmental store. Our Area Manager is looking for a book to be gifted to this wife on her birthday. Upon arrival he and Charlie are greeted by the sales staff who pin a complimentary white carnation on their suits. The store has a superb play area for children. The rest rooms are glittering and the towels are neat and crisp. The book he is looking for is not available at this store but the lady at the books section dispatches her assistant to procure it from a neighboring shop, gift wraps it and hands it over to her customer - at no extra cost. Our Area Manager is amazed. How can they afford to do this? Pat comes the reply from the man who runs the business - How can you afford NOT to do this?.Charlie takes our Area Manager for golf in between visits to several such places of excellence. They come up with three simple but important principles to create RAVING FANS.This book applies to all businesses. Take the case of the IT industry.  Technocrats who focus more on technology than on their customers staff this industry. Till recently, thanks to the global shortage of well-trained professionals in this area, a streak of arrogance and sharp edges were common traits. &quot;We are knowledge Workers - Stock Options and hefty salaries are our birthright&quot; was a common belief in this tribe.Suddenly, the IT industry finds itself swamped by competition and surplus people. Many companies whose stock prices pierced the roof a couple of years ago find themselves in Chapter 11. Customers have won again. They now exercise their choice and demand value for money- not just tech talk by smart yuppies. As in any other industry, only those companies that ensure stellar customer service at all levels of the Organization will be able to succeed. To all those who need to understand these core values I recommend this book.
5 By definition, a "raving fan" is a customer that is so happy with your company that they praise your actions to anyone who might possibly listen. They are the best form of advertisement and the hardest to acquire. Changing your customer service strategy so that you have raving fans rather than customers is the point of this book and the story is told in parable form.The two main characters are Area Manager and Charlie, his male fairy "godmother." Using the magic that all fairy godmothers possess, Charlie takes Area Manager to several companies that generate their own raving fans. The strategy is common and ubiquitous across industries; treat your customer as a coveted and valued asset rather than a source of revenue to be squeezed.Another very important point is that to be successful in the area of customer service, you must first decide what you want to do. A fundamental component of this is to realize that not all potential customers are desirable ones. The fact is that some people are simply unsuitable as customers. Decide up front that they are not what you want to do and don't do it. Focus on what you can and want to do well.Ken Blanchard has once again been an author of a book that points the way to success in business. The path to success is by providing quality service that appears costly, but that is a mirage. Good customer service is one of the best ways possible to make money and save time by spending money and using time to provide it. This is one of the best management books ever written, made even better by the simplicity of the presentation.
5 Provides guidance for much needed resurrection of "customer service" as it was taught in the 1960s.
2 I like the idea - focusing on good customer service. I don't like the way the book is written. Other books, like "Fish" (Stephen Lundin) do a better job of presenting a "moral through a story." They are teaching something new or inventive. Good 'customer service' is not a new concept. Conveying its importance through a simplistic story is, in my opinion, rather elementary my dear Blanchard.If these fictional characters were real people, and some good facts were thrown in, this could be a very good book. As it is, I think there are better ways -  and books - to promote good customer service in an organization.The only redeeming quality is it is a quick read and therefore if you want to line Ken Blanchard's pockets... you can buy copies for your entire team and perhaps inspire some thought and get everyone on the same page. Unless you have team-building in mind though... seek wisdom elsewhere.
2 Hmm, there are points in this book that are great, but was put into a fable that just distracted from the good this book was offering.  Customer Service is mediocre at best these days and just by going a little above and beyond can make a difference with your customers and turn them into ambassadors for your business.  I just wish Mr Blanchard[author: Ken Blanchard] stuck with the points of the book and developed real world examples around them and how to do the work in a more informational format.  The attempt at building a story around the points and even how it's attempt at relating to the reader was more of a distraction than it was a reinforcement.
5 This is one of my favorite books.  I'll be starting a reading group with this at my workplace.  what a different world we'd live in if everyone sought to create Raving Fans.
3 This book is written in "parable" or story telling format and is different to read for most people.  If you have read the best seller One Minute Manager or Leadership and the One Minute Manager it is written in comparable form.  I have read both of the prior books.First off, the book basically talks about customer service (vs. goal setting &amp; reward/punishment in the one minute manager) and how companies need to offer exemplary service to create Raving Fans, as the authors title it. I was simply hoping to get one good idea/thought out of the book and I did.  It was EXCEPTIONALLY easy to read, as I read the 132 pages in about 2.5 - 3 hours total.  The book has a lot of dead space and big font so you aren't getting tons of "filler."  The authors try to focus on one business issue and address it succinctly.This book is good and bad depending on what you expect to get out of it.It is good because (1) anyone can read this book (2) customer service is horrible in today's environment so it is timely (3) The book provides great illustrations and (4) The authors get the point across.Having said that, they never talk about the business implications of what the characters do.  They say that customers love their service or product but they negate to talk about the cost implications.  Business is about making money, not being loved by everyone.  I love great service and all the frills but, at the end of the day, I have to make it worth the investment to the business owner.Yes, our economy is very much about selling an experience to someone, but there are cost implications to having carpeted floors in grocery stores and full service gas stations that don't price their gas more expensively.  There are implications to buying a product at another store and selling it at the exact same price to your customer (what about the price of labor?)  In that case you are actually LOSING money, except that the customer is happy.....At the end of the day profits pay for the labor, rent, etc.  Businesses have to make money and this part is really neglected in this book.I love that they focus on the customer and finding out what their needs are but they negate to mention where people are in the food chain.  What does the customer value the most?  Is your business positioned to offer it?  Do you offer headaches or tons of value to the customer are a few questions I think of daily?If anyone is looking for a great business book check out The Essential Drucker by Peter Drucker as it is the best book I have read on management and the role of managers, businesses and individuals within a business.  Your money and time would be better spent on that book.
3 Had to read this book for my job.  Okay stuff, but from my experience it's better just to be honest with your customers than it is to throw a flurry of good will at them.
5 'Raving Fans: A Revolutionary Approach to Customer Service' is a book that I discovered referenced in several other books that I've been reading.  In each other book, little was said other than a quote here or there.  But noticing the book's presence, I purchased it and am glad I did.The book is written like a goofy fairy-tale--but you understand the gimmick and it helps you read the book quickly, makes memorable the lessons, and enables you to easily reference the points it is making.In a couple weeks, I will be leading a retreat on church membership assimilation as part of my doctoral dissertation and plan to use this book as a catalyst in discussing quality customer service from a guest's perspective.I whole-heartedly recommend this book.  It says what other books take hundreds of pages to say in just a few pages, and you can pick up this book for just a penny from a host of used book sellers (although it is definitely worth its retail price).
5 This book explains the difference between satisfied customers and raving fans.  It is a must read for any business owner.  I have used it in various speeches--and always recommend my audience get the book!
5 My school asked us to read this book for professional development. I have noticed that my school does not give raving fan service, but I have also noticed most of the businesses I shop at have not read this book either. I have learned to figure out what I do not like about the stores I shop at, make notes and see how I can improve my customer service for my parents, students and fellow teachers. Just people in general. For example, Best Buy refuses to pick up the phone when you call their stores or ask for a manager, so I make sure to return calls to parents within 24 hours, no matter when or where I am at.This book will teach you so much and will teach you to respect raving fan service and to note when someone or thing does not give raving fan service. I just can not say enough about this book. Please pick it up today!
5 In a world of almost no service, RAVING FANS takes the opposite perspective -- that virtually perfect service is worth pursuing.  Those who are used to providing and suffering from having no service will find this book impossible to comprehend.  I found it inspiring.A major problem  with most books on management processes is that that do too little to focus  on how to make large amounts of progress beyond what is now done. RAVING  FANS is a big success in providing you with simple instructions for making  large strides toward achievable perfection in providing service.Imagining perfection is a critical first step to improvement, yet most  people have never thought about what that could mean. Then testing that  perfection with customers (and potential customers) must be done to be sure  that there is a valid opportunity, and to be able to understand customers'  ideas about achievable perfection. Then attaching the idea of continuous  improvement toward that vision is also valuable, and useful.There are  plenty of practical tips about how to do each part in RAVING FANS, which is  key to making this book so valuable.One of the reasons that I enjoy  writing reviews about books on-line is that I can find a book like RAVING  FANS that agrees so much with my own perspective and research. This book  will quickly get you past your Psychology of Disbelief, Bureaucracy,  Procrastination, Communiation, and Ugly Duckling stalls. Good for Ken  Blanchard and Sheldon Bowles . . . and good for you, too! Even better for  your customers!If you like this book, be sure to go on to read  GUNG HO, the second book in the series, which deals with getting employees  fired up to produce great service for Raving Fans.  The third book in the  series, BIG BUCKS!, just came out, and is a worthwhile successor to the  first two.  I suggest you read all three if you have a business or aspire  to have one that provides well for employees, customers, and owners.A  good related book is THE CUSTOMER CENTERED COMPANY by Richard Whiteley.
5 Hopefully, you want to please yourself most through feeling that you are serving your students and colleagues at your best. This quaint story succeeds in illustrating that &#34;Satiisfied customers just aren't good enough!&#34; I was far more than satisfied.
2 A review doesn't have to be 5 paragraphs. This book was a simple story which illustrated a simple point about customer service. That's it. I purchased it thinking I would have "Raving Fans" but the book is far too simple and effective service is more complex. If you're hungry for growth and knowledge don't read it or feel influenced to purchase it. It's something I would imagine a very low level customer service worker reading for a little inspiration. If you're starving for just a little inspiration and 2nd grade storytelling, then purchase it.
5 This is an excellent book that explains in basic terms how to improve customer service in any kind of organization.Once I began reading it, I couldn't stop until I finished it.
5 This book is short, and a great book for anyone to read that has anything to do with customer service! It remains inefficient by only using half the page and using large 14-font. Not complaining from a college-student perspective and would recommend this book!
2 Blanchard gets two stars for choosing to write a book on the importance of customer service. Beyond his choice of topics, however, this silly little screed doesn't have much going for it. Once you buy into the premise that customer service is important (as, of course, you should), your next concern will logically be what to do about it. There's nothing in this book that will provide you with any practical help in that regard. Like most of Blanchard's other books, this is a lot like cotton candy...cloyingly sweet, lots of fluff, and very little substance.Blanchard considers himself to be a spiritual guy. (The title he uses at his company is Chief Spiritual Officer.) As a result, Raving Fans, like other Blanchard-branded books, employs a format that is self-consciously based on the Biblical parable. Perhaps he considers this to be an homage but it just comes across as pretentious.If a reader was genuinely undecided on the value of customer service, then this book might be worthwhile. But for the vast majority of readers who understand that customer service is important and want to know how to get better at it, Raving Fans isn't going to provide any practical guidance.
4 A customer is the King. Decide what you want to give to the customer, Find out their needs and expectations, Foresee how you can fulfil their requirements - The main theme of this book perfectly teaches the Customer Approach. Raving Fans of Ken Blanchard love to read all his Books coz of his Innovative ideas and writing skills. I love all Ken's Reads and this one is no exception as it has all inspirational, encouraging, innovative and satisfying techniques to build better Customer Relationships. This book has proven techniques as it covers on 'After-service' facilities too and for a Corporate Insurance Executive & Advisor like me, I feel people sort for not only Service but also 'After sales Service' which builds a strong rapport with the customer and a long term, beneficial relationship, floating in more references therein. I heard a Doctor who had his Sonography Machines worth more than a 50 lacs insured but could not get the claim inspite of paying premiums only because the Company had waved off old machines and the new hubs cost him grand. The customer service is failed by Agent due to Govt. Insurance companies and in such cases, I guess it is worth a deal to strike with new better Insurance companies with affiliations. Hence, Ken's book is all about effective system and playing role as serving with style to create revolution at workplace and fetch in good business. Every Executive should read and follow Ken Blanchard's techniques and remember that Customers are not Satisfied anymore but require 'Service' and that is most important. Experiences leads to perfection with practical tips of Ken. A good pick.
2 While short and to the point can be good, I found this book to be more of the same.  One can only read so many short stories and try to apply them to real life situations.  Having recently completed my MBA, I decided to take a break from the standard MBA text; however, I do find those books more meaningful.I'll stick with Who Moved My Cheese as my recommended business story book.
4 I have been picking up some old books lately and reviewing them to see what I missed or what I needed to review as a refresher. Ken Blanchard has always written easy to read and quick to finish books, but don't read too quickly as you might miss some very important points. This book can easily be your guideline to establishing great customer service tendencies by your staff and an easy to use training tool for employees to follow. I really enjoyed it, again, as I read it on the beach near my home to return with some fresh knowledge about customer service. James L. Poling, author of The Waiter's Tips.
5 Ken Blanchard has written or co-written a number of sales training books.  I gave this book to our CEO concerning what we might need.  I've been giving this book away for years and will for years to come.
5 Kenneth Blanchard continues his trend of writing easy-to-read books with BIG ideas for making your business better. Raving Fans is a book of stories relating how fictional companies have created an environment of delivering awesome customer service. A guy that has just been put in a managment position requiring a turnaround goes on a fictional trip with his &quot;angel&quot; to visit businesses that have figured out their vision and their system to deliver customer service extraordinary.  Based on three simple principles (Decide, Discover, Deliver), each company has created a group of Raving Fans (not just customers, but fans) who wouldn't consider shopping anywhere else for what one of these companies offers.  Within each story is other nuggets of common sense and good ideas that can be implemented in any company that has customers and wants to create fans.  We required our store managers to read the book and each created a list ranging from 20-40 points that they can put into effect at their stores to improve customer service. This is a simple, must-read for every business owner and manager.
5 Many other reviewers of this book over simplify or trivialize the book because of their lack of understanding of the main points the book attempts to make which is getting customers to you establishment and getting them to stay.  Too many times customers are disloyal to an organization because others provide them with something different.  That is what this book attempts to have the reader do in thier own situation.  Give them a reason to patronize your company.One such review tries to explain the profit margin of groceries stores, but who cares, it is an example of what a grocery store could use.  As far as I know, no such store exsists.  The point is that we need to change our perspective on what the customer wants not what we think they want.What these over trivializing reviewers fail to explain or understand is that the point of the book is to perform the best service you can so that you company can make a profit.  This is why they are in business.The book is set to inspire the reader through an alagory so the reader can draw from it what they want and need for there company.  Find out what you customers want is certainly not a bad idea, except most people do not capitalize on it do they?The book gets you think about what you want, waht the guest wants and give it to the in spades.This is a common sense approach to a long forgotten art and sets to inspire the reader to focus on the customer.This is a great book to give to the people who work on the front line of every company as a motivational tool only.
3 This is not a new book, but the message is as meaningful today as when the book was first introduced. If you think you have a great business because you have satisfied customers, you really need to read this. Satisfied customers are not enough! You need to have "raving fans" who become evangelists for your products or services. If you haven't read this book yet, get it today. It will definitely make a difference.
5 Raving Fans is a solid read based on discovery, decision making, visioning, focus and delivery. Want to learn something about running a business? Read Raving Fans.
4 Blanchard and Bowles have done another bang-up job with Raving Fans. Like their other book, Gung Ho!, Raving Fans is easy to read and is a good resource for anyone concerned with their organization's customer service. However, in my opinion, it's not a &quot;must buy&quot;.
4 I read this book many years ago, but a current Client asked me to re-read it prior to speaking in their organization as they are using its language and premises.  I'm glad I did.It is a business fable, in traditional Blanchard style that tells story that is good enough to keep you engaged to lead and remember through repetition the keys points to creating "raving fans."  While it may not be the best story of the books in this genre, it does illuminate important factors about doing more that satisfying Customers, but rather turning them into fans - a bar much higher than "satisfaction."Written in 1993, the subtitle is "A Revolutionary Approach to Customer Service."  While I'm not sure it is revolutionary 12 years later, it is still worth reading.  Consider this a great primer for Customer Service or a great book to encourage many to read because it is short and assessable even to those who don't read much.
5 "If we do not take care of the customer, someone else will."  This is one quote that will never have more meaning in our home construction business than it will between now and the turn of the century.  This point is really driven home by Ken Blanchard's and Sheldon Bowles' new book Raving Fans:  A Revolutionary Approach to Customer Service.  One quote from the book really sums it up:Your customers are only satisfied because their expectations are so low and because no one else is doing better.  Just having satisfied customers isn't good enough anymore.  If you really want a booming business, you have to create "Raving Fans."The process is broken down into three basic steps:1.  Decide what you want.2.  Discover what the customer wants.3.  Deliver the Vision plus one percent.The book is written in a very charming and light hearted style.  It's an easy three hour read, but within this short time, you can discover how to turn your very ordinary satisfied customers into "Raving Fans."
4 Written like Zapp, Raving Fans presents an important lesson in a very simple format.  This business novelette points out an important lesson for anyone interested in keeping their customers.  Unless your customers rave about your service, they are likely to be poached by an aggressive competitor.  If you are willing to ask yourself the hard questions posed by Blanchard, you will likely find your services falling short of the mark.  Books like this that raise just a few important points are perfect reads for those with more issues than time and who need to focus on action. Just like the One Minute Manager, quick actions suggestion by this alegory can be put to use immediately for valuable impact.
4 I really enjoyed this book.  I would consider it a needed "jolt" to help re-focus on the customer - the true reason we are in "business."  I can understand why some of the negative reviews were written, however, I thought it was a quick, easy-to-get-it story with some simple lessons that obviously are not being used everyday by every company.  Create "raving fans."  I get it - and will try!
4 As with any approach to business improvement, sometimes you just have to go back to the basics.  There is still application in business for "the golden rule" and all of us can "give back" by mentoring someone who is trying to learn what we have gained through experience.  Beyond that we are only limited by our ability to translate what we "hear" from our clients and use our imaginations to delight them.  In the end, we must differentiate ourselves (positively) and stand above the crowd.  We must also inspire our Team to do so as well, for that is how long-term results are achieved.  This book, through the use of storytelling (and some fantasy), illustrates how we can turn those "shoppers" into clients for life who can't stop bragging about us and buying from us. Read this book, brainstorm with your Team, and set your company apart!
2 The one good thing you can say about this book is that it makes you think. Beyond that there is little to recommend it. It has a childish premise (Charlie the Fairy as an affirmative action hire - really??) and it reads like fiction. In some of the businesses it speaks about it is impossible to imagine the economics of what they are doing to satisfy customers working.If there were real companies and real case studies, that would be one thing, but there is no indication that any of this is real, and you have to face reality - people shop on price. Competition can kill your wonderful customer service organization if you are too expensive. Yet nowhere in the book is a whiff of the creativity needed to find things that create great customer service at a low cost.Well it is a breezy read, which would probably have fit in about 60 pages had the layout not been as childish as the presentation. There is probably some good advice in here, but the presentation is so bad, that I am almost unwilling to credit that it can be done.
5 As a ministry leader of a growing team of 50+ volunteers--a team that works with 250+ kids each week--I have found Raving Fans to be an Awesome, applicable, and transformative tool. If brevity is the soul of wit, then this book, with its broad but simple principles, contains the soul of adaptability and the spirit of the possible.In a world where bad customer service sometimes seems the acceptable baseline, and where bureaucratic short-sightedness, pessimism, and sloth hold sway, Mr. Blanchard is a prophet of hope.In this brief book, Mr. Blanchard gives us three principles--tools for remaking the every day into the extraordinary. Underlying these tools is one great truth: people matter.Just read the other reviews. Those let down or skeptical about this book all seem to have missed or simply denied this foundational point.So--you are forewarned. Raving Fans is a deeply humanistic book. If you are looking for a quick fix or a new gimmick, best look elsewhere.If you are looking for a new outlook that can serve as a lasting and solid foundation in dealing with customers of all kinds (be they paying customers--or people you serve in some other way) then let me suggest that this is the book for you.As a ministry leader I have found this book invaluable for 4 reasons:1. The people focus I mentioned above. All too often we (everybody--you, me, the president...) get caught in webs of our own systems and plans. All customer relations boil down to serving people. This book's laser-like focus in this regard is cleansing and clarifying.2. To get to where we want to be in our service of others, we must first dream big. Another author calls this "Visioneering." Too many of us have dreamt small. I love that this book would have us first paint the perfect picture of what we want. Let me tell you from experience: there is no better way to do this than to first imagine what whatever you're doing would look like if money and resources were not an issue. You are selling yourself, and all those you will ever work with, short if you do any less.3. This book talks at some length about how to listen to people--their words, as well as their "music". Again, if you are not willing to make people your focus (trust me--it is not easy--but everything else cannot fall in line until you do) this part of the book will sound like nonsense to you. And you will continue to fail. After all, let's be honest: a lot of us come to books like these because we know something is missing--or better yet, someone else knows/sees something is missing and has given us a copy of the book.4. I love how Raving Fans deals with continual improvement--or as we call it where I serve: striving for ever-greater excellence. I won't ruin this point by giving it away. It alone is worth the cost of the book.And I hope Ken Blanchard keeps writing and selling a lot of books. He has helped me, and as an extension, those I lead and serve, immensely.For that I say "thank you."I give this book a heartfelt, and raving, recommendation.
4 Raving Fans is helpful in making you step back and think about your customer's wants and how to best address them.  Told in the form of a novel, an "area manager" is visited by his fairy god-mother "Charlie" who proceeds to provide him with examples of "Raving Fan" service.  This is then applied to his own job and the unique challenges the area manager faces daily with providing customer service.Though not all the ideas in "Raving Fans" seem plausible or reasonable, it atleast draws the reader into asking the questions that all good managers should ask.  What would Raving Fan service be in my business or organization? How would I know when we are providing "raving fan" service?Not a heaveyweight book on management, it is never the less a good means of stepping back and asking the big questions about customer service.  Not a bad book to give to managers to read and evaluate their own organization.
4 Below are key excerpts from the book, outlining the principles of developing "Raving Fans - The Ultimate in Customer Service":1) "The first magic secret is Decide What You Want...When you decide what you want you must - create a vision of perfection centered on the customer."2) "...Discover the customers' vision of what they really want and then alter your vision if need be."3) "...There are really three (traps of customer listening)...I've already told you about the first one: customers saying one thing and meaning another. That leaves two: 'Fine' and silence...past experience has taught us people don't care - or they don't want to make a fuss - so why bother? Customers assume no one really wants to know what they think."4) "The immediate (customer) vision may be narrow, but customers care about everything...It's just that most of them haven't thought through their whole relationship with you, only some specific areas. Because customers are often so focused on a specific priority, it's easy to match up what they want with what area of your vision. But first you have to discover what they really want."5) "The third secret was, and really still is, Deliver the Vision Plus One Percent...The secret says two things. First, it tell you to deliver. Not sometimes, not most times. But all the time. No exceptions contemplated or allowed. Second, it talks about 'plus one percent.'"6) "To start with, limit the number of areas where you want to make a difference. First, it allows you to be consistent. Second, you'll be much further ahead doing a bang-up job on one thing rather than introducing a whole string of customer service goals all at once. You'll never bring it off. It just can't be done that way."7) "Regardless of what you promise, though, it's consistency that's important...The worst thing you can do is meet expectations one time, fall short another, and exceed every now and then. I guarantee you'll drive your customers nuts and into the hands of the competition first change they get."
5 Read the book.  Absorb it and use the ideas - You will move forward in your work.  It will change the way you view your workplace.  It will change the way you do business.  It will change your expectations.  This one is NOT a keeper.  It is to share.  If the world worked this way more often... we'd all be happier.
2 This book has a rather flimsy message.  Simply stated it is that you can smash your competition and achieve exceptional success in sales by adhering to a deceptively simple formula: Know what you want; know what the customer wants, deliver beyond the client's expectation, and never stop enhancing your service.  The message is delivered in a writing style known as "mystical realism" in the fiction world, and which doesn't work quite as well in the non-fiction world.  There is some real magic here, though, and it's on the cover of the book, "More than One Million copies sold."  This probably relates to the fact that the target audience is, in fact, probably not all that literate, that it reduces an MBA in Marketing to a 75 minute read, that the print is large, and of course the whimsical and all too frequent references to the game of golf.  The fact is that salesfolk periodically need to have their batteries recharged, and this book is a quick-charge.  It gives the reader the feeling that he has learned something new, and that the business world is really much less complex than appearances would suggest.  I read it as mandatory preparation for a Xinnix seminar, and if they thought this book had exceptional value, I'm worried about how simplistic their seminar might be.
5 Ken Blanchard's books were recommended to me by a former employer.  Because my position included customer service, I purchased RAVING FANS. The book takes a lighthearted look at the serious subject of customer service.  It's easy to follow and contains valuable advice.  It was good enough to be recommeneded to a co-worker, who has since gone into business for herself. While reading, I realized what wonderful service I receive from waitresses, my hairdresser, and my mechanic.  These people could have read this book from cover to cover.  I think that readers will be pleasantly surprised to recognize people in their everyday life who have made their customers into Raving Fans. Unfortunately, the employer who recommended Blanchard to me was not interested in reading the book.  He didn't like my implementing Blanchard's suggestions -- despite clients calling and, indeed, RAVING, that the lessons I learned were increasing business.  I ultimately left the job, and hope to be able to use he advice in the future.
4 I enjoyed it immensely. A good bit of take-aways that rang true with inklings I've had for some time now. I appreciate the format / content as it seems to practice what they preach - it was quite enjoyable to read. I mean, it felt so easy to glide through the pages with so much welcome white-space, dynamite content, and useful wisdom.
3 Like other Blanchard books, this one presents its ideas in the form of a "novel."  I guess because I read so much fiction (by authors who can WRITE), I have a hard time getting through these books.  There are lots of lazy habits in the story-telling and even though RAVING FANS is incredibly short, it still feels like a slog getting through it.  One example:  one just one short page, two different characters have lines of dialogue, followed by "he laughed."  As in, "'I never thought of that,' he laughed."  Not many people laugh their words.  They may say something and THEN laugh.  Once or twice in a book it's okay, but twice on ONE PAGE!!  The main character who is learning about the "raving fan" concept is "the area manager."  It gets really annoying having him refered to in this manner from front to back.  Would it really have hurt to give him a name?  The darn "fairy godmother" has a name, after all.But, the book is supposed to present business ideas, right?  Well, it does this a little better than it tells a compelling story.  The over-arching point is that "satisfied customers" aren't good enough anymore, because they are largely putting up with lousy service, but have simply come to expect and accept it.  That's actually a simple but powerful idea.  How many times do we all just take mediocrity as status quo?  The idea that actually taking the trouble to please our customers...to SHOCK them into recognized they are being treated remarkably well and will in turn "rave" about this to others is compelling in its simplicity.Because of the storytelling device of the book, some of the examples given of how to apply this are oversimplistic and not completely believable.  Valet parking at a grocery store?  I'm sure people WOULD rave about it...but with the margins at grocery stores, could they really afford a team of parkers?So, from a business standpoint, the book gets a thumbs-up.  From a readability standpoint, I have to give a thumbs down.
5 Ken Blanchard is a master at teaching a concept in a fun way. This parable stresses the importance of uncompromised customer service. When customers are treated exceptionally well not only will they return, but they will bring their friends. Price is no longer a factor when deciding to buy. This book gets you thinking about how you can improve your business.Push Button Investing in Real EstateRon Draluck, author of Push Button Investing in Real Estate
4 Keep It Simple Stupid...and Ken Blanchard does just that!  What a cold bucket of ice water this tome must be for business owners and employees everywhere.  As Ken points out, service is so bad everywhere, you just have  to do a few little things well to stand out and succeed.  Listen to the  audiobook and find out how to make a few small adjustments in your customer  paradigm and see the huge results follow.  Tho only drawback to the  audiobook was one of the actor's voices...the Fairy Godmother nearly drove  me up a wall.
4 Satisfied customers just aren't good enough, we need Raving Fans. Developing raving fans is the premise of another parable written by Ken Blanchard and Sheldon Bowles. Customer service can make or break a business and this book provides you with the three secrets to developing "raving fans."Ken Blanchard has coauthored a series of business-building parables that are short, easy to read and filled with ways to improve your business skills. Raving Fans; A Revolutionary Approach to Customer Service takes a newly promoted Area Manager through a series of business-building aha's that show him how to revolutionize his company's customer service policy and develop raving fans.At the beginning of the book, the Area Manager realizes that we, as consumers, have come to expect and accept poor customer service. Our Area Manager is given a golf loving Fairy Godmother named Charlie who shares three secrets for developing extraordinary customer service.Fairy Godmother Charlie explains the premise of the book this way, "Your customers are only satisfied because their expectations are so low and because no one else is doing better. Just having satisfied customers isn't good enough anymore. If you really want a booming business, you have to create Raving Fans."Here's what the Area Manager learned:1. Decide what you want. Great customer service begins with the vision your business holds of how customers should be treated. What is the "ideal experience" you'd like customers to have every time they deal with you and your company? If you closed your eyes and visualized an ideal customer experience, what would it look like?2. Discover what your customer really wants. Now that you have your ideal customer service experience designed in your mind, it is time to figure out what your customer wants. You do this by asking, and listening to what is and isn't being said by your customers.3. Deliver the vision plus one percent. Give your customer more than they expect. Know what customers want and then exceed their expectations. Have them raving about their buying and service experiences.Building a customer service policy around these three secrets will develop Raving Fans.To truly appreciate this book, you have to enjoy reading parables. You also have to allow yourself to enjoy the entertainment factor of Raving Fans. This isn't a textbook or serious how-to business book, this is an entertaining book with a business-building message.The overall customer service message is a good one: Our customers deserve exceptional customer service because satisfied customers just aren't good enough if we want to stay in business. It's practical message and one that should be taken seriously. Our current and future customers have choices and the question becomes, why should they choose to do business with you?I recommend Raving Fans by Ken Blanchard as an easy read about how to develop exceptional customer service. The only caveat would be that you have to appreciate a far-fetched story line written as a parable.
2 The information I learned from listening to this book on tape was somewhat usefull. My biggest complaint revolves around the presentation of the material. The juvenile voice &quot;acting&quot; bordered on being insulting. I very much regret this purchase.
4 This is not just another Blanchard book delivering another important business message via a parable, this time on the secrets to customer service. The secrets are concisely delivered with three memorable points. Decide what you want. Discover what your customer wants. Deliver more than they need. A simple approach that is harder to execute than it is to read about. Well worth the short time it takes to read about it. Remember that the hard work is in the execution. There is no quick fix to develop and sustain raving fans. But neither is the task impossible. Go for it. Good luck!
2 The three "secrets" for creating Raving Fans that this book discusses are very basic principles. Of course, in today's society, customer service has been flushed down the drain and I know many companies who need to have these basic principles shoved down their throat. However, the storyline in this book completely takes away from these principles. I understand the authors were attempting to make it more interesting, and I could even deal with the "Fairy Godmother" part of the story, but the companies used to illustrate "raving fan service" are completely illogical, and I feel that this really took away from the basic customer service principles that the book conveys.
5 This book offers the best approach to customer service I have ever heard of. It is easy and fun to read.
2 This story is so dumbed down. Made me feel the author has tiny respect for our abilities to think for ourself. The basic idea behind the book is sound, but you don't need to read it. Go above and beyond for your customers and you'll always have fans.
1 I read the reviews and had to agree with a number of the comments such as "being intellectually molested" "waste of time", etc.  This book (I have a hard time calling it that) is like a high school term paper where you were asked to turn in X pages.  The margins are so wide that this could have been printed at 3"x4" to fill a page rather than 6x9.  Even if it included some useful facts, it wouldn't be worth $20.  Then you read it and realize its nothing but a bunch of filler positioned as a line extension book from a well known author who has tarnished his "brand equity" with this poor excuse of a book.  Very sad.  I am a consumer advocate and have been in the business for 30+ years having read and written books on the subject.  At least with books like The Ultimate Question, there is something pragmatic an organization can use.
2 This book was a gigantic disappointment.  The whole "male fairy godmother" thing just insulted my intelligence from the beginning.  What could have been an insightful book about real customer service impacts really "lost it on the dismount."  The examples of customer strategy seemed forced and stretched beyond plausibility.  The key character did not really seem to wrestle or grapple with many of the concepts.  A business fable should inspire action, and this book simply did nothing.  It wasn't a bad "read" per se.  There were some entertaining facets, but it you are really looking to wow your customers and turn your business around, this is not the book for you.  No matter how time-constrained you might be for a read on the topic, this will not be a good investment.
5 I used this book for a book study with my professional services engineering team, and it's truly changed the way we're doing business...raising the bar for our service quality. It's a very easy read and has been extremely helpful.
2 This thin book contains a few good ideas couched in an unnecessary attempt at a narrative structure that just makes the entire package feel amateurish and casts a negative light on the pieces of good advice contained within. What advice is here that isn't brutally obvious is pretty good, but the cloying 'story' format makes it just not worth the price of entry.
5 Quick read filled with great ideas about creating a plan to engage your customers and gain their long term loyalty.
5 My comment will be short but relates to a real storie :In 93, I shared a student flat with a french and a lebanese student in Manhattan. I am myself both French and Israeli. None of us were particularly dovish or  extremist. The french student asked us about the best book to read about  the arab israeli conflict and we both answered mr. Friedman book. I don't  know about any other book that could possibly gather so differents views of  the worldSince then, many things have changed but I would still get the  same answer. My guess is that my flatmate would agree with it !
5 First a bit of disclosure: My mother was Jewish and my father was a South Asian Muslim. I was raised as a non-observant reformed Jew and believe that both Israel and Palestine should exist as countries. Don't know if that makes me unbiased or not.To segue into the review, Friedman is definitely not unbiased. However, his main bias (at the time of writing, rather than now) is not pro-Israeli or pro-Palestinian. It is pro a certain view of Israel. He believes that Israel should be a liberal, but religious state. This colors all of his statements about internal Israeli politics and makes his quotations from various politicians and citizens less reliable than you would expect.On the other hand, the picture he paints of Lebanon is one of the most engaging and interesting sections of a recent history book I have ever read. Friedman has the unique ability to give the facts like a reporter, but tell the story like a fiction author.His nuanced view of the Palestinians is quite interesting too. His view that the Israelis tried to coopt the Palestinians and that it almost work but the Palestinians finally demanded a "divorce" is quite original. His view that Palestinians do well in world opinion when they attack Israeli soldiers but not when they attack Israeli citizens is also quite perceptive.I would definitely recommend this book as a starter for those interested in the Middle East, even though it is over a decade old.
1 (big thanks to President Clinton for giving me that self-loathing line.  Of course, he used it for an individual/enemy who is trying to stop the Hillary for Socialism Presidential campaign).Congratulations to Mr. Friedman for writing a beautifully illustrative guide to why he hates Israel and why I hate the MSM (except Wash. Times, instead rely on Little Green Footballs, Powerline, and Michelle Malkin's blogs).  He must, because he joins Robert Fisk (of Pity the Nation) and Reuters in writing terrorist as "terrorist" and Reuters which prefers "militants" to describe the head choppers of Iraq.  He attacks Israel at every turn in the story.As for self-loathing, no self-conscious Jew could write such a book filled with slanderous comments about Israeli leaders and the country itself if he didn't have some issues with Jewry.  He essentially makes the point that the very founding of Israel is a deception or lie, victimology he seems to imply.Meanwhile, Mr. Friedman performs an seemingly endless Freud-like psychological evaluation for all the parties in the story, but he saves his big guns for Menachim Begin and Ariel Sharon, with their supporters, i.e. voters as collateral damage.It amazes me that journalists like this still have credibility with anyone.  Of course, he does work for the New York Times, so they allow his anti-Israel anti-American vitriol.To his credit, Friedman acknowledges that Arafat was (is at the time) a murderer who did NOTHING for his "people" while the world facilitated his corruption (thanks UN/EU/and President Clinton).
5 Throughout my reading of this fantastic piece, I had encountered many internal arguments within my mind. I was being torn apart. On one hand, I was shocked at how little I knew about the Middle East, and I read this book enthusiastically, my mind hungry for more information which I was subconsciously certain this book contained. On the other hand, I felt an almost hopeless dilemma surfacing in my thoughts. Although packed with information about the Middle East, From Beirut to Jerusalem would be one of the many books I would have to read to become even remotely close to an expert in this field. So while I devoured the information the book contained within its pages, the inevitable thought loomed in my mind that I would only have an extremely superficial knowledge of the Middle East at the conclusion Thomas Friedman's work. Nevertheless, this New York Times correspondent wrote an excellent depiction of two of the world's most influential cities; Beirut, and Jerusalem. Although the novel may not provide all the information there is about these two cities (such a novel would contain hundreds of thousands of pages I am sure), Friedman's work had an incredible efficiency to it. I will not give anything away about this work for I believe any summary not written by the hand of the author will certainly lack an important aspect which the overall story requires.
5 Mr. Friedman proves once again that he has the right vocation in life as a reporter and author. His ability to describe the streets of Beirut and Jerusalem, the fighting, the horror, the daily life of the residents, the religious faction clashes is remarkable. Though the time I spent in Beirut and Jerusalem was years ago, Mr. Friedman's book makes it seem like yesterday.His insight in his book to the many religious factions in Lebanon and Israel, which thrive through out the Middle East, should be read by those wanting to know why the war in Iraq has taken many lives and lasted this long. Mr. Freidman explains the complex structure of the Middle East as only a first-rate novelist can. The book should be a required read for any soldier, peace keeper, negotiator sent to the region. The book details why religious conviction in the Middle East is stronger than any known in the West and why the peace process is and will be a difficult one.
5 This is an extremely well written book about the Middle East conflict. The book is divided into two main sections, Beirut, and Jerusalem.The  Beirut section is about the Lebanese civil war -- Friedman discusses  everything from the history of the war, to the different factions of  Lebanese society, to why and how the U.S. became involved. His analyses are  generally on-target, and his personal stories about living in Beirut as a  correspondent during the war make the section especially engaging.The  Jerusalem section begins with a couple of chapters about Jewish culture and  the origins of Israel; then goes with great depth into the history and  analysis of the Palestinian - Israeli conflict.Reading this book sparked  in me an interest in the affairs of the Middle East. It also gave me the  background necessary to delve further into the topic and understand the  history behind the current headlines on the regionHighly reccomended
4 I had previously read Friedman's &quot;The Lexus and the Olive Tree&quot; and was basically disappointed with that book.  &quot;From Beirut to Jerusalem&quot;, his first and more widely acclaimed, is much better.  I am on the opposite end of the spectrum as Friedman, politically, so I was not expecting to agree with him on every view and suggestion for solution that he describes in this book, but his writing was entertaining, his stories amazing, and his opinions very fair to both sides.The book begins with Friedman's description of life in the middle of the Lebanese civil war.  Friedman lived in the heart of Beirut when it was the worst place anyone could be at the time.  His firsthand stories of bombings, murders, and simple terrorism, range from unimaginably scary to darkly humorous.  Eventually Friedman and his wife move from Beirut to Jerusalem, where the second half of the book begins.  This second part is much more applicable to today's news and debates since it is from an area in the middle of daily battles, whereas Lebanon's civil war has died down.Friedman, although Jewish, has many misgivings about Israeli actions in their conflicts of the past several decades.  But unlike most of his workmates and friends at the New York Times, Friedman is also not afraid to tell the whole truth when detailing Arab atrocities.  Friedman's account of Hafez al-Asad's massacre of his own people in the town of Hama, Syria, is one that should be read by every Westerner -- especially those on the left who think the Jews, aided by America, simply &quot;stole&quot; a small plot of Arab land from an otherwise friendly group of people.This book won many awards and is very unique in that it is a wide-ranging report from the world's greatest newspaper's leading foreign affairs writer.  Many may dislike Friedman for his controversial views, (i.e. saying the famous Elian/machine gun picture brought joy to his heart), but in &quot;From Beirut to Jerusalem&quot;, he is very honest and comes as close to playing the middle ground as is possible in a dispute that seems to have no middle, and will likely never end.
5 I thought I knew a ton about Israel and Palestine prior to reading this--I realized there was so much more to learn.Nobody knows that subject better than Thomas Friedman, and nobody writes about it more succinctly.  His years in Lebanon allow him to describe the absolute insanity of that place, and why we would ultimately fail there as a peacekeeping force.When he gets to Israel, though, Friedman plunges far beneath the usual Israel/Palestine rhetoric and grievances for both sides and shows what is really driving both peoples.  It's not necessarily what you think.  Point is, you'll know after reading this, and you'll look at Israel and Palestine differently from that point forward.Friedman also details in very convincing fashion what has to happen--really--for there ever to be a peace between Israel/Palestine.Hate to use the cliche, but if you read one book about the Middle East, I'd go with this one (of course there's plenty of others to recommend).  Particularly if you're interested in Israel/Palestine.
5 If you only want to read one book on the Middle East, this is it.  Despite all the press devoted to this area, the media does not offer context.  This book does.  It's an incredibly fast read and will open your eyes.  Visit Apellicon's book recommendation site to read more reviews and see more book lists by category.
4 I started reading this book not specifically because I got interested in the middle-east.  I took it as a first book of Thomas Friedman.  I took it as an award winning book (not that I read all award winning book though).  And, I took it since I saw such good reviews around.Having said that, I must say it's worth reading this book for several reasons.  First of all, it's about the style using which everything is presented.  From a jounralist, as expected, the entire landscape is painted like a presentist.  No self imposed opinions, or suggestions.  Excellent story telling.Secondly, the solid coverage on the subject.  If you need to read one book on middle east, perhaps this is The Book.  I cannot say this must be The Book since I have not read any other book on middle east.  But certainly, this could be the first book to read on this subject.  At times, it appears to be a bit lengthy to substantiate any point, but that does not derrogate the quality of coverage.Thirdly, associating the history and culture with current affairs are superb.  Think of the chapter "Hama Rules".  Excellent link up of Assad's mindset with the Bedowin lives.Lastly, bringing up the views from all possible organizations, sects, religions, nationals.  It's something like getting more than a ring-side view from multiple rings (you never know who is fighting with whom at what point of time).  You understand how Israelis are divided, what each of them did think, how Beiruties are divided, what each of them did think, how PLOs did run, and so on.  Seems like an unlimited combination of wrings and knots in a web, where you keep on unfurling each of them, one by one, and keep doing it.
5 I read this book when it first came out, and it seems even more relevant the second time around. I'm getting a much better picture of the causes and frustrations of what's happening in the Middle East, and, as a consequence, in the world at large. Friedman is balanced in his approach, he doesn't have a major axe to grind, he tries, and usually succeeds, to give the observer's perspective, and I, for one, appreciate the objective approach. The books written by New York Times reporters about the areas they know best are truly top of the line, and Friedman's are right up there at least tied for first place. I hope he doesn't stop writing, because as he gets older and even more experienced, he'll have deeper and truer insights to share. The writing is delightful, anecdotal and engaging, truly a joy to read, a can't-put-it-down-till-the-end kind of book.
4 I am about half way through this book, published in 1989. It is a little out of date, so I will need to read Friedman's supplement that updates the book through 1995. It is fascinating. I've never really understood Middle East politics and now am gaining a better understanding of the difficulties and complexities of both sides. I also especially like the fact that Friedman has written a book on this subject that is relatively easy to read--not filled with a lot of intellectual philosophizing.
5 This book recounts major observations and informative insights on the Israel-Palestinian conflict by Thomas Friedman, a New York Times journalist who has lived through the terror in the region for many years.  Friedman assumes that the reader has no knowledge of the conflict and takes time to give the reader ample background on the geography, politics, history, etc. of the troubled region.In the first half of the book, Friedman discusses Lebanon and Beirut while the second half moves to Israel and Jerusalem.  Friedman focuses extensively on the leaders of the region over the years (i.e. Arafat, Sharon, Rabin, etc.) and how their personalities have molded the conflict.  As a gifted storyteller would, Friedman discusses the Palestinian society and how events lead to the emergence and explosion of the Palestinian intifada.  Also, intricately intertwined into this conflict are the Arab world and the United States.  Friedman also explores these relationships and their impact on the conflict.  Here, he sheds some light on the dictatorial characters of the region, including Saddam Hussein, by briefly explaining how these men came to power and are able to maintain it.The book essentially ends in 1989 or 1990.  It would be interesting to read Friedman's thoughts on the region in the next decade-plus since the book was written.  Regardless, this book should be a mandatory read for individuals who want to either begin to or further understand the situation in the Middle East.
5 This book was a gift from my father in 1990.  It has sat on my shelf for 11 years and after Sept 11th, I felt I needed to a deeper understanding of the middle east.Written in the mid to late eighties it is more than a commentary on his witness to the Isreali occupation of Lebenon.  This book is a prophecy to the events unfolding in the middle east and how they are impacting the rest of the globe.Great book which will have tremendous historical importance in the future.
4 Reading this book gave me a much better understanding of the history and current struggles of life in this part of the world. From a culture so different from our western way of life, it was extremely helpful to have it interpreted through the eyes of an american immersed in the confusion and chaos of life in this region of the world.  This book is a great introduction into understanding how and why things happen the way they do for many people in the middle east.
5 Thomas Friedman spent the decade of the 1980s in the Middle East (hence the title of the book) as a foreign correspondent for the New York Times.  That he was able to survive as a Jew living in Lebanon during the height of the mid-80s kidnapping craze there is remarkable in and of itself.  "From Beruit to Jerusalem" is Friedman's account of his time in both capitals, one for which he justifiably won the Pulitzer prize.  Despite that somewhat limiting title, Friedman's focus is on the entire region as the key flashpoint in the modern world.What makes the book so compelling is the way the Friedman uses history to paint the backdrop for his story.  He goes beyond a mere reporting of the facts and scratches behind the surface to the underlying reasons for the Middle East's many conflicts.  Friedman's reportage on Syrian president Assad's massacre of his own people in the city of Hama, for example, is used to explain how power politics reigns supreme among the unelected rulers of the Arab world, to the continuing detriment of their people.  On the flip side, Friedman is openly critical of Israel, particularly for the 1982 invasion of Lebanon and how the country responded to the first Palestinian uprising in the late 1980s.  Friedman's even handedness makes his work that much more valuable.Though his observations are now more than a decade old, there are plenty of lessons here that remain valid today.  Though Lebanon has for the most part settled down since then, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is more dangerous than ever, especially in the wake of increased terrorist activity after September 11th.Overall, a first rate work of journalism and history that is one the most important books released on the Middle East in the past twenty years.
4 Those of you who follow and followed the events in the Middle East, Persian Gulf and the Gulf War, but seek a broader explanation of the sources of antagonism and conflict in the ARab world, would be enlightened and entertained by FRiedman's book. A Pulitzer prize winning correspondent for the New York Times, he spent ten years in Beirut and Jerusalem reporting first handthe violence, suspicion and hatred that is part of life in that region. The standing norm in the Middle East, according to Friedman is what he calls &quot;Hama Rules&quot; the pitiless and remorseless pursuit of political and economic ends through bloodshed. This attitude is rampant in all of its regimes, including Israel. Its source is the tribal politics and and deep rooted political tradition of authoritarianism, as well s the centuries of colonialism and subjugation that the region's peoples have endured. With a reporters eye for detail, Friedman analyzes many of the decisions that are familiar to us: the Reagan decision to send marines to Lebanon, The Palestenian uprising in Israel, the history of the PLO and the Arab-Israeli conflict are all analyzed in detail. Friedman is careful to point outthat the region's conflicts are not merely between Arab and Jew, but between Muslims and Christians, between Arabs, between different Muslim sects and different nation-states. In fact, Friedman finds the region's complexities beyond the comprehension of most American diplomats (no surprise!).  This lack of understanding has resulted in numerous foreign policy blunders by the U.S. The first version of the book was written prior to the Gulf War, but its observations are still relevant, though you can now get a new edition. Hussein's regime is discussed at length and characterized as merely the latest version of &quot;Hama Rules.&quot; Despite possible bias as a result of his Jewish heritage, Friedmans reporting is critical of both the Israeli's brutal treatment of the palestenians and of the PLO's disregard for the lives of its own people. My one criticism of the book is that Friedman has an idealized view of the nature of a Jewish state. This is to his credit, but as a result he often holds the Israeli's to a higher moral standard in their behavior than he does the other nations and groups, especially the PLO. But for those of us who believe in the power of reason to settle disputes and are infected with American optimism and values, the book is a grim reminder that there are places in the world that operate very differently from what we understand. He explains many of these differences in the book, often thru his deft personal touch and numerous firsthand experiences. Highly recommended!
5 Friedman not only 'gets' the Middle East, but also has the ability to express his understanding of it to the reader. This book was my first foray into the Middle East, other than a few brief surveys of the region in relationship to WWII. Since reading it, I have also read several other books about the Middle East. However, I continue to come back to the passages that I underlined and the notes that I wrote while reading this book.Friedman does more than merely describe historical events. He invites the reader (both the well-versed and the not-so-well-versed in Middle Eastern history) to increase his depth of understanding with his thoughtful use of examples and illustrations.One of the most compelling aspects of Friedman's writing, in my opinion, is that he is passionate about his work. He writes with energy and enthusiasm. If you would like to broaden your understanding of the world in which we live, then I highly recommend this book.
4 This book recounts the author's tour of duty as a journalist in Beirut and Jerusalem.  Born a Jew in Minnesota, Freidler writes from an unbiased point-of-view.  He balances respect and sympathy for the Palestinians with criticism of Israeli policy.  The book is divided into three main parts: Beirut, Jerusalem, and Washington DC - where he waxes nostalgia about all he has seen and offers some excellent commentary.The first part traces the beginnings of the Palestinian movement and parallels some of the other Mid-East conflicts that would forge the PLO of today.  We see America's innocence/ignorance of the local politics that cumulates into the killing of the 200+ Marines on a peacekeeping mission.The second part juxtaposes the creation of the Jewish state against their Arab neighbors.  While struggling to be a unique nation, they fall into the trip falls of the region.  The author demonstrates that if you want to live in this neighborhood, you play by the "Hamas rules."The second to last chapter is where the book really takes off.  The author presents his solutions for peace (written in 1989) in the region.  The last chapter (added in 1994) comments on the truce reached under the Clinton Administration.  TheThough written before the recent assassinations and the current political upheaval, the book is a chilling look at what started this mess and what would derail any attempts at peace.  A bit long-winded at times, the book is well written.  From his own apartment building blowing up to rocks through his windshield, we see the daily struggle Jew and Arab faces.  I recommend this book for anyone looking to better understand this war that rages in our daily headlines.
4 I only recently read Tom Friedman's book. It must be remembered that the last chapter (update) was written in 1994.  Unfortunately, so much has occurred between 1994 and the present in terms of the Mideast conflict that Friedman's book is dated.  Since the writing of this volume we have seen the assassination of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzak Rabin, the breakdown of peace talks between the Israelis and Palestinians when PLO Chairman Arafat declined Prime Minister Barak's offer of most of the occupied territories in return for an end to the conflict, and the election of hawkish Ariel Sharon as the newest Israeli Prime Minister.Despite the fact it is dated, Friedman has written a wonderful and useful book.  His chapters on life in Lebanon during the Lebanese Civil War is both horrifying and surrealistic.  Friedman was finally able to explain to me why our marines in Lebanon became a target for bombs in the early 1980's that killed 240 of them.  The answer is that we made the mistake of siding with Christian forces against Islamic militias when we would should have remained neutral.Friedman explains the strange position of Syria in the conflict.  Syria desires peace, but does not want to make a formal treaty with Israeli that would recognize the legitimacy of the Jewish state.  Friedman recounts little known acts of brutality by the Syrian dictator Assad (now deceased).  When certain elements in the country opposed his regime, Assad sent tanks into a city called Hama and utterly destroyed it killing over 10,000 people.Friedman explains that many Arab states are simply the result of arbitrary lines drawn in the desert by the British and French at the end of World War I.  Such artificial boundaries impeded the formation of real countries and split up tribes and families in the process.  As a result, many of these countries are not cohesive societies.Friedman is pessimistic about peace in the Middleast and after viewing the events of the last year or two this seems strangely prophetic.  He does say, though, that the chance exists and that USA can help move the process forward through a combination of diplomacy, behind the scenes pressure, and a willingness to bargain.Its a terrific book.  Its well written and achieves the difficult task of holding the attention of people while simultaneously explaining the complicated dynamics of the Middleast conflict.
4 It's tough to be ambivalent about the Middle East. And Thomas Friedman, for all his best efforts, manages to rankle plenty of nerves with his 1989 book (updated in 1995) covering the conflicts in Lebanon and Israel."From Beirut to Jerusalem" is Friedman's part-analysis, part-memoir from his nearly 10 years as the New York Times correspondent stationed in these two cities. The book is a lucid account of the background and status quo in the Middle East through 1994. At 571 pages, it's hardly a quick read. But those who feel that they should know more about the situation in the Middle East could do worse than plunging into this book, and sticking with it to the end.Readers with strong opinions about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict may find their blood boiling while reading Friedman's work. The author is loath to take sides between the Israelis and Palestinians. He asserts that neither side can claim the higher moral ground in the cycle of violence and control in this region. Nor does Friedman throw bouquets at Israel's neighbors, the US government, nor the Arab world. The conflict is a morass with no easy solution, and Friedman shows only reluctant signs of optimism in the book's final chapter.The Israeli partial withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and the West Bank has put this book back on the radar screen. Friedman's reputation ensures that people with questions about the conflicts in the Middle East will turn to him for answers. "From Beirut to Jerusalem" educates, but don't expect to find any easy answers inside.
4 This book was recommended to me by a Friend, after 9/11, to help me understand the "thinking" in that area.  Since then I have done a great deal of research but this was my "starter" book.  I found it to be excellent in giving the true complexity of what has been and is now going on in that areaI recommend this book to anyone who wants a history lesson on the Civil War of the 80's in Lebanon and then, compare what happened then to what is happening now.I find it fascinating to hear what the perceived solutions to the problems at the time were, what was done, and what has happened since.
5 Excellent view of the Middle East from a man who lived in both Beruit during the Civil war of the 80's and later in Jerusalem.Friedman punctuates his description of Beirut as the once Switzerland of the Middle East with personal descriptions of events that unfolded before his own eyes. Friedman gives a living testimony of the destruction of a once tolerant City that in spite of multiple religious groups and tribal factions thrived on its diversity only to be shattered by Civil war between Christians, Moslems, Druse and at times the Palestinians. Friedman gives a great history of the region including the incredulous brutality of regimes virtually typical in the Arab world and not only intolerant of religious differences but intolerant based on tribal association. The name of the game is not just revenge but brutal revenge to stop future acts. Sad to think of the cultural opportunities that a peaceful Beirut offered and besides its destruction the pulling of The US Marines into the conflict inadvertently aiding one side only to be attacked by the others. Friedman also discusses Israel and the great dilema caused by the intoxicating success of the 67 war and capture of the Sinai and the West Bank. The great success took Israel from security within to hosts in land occupied by Arabs who may have been better off that in other Arab countries but disadvantaged compared to the rights of the Israeli occupiers. Friedman discusses how the occupation was like festering sore to the Palestinian people causing virtual loss of self-esteem that erupted in violence like spontaneous combustion. Friedman tackles the political conflicts between the Israeli parties and among the various religious groups. Additional conflicts are between secular and non-secular Jews and extreme orthodox and conservative Jews. Additional conflicts are the American Jew's perception of Israel versus the Israeli's view of what is right Israel but also differences in who qualifies as Jew in reference to the extreme conservatives in Israel. Also fascinating chronicle of Yassar Arafat's constant rise and fall whom in spite of failures and differences and lost opportunities survives as the face of the Palestinians. He is their billboard good or bad. This is a large but very readable,  reflective book.
5 Friedman has succeeded in writing a timeless book on a timeless subject, and he covers the world of the middle east with amazing passion, clarity, and a writing style that has deservedly brought him a world-wide reputation as a journalist of the highest caliber.In a nutshell, the book deals with the ten years Friedman spent living in the middle east (five in Lebanon, five in Israel), and shines a glaring spotlight on the abundant good, bad, and ugly that is to be found there.Even-handed and exceptionally readable from page one till the end.
5 Friedman wraps up his book by talking about four dead men and what they must do if peace is to come to the troubled slice of land still fought over by Israelis and Palestinians.  Yitzhak Rabin, Yasir Arafat, Hafez Assad, and Jordan's King Hussein were very much alive a decade ago when Friedman wrote an appendix to this still-riveting work, though the shadow of Rabin's assasin was almost upon him.  This casts an eery veneer over Friedman's sensible thoughts on shifting power and the need for all partners to 'buy a ticket' if peace has any hope of overcoming the region's deeply etched pessimisms, even if one now needs to shift the burden of choice to the successors of these four men, only three of whom had the good fortune to die in their own beds.Friedman is ubiquitous these days on television news, bookstore shelves, and award ceremonies.  With good reason.No one is better at spotting patterns in the apparent chaos of modern events, and then distilling them into understandable images.  The Lexus and the Olive Tree, Longitudes and Attitudes, The World is Flat and his New York Times and syndicated columns have filled Friedman's shelf with Pulitzers and placed his voice on the 'must read' list of anyone who believes our times can and must be understood.  Yet From Beirut to Jerusalem is perhaps his finest, unwavering look at a concrete crisis, undergirded as it is by years of reporting in the small space that locks these two capitals in the grip of a land where memories endure too long.Autobiography, as much as the places he describes, make Friedman's study the success that it is.  An American Jewish journalist with Oxford training in Modern Middle Eastern Studies and a pragmatic fearlessness about going where the story lies, the author's common touch serves him well.  He appears equally at ease with his Beirut glass seller as with Arafat, Shamir, and Rabin, though he does not conceal his disdain for the late PLO Chairman's effete revolutionary pose.  Though Friedman is remarkably personal about his subject throughout-yet without giving up his journalist's distance-his final chapters are an almost passionate plea for sanity by a man who has lost friends and seen too much in nearly a decade's posting to the Middle East, just as the citizens of the region have themselves.Friedman is convinced that Beirut and Jerusalem, different as they appear, suffer under Middle Eastern tribalisms that devour their young when given the slightest chance.  The author leads his reader into the human impact of this regional vice with page-turning narrative punctuated with brilliant, image-rich synthesis.  Friedman is convinced that patterns of behavior are there to be understood and, if it can be said in the context of the Middle East without provoking scornful laughter, even managed.He is particularly insightful on the role that is played by America's distinct blend of naivet&eacute; and optimism, the latter quality being one that he insists the parties to the modern conflict need and know that they need.His final prescriptions for a hard-nosed deal between Israel and the Palestinians are now overshadowed by a 13-meter wall and the rough tears in the fabric of the two people's interdependence that were inflicted by the second intifada and Israel's response.  Yet, for all that has changed, surely much more has remained the same, and so Friedman's suggestions read like medicine in need of a pair of doctors realistic and pig-headed enough to prescribe it and convince their respective peoples that only in this way will the patient mend.  Or, more to the point, survive.By my lights, this the single most effective book to place in the hands of a Western reader attentive enough to want to comprehend the Middle East's 'civilization of clashes'-to borrow a term from Niall Ferguson-and hopeful enough to have resisted the easier path of cynicism.
4 I've been reading books on the Middle East since 9/11. I forgot I had this book for a while, and hadn't ever read it. When I came across it recently, I decided to read it, largely because of its tremendous reputation. I largely wasn't disappointed, but it should be noted that this is an anecdotal account, not, for the most part, real history or anything.Friedman was a reporter in Beirut for UPITV for about 2 years, then returned briefly to New York, where he was hired by the New York Times to return and be the bureau chief. He did that for another 2 years, then was transferred to Jerusalem for another four. He was awarded a Pulitzer Prize for his reporting on the Sabra and Shatila refugee camp massacres in Beirut, and another one for his reporting on the intifada in Jerusalem and Israel in general.Friedman's a reporter, so you get the reportorial style in lengthy form. There is anecdote after anecdote about various aspects of the conflict in the region, or life in the two countries Friedman was in. Friedman is a very good observer, and a perceptive reporter, so he does a good job of picking out the anecdotes that are instructive and recounting them intelligently. It is very instructive about life in both Jerusalem and Beirut. There is one chapter that's mostly reporting, covering the Syrian massacre at Hama in the mid 80's.There also is some attempt at general history, and it's reasonably well-done if you're in need of it, and willing to go along with the superficialities of summarizing the points of a book by Bernard Lewis or Fouad Ajami in several paragraphs. I myself prefer going to the source and reading the authors themselves (I've read Lewis, only seen Ajami on TV). None of the conclusions he comes to here are revolutionary.That being said, I think this is a good book on the Mid East, and I recommend it to anyone interested in the region. I gather there's an edition written after the one I bought, which has an extra chapter updating the book through the late nineties.
3 There is a strain of thought among journalists, to which Friedman unfortuantely succumbs, which says that one must at all costs be objective.  While that practice is instructive and helpful when reporting in a newspaper (this is why Daniel Pearl's murder was so heinous) it is of little use in a memoir.One wishes that Friedman would take a stand, on any person and any issue about which he writes.  Unfortunately, that is not this book, so we are treated to vague, noncommittal descriptions of such heinous individuals as Arafat and Saddam Hussein.  These are descriptions devoid of context or judgment.  Friedman's resolute refusal to engage in the moral subtleties of the Middle East's contentious territorial fights is at once alarming and banal.The principle of objectivity to which Friedman hews so closely is of limited use, and in a book like this, one hopes for more depth than the mere attempt to treat Palestinians as if they were Israelis, or to treat Kurds as if they were members of the Ba'ath party.  In short, Friedman espouses the morally relativistic multiculturalism that has become de rigeur among intlelectual liberals in the United States: judge no one, offend no one, and surely, don't morally indict the violent actions of those whose actions may be 'justified' under the rubric of 'oppression.'His is a venal and insidious view of the Middle East conflict because he refuses to judge, analyze, or critique its state of affairs.  Rather, he merely wants to report.  What a shame.
5 In FROM BEIRUT TO JERUSALEM, Thomas Freidman likens the well in the nave of the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, that marks the place where Jesus is thought to have been born, to the "naval" of the world. Although Freidman is Jewish, he apparently understands that Christians see the Holy Land as the beginning and the end--the alpha and the omega. Even Christians who say they are "fallen away" or secular feel a connection to the land and its people.Friedman's book was published in 1989 and concentrates on the years 1967 to 1987. The book tells the story of his two journeys--a physical journey from Minnesota to Beirut to Jerusalem to Washington DC--and a spiritual and psychological journey from adolescent boy with a crush on storybook land to mature man in love with a nation state.Unlike Friedman, I was not captivated by the Jews and Israel in 1967 (although Moyshe Dayan was a hero I could appreciate). I was captivated in the 1950s by with "Exodus" and "The Ten Commandments" and "The Story of Ruth" and other heroic tales produced by Jewish directors and producers. Jewish movie makers played a major role in the moral education of Americans regarding the wrongness of racism as anyone who has ever seen "Gentleman's Agreement" or "Guess Whose Coming to Dinner" knows.I think Freidman provides as balanced a version of the events in Beirut and Jerusalem in the 1980s as anyone can. He is Jewish and his story is autobiographical but he is very forthcoming about his feelings throughout the book. This book is not "objective" news reporting in the strictest sense, although his articles in the New York Times may have been more so. Not all Jewish readers agree with him either. As he says, we all have "supermyths" that shape the way we see the truth and we each interpret the truth differently.Freidman lays out what he says are the four major perspectives of the people of Israel about Israel--what it is and what it should become and/or remain. Apparently, there is no consensus. Points of view range from the secular Jews who see Israel as a haven or sanctuary following thousands of years of oppression, and who are not as obsessed with where the boundaries are as much that they are fixed and secure. On the other hand, the Messanic Jews think the boundaries of the modern Israel must match those of the historic Israel. And then there are in-between viewpoints.Another aspect of Friedman's book that I appreciated discusses the "Hama Rules" of Middle Eastern Tribal warfare (think Machivelli). The West expects Israel to behave like a model citizen and follow the "civilized" rules of warfare while tribal terrorists who follow the Hama rules of warfare blow up innocents without a second thought.Friedman says he thinks many Western journalists are perverse in their coverage of Israel. These journalists go out of their way to focus on Israeli misbehavior and look the other way when far worse events occur (and he provides plenty of examples). ... So much for objective reporting. He says the journalists and newspapers that report these biased stories have ulterior motives which he attempts to explain.  And, he says Arafat is the master of exploitation when it comes to Western journalists.... When he left Beirut and arrived in Jerusalem he was amazed to find similarities between the two--suicide bombers, identity cards, loss of civil rights. His description of life in Israel following the inception of the 1987 Intifada sounded uncomfortably familiar.
5 I actually read New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman's thoughtful and often provocative account of the Middle East situation about fifteen years ago, and it is certainly a testament to his journalistic skills that the book holds up so well today. Sadly it also shows how little the Middle East has changed in the intervening years in terms of the possibility of conflict resolution. Certainly with the current Israeli air strikes in Lebanon, the book has even greater relevance today for anyone who wants a deeper understanding of the religious and historical foundation for the conflict.What sets Friedman's book apart from others is the highly personal approach he takes with the history lessons he presents. The author begins his journey as a teenager watching the 1967 Six-Day War on TV, when the concept of Israel sparked a lifelong passion for him. However, like anyone else, the actions taken by Israel since then to defend its sovereignty have often been challenging to embrace. When Friedman later became a reporter in Beirut, an assignment that lasted nearly a decade, he shares how he coped with the ongoing violence and sought normalcy through whatever means he could. This also affected his reporter's ability to discern the facts in the stories he covered in the region, a challenging position at best, especially with the 1982 slaughter at the Sabra and Chatila refugee camps as a flashpoint for his own inner turmoil. He makes palpable the rage he felt toward Israel for its accountability in the massacre.Friedman clearly divides the book between the two cities of the title with the first part devoted to the ongoing civil war in Beirut among the Shiites, Druse, and Maronites. The second part focuses on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict with a particular emphasis on Israel's occupation of Lebanon. This originated with the idea of flushing out the PLO, even as the various sects were battling among themselves. The net result has obviously not been liberation but a staggering quagmire of sociopolitical strife among groups all vying for power in the region.With these types of revelations, the current air strikes begin to make strategic sense from a military standpoint since the Israelis strongly feel outright destruction of Lebanon's infrastructure is now the only option to snuff out the Hezbollah. It's rare that a seventeen-year old book, no matter how well documented and written and even with the addition of an updated chapter, can actually feel more prescient than it did before. Even as Friedman impressively shares with his increasingly accurate globalization forecast in "The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-first Century", he shows an even more immediate awareness of what may lie ahead for the Middle East.
5 I practically loved this book...the one I had read prior to such was "Pity the Nation" by Robert Fisk and I was honestly expecting it wouldn't have been as good...but I was wrong...Friedman, a Jewish American and Middle East correspondent during the Lebanese civil war times, gives a full image of  both Lebanese and Israeli societies, the Palestinian factor, and not only.His social background does not influence him in any aspect and in no point can we accuse him of being partial towards one sect's or country's point of view...Moreover, on the "Jerusalem" part; we are being induced into real aspects of the Israeli society - complex as the Lebanese one - and its attitude towards the Lebanese civil war, and this is something I was actually missing in books I have read till now referring to this region and period.I should admit I didn't enjoy much the "advice parts" (where he is actually suggesting what should be done so as to resolve the Middle East crisis) but this is a question of personal taste...A masterpiece I dare say, if this book does not get a 5 star review, which one does then?
4 As of this writing, 168 reviewers have reviewed this book, so I will be brief.  Thomas Friedman, for all his real acumen and gifts with language (both spoken and written) tends to be cute or trite too much for comfort.  That said, this book suffers from precious little of this.  It is definitely in the genre of "New Journalism" now quite old, where the reporter is part of the story, maybe even the story itself at times, but this does not detract from the boldness of this work in the form of its written style, which is free, easy, yet complex, handling each topic with a certain grace and style and formal beauty.  Friedman brings a complex topic to a general audience without sacrificing nuance (in fact, this is his main thrust) to show both Lebanon and Israel as cultures of almost impossibly subtle nuance, where small difference of sects and creeds can be the difference between war and peace, bliss and pain
5 This book is an analysis of the factors underlying both the Lebanese civil war and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  Friedman wrote the book after living in Beirut for five years and then Israel for five years as Middle East correspondent for UPI and the New York Times.  Thus, the first half of the book covers his experiences in Lebanon and the second half, Israel.Friedman arrived in Lebanon in 1979, where the civil war had already been going on for four years.  Among other battles, he was there for the Israeli invasion and subsequent withdrawal, and for the bombing of the U.S. embassy and Marine headquarters. In this book, he writes about his personal experiences and challenges covering the war.  He also explains the major political and military factions in the war, laying out, for instance how the U.S. military forces came to be hoodwinked into actively supporting one warring faction against others when they had ostensibly been brought in as peacekeeping observers.A vitally important part of this section is Friedman's description of  Hama Rules, in which he chronicles the horrific attack in 1982 by Syrian government forces on one of their own major cities, where entire neighborhoods were flattened into parking lots without bothering to first remove the inhabitants.  Friedman points out that the massacre in Hama is just one example of the extreme brutality found in the Middle Eastern approach to conflicts.  According to Friedman, "the best way to understand what happened in Hama is to understand that politics in the Middle East is a combination of three different political traditions...: tribe-like politics (adherence to certain intense primordial or kin-group forms of allegiance, letting others know that if they violated you in any way, you would make them pay),...authoritarianism,...and the modern nation-state.Friedman's analysis of the 1982 Israeli invasion of Lebanon sent chills down my spine. Friedman writes "instead of entering Lebanon with a real knowledge and understanding of the society and its actors, Israel simply burst in with tanks, artillery, and planes in one hand a fistful of myths in the other-myths about the nature of Lebanon as a country, about the character of Israel's Lebanese...allies, and about Israel's own power to reshape the Middle East." An interview with Avraham Burg, an Israeli paratroop officer who served in Lebanon summed up the situation "We knew it was some kind of complicated Middle East Belfast.  Okay, so they had lots of tribes. It meant nothing. We didn't know about the differences between Sunnis and Shiites.  And then, all of a sudden, we went in."  Fast forward 20 years, replace "Israel" with "US" and "Lebanon" with "Iraq," and we have a startlingly accurate portrayal of the second Gulf War.  Too bad our illustrious leaders didn't take the time to read this book before going ahead with their invasion plans.In the second part of the book, Friedman explains both the Israeli and Palestinian sides to their conflict, although being  Jewish himself, he focuses on the Israeli side.  He notes that the reason why Zionists are so tied to keeping the occupied territories is their religious significance-they want to walk in the lands of their religious texts.  This is why they could never be satisfied with resettlement elsewhere, not even South Florida.  In their struggle to regain land and autonomy, the Palestinians have been hampered by being scattered and factionalized, and dependent on their need to earn a livelihood in Israel.Towards the end of the book, Friedman includes several chapters that seem addressed more towards American Jews and Israelis, in which he analyses the relationship between these distinct communities, the role of the media in the Palestinian conflicts, and possible approaches to peace.  I found his metaphor for explaining the difficulty of creating a lasting peace in the region very compelling: it's as if the Israelis and Palestinians are consulting with a fertility specialist.  What the specialist has to constantly keep in mind is that no amount of intervention will work until both parties show a sincere interest in getting pregnant and maintaining the pregnancy.I first encountered Friedman's writing following 9/11 when his Times column was regularly reprinted in the Gulf News in the UAE. I had been living in the Middle East myself for four years, and was amazed that someone with a New York byline could have such insight about the attitudes of the people on the ground in the Middle East, and how Middle Eastern politics really works.  This book should be an essential text for anyone interested in contemporary world politics, especially those desiring to take an active leadership role.
1 It was Tom Friedman who, thru his columns, convinced Condi Rice and President Bush to articulate the reason for Invading Iraq as bringing democracy to that country.
3 I agree with other reviewers that Friedman has no axe to grind; is equitable in his criticism of the both the PLO and Israel (as well as other parties).  This is probably the book's greatest strength.  If you are expecting a wholehearted defense of Israel you won't find it here.However I was disappointed with other aspects of the book.  Unlike other reviewers, I do not find that Friedman writes well.  Phrases like "Such were the cards that history had dealt him" (speaking about Arafat) reminded me of a reasearch paper written for a high-school history class.  Friedman also recurs to anecdotes and metaphors that are at worst impertinent and at best disconcerting.  He has the cutesy way of carrying the metaphor through; for example at one point he compares Isreali political parties to American advertising (in which distinctions are are energetically asserted between virtually identincal consumer products) and concludes that the Isreali political parties, despite their outward differences, were really serving up the same "puppy chow."  Such a rhetorical device is amateurish and annoying.  I expected greater depth of analysis and a more penetrating writing style.  I learned a few things from the book, but was ultimately disappointed.  I'm now going to read Charles Enderlin's _Le rve bris&eacute;_ hoping that this French journalist will provide a deeper analysis.
5 This book does not claim to be a work of objective history. It is the subjective view (almost a biography) of a journalist living through the Middle East's roughing patch in the 70s and 80s. It was very difficult to put this book down, and the emotion written within the pages are compelling.... Many facts are referred to in this book which doesn't fully explain the historical context.But once you are aware of the history, Friedman's views, experiences and opinions are interesting and compelling. His personal experiences -- from experiencing the death of his friend's family in Beirut to seeing his daughter scream when a Palestinian teenager broke their car's windshield with a stone -- make for a very emotional read. His opinions regarding the causes of the conflict are extremely logical and interesting.This book is a highly recommended read!
5 First published in 1989, this book provides you a strong foundation in understanding the Middle East current issues.  The author explains how the French and the British in the 1920s created a set of countries after the collapse of the Ottoman Empire that represented no more than lines in the sand.  Often these lines contradicted the ethnicity, and religious affiliations of the affected populations.The French created Syria, and Lebanon.  Syria was predominantly Muslim.  And, so was Lebanon.  But, the French installed a Christian minority in power in Lebanon who had a stronger affiliation with the French than the other groups.  The majority of the Lebanese population were Muslims split between Sunnis and Shiites.  Both the Sunnis and the Shiites would have preferred joining the Muslims in neighboring Syria, but had no say in the matter.  The much faster demographic growth of the Muslims caused rising tension and ongoing violence with the Christian minority lead government.Additionally, the Sunnis and the Shiites were often at war with each other.  So, it is not like Islam is one unified monotheist religion at peace with itself.  Instead, it is a very fragmented religion.  It is undergoing the equivalent of the Reformation era that Christianity suffered 400 years ago when Catholics and Protestants were killing each other over minute difference in interpretation of the same religion.As we know, the story of Israel is even more explosive than Lebanon.  In 1921, the British carved out the former Palestine division of the Ottoman Empire into two.  The Eastern half became Jordan, and the Western half became a contested territory between Palestinian Arabs and Zionist Jews.  An ongoing migration of European Jews until and after the end of WWII caused a rising tension between the two groups.  This turned into ongoing violent civilian unrest that the British could not control anymore.  The Brits left, and the UN took over.  In 1947, the UN declared a formal partition of the territory into a Palestinian State (West Bank, Gaza) and a Jewish State.  The Zionist Jews declared Israel statehood in 1948.  A day later all neighboring countries immediately attacked Israel.  But, Israel held its own.  While Egypt took over the Gaza District, and Jordan annexed the West Bank.  In 1967, a second war erupted and Israel expanded its territory and occupied West Bank and Gaza District.  The tension between Arabs and Jews has not abated since.The tension between Israelis and Palestinians has lasted over 80 years.  After reading this book, you realize how difficult a sustainable peace resolution is.  Tribal politics are prevalent throughout the region, and lead to a winner take all mentality.  Negotiations and diplomacy are skills that are not utilized much in this region.  Thomas Friedman gives you a sense that the "Land for Peace" motto so promoted in the West is actually utopic.  There has been many "Land for Peace" deals offered to the Palestinians during the past couple of decades, but they were always immediately turned down by Arafat and the PLO, and quickly accompanied by a rise in terrorism and suicide bombing.  The Muslim Arab World just does not recognize Israel statehood.  The Palestinians and their Arab brothers have little interest in sharing land peacefully with Israel in an official Palestinian state.  What they really want, is for Israel to get out.  Given that this outcome is even more utopic than the "Land for Peace" proposals, this conflict may last much longer.
5 this is a nice personal account of the authors time in beruit and jerusalem as a new york times war coorespondent. i wouldnt make this your only read of the area since it is, like i said, mainly a personal account BUT i would make it one of your firsts since the writing is very conversational and easily digestible. i couldnt put it down!
5 this book is 20 years old but still communicates great information. It shows not to much has changed in the middle east in a thousand years . the book was well written can't wait to read something recent by this author.
5 Tom Friedman has many assets. First, his sense of observation is exellent, second, his style is very entertaining, and third, he was a very hard working reporter who has many stories to share.While many might think that the book is outdated, I believe many of its arguments still stand. Even with the Lebanese civil war that Friedman describes now over, the Lebanese society is still divided over the same issues and, more or less, along the same lines Friedman describes.The second part of the book, which talks about Friedman's stay in Jerusalem, is also reflective of the current Israeli situation. Israelis still struggle to define what kind of nation they are and inside which boundaries they should live.Reading between the lines, anyone can tell that Fridman is a peace advocate, trying to highlight fear and frustration on both sides (the Arab and the Israeli) and the willingness to live in peace among most people of both nations.I've heard many Middle Eastern academics criticizing this book and undermining its importance. On top of those was late Columbia University Palestinian-American professor Edward Said, who accuses Friedman of orientalism, a term he coined that undermines the credibility of Western writers who claim to be an authority on Eastern issues. While Said might have some point in his accusations, he should have still given some credit to a book full of details. As an Arab, I'd say that for most parts of the book, Friedman's description was fair and accurate.Friedman's From Beirut to Jerusalem has become a classic work, and I believe there is much reason for that. This is Friedman's best work, all readers interested in the Middle East should buy this book and read it.
4 This is my favorite writing of Friedman's, because as he has become more of an armchair thinker, I don't believe he has made a good case for his intellect. This book, however, is rooted in front-line experiences of being an on-the-ground correspondent in the two titular cities, and the observations made do not suffer from excessive filtering (mostly). The Beirut portion is particularly strong, because he's in the middle of a raging civil war and does a good job of introducing the reader to the complex web of factions involved. In Jerusalem, less bullets flying around his ears allows Friedman more space for theorizing, but it is still an interesting introduction to some of the social issues forming the Israeli and Palestinian characters.
5 During my service in Armenia, I came across this book in the Peace Corps library. Having enjoyed "The World is Flat" I decided to try it out.  Part of my rating is based on the fact that it is not only well-informed but very readable, unlike many non-fiction books. His work as a journalist for the NY Times is surely a benefit to the readers who like me might be exploring this topic in depth for the first time.  I never felt buried in facts.  I also liked the fact that he was stationed there during the 80's and saw things "up close and personal."  And finally, it gave me an understanding of "Politics as Theater." Neither side seemed that interested in real compromise but just tipping the Scales of Sympathy on the World's Stage their way.  When the GOP and Obama faced off over Fiscal Cliff in December, the same dynamics seemed to be in place. Even though Friedman is portraying events that are now over 25 years past, it is a vivid time capsule of how deeply embedded are the dysfunctional dynamics between these two countries. It also gave me some historical perspective on the Armenian attitude toward Turkey that I encountered daily in the adult population.  The historical lesson I came away with was that building your National Identity around "being right" does not give the next generation very much room to negotiate for a better future.
4 While I consider this book well worth reading, a word must be said about the context in which it was written.  During the early 90's and late 80's a consensus was growing that the only way to end the Israeli Palestinian conflict was for Israel to recognize Yasser Arafat as the dejure government of the Palestinians.  Moving down such a path meant that Arafat would have to under go considerable rehabilitation.  One of the subtexts of Friedman's book is that very effort.  The result is that Friedman intentionally glosses over the murder, mayhem and destruction Arafat spread through Lebanon.  Little attention is paid to the civilians they murdered, the politicians they extorted, or the destabilizing influence that the PLO's &quot;State-within-a-state&quot; created.Occasionally Friedman is unfair in his assesment of Israel's actions.  In particular failing to discuss the PLO's cross boarder raids into Northern Israel that left scores of civilian causalities and how it motivated Israeli public opinion is left insufficiently discussed.  Probably that is due to Friedaman's desire to indict Israel's Likud government which he saw as hostile to his belief in the need to create a PLO-Israel dialogue.What makes the book interesting is in the story of how a state sandwiched between two regional powers was unable to survive.  Interestingly, that is partially because Beirut tried to play both sides. That puts it in contrast to Jordan, a similarly situated state that, after the '67 War, through its lot entirely with Israel and has prospered under its protection.A little should be added about Friedman's idea of a direct PLO-Israel dialogue.  Within a few years of this book Israel had in fact followed the course he recommended, recognizing the PLO and the rights of the Palestinians to have a state of there own.  Friedman always thought that painful compromise by Israel would engender a Palestinian willingness to make similar compromises, like letting Israel annex the 4% of the West Bank which were majority Israeli, share Jerusalem, and accept demilitarization as well as a shared Jerusalem as long as the deal came with buckets of foreign aid.  10 years after this book was written, Israel's Prime Minister Barak offered exactly that deal as Friedman envisioned it and he like the rest of the world was shocked when Arafat rejected it, deciding instead on a course of violence.Despite the fact that this book is quite dated, it is still a good read.  Those interested in the topic might also want to look at the work of Bernard Lewis, Chaim Herzog's &quot;The Arab Israeli Wars&quot; and Itimar Rabinovitch's work on the Lebanese conflict.
1 I happen to know Thomas Friedman personally. He is short (like Yasser Arafat - the radioactive "Palestinian"), pugnacious and profoundly mediocre. He makes a living by inventing stories, dressed as objective analysis, that Westerners will buy. His book "The World is Flat" is the only one worth reading; the rest is pure garbage.If you are looking for books that promote Arab extremism and terrorism, than buy this one and you will be happy. Otherwise look for something that is less biased. In the War of Civilizations, U.S. and Israel stand high and proud. But some Americans and Europeans would rather kneel and maybe save their cowardly heads from being cut off by Muslim swords.
4 Given the recent outbreak of violence in Lebanon, it is worth revisiting this bit of investigative journalism and history given to us by Mr. Friedman. We need to understand the history, the culture, the religion and the personal vendettas that converge in this region to really make sense of the continuing conflict. Once we have accomplished that, then maybe the UN can come in and help broker a lasting peace or, more likely, a lasting segregation.
3 This was my first look into the world of books on CD's & it was fair. The story was one that was recommended to me but I was not overly impressed. It felt more like a propanganda peice rather than true journelism. If you like the Middle East then you should enjoy this too.
4 Not in the "must read " class, but a good informative personal account of Thomas Freidman, the New York Times middle east journalist.  The book contains his observances of the factional fighting that took place in Beirut and the larger Lebanon, Israel conflict in the 1980s.  The  book has interesting observances of these complicated situations.  This is a good book for the 21st century where it appears Lebanon  is again descending into chaos, and Israel has once again tried the tactic of invading southern Lebanon.  Freidman does a good job making a chaotic situation interesting while providing new insights.
4 An interesting chronology and analysis of a journalist's decade long stay in Lebanon and Jerusalem.  I learned a lot about the two countries and the issues that divide them.  Friedman explained many complex issues with interesting analogies and I was impressed with his analysis of the true problems.  A negative aspect of the book was that I often felt he was reporting the positions of the male elite and didn't truly capture the opinions and lifestyle for the majority of Israeli and Lebanese residents.
5 Mr. Friedman's From Beirut to Jerusalem casts light into the obscure origins of a conflict which, to Western eyes at least, is nothing short of  mystifying. It made me realize that our pro-Zionist, Western culture is  oftentimes much too eager to blame Arab leaders and people for the  difficulties which haunt the region, and at the same time it elucidated the  mystery of Jewish identity, which explains many of their actions (i.e.,  sense of inferiority, of being the &quot;eternal victims of history&quot;).  I myself once held the (spurious) belief that Arabs (Iranians,  Palestinians, Syrians) were all terrorists. But, with books such as this  one, we soon come to realize that nothing is black and white (how many  times must we be told this before we start applying it in our lives?). I  have newfound respect for all the peoples and religions depicted in this  book. Overall, this is a balanced, compassionate work with numerous  instances of brilliant journalism. Everybody interested in the region  should absolutely read this work. It also allows us to meet other  influential thinkers - the likes of his friend Fuad Adjami - whose books,  articles and views are altogether enlightening. All in all, Mr. Friedman's  book made me realize that Mr. Barak's actions (read rapprochement) are  nothing short of heroic, and it is because of men like him that, one day,  perhaps, Palestine and Israel will be able to live as two neighboring  &quot;nations,&quot; whose nature remains to be determined. Can it be done?  With Mr. Barak, or people like him, I believe it is possible. A commendable  endeavor, made all the more appreciable thanks to Mr. Friedman's  journalistic foray. (Note: I haven't read the updated edition, in which a  chapter has been added.)
5 I had this book on my "to read" list for about a year, and then it sat on my shelf for five months after buying it before I finally got around to reading it.  Now that I have finished the book I have to wonder what took me so long.  The book is exceptional.  From Beirut to Jerusalem is the story of Thomas Friedman and his analysis of the Palestine/Israel conflict.  Friedman is a three time Pulitzer Prize winning reporter and this book presents and even handed and fair look at both the Palestinians and the Israelis.  The book is broken up into three sections: Beirut, Jerusalem, and Washington.Beirut is the story of the Palestinians.  When Friedman was a young reporter, he was assigned a beat in Beirut (the newspaper made a point to assign a Jewish reporter to cover Beirut).  Friedman does a good job showing exactly how the PLO came to power and the importance (and the flaw) of Yasir Arafat in the Palestinian movement.  Despite being Jewish himself, Friedman does not present much of a bias against the Palestinians in his reporting.  Friedman shows how there truly is no central authority for the Palestinians and how amazing it is the Arafat was able to unify the PLO into any sort of centralized body.  The one thing that surprised me was how the Palestinians (and Beirut as a whole) was essential tribal politics.  Beirut was an example of what can go right in having a disparate group of Christians, Jews, and Muslims live together in a Middle Eastern city.  Beirut also ended up being a disaster of what can go wrong: everything.  When push came to shove, the different groups split apart, formed militias and held fast to tribal lines.  It was in Beirut that the PLO found a temporary home (at least until Israel pushed north).Jerusalem is the story of the Jews.  We all know the story of how after World War II the Jews were given a state in the Middle East and it was on their traditional homeland of Israel.  This displaced the Arabs (Palestinians) that were living on the land at the time.  Friedman discusses the Utopian vision that Israel is because of the religious context for the Jews.  The interesting thing is that Israel was very nearly formed as a secular state for the diaspora Jews, and it was only the Orthodox and Ultra-Orthodox Jews that initially held onto their religion (rather than their culture).  American Jews viewed Israel truly as the Promised Land, and the Christian world saw Israel through the tinted glasses of the Old Testament.  Surrounded on all sides by Arabs who do not want the Jews in Israel, the nation has never truly been at peace and it is in this section of the book that Friedman shows just how difficult peace in the region is.Washington is the end of the book and Friedman ties several things together.  There was a very clear progression from Beirut to Jerusalem as Friedman was transferred over to Jerusalem, but at the same time I felt that Friedman presented enough material that I could begin to understand the context of Jerusalem.  Thomas Friedman presents his thoughts on how diplomacy could possibly work for the Israelis and the Palestinians (using the Egypt/Israel peace as a model), and also further explains just how complex the relationships are in the Middle East.  We get to see the attempts of the United States to broker peace deals, and how these succeeded and failed, and in some cases, why.  Friedman discusses the role the United States does play, and perhaps should play in the region (at least as it affects Israel and Palestine).This is an absolutely fascinating book.  Obviously, this should be used as a primer on the subject and if one feels interested, should lead into further research into the region, but this was a very informative and interesting book and while I was confused at times by the complexity of the situation and shocked at the enormity of the problem, I also felt that I read a valuable book on the region.  I thought this was an excellent book and it should belong on any "must read" list for books on the Middle East.
5 ... to raise that question using the much discredited phrase from Fox News. As many people know, Thomas Friedman is a long-time reporter, and now a columnist for the New York Times. This is his first book, published in 1989, based on his experiences living in both Beirut and Jerusalem during the `80's, as the aforementioned NYT reporter. I first read the book not long after publication, and was suitably impressed, with both the "balance," as well as the wealth of information that I had not previously read. Friedman is Jewish, and in the prelude to this book says that, in high school, "I was insufferable." Insufferable in regards to his fanatical pro-Israel stance. As he states, concerning his mother's response to some of his actions: "Is this really necessary?" So, it is all the more remarkable that I do think this book represents a fair report on one of humankind's more intractable political problems today.Friedman and his wife first went to the Middle East in 1979, and for the next decade lived in the two cities that form the title to this book, splitting their time fairly evenly. As seems to be true of every 10 year period in the Middle East, it was tumultuous. "And all the news just repeats itself" is a line from a John Prine song, truer today than when he wrote it. Friedman has a chapter on the massacre in Hama, Syria, by the forces of the current ruler's father, which killed somewhere around 20,000 civilians. This was in 1982!  And his account seemed to provide the first fair discussion of it. I was in Hama in 1989, and the "ghosts still talked, admittedly, sotte voce . Lebanon has always been one of the most complex cases in the area, and Friedman seems to select the perfect epigram for his chapter, from a fellow NYT correspondent: "There is no truth in Beirut, only versions." Friedman was there when Israel invaded Lebanon in '82, and presents a rather scathing indictment of their actions, particularly their denial of responsibility for the massacre of Palestinians by Lebanon Christians in the camps of Sabra and Shatilla. Specifically, Friedman says that Israeli General Amos Yaron knew through his Lebanese liaison officer of the plan to kill the Palestinians, and refused to halt the operation. Friedman had clearly moved a long way from "insufferable." He has a knack for coining phrases that convey the essence of the matter, and the chapter on America's own intervention into Lebanon is entitled "Betty Crocker in Dante's inferno." He faithfully reports that American naval authorities felt they had the right and obligation to use their cruisers and destroyers to casually shell Lebanese villages. The why oh why is never dwelt upon enough.In 1984 he moves to Jerusalem, and it is at least as complex as the various versions of Lebanon, though the US media rarely presents that picture. Friedman can be scathing in his observations. Consider: In terms of the exemption the "ultra-Orthodox" Jews have from military service, he says: "I began to understand what an Israeli friend of mine meant when he said, `It is a lot easier to pray for the ingathering of the exiles than it is to live with them.'" Or: "When the racist Israeli rabbi Meir Kahane used to call for transferring all Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza to Jordan, he would always conclude his proposal by looking his Israeli audiences in the eye and declaring, `Remember, I say what you think.' There is a little bit of Kahane in every Israeli." Friedman depicts the intense conflict between the secular and religious Israelis, and I thought his epigraph to the entire section, a quote from the French poet, Paul Valery, was pitch-perfect: "The existence of neighbors is the only guarantee a nation has against perpetual civil war."I've been dismayed by Friedman's trajectory since he wrote this book. He has been a constant cheer-leader for the glories of "globalization," lent his prestige to the so-called war on terror, and all the wonderful transformations that American power could make in the Middle East, and has actually recently written a column, NOT tongue in cheek, about how all Americans would have to be above average now. I also liked a lot of the earlier work of Christopher Hitchens, includingThe Trial of Henry KissingerandLetters to a Young Contrarian. Both seemed to lose their way in later life: the cause is always one of the "usual suspects." The ombudsman for the New York Times reported, a few years back, that Friedman was a "brand unto himself", and commanded speaker fees of $75,000 per appearance. Alas, all that money seems to have dulled the acuity of his vision.For this book though, as with those of the younger Hitchens, it merits 5-stars.
4 Being under 30, my firsthand knowledge of politics and world events only goes back about 15 years, so most things that happened in the Reagan Administration and before are historical to me rather than something I can look back on and remember.  As this presidential election plays out, we are constantly reminded of the strategies employed by previous candidates, but looking at these things from a historical perspective is somewhat strange: since I already know the outcome to the election, I tend to view strategies through that lens rather than the situation as it existed on the ground at that time.The same thing is true with respect to foreign affairs, only more so.  I was almost exclusively interested in domestic matters before September 11th, so I only distantly followed events like Yassir Arafat and Yitzhak Rabin shaking hands at the White House.  But as the last eight years have increased the relevance of the Middle East to our country, I have become progressively more and more annoyed with those who speak authoritatively about something they know so little about.  My reading serves as much to inform me what I don't know than fill in gaps in my knowledge, so I've realized how little about Israel and Palestine I can really speak intelligently about.Therefore I've been reading extensively on the region, last week finally getting to Thomas L. Friedman's From Beirut to Jerusalem, an account of his time serving as a reporter in Lebanon and Israel.  Shifting from memoir to reporting adeptly, Friedman is able to help the reader understand the situation, as it existed in the 1980s.  While I learned quite a bit about the political situation in Beirut involving the Druse, Maronite Christians, and Arafat's PLO, what stuck with me the most was the depiction of the everyday citizen.  What must it be like to live in a world where car bombs have killed someone you know?It shames me to admit, but I really didn't have a good sense of Lebanon's history prior to this reading.  Considered the ideal with so many factions of people living together in relative harmony, the tensions underneath eventually exploded in violence, something that hindsight sees as inevitable. Friedman is at his best when intertwining interviews with people on the ground along with leaders of the various factions, occasionally throwing in his own viewpoint in order to flesh out the picture.  What we tend to get is a real cross-section of the culture.As he moves on to Jerusalem, the book shifts in tone.  There is much less of Friedman himself in these chapters.  Instead he focuses on the Palestinian/Israeli conflict and how that was handled during his time there.  I have always been one to sympathize with Palestine, but reading these passages helped me to evolve my thoughts.  Not that I am less sympathetic to the plight of the Palestinian people, but now I feel that I have a better grasp to the actual problems in the region and how they might concessions be made by each side in order to achieve lasting peace.My edition had a chapter written in 1994, five years after the book was first published.  In it, Friedman opines at length about the direction he feels the two sides must take in order to solve some of the conflict.  Though no expert, I believe much of this to still be applicable today.  I was fascinated by how little the region has seemed to change in the intervening years, even with the rise of Hamas and the death of Arafat.  Though I would like a similar account of the intervening years, I nevertheless feel that From Beirut to Jerusalem to be quite valuable for anyone trying to understand the region.  What happened twenty years ago may seem like old news to those of my generation, but in the communities of Lebanon and Israel, it seems like yesterday.
5 Thomas Friedman, takes a complex issue  and creates a personal, enlightening, educational, well written (if frequently contradictory and redundant) portrait of the Middle East. Friedman, a former American Zionist and current journalist for the New York Times proves himself a throughouly informed, objective, fair and passionate voice as he illuminates the history of the troubled region. Personally, being largely ignorant (sadly, like most Americans) of the region's complex history (except for the sound byte obsessed mainstream media), I am most thankful for Friedman's book. It serves as a solid starting off point for anyone (myself currently) beginning a study of the middle east. A certain must read.
5 I started reading this book about a year ago just out of interest and finished it up the other day.  I must echo what other reviews have said in that this book is extremely pertinent to the issues of today in the region.  The territorial fighting still goes on, the hatred still exists and the solutions are still few.This book doesn't propose any "plan for peace," which is actually very refreshing.  Other books on this topic are generally just the ranting of gasbags who have little comprehension of the history behind the conflict.  The truth, as Friedman points out, is that the solution lies in the hearts and minds of the Palestinians and the Israelis.  There is plenty of blame to go around, but no outside government--including the US--will ever be able to force peace on these people.  Every president since the foundation of Israel has tried to gain peace in the Middle East, but it never works.This book is not just history it's emotion as well; which makes it all the more entertaining.  I recommend it highly.
5 This is a superb look at the Arab-Israeli conflict, Lebanon, and the Middle East, despite being a bit dated.  As foreign correspondent for the New York Times, author Thomas Friedman has spent years reporting from Beirut, Jerusalem, and other hotspots in the Middle East.  Friedman is a skilled journalist who seems neither pro-Palestinian nor pro-Israeli, and he provides the type of in-depth and balanced reporting one seldom finds on the subject. I particularly liked his coverage of the tragedy that has befallen Lebanon since the 1970's, and his examination of Israeli politics.  As Friedman shows, in addition to discord between Palestinians and Jews, there are also many internal conflicts between Arabs, and between Israeli's (some of whom are Arabs).  The author does more, however, than merely cover politics.  He also looks at the psychology of ordinary people in the arena, be they Muslims, Christians, Jews, Arabs, etc.  This stellar book dates from the late 1980's, and obviously cannot cover everything.  Still, it remains a super source for understanding conflict in the Middle East.FROM BEIRUT TO JERUSALEM won the 1989 National Book Award for non-fiction.  Author Thomas Friedman also has two Pulitzer Prizes, and at this writing one can occasionally view him on PBS-TV's "News Hour" and other programs.  This is journalistic writing at its finest.
3 The book is primarily composed of anecdotes and the author's personal impressions of the people involved, both those who could be considered actors in the events and more ordinary types of people who tried to maintain some semblance of normalcy and survive the mayhem that was engulfing them. Though the book contains some interesting insights it is not as captivating as his columns. My final analysis is that while "From Beirut..." is worth reading, Thomas Friedman, superb columnist that he is, makes it clear that accomplishment as a foreign correspondent does not necessarily translate into a great author of the stature of say, a Mark Bowden.
5 I have always admired Thomas Friedman as an insightful writer of truth. Although a Jew his writing is impartial. He clearly states that he has friends both Israeli and Arab, and has been criticized by his American countrymen. I have often wondered why his opinions are not solicited by U.S. government officials, but perhaps no one wants to face the truth that on all sides of the Middle Eastern difficulties there are human beings whose opinions need to be heard and their concerns recognized.In an spellbinding anecdotal presentation of the facts Mr. Friedman treats the reader with substance often lacking in the usual reporting that at best presents a few highlights of daily events.Kenneth Ray Taylor author ofStandup Comedian: The Secret and Beyond
5 As an American Jew and journalist, Thomas Friedman showed brillance in analyzing American & Israeli Jews' identity problem and Middle Eastern politics. Some people may dislike this book for some political reasons. But this book will greatly help you to understand not only changes in Middle Eastern politics but also changes in world politics.For me, his analysis on the confusion of identity of Jewish people is especially touching. Though I have no Jewish blood in my vein, I can understand that kind of confusion. The truth of national identity is missing. Politics dictates us how to see ourselves. And when politics is in confusion, we really don't know who we are. The request for normalcy is luxury to some people.
1 Tom Friedman is not a Middle East historian and his "account" of Middle East events is largely uninformed opinions rather than facts.  His unfortunate history of anti-Israel diatribes further discredits him and his book.  For facts and educated opinions, I recommend Bernard Lewis, the Mentor of Middle East historians and commentators.For example, Friedman unintelligently insists that so-called "palestinians" are a "people" when, in fact, they are merely rebranded Arabs.  A people are distinguished by ethnic and linguistic uniqueness but there is no distinct palestinian ethnicity--they are Arabs--nor is there a palestinian language--their language is Arabic.As Bernard Lewis instructs Mr. Friedman and others, palestinians are an invention and Arabs until recently even rejected the terms palestine and palestinian as Western inventions...Dr. Bernard Lewis, Professor Emeritus of Near Eastern Studies at Princeton University; PdD in Near and Middle East Studies, University of London;  Former Director of the University of London's School of Oriental and African Studies, Author, "The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2000 Years," "The Future of the Middle East," "The Shaping of the Modern Middle East," "The End of Modern History in the Middle East," "The Multiple Identities of the Middle East," "Faith and Power: Religion and Politics in the Middle East", "Race and Slavery in the Middle East," "From Babel to Dragomans: Interpreting the Middle East," "A Middle East Mosaic," "The Arabs In HistoryThe adjective Palestinian is comparatively new.  This, I need hardly remind you, is a region of ancient civilizations and of deep-rooted and often complex identities.  But Palestine was not one of them.  People might identify themselves for various purposes, by religion, by descent, or by allegiance to a particular state or ruler, or sometimes locality.  But, when they did it locally it was generally either the city and immediate district or the larger province, so they would have been Jerusalemites or Jaffaites or the like, or Syrians, identifying with the larger province of Syria.The constitution or the formation of a political entity called Palestine which eventually gave rise to a nationality called Palestinian were lasting innovations of the British Mandate [1918-1948]Palestine is a Greco-Roman term brought back from Europe.  Its history as the name of a separate entity began and ended with the British Mandate, without a state and without any historic memory of separate sovereignty or even identityFor Arabs, the term Palestine was unacceptable...For Muslims it was alien and irrelevant but not abhorrent in the same way as it was to Jews. The main objection for them was that it seemed to assert a separate entity which politically conscious Arabs in Palestine and elsewhere denied. For them there was no such thing as a country called Palestine. The region which the British called Palestine was merely a separated part of a larger whole [Syria]  For a long time organized and articulate Arab political opinion was virtually unanimous on this point.The Palestinian Arabs' basic sense of corporate historic identity was, at different levels, Muslim or Arab or -- for some -- Syrian; it is significant that even by the end of the Mandate in 1948, after 30 years of separate Palestinian political existence, there were virtually no books in Arabic on the history of Palestine."Interestingly, during the period of the British Mandate, that is, until 1948, the terms "Palestine" and "Palestinian" were primarily used by Jews, not by Arabs.  They were not happy with these terms, but at least they designated the country as a historically separate entity.  Overwhelmingly the Arabs rejected this name which they saw as a British imperialist device to slice off a part of the greater Arab homeland.
5 An interesting book that provides a lot of information about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the relevance of Lebanon.  Many books about this topic seem to be dry, but not this one.  This is a fun and quick-read.  If you want general information on the history, politics, individuals, and organizations involved in this dilemma this is an excellent book.  The recent Intifada, assassination of Rabin, and the recent West Bank settlement issue have occurred after the writing of this book. Yet to understand the current problem it's a great book that will never be outdated.  The roots of the cause remain the same.  This will be helpful for those who have become interested in this region after September 11.  The focus is on Israel and Palestine, and not the entire Middle East. An informative and great read.
5 As a college student studying International Affairs, I managed to avoid the Israeli-Palestinian conflict for 4 years. I never felt like I had a fight in it, and felt the field had &#34;too many cooks in the kitchen.&#34; I focused mostly on other regions and topics, generally aware of big picture issues with Israel, settlements, and the plight of Palestinians. I came across this book in searching for books on Syrian history for my job and decided to give it a shot, at least for the portions covering Lebanese history. I have never been a fan of Mr. Friedman's work before, but this book really is a masterpiece, and one that should be read by anyone looking to study history, the Middle East, or international affairs.This book has almost too many good qualities to list. It is excellently nuanced and balanced, detailed enough for the expert, but explained and fast paced enough for the novice of the region. Do not be fooled by the length of the book, it is a genuine page turner, with only a few slow points, and by the end you are wishing someone would take the initiative and cover the years in depth since its printing in 1988. I was initially afraid at a book so old, afraid I would be missing newly found information unavailable at the time of writing, but unfortunately the region, particularly Lebanon and Syria, isn't covered much even by scholars.Mr. Friedman is passionate about the topic, to be sure, but as he notes, true friends are honest with each other. Having lived in Beirut for a number of years, and then moving to Jerusalem, he has friends on both sides of the situation, but isn't afraid to discuss issues for a real and lasting peace. The biggest issue, for both sides, seemed to be a misunderstanding of the other group. While some Palestinians viewed the Israelis as a minor blip in time on the land, who would eventually surrender the land and leave forever, the Israelis viewed the Palestinians under the umbrella of &#34;Arabs&#34; who would be at home anywhere, refusing to distinguish between an Arab in Egypt and an Arab in Iraq. Leadership, or lack of it, fed into those beliefs. Both sides lacked bold leadership, as neither led from the front, but rather led from the polls. Instead of making bold initiatives toward peace, both felt that time was on their side, when it obviously only made the divisions deeper. In the rare case where leaders did make bold moves (Sadat), they were taken out by their own group, making it even more difficult to lead from the front.While the time in Beirut was the most interesting to me, his chapter on religion in Israel is really eye opening. We Americans tend to see other countries in generally black and white (West Germany good, East Germany bad) and forget that not all Israeli Jews are the same. The way Friedman goes into this topic is supremely interesting and profound, and something American Jews should certainly look at and discuss.It is something of a miracle that this book was written, on a region that is so often overlooked. With such an important topic, I'll take away everything bad I ever said about Mr. Friedman. My only regret on this book is that I did not read it earlier. This book is great for someone with very little information on the region or the expert on the region. Read it as soon as you can.
4 I found this book a great read.  Especially, if you're like me and don't have much prior knowledge of Middle Eastern politics, history and culture, you will find in this book a wealth of information.  Friedman was based in the Middle East as a foreign correspondant for the NY Times for many years, so he relates his experiences and thoughts about a very complicated geo-political region with the clarity of a veteran journalist.  His knowledge of the region is thorough and from first-hand experience and he writes for a wide audience.  Although this book is lengthy, you will find yourself engrossed in the writing and will emerge much more educated for having read this.  The context for the book is the 1980s, but many of the lessons are still pertinent today.  Furthermore, many of the conflicts he describes are integral for understanding contemporary Middle East politics and to put current events in historical perspective.  If you have an interest in the Middle East, take the time to read this.
5 For anyone who is seriously interested in the Middle East, this book is a "must read."  Mr. Friedman gets to the heart of what the different players in this region are thinking and what their motivation is.  Don't get me wrong, this is certainly not a history book.  If you would like to learn the history of Israel, then please read "Righteous Victims" by Morris.  If you read both of these books, you'll be extremely well educated about what makes this part of the world tick and why there are so many difficult problems.Mr. Friedman does an amazing job of getting personal and relevant information from so many different people.  He is truly a reporter extraordinaire.  Worried that his Jewish background will make him biased about this subject?  Don't be.  He holds everyone's feet to the fire and never holds back his issues with all sides.I am truly saddened by the number of people who are overly opinionated about this subject and yet have so little knowledge.  I want to take them by the shoulders and yell:  "Go buy this book!!!"
4 "From Beirut to Jerusalem" ranks as one of the best books I've read pertaining to the Middle East. Once I picked it up, I couldn't put it back down. (I know, sounds cliched, but it's true!) I've read a number of other books on Middle Eastern politics and culture, but few have captured the essence of the region more accurately than Friedman's version! The author's personal accounts glaze the book with an authentic and authoritative worldview about the many political and social facets that hold root in both Beirut and Jerusalem. Some of the stories are outright hilarious, and those readers who haven't been to the region (myself included) will find themselves enlightened by a view of the Middle East not found on the evening news.  The author's personal stories are the treasure of this book, bringing the reader into a world of polar opposites - war/peace, religious/aetheist, democratic/totalitarian.  A great book!
5 Well, I am a Thomas Friedman fan.  I will say that right out.For anyone interested in the Middle East--and who is not these days?--this should be required reading.Friedman, who speaks both Arabic and Hebrew, is a Middle East specialist and the foreign affairs correspondent for "The New York Times."  Unlike polemicists, he has well reasoned thoughts on what needs to be done to have peace in the Middle East.Post September 11th--and with war looming in Iraq--I presume he will be revising this book again.Even with the caveat that it was revised before 9/11/01, it is still definitely worth reading and very well written.  I read it going back on the DC Metro, so it is an easy read.
4 It's hard to say anything good about this book that hasn't been said dozens of times already, but Tom Friedman has produced one of the most important books on the modern Middle East that exists today.  From Beirut to Jerusalem is a wonderful mix of contemporary history and reporting from someone who clearly cares about the region.  Friedman is remarkably fair in his approach and doesn't give a free pass to anyone, Jew or Arab.The book's only real flaw is that at times it can feel like a bunch of little stories and anecdotes rather than a book with a clear beginning, middle, and end.  Part of this is probably the book's length.  At 571 pages, it's a long read even though Friedman is an excellent writer.  Another reason for this is that the subject doesn't lend itself to quick and easy explanation.  Nonetheless, anyone that wants to understand the Middle East today will be at a serious disadvantage if they don't read this book.If understanding the modern Middle East is your goal, then you would do well to read From Beirut to Jerusalem.  Even though the book only covers two countries directly, the content can be easily extended to the rest of the region.  And even though the book was written a decade and a half before the summer 2006 between Israel and Hezbollah, it goes a long way in explaning that particular conflict.
4 Up until the last few chapters (and the intro), you almost think that Friedman is writing this book from a totally unbiased viewpoint, with no ties to the Middle East. I really enjoyed understanding a little more about the Israeli/ American Israeli situation and peoples. With the Middle East being such a intricate web of politics, you'd have to read quite a few books to START understanding what is happening. From Beirut to Jerusalem is a definite must.
5 Thirty years before My Promised Land (Ari Shavit's wonderful book) Tom Friedman also takes us on the grand tour.  In Lebanon he relates to us an up close and personal taste of life amid war and chaos and suffering.  In Israel, he wanders through the mist of questions that exist even in his own mind concerning the path being taken by Israel's leaders.  We can see the country through the minds of Americans from a distance and through the minds of the various religious and non-religious citizens of Israel.  Mr. Friedman is an impassive and, at the same time, an interested party.  He shows us the many conflicts that arise when a country becomes independent and is still finding its way in the world.  Americans can relate to that story....we are still developing our own country and trying to hoist ourselves up to the bar of our own ideals.  Israel's story, though, seems to be unique in the history of mankind and we must wish them well.  Tom Friedman is still teaching and informing the public on many fronts.  He is a master.
5 In the 1980's Friedman could not feel that the Israeli incursion into Lebanon was sound policy.  He wrote the articles for THE NEW YORK TIMES  detailing the massacres in Palestinian camps by the Phalangist forces.  Likud blamed Sharon's unsuccessful war in Lebanon on the Labor Party.In Lebanon Amin Gemayel tried to exclude the Shiites and Druse leaders.  Gemayel did not foster national reconciliation.  The democracy Lebanon had in the past was a sectarian balance of power.  Lebanon still has more books published than other countries in the Arab world and still has a freer press.Both the Labor and Likud parties in Israel fell in love with the ancient biblical lands acquired in 1967.  After Labor was ousted the settlements grew.  After Begin came to power in 1977 and after the Camp David Accords in 1978 it was obvious that he could not annex the West Bank.  A pragmatic policy was pursued.David Ben Gurion had realized his first consituency was the facts, the second one his people.  In contrast, Peres, Rabin, and Shamir were weak leaders.  They were technocrats.  By the late 1980's the author believes that Israel and its leaders were afflicted with symbiotic paralysis.  The Zionist revolution was meant to liberate.Because of the holocaust, Israelis have the sense of living on borrowed time.  In the 1950's the holocaust was a secret shame.  The heroic people were the Zionists.  This changed after the Eichmann trial in 1961.  Survivors and victims were no longer seen as sheep led to the slaughter.  Awareness was heightened in 1967.  The 1973 war brought an even heavier burden.  Israelis live in a very dynamic state.  An observer believes that what really holds Israel together is a kind of tribal security.  About half of the Israelis are unobservant.The question of Palestine went into remission in the years between 1948 and 1967.  Palestinian identity was born after 1967.  Previously many inhabitants of Gaza took on Egyptian attributes and West Bank residents even had the possibility of becoming Jordanian citizens.  Palestinians suffered an identity bind after 1967.Some Israelis do not want to be colonizers.  Jewish settlers find their sense of home in history, in the Bible.  Others rarely visit the occupied territories.  In 1985 Israel revived the British Mandate policy of administrative detention.  Defense lawyers were not allowed to see the evidence.  Defense was a mockery.  There was a mask of law--military courts.  The Shin Bet, the security forces, used interrogation and confession to avoid burdening the court system.  Interrogators chose to hide the use of physical pressure and lie to the Court.  Events between Palestinians and Israelis are often seen as acts of war.  The author believes the Israelis engage in moral double book keeping.The Intifada, starting in 1987, was triggered by the death of a Palestinian boy.  The use of stones consituted massive nonlethal civil disobedience.  Israel has a high profile in the Western news media.  News from Israel is intuitively familiar and relevant to the Western ear.  Modern Israel is both unsettling and exciting to the Christian world.  Israel is expected to be a yardstick of morality and a receptacle of hope.  The Palestinians have recieved more attention than any other refugee community.
4 Great information about the Bible and helps in understanding it more clearly.  Am currently studying Revelations and like to read all I can about the Bible.
2 The writing wasn't terrible, but it certainly wasn't good either.  Much of the book read as if it was filler and stories he heard from someone else.  The author's account of his time in Beirut was not informative and rather bland.  I have read other accounts that really go in depth into either the political, military or personal experiences of those on the ground, but this book did not add anything to what's been written.  His analysis of the Beirut conflicts left much to be desired.I remember a part of the book where Friedman writes about his time in the Commodore Hotel and how this hotel was the place to be for any journalist in Beirut, and then reading Robert Fisk's Pity the Nation where he talks about all the hack journalists hiding out in the Commodore writing their stories from second hand accounts instead of going out and reporting the story with their own accounts.  I don't know if Fisk was right, but I thought his book was much better than Friedman's.I did find his writing on Israel to be informative (still bland though).  His analysis of the psychology of the Israeli people I found to be highly insightful, and it gave me a perspective which I had never seen before.  The only way to understand the Israeli people is to try and understand how the Holocaust and being surrounded by hostile people has affected their national psyche.  The Israeli perspective was the best thing I took away from this book, but not even this was able to redeem the work for me.One of the reasons I like reading reporter's books is that they are usually well written, entertaining and written with a passion or flare that the academics usually lack.  This book had none of that.  I felt bored and found myself having to concentrate pretty hard to stay in touch with what I was reading.  I would have been fine with the shoddy writing had the analysis or the history been better but it just wasn't.  There are just many books out there that treat the subject with much more competency.If you're looking for a good book to learn more about this topic, keep looking.
4 Friedman is certainly as good an authority as any on the subject having won a Pulitzer Prize for international reporting and having lived as part of the chaos for a good while.  If you can get past the name dropping and the slight pro-Israeli bent (no, I'm not pro-Palestinian either, I just want the two sides to kiss and makeup b/c there some fault on both sides dating thousands of years), you'll live vicariously through Friedman as an eyewitness to the obstacles to peace that are ingrained in the multitude of "tribes" in the middle east.  The book was first published in 1989 with an update in the early 90s I believe and I read it in 2001 - it is eerie and depressing that the players in the conflict are still rehashing the same issues over a decade later (and as they were in 1948, 1967, etc. etc).  Like I said, tough to slog your way through the gazillion anecdotes on this world leader telling that joke to Friedman in his presidential office, but there is no chronicle like it.
2 To be succinct, "From Beirut to Jerusalem" is a disappointment. It covers Mr. Freidman's experiences as New York Times and UPI reporter in those fractious Mideast cities. There is no doubt that the author has written a judiciously balanced and fair report. Though a Jew, Freidman is the antithesis of a Zionist. He tries to portray the Arab/Palestinian struggle, though he obviously has a better perspective on the cause of the Israelis. The first half of FBTJ deals with his posting in Beirut and this section is pure gold. Friedman excellently explains the backgrounds of all the fractious religious and political factions that tore Lebanon apart. Beirut was a true combat zone during his stay. Life was dangerous. Danger and death were random. We read in shock as his very apartment house is blown up- by a fellow tenant, no less! He fully and I believe, accurately reports Israel's disastrous excursion into southern Lebanon and the suicide attack on the U.S. Marine compound in 1983. And then? And then the author is transferred to Israel. While the first part of FBTJ is clearly written with a beginning, middle and end, the second half is a hodge podge. The Israel portion jumps around, repeats itself and spins back again with no continuity at all. This reviewer strongly suspects that two different editors worked on FBTJ. The one with talent handled the Beirut half. Moreover, FBTJ is sadly out of date. My version ended ten years ago-a veritable eternity for that part of the world. Hopefully, updated versions available. Finally, this reviewer's pet peeve came home to roost. The MAPS are of negative use! In a region where geography is so vital how can any responsible author or publisher be so careless? The bottom line is that FBTJ is a financial success but an artistic failure. I fear the author is far more talented at short, focussed newspaper columns written under pressure of deadline than the longer fare of FBTJ.
1 I had hoped that I would be able to obtain so much from this book, the cover being adorned with so many accolades about the depth and detail of this study, but instead I found it to be extremely frustrating and immeasurably selective.With the author being Jewish, I had anticipated a more learned assessment of Jewish history , especially in relation to the Jewish heritage pertaining to the Land of Israel as outlined in Scripture. I was mistaken on all counts.Much is made in this book about the contentious issues between Arab and Jew over the so called 'West Bank' (Judea and Samaria) and Gaza, with considerable criticism being directed at the Israeli side for it's insistence upon security aspects, it's Jewish claim to the territories and alleged intransigence in face of apparent Arab offers of 'peace'. Yet I feel that there is insufficient recognition of the Arab intent and declarations to eradicate the Jewish presence not only from these territories but from the entire Middle East.I was dismayed at what the book describes as the expulsion of the Jews "from Palestine by the Romans two thousand years ago". Such basic ineptitude in relation to historic facts and terminology as this underlies so much in this work. The Romans changed the name of the Jewish state into Syria Palastina (eventually being 'anglicised' to Palestine) in 135AD when they expelled the Jews from their homeland, at the same time changing the name of Jerusalem to Aelia Capitolina. 'Palestine' prior to that time did not even exist. The book also omits any reference to the continued presence of some Jews in the territories even since that time to the present day.In relation to the coverage of the conflict in the Lebanon, there is some very credible and commendable reporting, yet I feel at times as if the reporter only notices the missiles and bullets flying in one direction, omitting those being targeted at his fellow Israelis. I also feel a lack of any reference to the cause of the Israeli presence in the Lebanon in the first place.The intimidation and manipulation of the press during the Lebanon conflict by the PLO and others is illuminating, as is the coverage of the tribal fighting between various factions, yet these are only temporary breaks from the criticism directed at the Israelis. An attitude that even extends to the coverage of the outbreak of the Palestinian intifadas in 1987 where there seems to be an extended, ever present pleasure by the writer of condemning his own people.To describe this book as remotely objective or historically accurate is a distortion of stupendous magnitude, with extensive selective omission and misinformation on so many vital subjects.For those interested in objectivity, might I respectfully recommend Benjamin Netanyahu's book "A Durable Peace; Israel And It's Place Among the Nations" in order that the Israeli side of the story can be obtained. It is certainly not included here. Thank you.
5 This book was required reading for my high school course on the Middle East in my junior year.  This bookk began my study of the Middle East, which I am majoring in.  I must warn you, however, this book made me and a few of my friends read every additional book, every column, and every article on the subject that we come across.  For those who dont want to be inflicted with this disease, do not buy this book.Friedman makes  the reader turn every page with stories of dinners paused until the Cease-fire begins, the bombing of the US embassy, and the deadly checkpoints on the roads into the mountains.  Friedman is an informative journalist and a entrancing story-teller.  The book is flawless, and tells the history with an objective viewpoint not common in Americans or Jews.His other masterpiece, The Lexus and the Olive Tree is another MUST read for anyone wishing to understand the newspaper, have a future in any business, or just begin to quench their knowledge of the post-Berlin Wall world...
5 I have a thirst to learn as much as possible about the Middle East, Islam, and in particular the conundrum of Palestine and Israel.  And in a quest to fill this void, I have read approximately 10 books on the subject and to date the most fulfilling book has been Friedman's "From Beirut to Jerusalem."Although, Friedman's book mainly covers the years 1979-1989 all the issues, heated emotions, details for contempt and vehement disagreement that were alive and well for those times are very much at the forefront of the conflict today.  Friedman does an especially adept job at not taking sides but exploring the issues from the Palestinian and the Israeli camps equallyHis reporting from Beirut serves as more of a footnote in history, but his observations from Israel go further.  They capture the media's fascination with Isreal and explain why each event in the West Bank, Golan Heights, and Gaza Strip are looked at under the microscope in the Western world.  Three major religions feel intimately connected with the land and understand the geographical references that are reported in the press.Freidman's book does the best as a complete reference for Israel and Palestine.  He mixes historical understanding, current event reporting, well-worded and logical opinions, mixed with personal stories and vignettes that leave the reader with a more complete understanding than you would get from other books that only cover one or two approaches.  It is a shame that in modern day Israel there hasn't been any Martin Luther King Jr's or Gandhi's that has risen among either side.  Freidman's book though gives a person a better understanding of why that is and just how difficult a path it will be to arrive at a solution.
5 A very even-handed and sympathetic discussion of the ongoing Israeli/Palestinian conflict.  This work is vital to understanding its genesis and development over time.  Although some years have passed, this book remains as relevant today as it was the day it was written!My only criticism is that the text is a bit over-long and occasionally repetitive.  But this is more the fault of the editors than of the author.
5 I was first attracted to Friedman by reading "The Lexus and the Olive Tree," which was a fantastic book on its own.  I then became more interested in his articles in the New York Times.  However the book that started it all, "From Beirut to Jerusalem" always seemed to elude me even though it had won many accolades including the National Book Award.  I finanlly decided to read it and finished it almost as soon as I picked it up.Friedman's style it very engaging and I love the way he illustrates his points anecdotally.  He has an uncanny ability to reduce very complicated issues to a level understood by a wide array of readers.  "From Beirut to Jerusalem" can be read as a book on politics or a work in cultural geography.  Furthermore, there are many other disciplines that Friedman seems to address in recounting his years of experience living in both Beirut and Jerusalem.  The book is not a comprehensive history of the conflicting regions nor is it an outright endorsement of the state of Israel.  In fact, Mr. Friedman, who is a Jew, has some rather interesting things to say concerning the state of Israel and their behavior over the last couple of decades.  He recognizes the legitimacy of the Palestinian's argument and has an even-handed approach to the issue.My only complaint is that I wish Friedman would continually update the book since the relationship between the Palestinians and the Jews is one of the most dynamic relationships in world politics today.  The situation is always evolving.As is stated by Seymour Hersh on the back cover of my edition, "If you're only going to read one book on the Middle East, this is it."  I agree wholeheartedly.
5 To find some sort of explanation for the recent terrorist attacks on the US, I started with this book hoping for some sort of history of the middle east and an understanding of what makes north american society so different from that in the middle east. The book has been a great introduction. It is perfect for a broad understanding of the type of conflict that has existed in the region. Most interesting, and at times horrific, are the clear explanations of the lengths to which the people of the region, or specifically its leaders, are willing to go to to shelter their beliefs and their way of life. It is eye openning and most importantly, extremely easy to read. Anyone starting this book who hasn't had any previous interest in middle eastern history will find a surprise when they see how difficult it is to put down.
5 Navigating through the complexities of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is hard enough; but doing so whilst remaining neutral and objective is almost impossible. Yet this is precisely what "From Beirut to Jerusalem" does: it takes a very thorough and candid look at the recent history of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in a fair and balanced view.Thomas Friedman, of the New York Times, narrates his almost decade-long adventure of reporting the Middle East, first in Beirut and then in Jerusalem. The product is an elegant and well-written book that combines his journalistic attention to precision, detail, and anecdotes with his historian's drive for proving context, perspective, and analysis."From Beirut to Jerusalem" contains a great deal of adventure (who says reporters can't live James Bond-like lives?). But in the end, what makes this a great book is its ability to tell the story of the Middle East in the 1980s, while dissecting the important political and historical forces that define the geopolitical environment of the conflict. Written for the layman and expert alike, this is surely one of the best books on the Middle East.
4 Although Thomas Friedman's From Beirut to Jerusalem is currently enjoying a new wave of popularity, the potential reader should know that this is very distinctly a story about the Middle East in the 1980s, and offers but the merest foreshadowing of current developments in the Arab-Israeli conflict.  That being said, Friedman's work still offers a relatively good account of the roots of the conflict (explaining, for instance, how Palestinians who actually seemed on their way to assimilating into Israeli society instead dramatically rejected it with the 1987 intifada).  The author's sensitive rendition of the Lebanese civil war in the first half of this work is possibly the highlight of the book.Friedman's kinetic (and sometimes glib) writing style is an advantage insofar as it leads him to cover all the bases -- giving &quot;equal time&quot; to describing both increasing secularization and countervailing religious movements in modern Israel.  Even though Friedman is definitely in the &quot;peace&quot; camp, he is relatively fair to those who aren't.  The book's disadvantage is that a sophisticated analysis of Israeli motives is not matched by a similarly insightful analysis of Palestinian desires -- and this leads the author to overstate the prospects for peace.  The main stumbling blocks of the &quot;peace process&quot; today -- the fanatical devotion of the suicide bombers on the one hand and Arafat's unwillingness to crush the radicals who enjoy broad support in the West Bank and Gaza on the other -- are mentioned as afterthoughts in Friedman's concluding chapter.In the end, Friedman makes the strongest potential argument for undertaking a peace process, one that is seldom mentioned in the Western media -- that idea that &quot;disgorging&quot; the Arab territories would enable Israel to be more authentically Jewish, forestalling a Palestinian population boom that would eventually overwhelm Israel if continued under the status quo.  Friedman identified self-interested motivations on both sides for a Palestinian state.  Over ten years later, it is not clear that a West Bank/Gaza state is really what the Palestinians are after.  If it is was, why all the bombs right after the peace process began? What would have possessed Arafat to reject full statehood at Camp David last year? The answer probably lies in the vain hope that Arabs can eventually overwhelm Israel from within -- creating a state instead of Israel, not a state beside Israel.  The Middle East is indeed a far more dangerous place than Friedman even realized back then.
4 Friedman uses his experience in the middle-east, as well as his access to the powers-that-be to present a good commentary of the strife-torn Lebanon and Israel.Quite interesting to note was that most politicians in Israel are unable to provide one sound reason for following the policies of Palestinian subjugation. Most of them seem to be biding for time, hoping that the something dramatic would happen in the future which would quietly subside the Palestinian demand for a homeland. No political party knows for sure the advantages of forced Israeli settlement in the the Palestinian territories captured in 1967. No political party dares to clearly state what outcome would satisfy them enough to co-exist with the Palestinians.The only reason for giving this 4-stars is because the analyses of Beirut/ Lebanon leaves a lot desired. Friedman doesn't even take a jab at suggesting what could be done to stop the civil war. Instead it seems to be more a commentary on the daily lives of the Lebanese as they cope with and become immune to the everyday acts of terror.
4 This book is a great introduction to the Middle East and the conflicts that you see in the news every day.  The problem with the news is that it is difficult to learn about why certain things are going on and what led to those events.  BEIRUT is not a history book, but it does provide a historical perspective, and it also provides analyses of why these things are happening.  Most importantly, it gives a personal perspective, and it's filled with stories of his experiences during the decade or so that he spent in the Middle East.Friedman is at his best in this book.  He manages to refrain from taking sides while writing about issues that people tend to get very passionate and emotional about.  Some people think he's pro- this or that, but I disagree.  While he certainly endorses the state of Israel, he acknowledges the mistakes it has made and the flaws it still has.  He criticizes everyone, and the Israelis and Israeli leadership are no exception.What does come through is the concern that he has for this religiously and historically significant region of the world, and for the tragedies experienced by those who reside there.  It is one person's view of the Middle East politics, and taken as such, it is very much worth reading if you are confused by the chaos there and want to know more about the region.
5 The term &quot;must read&quot; gets bandied about too easily, but for the student of the Middle East or of international relations in general, this book probably qualifies.  I began reading &quot;From Beirut to Jerusalem&quot; as a high school senior, just after returning from overseas as an exchange student during the Persian Gulf crisis.  Seeing that I was eager to broaden my understanding of Middle Eastern affairs, a friend recommended this book to me.  Thanks to the pains Friedman took in writing the introduction, there is no need to be intimidated by the subject matter.  With utmost patience, clarity, and simplicity, he lays out the history of Zionism, the formation of the Jewish state, the Arab-Israeli wars, the roots of the Lebanese civil war, and even the differences between Shi'ite and Sunni Muslims, Marionite Christians, and the Druse.  If a student reads no other part of the book, he or she ought to at least read and re-read the introduction to gain some historical perspective on this ongoing conflict, and to be able to give context to current events in the region.  Friedman reports from credentialed experience, having served as the New York Times Bureau chief in both Beirut and Jerusalem during some of the choppiest years of the 1980's.  His anecdotes and travel notes are fascinating, and his dry wit and contemplative perspective are never far from his words.  His writing style is lucid, thoughtful, and easy to read.  While being informative and factual, this book never ceases being interesting.  Even as a high school student prone to distraction, this book had me hooked.  Years later I still refer back to it and am thankful to have read it.
5 Before Friedman became known for a string of topsellers on a wide array of topics, he was a topnotch NY Times correspondent in the Middle East. His knowledge of the  region -- in this case Israel and Beirut in particular -- are hard-won. Rarely will you read such insightful and illuminating writing about such a complex and polarized topic. Friedman has all the qualities of great journalists -- fair, nonpartisan, tough, a perceptive reader of people and a great storyteller.
5 The author informs us about past history of places in Middle East, where so much conflict is nowhappening. Any One who is interested in why, and how, and what happened many years ago willbe helped to understand what is happening now.
2 I did not enjoy this book. The book is very disjoint does not give the reader an understanding of this very important topic. Instead he more or less just tells you a bunch of stories of things that he encountered while in the middle east. No real connection between them, just a bunch of stuff he came across over his 30 years of reporting. There's a lot of unnecessary information in these stories. I found the examples/scenarios far too specific and as a result the writing did not help me understand the BIG PICTURE.
3 This is one of the first books that I read trying to get up to speed on the modern day dispute between the nation of Israel and the Arabs. It has a great chronological outline. It is entertaining and informative. It is also thoughtful if not very hopeful. The author's stay in Beirut is enough for me not to want to fly over there on my next vacation. His report highlights the nature of a place where violence has become the ruling authority.The author, of course, feels that he is being objective and he is  - if you basically consider the Arabs to be a totally whacked out, insane group of people who are impossible to deal with and are bent of the total destruction of Israel and maybe the world.He concludes the book by saying in a round-a-bout way that the only solution is a decisive and all out war between the Jews and the Arabs. There is basically no satifactory compromise - one or the other must be vanquished.He tries hard not to come to such a conclusion all through the book but by the time we get through all the modern history, this is basically the final conclusion.I feel that no matter who you read on the subject you will not find an objective, impartial interpretation. You can try Alan Dersherwhitz or Noam Chomsky or Jimmy Carter. Actually though at the name of Jimmy Carter most people jump out of their political skins, but he may be the most objective and hopeful. He is not a Jew and he is not an Arab. He is a Christian though and on top of that he seems to be bent on peace as a realistic possibility. That's his problem, I suppose.Richard Noble - The Hobo Philosopher - Author of:Mein Kampf - An Analysis of Book One
5 I've been staring at a copy of Thomas Friedman's 'From Beirut to Jerusalem' on my shelf for nearly a year now, meaning to read it but always drawn to something else.  Finally, recent events demanded that I learn more and I finally pulled it down, dusted it off, and read it.  I'm so glad I did, especially now.The book is not the easiest read, since it delves into a lot of regional history and politics, which gets complex no matter what you do.  Friedman's writing style, however, goes a long way towards making the text quite accessible for just about anyone, and his unique perspective on the events that he witnessed and covered in his role as a journalist keeps it interesting and always relevant.What I really appreciated about the way Friedman presents his story is that it really is HIS story.  He is obviously a man gifted with a keen sense of observation, and so he picks up on many details others might miss, such as the faces of Israeli soldiers or the opinions of Lebanese taxi drivers.  But still, the story is told mainly through events he observed directly -- he just happened to be there for many of the events that shaped the Middle East as it is today.  He tells it in both large and small terms, from some of the politicians he met and interviewed to discussions he had with neighbors and colleagues while living in the region.  The result is that you get the broad spectrum of what was going on in the region, particularly in the 1980's, a critical decade of events.I also appreciated Friedman's fairness throughout the book. From his perspective on the Lebanese government to the Palestinian intifada to the Israeli occupation to the American involvement in the region, he deals with all of the players fairly, whether big or small, famous or unknown.  That's not to say he doesn't have criticisms -- certainly, he has plenty to say about everyone...but one is never left with the feeling that he has been too harsh on one side and lenient on the other.  Friedman's willingness to observe with an unbiased eye and ear is key to the strength of this book.Even with the newer added chapters, dealing with the late 1980's and early 1990's, this book cannot be considered a "complete" history of the Middle East, or even of the events of the last 50 years.  However, it is not meant to be that, I think.  What Friedman has documented here is an excellent primer for anyone interested in learning more about how we got to where we are today in Lebanon and Israel and Palestine.  The book is not an end in itself, but for someone who wants to learn more about the region that is in the news almost every day, this is an excellent place to start.The only way to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past is to learn from them. As such, 'From Beirut to Jerusalem' should be required reading today.
5 When U.S. and U.K. launched their war against Iraq this March, I just wanted to learn something about the Middle East in order to keep pace with the daily news. Luckily, I had bought this book.The major focus of Friedman's work is on the relationship between the Israelis and Palestinians. Through the life experience of the author in Lebanon and Israel - whether it is a conversation with a taxi-driver or his listening to a speech by a politican - he can let you feel how the Jews and Arabs feel. The author also gives an excellent analysis on the game played by Yasir Arafat and provides us with a comprehensive coverage on the rules of survival in the region.My other favourite is Chapter 8. The lives of 241 U.S. Marines were lost meaninglessly in "peacekeeping" exercise in Lebanon in 1983. This is mainly due to that U.S. did not have a deeper understanding on the political scene of Lebanon and therefore needed to pay the price of over-estimating its diplomacy capablilities . As the Iraqi war has now almost come to an end, the America will likely need to deploy political and military forces in Baghdad so as to "re-build" the country. In order to avoid repeating past mistakes, American politicans really need to take a serious and careful look on this Chapter.After reading this book, I am now very interested in the history of the Middle East. I am sure I will continue to search for other materials to explore other stories of the region. If you are also a beginner of the subject, "From Beirut to Jerusalem" is definitely the first book you must read.Mr. Friedman does not waste any one word in the book. Strongly recommended.
5 If journalism is the first rough draft of history, Friedman's version may require only a light edit from future generations. Concisely cutting through the relentless pattern of attack and counter-attack that has characterized the Middle East for more than 50 years, Friedman finds a balance between seemingly bloodthirsty enemies. He delves into the cultural development of the peoples of the region from tribal origins, analyzing how their early struggles for survival color current events. We from getAbstract recommend this book as essential reading for any thoughtful person who wants to better understand the historical obstacles to peace in the Middle East.
5 This Book is Tom's Personal Account of his experiences in first Beirut and then Jerusalem. It is very exciting reading. The only criticism I have is that he does not mention the 400,000 demonstration in 1982, Headed by Peace  Now, Shimon Peres, Amnon Rubenstein and many others, against Arik Sharon,  demanding an Inquiry to the Sabra-Shatila Massacre (By Christian  Phalangists). The book is excellant reading 10 years after and shows how  difficult things are in the MUDDLE EAST. Especially the 1980's stalemate in  Israeli Politics...
5 The book was in very good condition and arrived promptly.  I'm so pleased I may order additional copies.
4 From Beirut to Jerusalem provides a concise and vivid primer on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in the form of Friedman's personal experience in his New York Times postings to both cities. Whatever one may think of his personal opinions, Friedman has spent many years on the ground talking to individuals on both sides -- his take therefore deserves more respect and patience than that of the endless armchair ideologues always ready to lend a rant.That said, the Beirut section of the book is the stronger, because of its richness of fascinating detail in describing the city's unique society and fall. Once in Jerusalem there is more pontification, though much of it is learned and interesting.Though the book wanders a bit down the back stretch, it's hard to imagine a better one book introduction to the 1980s Middle East than this.
5 This book is vital reading for anyone interested in the Israeli-Arab conflict throughout Palestine. Friedman, a distinguished journalist, writes the book like a series of extended columns about the region, and his writing is filled with history, anecdote, and an oftentimes startling sense of perception. He begins in Beirut, where he tells of him barely missing fatal bombings, hiding his identity as a Western Jew, and becoming mentally attuned to the chaotic world that he is suddenly thrown in. He clearly lays out the conflict in Lebanon between Maronite, Druse, Phalangist, Muslim, and Jew, and through countless stories great and small gives the reader a vivid picture of politics and despair of the region. After that he moves to Jerusalem, and details the tumultuous post-1948 history in an accessible way. We learn of the machinations leading up to the intifada and the effect the numerous wars have had on these people living in the Middle East. What makes this book such an achievement is the way Friedman captured how the regular people, irregardless of religion, have been feeling and been put through by the times they live in, and how world leaders have been reluctant to help for a myriad of reasons. Most of all the book serves as a fascinating portrait of a country and a people in turmoil, written in Friedman's simple yet intellectual tone. Very important reading.
3 I was excited about this book but in the end it disappointed me.  It purports itself to be a jurnalistic account of the Lebanese Civil war and the Israeli situation in Jerusalem. Unfortunatly the book consists of half and half reporting and cute little stories.  We learn about the bombing of the jurnalists own house and we learn about the newsrooms of Beirut.  While we should celebrate the authors guts in covering these viscious times it seems to me the reading was light and weak.  More a travel jurnal then what I expected.  The book, like everything on Lebanon, is biased, it takes the side of the palistinians brushing over their savagry in ruining a nice country while critisizing the christians for daring to defend themselves.  It critisizes the Israelis  for 'indiscriminate' shelling and says nothing fo the palistinians indiscriminate shalling that also ruines lives.  The chapters on Israel are insteresting as an American Jews critique of the Jewish state, but most of the observations are repugnant.  This idea that israel is some vast memorial to the holocaust, some remnant, is a revulting notion and it seems one elucidated by the author, he does not seem to understand the greatness of israel as the only country where free speech and free religion exist in the middle east, as well as democracy.
4 A number of other Amazon reviews have pointed out the major error of Friedman. He bends over backwards to be ' objective' and in the process distorts reality . He has a visceral dislike for the Jews who live in Judaea and Samaria and cannot write of them with sympathy. He is one of those who argues a ' false symmetry' between the Palestinians who advocate terror, and the Israelis whose military action is in self- defense. He pretends to be fair, but lacks real judgment and the courage to see that one side in the Middle East conflict is far more right than the other. In this he is the perfect representative of the paper he represents, the NY Times which for years has worked to blame Israel when it should have been defending the Middle East's only democracy.
5 I did not know much about the Mid East conflict till I picked up this book. Ignorantly, I assumed that the crux of the matter was the Israeli-Palestinian conflict which had arisen after the mass migration of Jews to Jerusalem after WWII and the founding of a modern Jewish state in 1948. Of course this is an important contribution to the problems in the Mid East, but Friedman's book brought out the other players in the conflict and how the  underlying (though not all that subtle sometimes) manipulation of the other nations in the region were crucial in aggravating an already troublesome political and religious situation. I was hooked to the book from page one and the introduction and historical background Friedman gives to the Mid East and the continual unresolved conflict provides ignoramuses like myself a good foundation from which to better comprehend Mid Eastern politics and culture. I wouldn't say I am an expert on Mid East now, but Friedman's book has definitely given me some basic knowledge and I can now look more closely and explore deeper into subjects which interest me in the Mid East. Informative, and engaging, Friedman's book is required reading for anyone interested in the complexities of the Middle East.
5 In a very exhaustive account of Middle Eastern politics, Friedman narrates, based on his experience of ten years as a journalist in the region (5 years each in Beirut and Jerusalem).  Starting from 1896, when an Austrian journalist Theodore Herzl, the founder of modern Zionism, published a pamphlet titled "The Jewish State", leading to the present day conflicts. This book is a must read for all those who want to get a good background on the conflict in the mid east. With so much detail to reckon with, it is very difficult to produce a summary of this book. Nevertheless I attempted to do the same in this review.  The scene keeps changing between Lebanon, Israel and Arabs (represented by PLO first and later by Hamas).Some background on Lebanon. In 1916, the Skyes-Picot agreement carved up the Ottoman empire into Palestine for the British and Lebanon and Syria for the French. The post-World War I modern republic of Lebanon was based on a merger between the country's two then dominant religious communities, the Sunni Muslims and Maronite Christians.  The Maronites, an Eastern Christian Church founded in Syria around the fifth century by a monk named Maron, acknowledged the supremacy of the Pope and the Catholic Church in Rome, but also retained their own distinctiveness.  The second-largest religious community in the region were the Druse, a splinter sect of Islam, whose exact religious beliefs are a communal secret.  The Druse, too, had been drawn to Lebanon's mountaintops in order to practice their faith in solitude, without fear of conquering armies.The Muslims agreed to abandon their demands for unity with Syria, while the Maronites agreed to sever their ties with France and accept the notion that Lebanon would be an "Arab" country.  This unwritten agreement, known as the National Pact, also stipulated that the Lebanese President would always be a Maronite and that the parliament would always have a 6:5 ratio of Christians to Muslims-to ensure Christian Predominance-while the Prime Minister would always be a Sunni Muslim and the Speaker of the Parliament always a Shiite-to ensure the country's Arab-Muslim character. These arrangements broke down eventually as the ratio of the populations changed over time. It led to a brutal civil war in the 1970s and the 1980s. This is when the history of Lebanon got intertwined with that of Israel.Every region of the globe needs one city where the rules don't apply, where sin is the norm, and where money can buy anything or anyone. Asia had Hong Kong, Europe had Monaco and the Middle East had Beirut, the capital of Lebanon.Some background on Israel. Starting in 1930's Ben Gurion accepted the notion of partitioning Palestine into two states-one for the Jews and one for  the Palestinian Arabs-a program that was eventually adopted by the United Nations in 1947.  Ben-Gurion's archrival at the time, Menachem Begin, never accepted this accommodation with reality.  He rejected the UN partition plan and consistently held out for Jewish sovereignty over all the ancient land of Israel, from the Mediterranean to the Jordan River and beyond, in line with the original Zionist program. As a result, after 1948, Palestine was broken up into three different pieces-one chunk had been taken over by the Jews, another chunk in the Gaza Strip had been seized by the Egyptians, and a third chunk, the West Bank, had been carried off by the Jordanians.  Then came June 1967.  Israel, in the course of the 6 day war, occupied the West Bank and Gaza Strip, extending, in the process, Jewish control over virtually all the historical land of Israel originally sought by Zionism.In the early years of the state of Israel it was common for nataive-born Israelis to feel contempt for the Jews who died in the Holocaust, and even for some of those who survived, because they were viewed as sheep who simply went off to slaughter, while the Zionists were men of bold initiative, who went out and fought the British and the Arabs and built a Jewish state.After the Eichmann trial, Holocaust survivors were invited to speak in high schools  and for the first time the subject of the Holocaust was included in the Israeli twelfth-grade high school curriculum.  But it wasn't until five years later, the May 1967, that every Israeli got a whiff of the Holocaust in his or her own nostrils.  Symbolized by Yad Vashem, the massive hilltop memorial in Jerusalem honoring the 6 million Jews killed in the Holocaust.The Holocaust is well on its way to becoming the defining feature of Israeli society.  Even Sephardic and Oriental Jews who came to Israel from Muslim countries and who never experienced he Holocaust now treat it as part of their personal family memories.Some background about life in the desert. Observed Clinton Bailey, an Israeli expert on the Bedouin of the Sinai and Negev deserts, was always dominated by two overriding facts. First, in the desert, water and grazing resources were so limited that "everyone had to become a wolf and be prepared to survive at the expense of the other tribe.  There just weren't enough wells or grass to satisfy everyone all the time.  Often it came down to who was going to get the last blade of grass and you had to make sure it was you.  Second, in the desert there was no outside mediator or government to enforce the laws or to adjudicate disputes in a neutral way between tribes when they resorted to predatory behavior in order to survive. A tribe can make concessions to, or compromises with, their rivals, provided these concessions grow from proven strength or magnanimity in the wake of victory.Some background on PLO. In 1964, the Arab League, inspired by Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser, organized the Palestinian resistance groups under one umbrella, which became known as the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). Yasir Arafat became the head of PLO. Arafat did for the Palestinians what the Zionists did for the Jews: brought them from oblivion back into politics. In 1969, he wrested control of the PLO away from the discredited Arab states and turned it into an umbrella organization covering all the Palestinian guerrilla groups, from the far right to the far left.  Arafat then used the Arab conscience money to build a multibillion dollar investment portfolio that could sustain more than $200 million a year in welfare payments, scholarships, newspapers, radio stations, health payments, educational programs, trade unions, diplomatic missions, weapons purchases, and salaries to bureaucrats and guerrillas in Beirut and around the Middle East-making as many as 60,000 Palestinian families directly dependent on Arafat and the PLO for their economic well-being.  It was no coincidence that Arafat was first invited to address the United Nations in 1974, just as oil prices were going through the roof.  One cannot understand the rise of the PLO without connecting it to the rise of OPEC.Arafat passed up an excellent opportunity to make a clear-cut declaration about peace with Israel when the whole world was listening-when he was invited to address the United Nations on November 13, 1974.  5years later, Arafat would squander another excellent opportunity when Egyptian President Anwar Sadat negotiated the Camp David accords, which included a provision for Palestinian autonomy in the West Bank and Gaza that might have served as a springboard for the creation of a Palestinian state.Now back to the Civil war in Lebanon, Ariel Sharon knew how strong Israel was, and he believed that tiny Israel could drive the PLO out of Lebanon, install Bashir Gemayel as President, neutralize Syria and the Lebanese Muslims, get Lebanon to sign a peace treaty, and then force the Palestinians living in the West Banka nd Gaza Strip to accept Israeli rule. At the end of this initiative, Arafat was made to move out of Lebanon. Instead of turning West Beirut into his Stalingrad, as he vowed, Arafat moved on to Tunis, where he relocated his headquarters in the five-star Salwa Beach Hotel.  American involvement in Lebanon started with President Reagan agreeing to dispatch an 800-man Marine contingent to Beirut to facilitate the PLO withdrawal.The first significant peace attempts between Arabs and Israel was made in 1978. In order to obtain the peace treaty with Egypt, Begin had to agree to the 1978 Camp David accords, which recognized the "legitimate rights of the Palestinian people" and affirmed that the Palestinians would be allowed to establish a self-governing authority in the West Bank and Gaza Strip for a transitional period, after which the final status of these territories would be negotiated. Sadat agreed to demilitarize the Sinai Desert.  He consented not only to limit the number of Egyptian troops that could be stationed there and the weapons they could carry, but also to accept the presence of an American-dominated multinational peacekeeping force to  monitor the demilitarization.Going back to PLO, with the fall of the Soviet Union and the Berlin Wall, PLO lost out on the International scene. In 1991, UN General Assembly voted 111 to 12, and 13 abstentions, in favor of repealing the Zionism-equals-racism resolution. The only Communist countries that voted with the PLO were Cuba, North Korea, and Vietnam-not exactly a trio to count on in a pinch.  Instead of following his interests, Arafat followed the mob on the street and supported Iraqi President Saddam Hussein in his invasion of Kuwait on August 2, 1990.  The Gulf Arabs immediately turned off the money tap to the PLO, depriving it of hundreds of millions of dollars in annual aid and remittances from Palestinians.  And Kuwait added to Arafat's burdens by expelling thousands of Palestinians who had earned good livings in Kuwait for decades.  Arafat very quickly began experiencing a cash-flow problem.Some background on Israel's relations with rest of the world. It was only after Stalin's anti-Semitic rampage and Israel's open support for America in the Korean War that the Soviet Union faded permanently as a potential Great Power patron of the Jewish state.  But the instinct of Israeli leaders was still not to look toward Washington.  Instead, Israel in the late 1950s and early 1960s began a love affair with Charles de Gaulle's France, which became the Jewish state's main arms supplier.DeGaulle's romance with Israel ended with the Six Day War.  On the eve of that conflict, the French President imposed an arms embargo on Israel.  Until 1963, the United States had not sold weapons systems to Israel and was leery about becoming her patron for fear that this would damage ties with the emerging Arab oil powers.  However, after 1970, when the Soviets deepened their direct involvement with Egypt and backed a Syrian attempt to destabilize Jordan, the Nixon Administration felt compelled to supply Israel in order to maintain a regional balance of power as part of the global structure of d&eacute;tente which Nixon and Kissinger were trying to build with Moscow.Some background on why Israel is the darling of the western media. As it happens, the oldest, most widely known super story of Western civilization is the Bible: its stories, its characters, and its values constitute the main lens through which Western man looks at himself and at the world.  The Jews-the ancient Israelites-are the main characters in this biblical super story. The fact alone accounts for a  good deal of Israel's high visibility in the Western media.The Israeli Foreign Ministry commissions roughly one hundred freelance articles a year about different aspects of Israeli life, technology, and medicine and distributes them to roughly two thousand publications in the United States-from journals for dairy farmers to metropolitan newspapers.In addition, each year, the  Israeli Foreign Ministry brings to Israel at its own expense roughly 400-500 key opinion makers-journalists, priests, union leaders, student leaders, mayors, local politicians, and academics from communities all over the United States-to see the country and then return to their homes to talk or write about it.  Israelis embassy and nine consulates in the United States closely monitor all the newspapers and television new shows in their regions, large and small, and when "hostile" articles or editorials appear, their staffs will meet with the editors of those news organizations and encourage local jewish community activists to write letters to the editor or rebuttals, sometimes by the sackful.After Israel went from underdog to over dog, however, the mood of the European media shifted. There was a pronounced tendency in the  German, French, and Italian media to focus on Israel as a triumphant and ruthless occupier, a new Prussia, in what seemed to be a not-so-subtle attempt by these countries to absolve themselves of some of their own guilt for how their own Jews were brutalized during World War II.In 1986, for instance, Spain established diplomatic relations with Israel.  Some people see it as the final chapter in a great historical saga that began in 1492, with the expulsion of the Jews from Spain.Some background on the settlements issue. Between 1989 and 1992 the collapse of the Soviet Union flooded Israel with some 500,000 Jews from behind the former Iron Curtain, along with 100,000 Jews from other countries.  There fore, Shamir had to respond to the immigration challenge quickly and he did so by seeking loan guarantees from the United States, first $400 million and then $10 billion, in order to provide the economic foundations for Israel to house the Russian and other Eastern Bloc Jews.  Bush and Baker knew that Shamir was in a bind and they used their economic leverage to squeeze him into attending the Madrid peace conference-against all of his instincts-and entering into a dialogue with the Palestinians.Many Israeli political analysts believe that the key reason that Rabin was able to defeat Shamir in the July 1992 elections was because Shamir was perceived by the Russian immigrants as having failed in the task of absorbing them.  After Rabin succeeded Shamir in 1992, one of the many pressures on him to make a dramatic overture to the Palestinians was precisely so he could devote more resources and energy to the absorption task at home-a task that he knew could determine his political fate as well.Another reason why Begin was inclined to turn towards peace was that the old assumptions were not valid anymore. An Iraqi unit could launch a Scud missile from  the outskirts of Baghdad and terrorize Tel Aviv, and the strategic depth provided by the West Bank was meaningless.  The cushion this territory was supposed to provide between the front and daily life was no protection at all. This thinking led to the historic agreement  between Arafat and Rabin in 1993 which resulted in the Palestinian self-rule in Gaza Strip and Jericho. Israel withdrew from these areas.Some background on Hamas. The Islamic Resistance Movement, known by its Arabic acronym Hamas, experienced no cash shortage like PLO was.  Money was coming into Hamas from Iran, whose 1992-93 budget listed $20million for "Aid to the Palestinian Islamic Revolution."  Many believe money was also coming to Hamas from Saudi Arabia, if not from the government there, then from private Muslim institutions tolerated by the Saudi ruling family, as well as from Muslim groups in America.  As Arafat's bank balance went down, so did his influence on the street.  As Hamas's bank balance soared, so did its influence on the street, where its supporters made strong showings in student council and union elections. The settlements issue created the biggest revolt by Palestinians since the 1930s. Started without any backing from PLO, Intifada movement derived from the meaning "tremor, a shudder or a shiver."For years Israel had not only tolerated but nurtured Islamic fundamentalism in the territories as a way of weakening the PLO.  But as Hamas began to grow in influence and focus its attacks more on Jews than on Arafat, the Israelis deeply regretted having abetted its development at all.The following ideas took seed in this book, and later Friedman wrote another excellent book titled "The Lexus and the Olive tree". In many ways, the Lexus and the Olive tree were the symbols of the post-cold war world.  Some countries were emerging from the cold war intent on building a better Lexus, while others were emerging from the cold war intent on renewing ethnic and tribal feuds over who owned which olive trees.  The whole architecture of global power has changed.  Now instead of superpowers, there are supermarkets: the Tokyo bond market and the Frankfurt bond market and the Wall Street bond market.  They are the real powerhouses in the world today.  What determines the power of each country in these markets is determined by the ratings agencies like Moody's or Standard & Poor. And a country like Syria can't play the Frankfurt bond market off against the London bond market the way it once played off Moscow against Washington.In spite of all the vicissitudes in the relations between Israelis and Palestinians, leading to optimism at times, ultimately in the West Bank and Jerusalem, there is no room for peace without cost.  It will mean uprooting some Jewish settlers, which will be politically explosive for any Israeli government, and it will mean maintaining some Jewish settlers, which will be politically explosive for any Palestinian government. Till then, the Israelis will remain on top, and the Palestinians will make sure that the Israelis will never enjoy their position at the summit.
5 Friedman's first book, by my estimation, far outpaces all of his latest works that have gained such popularity. In this title, Friedman delves into the heart of two issues that have plagued Middle Eastern peace in the 20th century and even today. The book is divided, as noted on the title, into two parts, encompassing Friedman's time in Beirut, Lebanon during the Lebanese Civil War and Palestinian Occupation as well as during his time in Jerusalem covering the Palestinian conflict.Friedman, although admittedly Jewish, has deep misgivings about the actions of both sides in the Jewish-Palestinian conflict. His reporting throughout the book does not necessarily follow any party line, simply the views of a rationalist that has experienced war and terror firsthand. If this book has value, then, and I believe it does as a must-read for any interested in the reading, it is in the fact that "From Beirut to Jerusalem" is as balanced as one can get covering provocative issues. Friedman's sources are top-notch, at one point having sat down with Yasser Arafat while his PLO was in Lebanon. Friedman's writing is clear, informative, and highly sourced. This book is recommended with highest regards. I enjoyed the Lebanon section more than that of Jerusalem, but it truly is down to personal preference.
5 As Friedman always does, he writes in an engagingly personal way that helps the reader understand complex issues. This book is ostensibly about Friedman's time as a foreign correspondent in Beirut and then in Jerusalem in the 1980s, but it's really about the political situation in the Middle East during the time he was there (with helpful, cogent background and history).I really enjoyed this work very much, as I learned SO MUCH about the Middle East, particularly Lebanon/Beirut, that I did not know. It also reminded me of a book I thought was very powerful about Bosnia called "Love Thy Neighbor: A Story of War" by Peter Maas, who was the stringer for the Washington Post during the war in Bosnia. These books have similar premises: that reporters have more access than the average bear to the politics and tragedies of war and become experts themselves as they learn more and more and witness so many things that don't necessarily make it into their daily stories.This book is divided into three main sections: Beirut, Jerusalem and Washington. The last section deals with Friedman's prognoses for the future of the region and also with his Lexus and Olive Tree theme, which he developed very thoroughly in a book of that name. I thought the Beirut section was the most provocative, but I learned something on every page.The latter chapters in the Jerusalem section dealt with the interesting issues of why Israel gets so much Western press coverage and the relationship between Israeli Jews and the rest of the Jewish people in the Diaspora, particularly in the United States. I was not aware, for example, that at the time Friedman wrote this that there were almost no reform or conservative synagogues or congregations in Israel. Citizens were either secular Jews or Orthodox.[This 570-plus page book has additions since the initial publication in 1989, but the expanded version preceded the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin.]Friedman says to gain peace now, no one -- not the Israelis, Jordanians, Syrians, Lebanese, Egyptians or Palestinians -- can focus on their rights or past victimization. Now they must look at what their interests dictate to them in the current climate of opportunities. He says he earned his pessimism about the region the hard way by living through and seeing a great deal of tragedy and cruelty in both Lebanon and Israel (he earned his first Pulitzer Prize writing about the Israeli military role in a refugee camp massacre of Muslims in Lebanon), and that the leaders of those nations will have to earn our optimism the hard way, too, by proving they can lead their people toward a real and lasting peace.I strongly recommend this book. I found it incredibly engaging, readable and both local (personal) and global (political/historical).
4 When first written, this book was the most comprehensive and enlightening treatment on the genesis of the hatred within the middle east. What was written then is still true (or only more so?) today. Highly recommend for anyone trying to understand why the region still ticks like a bomb.
4 I wish I realized this book was so old.I haven't read it yet, but I would think a lot of itis outdated.
2 I apologize for the length of this review, but it's hard to condense all that is wrong with a Thomas Friedman book into a few short paragraphs.This book is basically a memoir and reflection on Thomas Friedman's time in Lebanon and Israel as a New York Times reporter, from 1979 to 1989.  It is not completely useless, but I do not recommend it because the weaknesses far outweigh the strengths, and 500 pages are too many to get the few interesting bits scattered throughout.  Freidman's style is obnoxious, his assertions are unsupported, his chronology is meandering, and his conclusions are without merit.Why would someone pick up a book about the Middle East?  To learn about history, or culture, or about perennial political problems -- all of which interest me greatly.  But this book isn't about any of those things.  Consider the very first sentence: "In June 1979, my wife, Ann, and I boarded a red-and-white Middle East Airlines 707 in Geneva for the four-hour flight to Beirut."  In one short sentence are five completely useless details.  I don't care what Friedman's wife's name is, or what color his airplane was, or what airline he used, or how big the plane was, or the city where he had a connecting flight, or how long it takes to get from Switzerland to Lebanon.  A good writer knows the importance of detail, to be sure, but it's the telling detail that matters.  This book is not about the Lebanese civil war; it's about Tom Friedman reporting on the civil war.  It's not about the intifada; it's about Tom Friedman's generalizations about the intifada.  No matter how momentous the historical events he describes, Friedman is always the star of the show.He isn't a very interesting star, either.  I'm not just talking about mixed metaphors (on page 2, he mentions a "multicolored river of humanity that flowed through [Jerusalem's] maze of alleyways," because apparently people are water, water flows through mazes, and alleyways look like the front of David Bowie's castle in Labyrinth).  I mean he concedes from the outset that he doesn't have anything to offer: "I had decided that the academic ivory tower was not for me and that if I was ever going to be able to hold my own on the Middle East, I had to live there and experience the place firsthand."  P. 7.  Even if we assume for some reason that academics can't or don't live in the Middle East, the statement is disturbing because Friedman admits he cranked a thick book out of nothing more than an exotic residence (it's certainly not his language skills.  He mistranslates the phrase "alhan wa-sahlan" (p. 104), doesn't know Hebrew (p. 411) and, shockingly, calls a friend of his "Abdul" (p. 25)).  Okay, he also spoke to some interesting people along the way, but he's a reporter.  A reporter's job is to ask knowledgeable people questions, and write down the responses.That's not to say reporters aren't entitled to share their opinions -- of course they are.  But opinions about the Middle East are far more informative when backed up with facts.  This book has virtually no citations.  Western observers "assume that all the surface trappings of nation-statehood -- the parliaments, the flags, and the democratic rhetoric -- can fully explain the politics of these countries" (p. 103), according to whom?  Did Friedman conduct a poll?  Or does he just presume to speak for "most Westerners"?  If that sounds presumptuous, it is far, far worse when he claims that Yasser Arafat "can never fully understand the needs and feelings of Palestinians under Israeli occupation, because he has never been one of them" (p. 422).  Arafat can't possibly understand Israeli Palestinians, but Friedman is somehow qualified to write hundreds of pages on the causes, meanings, failures and future of the intifada?  Please.I also found Friedman's sympathy for Arafat's cause (even if Arafat's understanding was at sub-Friedman levels) noxious.  Shortly after a rapturous review of Arafat's leadership qualities(pp. 116-17), not diminished in the least by the PLO's kidnapping and murder of Israeli athletes in Munich (p. 119, the massacre "kept the Palestinian cause relevant," nothing more), Freidman asserts that Arafat didn't share in the widespread PLO corruption (p. 121).  No citation, of course.  Friedman's boot-licking is made almost comical in light of his admission that Beirut's "international press corps" was "generally uncritical" (p. 119).The primary problem with this book is, stated simply, a lack of command of important facts, which leads to over-generalizations and a total lack of confidence in Friedman's conclusions and the significance he attributes to his observations (like when he spends ten pages trying to interpret a pork chop.  Seriously).  He claims that for the first 200 years after independence, the U.S. had only two serious foreign engagements: the Mexican-American War and the Spanish-American War (p. 205).  The War of 1812, the Barabary Wars and the undeclared war with France were perhaps insufficiently "serious" for Friedman's tastes, although British soldiers burning the White House strikes me as fairly serious.  On the same page, Friedman claims America had "no real need ... to learn the seamier dimensions of diplomacy, espionage, and covert operations."  Nowhere does Friedman betray the smallest indication of familiarity with Thomas Jefferson's diplomatic trip to France, of the names of spies like Benedict Arnold, John Andre, Edward Bancroft, Benjamin Franklin Stringfellow, or Lafayette Baker.I admit I'm cheating a little bit, here.  Other than Benedict Arnold, the other names in that list are not exactly household words.  I can't really fault Friedman for not knowing them -- he's a Middle East reporter, not a historian of post-Revolutionary America.  But that's exactly my point.  He isn't a Middle East historian, either.  Or a political science expert.  Or a linguist.  Or an ethnologist.  Or an expert on anything, really, other than newspapers (I assume).  The most interesting and thought-provoking parts of this book consist entirely of quotations or paraphrases of other people.I still give this book two stars, rather than one, because it is not completely worthless.  During his decade in the Middle East, Friedman talked to some interesting people, and saw some interesting things.  Peppered throughout the book are little vignettes, the slices of life, stories about people and events that go beyond what you will see in the average history book.  It is one thing to read that Hafez Assad butchered 20,000 of his own citizens in the city of Hama.  It is something else to read the details of an entire neighborhood that was literally flattened by heavy machinery, along with its former residents.  Friedman's account of the massacres at Sabra and Shatilla are more evocative than a bare report of the number of people who died.But such gems are too few and far between.  I do not recommend this book.
3 Don't get me wrong, I am truly a fan of Thomas Friedman. Although this book ends before Rabin's assassination by an ultra-Orthodox Jew who opposes the Oslo Accord. The above question and answer is the main reason that Palestinians have been ostracized from their birthplace. Yasir Arafat is highly criticized for not doing enough for his own people or for the western world. Never mind that he died of natural causes in Paris and that he lived in the slums of the West Bank. He never saw his wife or daughter because he was imprisoned among his people. Sadly, the Palestine/Israel issue has become a thorn in the side of the rose of our government. We don't forget the HOlocaust and that it helped bring about the Israeli state to the sympathy and empathy of the world. What happened to the Muslims and Christians who had lived in Palestine up until that point? They were displaced for the chosen people. After all these years, Arafat and Rabin are gone to a better place and Sharon is on his way there. Even with Sharon in a coma, things still look grim for both sides. Israel keeps bringing immigrants from Ethopia and Russia because they need to be a Jewish state. They are terrified of the Arabs and the Muslims themselves. Now, President Jimmy Carter says that the Palestinians are living in an apartheid state. Finally somebody with common sense, that's what it is when you separate people just because of their religions. Israel was supposed to be past that. I blame both sides because the Palestinians should know better and so should the Israelis. They know from personal experience the horror of inhumanity to mankind from the Holocaust and Anti-Semitism. I don't Friedman realized that it was Rabin who signed his death warrant with the Oslo Accords. Also, Shimon Peres who succeeded Rabin after his murder was not relected by the Israelis. Since then, they have had numerous prime ministers while Palestinians only had Arafat. Whether you liked him or not, most dislike him because he was such a pain in the side of Americans? Now, American Evangelical Christians are sending millions of dollars to Israel in supporting the country but they assume that Israel needs to remain a Jewish state until Jesus Christ returns to the Holy Land. They believe that the Israeli Jews will convert or be eternally damned. Their intentions are for themselves. The Palestinians from Amira Hass, a Israeli Jewish journalist who chooses to live in Gaza, are immediately suspected of being a suicide bomber intent on destruction. The Israeli Defense Force is not innocent either because nobody has stopped them from killing innocent Palestinian children, men, and women because it is assumed that they are guilty of something. The Palestinians living conditions are worse than the Israelis and they have to go to Israeli hospitals beause they don't have the facilities. The Palestinians and Israelis must live together rather than live apart. Remember separate but equal between blacks and whites in America, it's the same thing.
5 Book is excellent.  It gives a different perspective on the MIddle East and Israel.  We see it through the eyes of a newsman who lived with the people and spent time analyzing the situation in order to report for major newspapers.  It was thought provoking though one had to keep in mind that we were seeing it through his eyes.  I just wish there were more chapters that were current.
5 Tom Friedman occupies a unique place in the American Foreign Policy establishment elite; not since Walter Lippman has the voice of a journalist been more influential in Washington DC.  "From Beirut to Jerusalem" was his first foray into full-length treatment on critical international issues -- and it is still his best.  Moreover, although it was written two decades ago and during a very different time, it is still incredibly relevant to current events.What makes Friedman's narrative so powerful is his liberal use of personal anecdotes from his time as a New York Times coorespondent in the Middle East in the early 1980s.  The story crackles with life as Friedman reconstructs the events of the Lebanese civil war and Palestinian intifada from a broad spectrum of perspectives, from ultra-ortodox rabbis to American Jewish peace activists, Yasir Arafat and Palestinian schoolchildren, Washington policymakers and enlisted Marines.  Friedman's description of life as a journalist at Beirut's Commodore Hotel is especially noteworthy and, on occasion, hilarious.At the core of Friedman's analysis is the contrast between American naivete and the almost primordial savagery of tribal relations endemic to the Middle East.  Friedman uses "Hama Rules" (after Syrian president Hafez al-Assad's brutal 1982 repression of a nascent Muslim Brotherhood insurgency in the Syrian city of Hama) as short-hand for the nature of power politics that shaped the flow of events in the region during his time there.  The common demoninator in group identification is religion (by sect and by clan) and the gravest sin is to show weakness to your enemies.  Friedman argues that the Reagan administration completely failed to understand this fundamental nature to life in Lebanon in the early 1980s when they committed Marines to help bolster the newly elected Maronite Christian president Gemayel, who was, in fact, more the leader of the Phalangist militia than true representative leader of the polyglot country.Interestingly, Friedman writes that Israeli leaders often make the same mistakes as the US about the region, although some Israelis, such as Ariel Sharon, understand Hama Rules and act accordingly.  Friedman describes the Israeli army reaction to the kaleidoscopic factional environment they found in Lebanon after their 1982 invasion as quite similar to the US army experience upon entering Baghdad in 2003.Indeed, comparisons to Iraq are what struck me most when reading this book. After reading "From Beirut to Lebanon," I was amazed how optimistic Friedman was about the Iraq invasion in early 2003.  He was relatively supportive of the war -- a position most likely held out of a deep desire and hope that it would succeed in bringing democracy to the Middle East, a position he passionately promotes, rather than any reasoned belief that the mixed Iraqi population would welcome a new US-installed regime.  The civil war in Lebanon in many ways mirrors the intense factionalism of warfare in Iraq where religious identification -- Maronite, Druse, Shiite -- defines the membership of warring militias and undermines any attempt to use a national army to provide stability and bolster a central regime.Many of the details about the war in Lebanon or the intifada make the book feel outdated, but the central underpinnings of conflict and discord in the region so lucidly explained by Friedman will not change anytime soon.  The reader gets a sense of division and pure hatred that divides the people of that troubled land and seem to guarantee that the "peace process" is a meaningless charade.
5 From Beirut to Jerusalem is a remarkable work, clarifying the muddy waters of the Israeli and Palestinian conflicts.  The book mixes personal stories with regional history, to give both color and context to regional events.The author brings a unique perspective to issues, as he was formerly the New York Times correspondent initially to Beirut and later to Jerusalem.  He brings an objective viewpoint to the topics at hand, which is noteworthy when most books take an extreme position on one side or another.  In addition, he presents an interesting history of the troubles in Israel and Palestine, proposing why certain peace initiatives have failed, as well as proposing an option that just might work.  Like many observers of the region, he mixes hope with a healthy dose of pessimism for a situation that always seems too complicated to be resolved.Since the initial printing of the book, Friedman has achieved international acclaim as an objective expert on both globalization (the Lexus and the Olive Tree) as well as terrorism in the post-9/11 era (Longitudes and Attidues).  Perhaps the acclaim he has received in the current era is what brought about the return of his initial solid work.  The book certainly is as relevant today as when it was written.If there is one book to read to better understand the subject, this is it.
4 I've felt that most of the news about the Middle-East starts off from the previous article about the topic - stretching back who knows how far. Since the Six Days War occurred just a couple of years after I was born, I've been reading books to fill in the details and to gain more understanding of both sides of the involved factions. As a reporter, the author made an effort to understand both sides and this book does a good (and I think very fair) presentation of the people struggling against each other and against their governments in this small part of the world.
5 I hope every American reads this book.  What an insight into the middle East problems and solutions (if there are any).  Thomas Friedman continues to astonish and enlighten us.  Keep up the excellent work.
5 Thomas Friedman won two Pulitzer Prizes for his journalism from Lebanon and Israel (he writes for the New York Times). His book covers the politics of the Lebanese civil war and the struggles between Israel and the Palestinians. He covers the perspectives of many groups very thoroughly, and this is his book's strong point.Its weak point may be his confident perscriptions, his confidence in his analysis of the ways of the world. Or it may be that many things have happened since 1995, when last he updated it.The book barely approaches the politics of other Middle Eastern nations such as Syria, Egypt, Jordan, Iran, Iraq or Turkey; Friedman focuses on the areas of his expertise. Therefore it's only an introduction to the region's history and politics, but a really good one.
5 More of a history book now than the current event tome that Friedman produced at first printing, but this is one of the best explanations of the basis of the types of conflicts that still provoke civil war in the region. Some of Friedman's best writing IMHO.
4 This is a very good basic book on how to draw Simpsons characters, including motion and emotions.  It's relatively small, but complete as is.
5 I am an illustrator, animator, AND I work at Fox. My copy of this book has gotten so much use over the 7-odd years I've had this, it should be falling apart. This is why this is such a great book:1) IT'EASY AND IT'S FUN. Many &quot;how-to&quot; aniimation and cartooning books purportedly cater to children, yet the drawing level is way beyond most entry-level artists; the Simpsons, by Groening's own admission started out as lame doodles. Everything is made up of circles and squiggles - perfect!2) IT'S WELL ORGANIZED AND VERSATILE. There are many poses and expressions to try drawing, which set you into the whole &quot;vocabulary&quot; of the Simpsons.3) IT'S FUNNY, AND REALLY EDUCATIONAL. Tips like &quot;Bend those elbows!&quot; and &quot;Marge's hair hides two bowling balls,&quot; not only get a laugh, but really give you an insight on how to contruct a solid animated figure.I refer to this book all the time, even for my own drawings. For the money, this has been one of the most useful pieces of reference I have. Get it for your favorite starving artist, or doodling kid.
5 Okay, what is the deal with these silly complaints that this book doesn't reveal any &quot;secrets.&quot;  What secrets?  If anyone believes he or she will be able to instantly draw cartoons well after simply reading this or any other book, they need to get in touch with reality. The bottom line is: the secret of doing ANYTHING well -- and that includes cartooning -- is to PRACTICE.  A LOT.  That said, this is a great little book.  It's written with a generous dose of humor, and it tells you exactly how to draw the Simpsons in certain poses.  In other words, it's a good basic cartooning book if you are interested in drawing these specific characters and are willing to do the practice necessary to learn to draw them well.  Once you're familiar with the construction of those little yellow bodies, then you can start making them do what you want them to do.  (PRACTICE, remember?) If you have talent and imagination, it may also help get you started on drawing your own characters.  No magic, no secrets, just a good book on how to draw the Simpsons.
5 OK. I do not understand what some of the people hear have posted. They say  they were lied to and it was supposed to unlock the secrets of how to draw  The Simpsons?All it says on the book is &quot;Study basic construction  methods!&quot;, &quot;Discover the techniques of bulgy-eyed  characterization!&quot;, &quot;Uncover the mysteries of Simpsonian  anatomy!&quot; and &quot;Learn the secrets of the overbite!&quot;.Could  someone please tell me where it says it unlocks the secrets of the  Simpsons? No you can not. What is to know? They are just circles and  squares that have been down sized.I people get so worked up over a  drawing book, what is next?The book is a good tool for kids and adults  alike. It shows many different facial features and different scenes so you  would be emersed for hours.A Good Choice.Have A NiCE LiFE!Ryan
5 This is a book that was published by Scholastic for the grade school market. It is less than 40 pages and pretty simplistic. It only shows you how to draw the 5 members of the immediate Simpson family.That being said, I am very glad I came across a used copy of this booklet. I have the large hardbound 'The Simpsons Notebook', but it is too valuable and cumbersome to carry with me to work. I take the bus 45 minutes each way and use this time to sketch and draw. So this older, smaller version is a copy I can carry with me easily and still have a decent, not great reference guide if the urge to sketch Homer, Marge, Lisa, Bart or Maggie suddenly strikes me on the bus.
5 You are sure to be tremendously more inquisitive to learn lots more about the Great Trigonometric Survey after reading this book.
4 As with all books of John Keay, this book details some of the important contribution the eccentric, studious British surveyors made to the overall measurement of conquered Indian territories. This particular book, written in the usual amusing and witty style of Keay, is a treasure trove of information packed into very small, energetic book. The book introduces few characters of Third Mysore survey team including the genius Everest (on whom Mount Everest is named but who never as much ever saw it). The book charts out the reasons of undertaking the survey (primarily to make it easier to conquer more territories, partly to improve infrastructure, and to understand the curvature of the surface of Indian continent).I highly recommend the book but I have given 4 of 5 stars because I feel the book should have been more detailed as the subject of trigonometry ain't easy enough!
5 An epic tale of magnificent accomplishments about which little is know today but for which we have great cause to be thankful,one name will be known to all but the events surrounding the name will be unknown by most. Very hard to put down!
4 This is one more of John Keay's little gems, and like his other book "Into India", this does the name of specific Britons a great favour.I did know that Mount Everest was named after George Everest, but I did not know the story of George Everest and Lambdon. When I read the book, I doffed my imaginary hat at the two gentlemen several times. What they achieved, is something outstanding. Given the nature of the instruments that they had, and the difficulties of traveling in India, only passion and scientific rigor could have helped them achieve the almost impossible.John Keay's book does great service to these forgotten heroes. He brings out the enormity of their task with clarity, and without sounding bombastic in the least. He brings their contrasting characters to life, and I am left with the feeling that we, in India, are in debt to these gents, and it is a shame that they have been so totally forgotten. Everest, at least, has a mountain named after him, whereas it was difficult for John Keay to even find Lambdon's grave in the central part of India.This is a brilliant book, written in a manner that is revealing and pithy. Read it.I am glad I bought it, even though I chanced upon it by accident, and bought it out of a whimsy. I am glad I did.
2 I love narrative non-fiction and picked this book up thinking I'd find another gem of a story about how the shape of the earth has come to be known, something along the lines of Robert Whitaker's The Mapmaker's Wife. The book advertises itself as "the dramatic tale of how India was mapped and Everest was named," but there is hardly any drama in it. The narrative barely focuses on the characters and stories of the men, Lambton and Everest, but rather goes into exhaustive detail on the day to day mapping of the Great Trigonometrical Survey. But while the book could have focused on the difficulties, tragedies, and triumphs of mapping India, the story behind the survey; it instead reads page after page of endless accounts of setting up the instruments, problems with the instruments, and attempts to solve the problems. I found that without at least a basic background in trigonometry and geography, it was difficult to understand many of the chapters. However, what narrative bits the author did include were quite interesting and would have made a fascinating book had they been developed.
4 If you've read his other books like City of Djinns or the White Mughuls, then reading this book won't feel as good as those. But it surely is a remarkable journey told in a very lively, British style. And British style of travel writing generally includes certain jokes thrown at one's own expense. Mr. Williams, surely the finest writer of travel genre of our times, can twist sentences and pass on information very easily.Mr. Williams is travelling through Silk Route and retells his story alongwith snippets of historical bits where required. His girl friend is also travelling which means he has a remark or two on or for her. But he travels and describes the places he visits and the atmosphere and the people and their food.It is not a scholarly book by any standards but he gets his facts right.
2 I bought this after reading Dalrymple's Age of Kali. Sadly, as excellent as that book is, this one is a total mess. First of all, there is way way too much extra info on things unconnected to Polo's trek along the Silk Road. You basically need a degree in the History of the Middle Ages to figure out the obscure references. I got the idea Dalrymple was showing off. Considering he supposedly knows all this arcane stuff, how come this obvious well-educated guy spends much of his trip searching for people who speak English to help him? Did he not use his vastly developed cranium to think of buying a few phrasebooks before heading out? Or how about studying at least one of the languages used in the region?Add to this he is, for want of a better word and no hate mail please, pussywhipped by the two females he travels with. One is so much of in a hurry to blitz across to the Indian subcontinent it's annoying beyond belief.With much better editing, this could have been as brilliant as Age of Kali. It is still a decent read but Dalrymple would be wise to read "Chasing Che" to see how to put together a follow-in-the-footsteps-of-the-greats travel book.
5 Dalrymple is a bird dog who tracks his subject, follows in his footsteps, sniffs out his moods, sorts through details in order to tie up knots, and all the while tells a good story of his own.  He is a thoroughly responsable travel writer and a first-rate journalist, and even the opinions interjected in the text are worth noting, not as someone else's caprice but as a reliable source.
5 Fascinating account of college-age Dalrymple's adventures traveling Marco Polo's Spice Road. His two different female traveling companions (a friend on the first part of the trip and his girlfriend joining him on the last part) experience a lot of hardships, too, more so than Dalrymple, just because they were women.
5 William Dalrymple travelled 12,000 miles overland from Jerusalem to Xanadu in order to retrace the journey of Marco Polo, and I think the Venetian probably had the easier trip---  in 1271 Marco Polo didn't have to smuggle himself along the Silk Route by burrowing into the back of a coal truck.The author calls his journey a `quest' rather than a `vacation,' since it involved not only a goal, but also a great deal of hardship and suffering.  However "In Xanadu" is an excellent book to take on vacation.  It is a lucid and sometimes hilarious account of a very low-budget journey through Asia ($1100 financed the entire trip through Israel, Cyprus, Turkey, Syria, Iran, Pakistan, and the breadth of China.)  And best of all, no matter how badly your own vacation turns out, you can always pick this book up and find Dalrymple in a more miserable spot than you are.There is also beauty and moments of scholarly excitement when the author identifies some feature of the landscape with a passage from Marco Polo's journal.  I particularly liked his description of a nocturnal train trip through Turkey.  He sees dry flatlands transformed into lush pasturage and wonders at the source of water.  Then the train comes upon a river, and Dalrymple unfolds his map:"Its Turkish name, the Firat Nehri, meant nothing to me.  Only when I followed the thin blue line down through Syria and out towards Baghdad, did I see the river's more familiar name --- the Euphrates....Is there another river which carries with it so many associations?...The river which ran through the Garden of Eden, one of the five rivers of the Apocalypse!  Following its course on the map, its banks are littered with the names of the ancient cities it once gave life to:  Mari, Nippur, Uruk, Larsa, Erdu, Kish."The above paragraph is a rare flight of fancy for Dalrymple.  His normal style is less flamboyant, laced with dry British humor where he tends to be the butt of his own jokes.  Sometimes the reader is left to discover the humor of the situation through one of his dialogues.  Here Dalrymple is in Kashgar, a Chinese city populated by the Muslim Uigurs.  He is trying to explain through an interpreter, the lifestyle of the British `Chairman' Elizabeth II to an old mullah:"Salindi [the interpreter] frowned. `He wants to know how many sheep, donkeys and camels your chairman owns.'"'Tell him she owns no camels, but has very many horses and a great number of corgi dogs.'"The information was passed on.  The old man nodded his head as he listened."'Sir, this man is now asking about the dog which is called `khor-qi.  He asks whether these `khor-qi' are good to eat.'"'Tell the old man that they are delicious.'""In Xanadu" is travel writing in the grandly eccentric British tradition: a horrid climate and high adventure, laced throughout with dry wit.  Be sure to get a copy for your next vacation.  I'm going to loan mine to a friend who thinks she wants to visit Iran and Afghanistan (last year she trekked through Outer Mongolia).  Either "In Xanadu" will dissuade her from her planned adventure, or else she is as bonkers as Dalrymple.
4 This is an excellent first book by someone who's made quite a name for himself in travel writing - William Dalrymple. &quot;In Xanadu&quot; relates his journey following in the footsteps of Marco Polo to Xanadu, the old capital of the Mongolian empire. This was accomplished while he was a student at Cambridge and he got the idea because this was the first time most of the Karakorum highway was open to travellers, enabling him to follow about 80% of Polo's route for the first time in centuries.The author (with two friends, one for wach half of the journey) went from Jerusalem through Cyprus, Syria, Turkey, Iran, Pakistan and China. Throughout his journey he researched the traces of Marco Polo and the other aspects of history. As such, he inserts lengthy historical digressions into the book. It's recommended that you persevere with them as they make the reading so much richer.He writes with an energetic and lively humour. The journey was one to have made it impossible not to produce outrageous situations. They encounter every trouble imaginable from Red Guards to sickness and go through seemingly every mode of transport.A great way to see 12000km and over five countries through the eyes of an eccentric and erudite your Scottish historian. A fabulous read that will leave you hungry for more Dalrymple.
5 Hilarious and informative, he decides to trace Marco Polo's route from the Holy Land to China and we get tovisit all the countries without putting up with the inconvenience.
4 This was a good read. It opened up countries and people that one never hears or reads about. William does  prove that the young believe that they are bulletproof.
4 I enjoyed the reviews of this book, pretty funyy. This is a pretty good travel book; I like travel writing and have read a lot of it.  Dalrymple's work is as good as anyone else.  In addition to this, I recommend Caroline Alexander's &quot;The Way to Xanadu.&quot;  Dalrymple follows Marco Polor to Xanadu; Alexander follows Coleridge.  Both end up at the same place, but follow very different routes to get there.  Dalrymple follows Marco Polo's route along the silk road and he shares some pretty interesting history of all the places he visits.  Alexander visits the places mentioned in Coleridge's diary in the period just before he wrote the fragment of a poem about Xanadu, which leads her to a variety of places including Florida, amazingly enough.
4 There are many solid books on connections and continuity in history and religion and physics. However Jacob Bronowski, "The Ascent of Man", would turn me over in my grave if he found out that I was reading such books as this. There are too many quasi science quasi religion books that want to take some principle and reinterpret it to be a New age truth or prove the some old blind philosopher beat us too it for example (The Seat of the Soul.) Dr. Capra is drawing parallels in two fields and not trying to say "see I told you so". He takes the time and pages to describe the science and also does a pretty good job of distilling complex religions down to single chapters. I leave it up to Dr. Capra and you to determine if there really is any parallel. A parallel does not mean equivalents. If you are a Gary Zukav sort of person this book will not help you at all.
5 The Tao of Physics: An exploration of the parallels between modern physics and Eastern mysticism, by Fritjof Capra, Wildwood House, UK, 1975; Fontana, 1983, 384 ff.Fritjof Capra is a physicist who was teaching at University of California at Berkeley when this book was written. He is now Director of the Center for Ecoliteracy there and a visiting lecturer at the Schumacher College in England. This was his first book and it was one of the first to open up the New Age philosophy. It challenges the conventional wisdom of both materialist science and western religion by demonstrating striking parallels between ancient mystical traditions that are practiced in the East and the discoveries of 20th century quantum physics. The congruence between Buddhism and quantum physics has also been pointed out by His Holiness The 14th Dalai Lama in The Universe in a Single Atom and elsewhere.In this book, Capra first introduces us to some of the strange ideas of quantum physics: that fundamental particles of the atom are more energy than matter; that there is constant exchange between the two kinds of properties; that atomic particles interact through intervals of time and space.The second section of the book takes us through Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism and Zen, emphasizing their holistic, monistic world view - that everything is connected and interacts with everything else: just like the atomic particles Capra's been describing in the earlier section.In the third and final section Capra draws together ideas from these separate worlds of science and religion. When we are confronted with fundamentalist western religion, this eastern mystical philosophy has so much to tell us, especially when it resonates with rather than contradicts the world-view of science.You won't need to be a scientist or a mystic to appreciate this book - just open-minded.Dancing Wu Li Masters: An Overview of the New Physics by Gary ZukavHoward Jones is the author of The Tao of Holism
5 &#65532;Much was written about the 'Tao of Physics', and it is almost always considered as a synthetic and holistic vision of modern physics seen through the glasses of ancient mysticism! But more importantly, let us ask how the author made his point?Capra made his point by assembling a number of small points, one after the other, for finally proving the whole of his thesis or theory. Overall, the Tao could be seen as a passionate philippic to overcome our scientific dualism by showing that upon a deeper look a synthesis between Western scientific thought and Eastern philosophy is the only intelligent way out of the dilemma.What I call in my writings the schizoid split in the internal setup of our culture, Capra called it the division between spirit and matter. And the next step, then, in the building of that cultural paranoia was the turn of events starting with the reductionist science philosophy of French philosophers La Mettrie and Ren&eacute; Descartes.What Capra was showing here is the missing link between our modern-day separative and highly individualistic worldview, and its historical origins. And it explains conclusively why we are torn up, fragmented and unwhole (unholy).The danger of fragmentation, Capra explains conclusively, is that we try to find absolute points of reference behind each of our fragmented concepts, and we do this probably unconsciously in an attempt to heal our inner split. Yet ultimately by doing so we bring about a distorted perception of reality, by taking the map for the landscape.Looking at the paradoxical behavior of electrons in the quantum world, Capra asked the question why Westerners are so terribly confused, and even shocked, when encountering a paradox, or simply an illogical behavior? He found the answer in comparing Western thought with Eastern philosophy.I think this difference between Indian thinking and Chinese and Japanese philosophical traditions is important, as Joseph Campbell has emphasized it as well in his book Oriental Mythology. The Zen tradition, derived from its original Chinese root philosophy (where it was called Chan Buddhism), is very fond of putting the stress on the paradox for a simple reason: the paradox teaches us the limitations of rational thinking and thereby shows us the relativity of a merely rational worldview.The result of that worldview was namely that we discarded nature out of science and by doing so, we created a fundamentally nature-hostile science, a science that destroys us by destroying our planet. This science reflected exactly the distorted view prevalent since patriarchal times in our culture that says the male is superior to the female. This cult of male supremacy led straight to a never-ending course of violence that slowly but definitely suffocates us today.And the same biased perception of reality, distorting the harmony between the male and the female principle, is to be seen throughout Western philosophy, in its abysmal dualism, which lacks the fundamental ability to find the synthesis that Oriental thought is so apt to establish. Capra conforms with the Eastern worldview that says all opposites are complementary and &#8216;merely different aspects of the same phenomenon.&#8217;Capra wistfully remarks that in the East, &#8216;a virtuous person is therefore not one who undertakes the impossible task of striving for the good and eliminating the bad, but rather one who is able to maintain a dynamic balance between good and bad.&#8217;When you look at the Tao of Physics from this perspective, from the big picture behind the details of quantum physics, you will see that Capra&#8217;s deeper message in this revolutionary book goes way beyond a redefinition of modern physics. Capra has prepared the ground in this earliest of his books for the giants to come.
5 This is one of the most wonderful books relating modern science to Eastern philosophical traditions.  I have always combined an interest in physics as well as an interest in eastern philosophies, so it was natural that I get attracted to this book.  I have read the second edition nearly 15 years ago, and can certify that this book delivers what it promises.  Recently it has become a phenomenon to see aeTao of  or aeZen of  books that are really deficient in many respects:  some books know little about the Eastern philosophies they claim to compare to, others know little about the Western science, and yet others fail to point to more than a flimsy relationship.  It appears aeTao of something has become a major marketing scheme and not much more.aeThe Tao of Physics however is free from those weaknesses.  In fact, it is in a class of its own " possibly one of the most thought-provoking and inspirational texts in the modern world.  Written by a world-class Indian physicist, this book exhibits the deep understanding of its author into the myriad complexities of modern physics.  The beauty of it all is that some of the most complex ideas are explained in very simple language that even a high school student can understand: quantum mechanics, the uncertainty principle, particle physics, string theory, symmetries, etc.This strength in physical understanding does not weaken the depth of perception regarding Eastern mysticism.  Au contraire, the second part of the book, describing Eastern philosophy, is a tour de force of the various branches of Eastern thought: Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism, etc.  Topics like the I-Ching, the mythology of the Rig Veda, the Upanishads, and the Tao Te Ching are introduced in very clear language aimed at capturing a Western audience.The third and largest part of the book is devoted to drawing parallels between the two traditions: the Western scientific and the Eastern philosophical.  Of course, at this stage of human development one cannot reach certainties about such thing, and the discourse is restricted to pointing out the parallels and illustrating the convergence of thought.  More questions are raised than are actually answered, which is perhaps the signature of a really good book.  Since reading it I have become fascinated with modern physics and pursued a science education.  My interest in Eastern religions has also been enhanced.  Currently I am in the process of re-reading this gem.  I definitely recommend it to everyone seeking substance in aeTao of  books.
5 An on-line friend, whose opinion I trust, suggested this book to me. I have thanked him more than once. This book is incredible. I learned so much reading it! I am suggesting it to all my friends, and some people I barely know.It's very well written and, I believe, understandable to people who are unfamiliar with physics. It's a book I will certainly be keeping -- and not loaning out!
5 Meditation and Metaphysics meet the West, redone in the form of High Energy Physics and what it means when the observer collapses the nondual into duality.You will understand your mind, eventually if you read this book now and search for its source the rest of your life.  You will become nondual as you absorb the All, reinterpret it in a quantum Universe of modern physics and look inside yourself to see it was all there the whole time.If you want to understand where quantum physics and the eight fold path has taken us, read this book.  If you want to understand yourself as Self, read this book.  You may not get it the first time or the second (not reading, but encounters with Self), but eventually if you stick with it and keep searching and asking questions (only questions that will come to you from reading a book like this, learning its meaning inside you and meditating to calm and discipline the mind), then one day you will wake up Enlightened.
5 Fritjof Capra (born 1939) is an Austrian-born American physicist, who is a founding director of the Center for Ecoliteracy and is on the faculty of Schumacher College.  He is also the author ofThe Turning Point: Science, Society, and the Rising Culture,Uncommon Wisdom,The Web of Life: A New Scientific Understanding of Living Systems, andThe Hidden Connections: Integrating The Biological, Cognitive, And Social Dimensions Of Life Into A Science Of Sustainability.Subtitled "An Exploration of the Parallels Between Modern Physics and Eastern Mysticism," Capra wrote in the Preface to this 1975 book, "Five years ago, I had a beautiful experience which set me on a road that has led to the writing of this book. I was sitting by the ocean one late summer afternoon, watching the waves rolling in and feeling the rhythm of my breathing, when I suddenly became aware of my whole environment as being engaged in a gigantic cosmic dance..."  He later admits that "In the beginning I was helped on my way by 'power plants' which showed me how the mind can flow freely..."He writes in the first chapter, "The purpose of this book is to explore this relationship between the concepts of modern physics and the basic ideas in the philosophical and religious traditions of the Far East. We shall see how the two foundations of twentieth-century physics---quantum theory and relativity theory---both force us to see the world very much in the way that a Hindu, Buddhist or Taoist sees it, and how this similarity strengthens when we look at the recent attempts to combine these two theories in order to describe the phenomena of the submicroscopic world..."Here are some additional quotations from the book:"The particle world cannot be decomposed into elementary components." (Pg. 81)"Quantum theory thus reveals an essential interconnectedness of the universe. It shows that we cannot decompose the world into independently existing smallest units." (Pg. 137)"The relativity of time also forces us to abandon the Newtonian concept of an absolute space... there is no absolute space independent of the observer." (Pg. 166)"The distinction between matter and empty space finally had to be abandoned when it became evident that virtual particles can come into being spontaneously out of the void, and vanish again into the void..." (Pg. 222)"The whole universe is thus engaged in endless motion and activity; in a continual cosmic dance of energy." (Pg. 225)"...the theories of atomic and subatomic physics made the existence of elementary particles increasingly unlikely. They revealed a basic interconnection of matter, showing that energy of motion can be transformed into mass, and suggesting that particles are processes rather than objects." (Pg. 285)
5 I really liked the book because the proof comes before the theory. Fuzzy has generated billions so how can one give the book anything but 5 stars?The author is extremely qualified to answer questions pertaining to philosophy (he has multiple degrees and is a Professor).Buy this book and read it three times and really get it. It nails "reality" perhaps better than 99% of other books out there.
1 Yes, I agree with the other reviewer that Fuzzy Logic is one of the most  over-hyped concepts of the last century.  I found this book a waste of  time.  I was reading this book trying to understand just what the author  thought fuzzy logic was and came away with no clear picture.  When the  author was trying to explain Fuzzy Logic circuits, I thought, Hey wait a  minute, aren't we talking about analog circuits here?  So, he has put a new  label on an old idea.I know, that is not all what FL is supposed to be  about, but I think the author is making a cottage industry out of something  that is not that big of a deal.
4 As a kid thinking about Probability I was very uneasy, intrigued and befuddled by its nature and was never satisfied by any explanations I could find in any book.  In Fuzzy Thinking, Kosko does a magnificent job of explaining away the mystery.
3 Kosko describes the emerging frontier science of "fuzzy logic", making the argument that by simplifying machine operation and making it more like human thinking, this technology will allow very powerful machines to greatly enhance human life.  Though sometimes overwhelmed by his fascination with himself (you have to see Mark Leyner'sEt Tu, Babefor a similar character), and sometimes overtaken with such bizarre fantasies as cryogenics (the hope for immortality by freezing your body so that someday, someone will be able to revive you), this book provides not only a useful description of fuzziness for the lay person, but some further context for the Aristotle vs. Tao debate opened inZen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry into Values (P.S.).  I think someone less fascinated by their own experiences could produce a better book; not once, for example, does someone like Richard Epstein have to tell us that he is exceptionally intelligent in order for us to understand that he is.
4 There really doesn't seem to be much doubt that the book wanders across the map. It trails through Buddhism, cryonics, methods of meditation, parking lots, and apples on its way towards attempting to present its  theory of fuzzy logic. I can understand why somebody quite familiar with  the theories involved might find it quite frustrating as discipline and  rigor didn't seem to be two of its strong points.For me, however, it was  a useful read. I have been curious about Data Mining and Neural Networks  and the book was recommended to me as a place to begin with the concepts  and what I found was that once I got the hang of the loopiness, it did a  remarkably good job of bringing home some of the basic ideas to a math  challenged person (me).I tend to be a suspicious person, so I wasn't  convinced by some of his more grandious claims and I think I like Aristotle  rather better than he does, but these points didn't prevent me from feeling  like I got something out of the book.At the very least, I felt like I  finished Fuzzy Thinking a bit better armed to dig further into the subject  matter, which was really what I was trying to accomplish in the first  place.
1 I was looking forward to a good popularization of Fuzzy Logic theory, but I am quite disappointed.This is not a science book, nor is it a popularization of science. What science it does contain is unclear, is not presented in laymen's terms, and in some cases is factually wrong. The author asserts, pg. 107, that E = mc^2 is an approximation of a nonlinear equation, and attempts to prove it by pointing out where Einstein makes an approximation in his 1905 paper. It turns out that he was taking the Newtonian limit of an equation, and the limit implies the famous E=mc^2, but the E=mc^2 is not itself an approximation. This isn't a particularly serious error, and in fact he would have been technically correct until he said that the famous equation itself was an approximation. It is a sign of Kosko's attitude when he asserts that &quot;[e]ven many physicists forget&quot; that Einstein did this.I do not doubt that fuzzy logic is useful, but this is not a useful primer from which to learn first principles. Rather it is a diatribe against &quot;Aristotalean logic&quot;. Einstein's work, to use him as an example again, was impressive because it was it turned out to be correct to a high degree of precision, not because Newton's work was wrong. Einstein's attitude towards his work was &quot;Hey look at what I found!&quot; not &quot;Can you believe this Newton guy? He got it all wrong!&quot;The author tries to unite philosophy and science and fuzzy logic and politics into one book, and fails utterly. His presentation of each of these topics detracts from the others. Douglas R. Hofstadter's classic &quot;Godel, Escher, Bach : An Eternal Golden Braid&quot; does this much better, in a far classier manner, and addresses quite clearly the &quot;mapping problem&quot; (as Kosko calls it) between logical systems and using them to describe the real world.Fuzzy math is a clever mathematical device, and turns out to be very useful for engineering automatic computer controls for systems with several degrees of freedom, but you don't even learn this until the second half of the book, right before he dreams of applications of fuzzy logic to politics. Those who subscribe to the view that the &quot;black-and-white&quot; judgmentalism of science is a bad thing may enjoy the philosophical combativeness of this book, but even they will not learn anything new.No, I do not recommend this book even in the slightest degree, except as an example of how not to write a popular science book.
1 This is a rather useless book.  It is an ego trip lacking in really useful  information.  It is amazing how much prattle there is about fuzzy logic  without good examples or detailed discussion.  The philosophy is  superficial and misleading.  The idea that western scientists have been  stuck in a binary mode of thinking unaware of the subtle ying-yang Eastern  view, is a cliche that is false.  Western scientists have been amongst the  first to appreciate Eastern philosophy and have experimented with various  forms of multivalued logics and generalizations of probability for a long  time.  If you want Eastern philosphy go elsewhere. And I am not interested  that the author was sitting in a hot tub when he had some brilliant idea.  This is one of the most overrated books in a long time.  Let me tell you  something more, when these fuzzy logic gurus explain the shortcomings of  probability theory to solve the same problems, they usually use a  particular interpretation of probability.  However, whereas there is  general agreement about the mathematical syntax of probability, there are  many interpretations about what probability means.  Fuzzy logic is one of  the most overhyped theories of the last century.  The claims of its power  and greater ease of use, do not stand up to scrutiny.
1 I bought this expecting some informative reading.  I finished it, not having fulfilled my hopes.  The author spends his time discussing philosophy & religion, insulting scientists & mathematicians, and saying how much greater Buddha was than Aristotle.Let's try a thought experiment:  Suppose you have a fireplace, and 1 log was left partially sticking out of the fire last night, such that the flames missed it.  Would you say that the log was burned (A) or unburned (not A)?  According to Mr. Kosko, science & math would pick one or the other.  That's bunk, we'd say the log was 40% burned and 60% unburned (A & not A).  We'd use percentages.  The author would argue that on a 0&#60;-&#62;1 fuzzy continuum, from burned to unburned, the log would fall on a point 0.4 fuzzy units from the unburned point and 0.6 fuzzy units from the burned point.  Any monkey can see that he's taken the same thing all scientists do and changed around the words.Oh, and for all the computer programmers out there (of which I'm one), the author seems to think that binary computer programming is incapable of utilizing multiple partial conditional statements (IF-THEN-ELSEIF-THEN-ELSE-THEN-ENDIF).  This programming construct was not invented by fuzzy science, but has been around for a very long time.Part of the section about how fuzzy-logic controlled machines was interesting and informative.  Once again, multiple partial condition control statements are no invention of fuzzy science.
3 When FT sticks to rigorous exposition -- of the science, history, and philosophical underpinnings of Fuzzy Logic -- it's a fine book.  For all of BK's obvious intelligence (he's a major contributor to the fuzzy science field and a deep thinker on a range of subjects), he is also exceedingly, distractingly, and tiresomely arrogant -- the arrogance of youth, perhaps.  I'll be interested to read BK's scientific writings, but am less inclined to read his other popular works.  FT has a lot of wheat, but loads and loads of chaff as well.
2 This book is a big disappointment and anyone with any relatively-high level of understanding in physics and math will find the lack of rigour and the authors &quot;obvious&quot; statements frustrating.For non-mathematicians the book is too long and too technical.Kosko fails on many levels in trying to explain the nature of fuzzy logic. For example he seems to ignore the relation between matrices and tensors with fuzzy logic as well as comparing the bivalent world as discreet and the fuzzy world as continuous which seems far more obvious than his interpretations and explanations.Fuzzy thinking is not a mathematical revelation, but it is simply an extension of group theory and probability theory and Kosko seems to ignore this point too.The one good thing about this book is that it does give an insight (albeit small) into industry's use of fuzzy logic in the development of artificial intelligence.For non-mathematicians this books fails as it is slightly too technical. For mathematicians this book lacks rigour and sufficient explanation of the various theories. Even for those aware of the philosophies and teachings of Aristotle and Buddha his comparison of the two and how this pertains to fuzzy logic is unconvincing.All in all the book leaves the reader unfulfilled and is not a good advertisement for fuzzy logic.
4 Before going out on my own, I worked in an office where the music was always too loud or too soft. The problem was the volume control mechanism embedded in the wall. At setting 1, the music was audible but too low to hear. At setting 2, the music was loud enough to disrupt concentration and made you jam the phone against your ear. I longed for a round knob control that offered a continuum, but alas, had to be satisfied with 1 or 2.This throwaway analogy illustrates Kosko's frustration with "bivalence." We do not live in a black and white world; many things are in between, and science is silly to pretend otherwise. It is not just the engineers and physicists, of course. Economists also suffer greatly from this delusion (largely because much of economics is sociology dressed up in fancy math). Reality is messy, complex, and does not fit into a box. A simple statement at heart, but one with profound implications that Kosko does a decent job of exploring.With the statement "precision up, fuzz up," Kosko reiterates a truth known since biblical times. I like T.S. Eliot's version, "All our knowledge only brings us closer to our ignorance." The thrust is that excess information often obscures as much as it reveals. Relevant facts are lost in the wash of noise, like needles in the proverbial haystack. And even the relevant facts are subject to interpretation, counterweighting, and levels of degree.I felt that the systems Kosko described were not "fuzzy" as much as "flexible." They still make black and white decisions, they just make a higher number of decisions and thus have a more averaged or "fuzzy" result. A machine that utilizes fifteen data points will be much more versatile and flexible than one that only uses two, but it is still a binary system at heart. Maybe our brains are binary as well, except with gazillions of data points to access. But that is a subject for another book (one by Penrose perhaps).Can computers optimize a set of rules, like those that apply to washing machines or traffic lights? Yes. Can they predict the future outcome of the stock market? No.The actions of a chaotic/reflexive system can never be predicted with true accuracy, because the stream of variables is too fast and furious to follow. Even for a supercomputer, it would be like drinking from a fire hose. Thousands of opinions converge and diverge every second. Unforeseen events jar the market like random electrical shocks. Feedback amplifies itself, the way a sound looped from speaker back to microphone becomes an ear splitting shriek. Feedback diffuses itself, like soft spring rain on a pond. The market measures itself and reacts to itself a thousand times a day, a living embodiment of the Heisenberg principle. The puzzle has a trillion pieces that spontaneously rearrange at will. You can stump a computer with the turbulence in a glass of water, and yet it's supposed to decipher mass interaction? I'm not holding my breath.As the book progresses, Kosko gets more and more wildly optimistic in his predictions of what fuzzy logic might be capable of, what fuzzy machines could do. He goes out on a limb and overshoots his premise by a country mile by the time you reach the last page, filling the last half of the book with rabbit trails, but that is okay by me. Fuzzy logic is his baby, his contribution to the world. So it is completely natural that he would bubble over with possibilities and offshoots of his original thesis. Excitement gets your brain going. Separate the wheat from the chaff and enjoy.
4 This book incorporates a general discussion of the fuzzy logic paradigm,which was started in 1965 with an article by L Zadeh.Kosko's contributions in this field are incorporated within a framework of bibliographic sketches that bring a personal note to the book.It incorporates a philosophical emphasis on the vagueness of reality and the decision making context faced by the individual.Philosophers Bertand Russell and Max Black ,for instance ,provide support for the epistemological view of fuzzy logic.Unfortunately,Zadeh and Kosko appear to be ignorant of the fact that their general approach is not original.Certainly they have  presented a very specific variation on a theme.However,it was George Boole(Laws of Thought,1854,chapters 16-21),John Maynard Keynes(A Treatise on Probability,1921,chapters 3, 15,17,20,and 22 ),and Theodore Hailperin,who demonstrated that the interval estimate approaches of Boole(upper-lower limits) and Keynes(indeterminate probabilities,non numerical probabilities,approximate probabilities) could be translated into a linear programming approach in 1965.Books on this topic followed in 1976,1986,and 1996..One must also mention the ambiguous probabilites of Daniel Ellsberg in his seminal 1961 article in the Quarterly Journal of Economics.Kosko's discussion of his view of an uncertainty principle could have benefited greatly from an understanding of Keynes's own approach to uncertainty,which underlies his The General Theory of Employment,Interest and Money(1936).
2 I'm not sure if it's my fault or the book's fault, i just couldn't seem to grasp what's it's all about. It keeps repeating the same thing by giving us numerous way to illustrate the idea of black and white versus gray. It's bought last year and i still haven't finished yet (if I'm to finish it), during that period i've already read like 50 of other bestsellers and they didn't disappoint me except this seemingly popular book. I'm still open to the possibility of my own fault, email me if you want to enlighten me.
5 Bart Kosko is the leading proponent of fuzzy logic.  If you want to understand what all the fuss is about, read this book.
4 I just re-read this book after a gap of several years. I remember being very excited by Kosko's ideas the first time through, and this second read was equally good.That's not to say that this is an easy read or even a particularly fun read. Like other pioneers, Kosko has had to battle to advance and defend his ideas, which gives the book a somewhat pugnacious quality. Kosko also throws in a bit of everything, from some of the basic mathematics of fuzzy sets to some of his personal experiences, philosophy, and speculations about the future.The great value, however, lies in his crystal clear exposition of fuzzy sets, fuzzy logic, and fuzzy systems.Several reviewers have really missed the point, criticizing Kosko for using Aristotelian true/false logic in presenting fuzzy ideas, as if this revealed an inconsistency. Kosko makes it perfectly clear that Aristotelian, black/white logic and the mathematics that derive from it are a completely valid special case of fuzzy logic. Just as relativistic physics reduces to Newtonian solutions at low velocities and densities, fuzzy logic reduces to Aristotelian logic in the special case of axiom-based mathematics.Kosko's crucial point is that, as opposed to the world of mathematics, the real world is always fuzzy. From quarks to clusters of galaxies, the objects we perceive, conceptualize, and use science and math to try to understand have fuzzy boundaries, both physically and conceptually.Kosko's step-by-step exposition of how to define fuzzy concepts, fuzzy sets, and fuzzy systems, and how to work with them mathematically and practically, remains eye-opening to anyone who still does not really understand what fuzzy logic is all about.One proof is in the products that continue to flow from the use of fuzzy systems. The smart cameras that focus quickly and smoothly, recognize faces, and adjust to complex light situations use fuzzy logic. The adaptive control systems that hide away in your new car use fuzzy logic. Embedded intelligence is the new watchword, and most of that intelligence is fuzzy.In contrast, applying bi-valent thinking to real-world problems continues to spin off stupidities, such as children kicked out of school for being caught with an aspirin in violation of a zero-tolerance rule, judges feing forced to sentence peoople to prison for years for minor crimes that ring the three-strikes bell, and hundreds of other extreme and disproportionate reactions that flow from our several-thousand-year-old habit of trying to split continua into polar opposites.I continue to find the ideas of fuzzy logic and fuzzy systems freeing and enlightening. I'd like to see these ideas taught in our schools, understood by everyone, and applied everywhere.If you haven't read a good explanation of fuzzy logic, read this book. If you think you know something about it and want to know more, read this book. If you want to have a tool that helps you break out of your own deeply conditioned habits of true/false thinking, read this book!
4 Denotation and connotation ... fuzzy logic is losing the battle of Semantics to the ordinary.Fozzy is a cute bear in a children's puppet show.and fuzzy logic is "bad thinking"  in the popular mind and usage."Gradu-Weighted Logic" would be more effective usage than fuzzy logicno matter what it has come to mean to philosophers, mathematicians engineers and even musicians.In the long run the philosophical aspect is probablythe most important while fuzzy engineering has turned into a Japanese fad.We needed this book ( which is well written and informative) , but we needed morethe ideas behind "fuzzy thinking" tobe taken seriously.Fuzzy Engineering
4 Let me start with a little context.  I'm a scientist/engineer, and I enjoy reading these popular science books as a primer to fields I'm not well versed in, but would like to know more about.  For me, this book was less about philosophy and more about the history and underpinnings of fuzzy logic.  From my viewpoint, this book fulfilled my objective.  I now feel I have a sufficient introduction that I can dig deeper into this interesting topic.  Will I?  Absolutely.  I believe there is much I can do with fuzzy logic in my day-to-day research, and I'm grateful to the author for making me aware of it.What about the philosophical aspects of the book?  The author clearly feels that western culture is hostile to the notion of fuzzy logic.  I'll extend on that a little further.  I think western science is hostile to new ideas in general, not just fuzzy logic.  But, I will agree that it is for the same reason he cites.  Western science tends to see every new idea as true or false.  Since new ideas tend to contradict old ideas which have achieved the status of true, then new ideas by their very nature are instantly regarded as false.  Only with the passage of much time or with overwhelming evidence does an old paradigm die.  Eastern culture, by contrast, is not so quick to reject a new idea since &quot;shades of gray&quot; is woven into the culture.  No wonder, then, that fuzzy logic has emerged in the east in real products while we still debate whether fuzzy logic exists.Who should read this book?  Definitely this is worthwhile for scientists and engineers of all stripes, but should be considered a must read for those involved in system engineering.  Laypersons with a scientific interest will find this book to be accessible and will be rewarded for reading it.  Others without a scientific interest may also find this book worthwhile since fuzzy logic is likely to become a technological force in the near future.Rating is 4 stars.  Good read, but I save 5 stars only for great literature.
1 Buddhist math? C'mon.First, let me say that fuzzy logic and fuzzy arithmetic are great tools. They're valued parts of the 'soft logic' kit that includes probability, interval arithmetic, Bayesian and Markov networks, and lots of other good stuff. Fuzziness involves many of the formal techniques used in probability and elsewhere, and gives a useful, alternative view of the systems it addresses.The basic fuzzy idea is that most descriptions involve shades of gray, that few systems really match the black/white, on/off, either/or duality of standard formal logic. That's fine, I can get along with that quite well.My problem, though, is that Kosko presents the fuzzy world-view vs. the traditional or "scientific" in exactly the black and white terms that he rejects. He also argues that fuzziness describes the world more effectively than "scientific" terms, that the rules of arithmetic, probability, and calculus are just games. They are played for their internal consistency, not because differentiation or factorials occur in nature.That's true, and as a heavy math user I know enough to distinguish my models from reality. Two facts remain, though. First, the models very often do describe reality in ways that can be checked easily enough: the bridge doesn't fall down and the TV receives its signal. Both happen because the bad old exact arithmetic has some kind of correspondence (no, I don't know what) to the real world, giving real ability to predict real results. Second, fuzzy logic and fuzzy arithmetic are themselves mathematical formalisms, games like all the others. Once you get past the gee-whiz stage, there is mathematical content as rigorous as in any other field of study. It's not either/or, it's very often a different way to interpret the same self-consistent games people have played for years. It adds interesting rules to the game.The great thing is that you really can use the new interpretations and tools along with the old ones. Fuzziness doesn't demolish the old structures, it bolsters them and adds capacity.And you can get all these benefits without shrink-wrapped, bite-sized pieces of Eastern philosophy.//wiredweird
5 Shikasta is my all-time favorite sci-fi book -- and I've been reading sci-fi for over 40 years! If you like Ursula LeGuin's work, you'll love Shikasta, by Doris Lessing. It is a gripping, visionary tale. Written over 20 years ago, the story seems prophetic, as it describes much that is happening on our planet today. But it's not a sociological treatise. Far from it! The story revolves around the lives of three siblings, and the agony of trying to remember and then fulfil the reason they decided to reincarnate on Earth during a time of global crisis.Shikasta ties together the very personal, the immediate global, and the cosmic at the heart level.  While there is plenty of action, this is not Buck Rogers. The story of Shikasta is the story of real people, human and non, struggling with the issue of how an individual can make a difference.I'm buying another copy because I lent my tattered one to someone who kept it!
4 "Shikasta" is unlike any other novel you will probably ever read.  Even in an age when novelists routinely push the boundaries of what is defined as a "novel", Doris Lessing's science fiction/history of mankind hybrid experiment in fiction writing still rings authentic and original thirty plus years after its release.Presented in a series of letters, written by higher order beings observing Earth and also actual humans living out history, Lessing presents a highly stylized yet thinly disguised condemnation of modern man and modern history.  The first half of the story revolves around Johor, an emissary from the enigmatic Canopus, who is sent to help the planet Shikasta get through its dark and violent days (days not too different from those of twentieth century Earth).  Lessing couples this science fiction angle with a story about a family on earth struggling to make a difference in a decaying world through political and revolutionary means.  In both scenarios, Lessing allows her predictions of Earth's future to play out, and while there is a light at the end of the tunnel, reaching that light is not a fun journey and involves the worst of mankind.Sadly, much of what Lessing writes about, and many of the predictions she makes, are not far from the truth.  Painting as bleak a future as possible seemed  to be her goal, yet apart from the ultimate destruction (nuclear devastation, as this was written at the height of the cold war), her assessment of mankind prove to be quite accurate."Shikasta" is not an uplifting book, but Lessing's fresh and inventive approach at dissecting the actions of modern man are well worth reading.
5 Of all of Doris Lessing's brilliant novels, this one encapsulates her keen eye for the zeitgeist and her shrewd insight into the issues that have troubled her since her childhood, and offers a disturbing portrait of the what the results of those issues may eventually be.  Initially overlooked as &#34;space fiction,&#34; Lessing offers an external, wondering eye to the history of the planet Earth.Shikasta will make you think AND feel, and if you've never read Doris Lessing, this is a good place to begin.
4 Doris Lessing died in November 2013 aged 94 and holds the record as the oldest writer ever to receive the Nobel Prize for Literature, awarded in 2007 when she was 88. Lessing (nee Tayler) was an A-list feminist writer on the political left, for many years an active member of the British Communist Party until disillusioned by the Soviet armed invasion of Hungary in 1956.The `Canopus in Argos' series of five novels was written 1979-1983 and described by the author as `Space Fiction'. These works postulate the involvement of three ancient extraterrestrial civilizations with the Earth's development and the evolution of the human race: Canopus, benign and god-like; Sirius, less developed than Canopus and prone to genetic experimentation on other species; and Puttiora, the sworn enemy of the other two and made even worse by a renegade-criminal element called Shammat.`Shikasta' is the first and most important book in the series; it stands alone as a novel without the other four but is a necessary prequel to all the others. The Earth is first named Rohanda `the fruitful' by the Canopeans and seen as a planet of great potential. Rohanda is annexed by the Canopus Empire and a spiritual-energetic connection is established by a `lock', whereby SOWF (substance-of-we-feeling) is transmitted from Canopus to Rohanda to assist its development.All does not go well, however, and the lock is broken due to a cosmic accident: this is Lessing's rewriting of the `Fallen Angels' legend. Rohanda is henceforth known as `Shikasta' (the Farsi word for `broken'). Canopus sends emissaries in disguise to the stricken Shikasta to try to remedy the situation, but few meet with success as the evil influence of Shammat takes hold on the human race. One such emissary is `Johor' who later incarnates in the 20th century as George Sherban, and it's through his eyes that much of the story is told.The novel adopts an anthropologist's sense of detachment by observing the history of the human race from the perspective of an ethically advanced civilization, through a series of reports from the emissaries sent back to Canopus. This narrative device gives voice to the author's personal beliefs and opinions. Re-reading `Shikasta' again after more than 30 years the book comes across as something of a polemic, even in places a rant, against the human condition in the late 20th century and the neo-colonial geopolitics of that era.Nothing dates like science fiction, and `Shikasta' is very much a novel of the 1980s. It's been said that "prediction is a difficult art, especially when it's about the future", an observation never truer than here. `Shikasta' was written in 1979 and its dystopian vision of near-future human society (before the inevitable nuclear apocalypse wipes out 99% of the population) contains no cellphones, no computers, no internet, no mass e-communication like email or twitter.The Canopus series of books gave birth to a cult in the USA in the 1980s, perhaps unsurprising in the light of their apocalyptic/messianic themes.  Devotees of the cult reportedly wrote to the author asking "When are we next going to be visited by the gods?" Lessing replied "Shikasta is not a cosmology. It's invented", to which the cultists responded, "We know you're testing our faith".Though `Shikasta' has not dated well and can be depressingly polemicist in tone, the novel explores some interesting ideas and its reporting-style narrative works well if you can get past the author's ideological obsessions and rather `preachy' style. `Shikasta' is the core book of the series. In re-interpreting the creation myth and legend of the fall into a history of benign/malign alien intervention shot through with a streak of Sufi-inspired mysticism, Lessing's fictional cosmology may (for all we know) be closer to the true history of the human race than the Book of Genesis.
3 Lessing's criticism of the twentieth century is pointed, somtimes funny, and ultimately hopeful. The other four books in her 'Canopus' series are much stronger, though.Shikasta - the outsider's name for Earth - is presented in a series of vingettes, case studies, and partial exchanges of letters. Perhaps the intent was to create a mosaic from those many pieces. I just found it fragmentary; somehow, it never formed a whole, coherent image for me. Also, this book is longer than the others in the set. In those, Lessing makes her points concisely; this book's increased length just gave more of the poor organization.I recently re-read the other four books (not the proper order of the set of five), and came away more impressed than ever. Singly and as a set, they are wonderful. I'm glad I read this one last. If I had read this before the others I might not have bothered with them - that would have been a true loss on my part.I recommend the Canopus series most highly. The other books are among the finest literature I know. It is unfortunate that Shikasta does not rise to their standards, and it would be sad if a new reader judged the series by it's first member.
2 This book is a HUGE disappointment.  The characters were totally unbelievable.  The horses were more real than the people.  I kept waiting for it to get better and before I knew it...I was done.  LAME ending.  Don't waste your precious reading time with this one.  IF you liked Jane Smiley's Thousand Acres, you will hate Barn Blind.  YUK!
4 I have no great interest in horses, but my daughter does, so I found the horse aspects interesting.  I have no idea if it was accurate, and the &quot;convenient abrupt ending&quot; another reviewer alluded to I found to  make perfect sense with the flow of the rest of the novel.  Throughout  there was a sense that *something* was going occur and it was going to be  very important, and well, finally it did.  I didn't like the characters  themselves a lot either, with the exception of Axel, but only when reading  &quot;Women in Love&quot; by DH Lawrence, has that really mattered to me.  I found the characters interesting and on the edge of transformation.  What  I really did wonder about through out was why Henry wasn't riding, but  maybe he didn't know, and neither did anyone else, so why should we?  My  major objection to the edition I had was the cover.  The farm in the book  is a horse farm; the farmm on the cover was a crop farm.
4 Kate Karlson is the indomitable, stubborn horse trainer who devotes her life to her calling.  Her husband, who is more laid-back, and her four children recognize that there is life beyond horses and the farm, but not Kate.  The oldest, Margaret, yearns after an unattainable man. Peter, the next oldest, ever the dutiful son, concentrates on horses, but is still dreamy, with his thoughts straying elsewhere. John, the third in line, is perpetually dissatisfied with life on the farm, frequently comparing their family to others.  The youngest, Henry, gives up horses altogether and seeks his own  path.  Smiley's first novel is rich with details of the equestrians, their mounts, and everyday life on the farm.  Kate is a complex character, if not always likeable: she drives her students, but not at the expense of their mounts.  The characters are anything but the two-dimensional clich&eacute;s found in many horse books making it a worthwhile read.
5 Good story, excellent writing! Jane Smiley descriptions were wonderful and I enjoyed learning about the care and training of horses. Interesting and captivating novel.
4 This book literally haunted me.  I found myself constantly thinking about the characters days after I finished  it.  It is a quiet kind of story, packed with repressed emotions, and somehow the ending felt cathartic  although not immediately so.  I could see chaos in this large rambling  horse farm family and I could put together the events with a clarity I did  not feel the moment I finished the book.  It took awhile, and slowly these  people took more shape and I began to understand more and feel the story's  latent ending. I was intrigued by the family dynamics, the dominant  mother/trainer, the passive, ever-loving, forgiving father, and each child  responding in the only way their personalities would allow to the intensity  of their demanding mother.  The end was powerful. I reflected on the father  holding his head in his hands as he realized there was no end in sight to  his wife's sovereignity and determination to carry on at any cost.  I crave  a sequel, yet I already know it.  It is the epitome of barn blind.
3 I was disappointed in this book as I am not familiar with the equestrian world.  The language was geared for horse lovers.  I skipped much of it or rather skimmed through the passages.  The last chapter, I read.  I am sure those in the world of horse shows would love it.
2 I found the horse lingo hard to follow, and therefore lost interest in the book.  Those first chapters moved at a very slow speed as well.
5 Peter, John, Henry, and Margaret Karlson were the children of a father who drove an old Pontiac and a mother who drove a Datsun.  Peter's height came from his mother, Katherine Karlson.  Axel and Kate Karlson had a horse farm.  The farm seemed to take all of Axel's salary and investment earnings and Kate's annual income.Kate was concerned that her best rider, her son Peter, and her best horse, MacDougal, did not get along.  Axel feared for his quiet farm-bound children.  While most family members were at the Barrington Horse Show, Axel cleared out the refrigerator and determined their establishment was a monument to waste.The novel details Peter's riding feats and victories and John's temper and involvement in a tragic accident.  On another level the monomania of Kate to develop horses and riders even to the point of sacrificing her own family is portrayed interestingly and convincingly.
5 I really enjoyed reading this book! Well drawn characters and excellent writing. The family dynamics were interesting and Smiley's descriptions had me re-reading passages for the pleasure of her writing.
4 This book is a short but vivid sketch depicting a situation in the Catholic Church after the Second Vatican Council which so swiftly and profoundly altered liturgical, ritual and spiritual life of the faithful  that many of them - both among a hierarchy and common priests, monks and  laymen - were thrown into confusion. However, these changes were positively  necessary in order not to clone the former mistakes of negation of the  modern world reality that several centuries ago had led to appearance of  'that righteous prig nailing in Wittenberg his defiance to the church  doors' who reformed the Church and the history of humankind. The novella  does not pretend to a wide scope of theological problems, the characters of  cynical church 'generals' are rather schematic and satirical, but the  delineation of different kinds of catholics - new 'enlightened' libertarian  generation, old generation who preserved their faith and also the  hesitating type of believer who is loosing his/her faith - and their  intricate interrelations in Time of Spiritual Troubles is really excellent.
5 Catholics is a slim, simply written novel that raises good questions on faith, Catholic-Christianity, obedience and all the things that are all the core tenets of the Catholic Church. Set in the future, the Fourth Vatican Council has gotten rid of private confession, clerical attire, the Latin Mass and all the primaries that one would associate with a Catholic identity. Yet, in the nether reaches off the Irish coast, there is a monastery-Muck Abbey-whose monks are not following the rules of law, as laid down by the pope and the curia at the Vatican. They are gentle rebels who are refusing to comply, because they believe in the traditional mysteries that have gone back aeons, laws and values laid down by God through Jesus Christ to His disciples. The monks are innocent practitioners of the beautiful, old ways of mystery, and because they refuse to cut the cord of the truth, as they believe it to be, they become, inadvertently (I believe) thorns in the you-know-what of the Vatican oligarchy. Because of that, they develop an international following, parishioners themselves who can't quite digest the lack of mystery, as established by the Fourth Vatican Council. The new rules seem too politically correct, extolling the ideology of secularization and relativism. The higher-ups are becoming more and more attracted to intense ecumenicalism as well, wanting to merge Buddhism with Catholicism, in effect, erasing its roots, the "Rock" that Jesus Christ told Peter the church would be built upon. For the nameless parishioners in this novel who are true readers of the Bible (God's Word willed to humanity), the radical changes are too extreme to be accepted, and thus, disobedience is a logical and intellectual act to embark upon. But because they are a flock-God's children-the Church has a role to see that they are not being led astray. And according to the Vatican, because the monks at Muck Abbey are not heeding the rabid new changes, they are hence, leading the flock astray. To rectify the issue, Fr. James Kinsella is dispatched to the abbey to reeducate the lot of them. Modern and free thinking, Fr. Kinsella is the embodiment of the "new" Catholic, a man who sees the mystery of prayer and sin as superstitious nonsense (he'd probably make a good Devil's Advocate) that is antiquated and best to be trounced upon when it is burgeoning. Though he is not a mean spirited man in any way, to me, he is a condescending intellectual who is a careerist who wants to climb the church ladder to something better. However, the best way to do that is to do the drudgery work that probably no one else wants to do. With that, he'll get promoted. On the opposite side of the spectrum, there is Tomas O'Malley, the abbot of Muck Abbey; he is gentle, fatherly, wizened and  a man in a very difficult position. And his actions will have a wider impact that are too big to fully understand, for if he complies with the church hierarchy, it will look as if he's abandoning the mystery and superstition of life and the things that happen within its confines for political religiosity. If he defies the church, will he and his band of traditional monks be seen as martyrs to Catholic orthodoxy or minions of evil because they are not in tandem  with a Church that God is passionate about? In dealing with this, Fr. O'Malley is also coping with his own doubts and privations; the religious passions are just not there. He is a robot going through the motions of things, and something needs to be triggered within himself. How appropriate that his name is Tomas, for he really comes off as the Doubting Thomas. One can not put off the battle between the two warring factions as the ultimate test from God, and that is how it must be seen; obedience is paramount, and for me that really is undigestible. I would probably tell Fr. Kinsella to go where the sun don't shine, but that is not a true manifestation of faith in this case, and that is why this book is so gloriously frustrating. It begs you to ask the question, What would you do? Christianity is hard! It asks for commitment through thick and thin (even if you don't agree). It challenges you to the core of what you think you really are versus what you truly are. I won't reveal the ending, but the truth is best spoken by Fr. O'Malley when he says, "Prayer is the only miracle. We pray. If our words become prayer, God will come." Page 132. Catholic or not, that is one truth that can never ever be altered.
5 Brian Moore ,in this short book,actually just a novella,presents an interesting look at the Catholic Church.It was published in 1972 and is still an interesting read.In reading this book,one must keep in mind that it was writted shortly after Vatican 2 Council that took place between 1961 and 1965.the purpose of the Council was to review the "situation" of the Church at its present time, and to make changes in religious practices,traditions,liturgy and whatever else ,should become instilled it the practice of faith ,and ceremonies;to bring things more up to date and relevant with the present.It was not simply a new set of rules proposed by just the Pope;but a long series of thoughtful considerstions by many Cardinals, other theologians, etc.In other words,it was not in any way,any change to the basic beliefs and faith;but rather changes in the ways and rituals,etc in the manner in which the faith was to be practiced.As a lay Catholic,that's the way I saw it and as far as I am concerned ,the way most Catholics saw it.If one reads anything about the Catholic Church,things continually changed over the past 2000 years,and most of the changes reflected society during those times ,but there was never any changes in the beliefs of faith ,simply in its ritual and practice.A couple of examples would be that of priests not marrying,eating meat on Fridays,what types of clothes religious leaders wear,the hymn and prayers that are said,etc.As a matter of fact these things seem to be more of an issue to non practioners of the faith than those within it,at least in my experience.The issues that the author writes this novella around ,and the predictions he makes are more about personalities and how they react and adjust to changes;and are common when any changes are introduced within an organization.Some will want to take changes,even expand on them, and run wild;while others will cling to tradition and drag their feet and resist all changes.The language in which the Mass is offered ,is a major change,but as a matter of faith,it is irrelevant.To consider this book as one of substantial prophecy is a stretch of the imagination.While attendance at Mass has fallen off in some countries such as Ireland,and in parts of Canada,such as Quebec;those changes were little if any due to Vatican II or the imaginary Vatican IV  as suggested.The practice of religion with different denominations of Christianity has changed many ways in the Western world and will continue in the future as it has in the past.So ,in the end,this book is an interesting read in how people react to change,and while it shows the emotional side of the reaction to change;one shouldn't read any more into it than that.
5 This has to be one of Moore's best. I ached with grief for the old Abbot at the end of the book. And I am an atheist...Catholics are coming from all over the world to celebrate the old Latin mass at an obscure spot in  Ireland. Some see it as a religious revival. Some see it as a sign of the  endurance of &quot;hard core&quot; Catholicism. However, the Pope, and  other modern highly place ecumenical figures, see it as trouble. A  rebellion against the new, populist church, and a flagrant  disobedience.A young, modern, American priest is sent to deal with these  old-style upstarts. But can he help but share the genuine sincerity of the  isolated monks - living in utmost modesty on the Island of Muck -  who have  innocently begun the furor? And it comes down to belief in miracles versus  the mundane need for the common good. The brash young American priest comes  hard up against the solid old Abbot of Muck. Dependable, honest within and  without, the Abbot is the only one that knows that his faith is a tenuous  thing.The facts of the plot matter little. The excellent character  portrayals, and the understanding of the internal workings of such  different minds is uniquely Moore. As only he can, he makes the anguish of  the Abbot your own, and brings you with him through the trials of his  decision.Outstanding.
4 ==== SPOILER ALERT! ====The irony in this short novel is that the views of the Abbot and of the visiting Fr. Kinsella are the same.  We just don't know it at first.  Kinsella is a product of the new age without a belief in the miracle of the Mass, while the Abbot represents the old tired world that lost its faith in the miraculous.  It's almost as if the Abbot were relieved to have the orders from Kinsella as an excuse to stop the traditional Masses his monks have been saying.Ultimately, the Abbot would have been obedient even without the visit, so the premise of the novel isn't very strong.  (Though perhaps we can assume his superiors had doubts about his obedience.)  However, the visit to the abbey allows all the characters to interact and bring out their various perspectives and fears.  The height of the work is the thoughtful conversation between the Abbot and Kinsella in the evening after dinner.  The talk has a tension created by the mystery of where each man actually stands, and what each will do in the end.  But despite the tension, the two men are always cordial, even warm, with each other.In the end, the only "presence" of God that the monks can be sure of is that which occurs while they pray.  On first reading, this seems a frightening prospect, as indicated by the concerns of the traditionalist "triumvirate" of Fathers Manus, Walter, and Matthew.  But then we must realize that if prayer doesn't work, then there is nothing to the sacraments; so prayer is the foundation of the sacraments and the first step toward the presence of God among us.
4 A well written book.  Very thought provoking, even if you are not a Catholic.
4 This is an excellent read on the subject of the &#34;new&#34; catholic mass and the changes that have taken place over the years. I am old enough to remember the &#34;mystery&#34; of the old mass with the latin prayers and yet enjoy listening to the folk singing that takes place now.  Brian Moore's story is short which is good if you don't want to read a big novel and yet it leaves the reader asking many questions of his own beliefs.  Overall, it was interesting and enjoyable.
4 Is the body of the Catholic Church moving beyond the Vatican II reforms, or do they want them rescinded? Interesting arguments for both sides. Some characters too stereotypical but doesn't diminish the question at hand.
5 Heyerdahl's book succeeds on many levels--it is both an intriguing  scientific/anthropological speculation and an enthralling tale of  adventure.  While Heyerdahl is not an especially modest person, he has a  great gift for a witty yarn, which keeps the book entertaining at all  times.  His descriptions of his companions, and of travel in the middle of  the sea--&quot;East of the Sun and West of the Moon,&quot; to use their  expression--kept the book open and in my hand for hours on end.
5 I first read Thor Heyerdahl's work in the National Geographic.  It represents the best of that magazine and best of exploration into ancient technologies -- by emulating and testing long-standing theories. In this case, Thor launches himself into the vast blue waves and has the adventure of a lifetime.  Even if you don't study history, this is a great read.
4 A fascinating story of a band of brothers who face the unknown ocean and at great effort are able to prove their thesis that early ancestors managed to sail a raft from South America to the Polynesian islands. No crybabies here!
4 I enjoyed this book.  There seemed to be senseless killing of fish, which I did not like, but it fit the story. It is a fast read.
4 In 1947, Thor Heyerdahl and his crew set out from South America in a balsa raft, following prevailing winds and currents to demonstrate the feasibility of such a voyage or voyages populating Polynesia from South America. While that discussion remains open, their successful voyage at least demonstrated the possibility.The book itself is a well-written chronology of this epic voyage, starting with the theory, then the construction of the raft itself, departure from Callao, Peru, and - after a bit over three months - arrival/stranding on a reef in the Tuamotu islands.Illustrated with photographs taken by the Kon-Tiki crew and flyleaf maps showing the entire voyage, "Kon-Tiki" is both interesting and quite readable.
4 I read this book in high school (1950s) and reread it and double enjoyed it!!! Reading before the movie helps with all the other questions the movie raises.
5 Although with my luck it would probably sink.Heyerdahl was one of the last great adventurers of our time, and his memoir 'Kon Tiki' is a testimonial of his trials before during and after his grand expedition accross the Pacific. In true adventure fashion he leaves no detail ignored, from the building of the raft, to the opposition he encountered to the myriad of marine life he encountered on the way to the polynesian islands.The reading can be a bit dry at times, but in the end it's worth it. Because when he finally strikes dry land you feel like you've been on the boat with him the whole time and not reading his adventures 50+ years after the fact.
5 A great adventure in living and believing in one's-self and finding like persons to share in this dream.  Well written, easy to read and leaves you wanting more.
5 I first read this book in June of 1958. Started it on June 16 to be precise.  I remember this date because I was in the hospital with an i/v fastened to one arm and the other arm tied above my head to reduce the swelling from the first i/v which had gone awry. The book was propped on my pregnant belly while I blew on the pages to turn them, not always successfully.  Saw something which reminded me of ol' Thor and decided the book deserved another read.  It was well worth it. Enjoyed it much more this time around.
3 The idea seems crazy because it is: Prove the possible validity of a scorned ethnographic theory by sailing over 4,000 miles across the world's largest ocean, laying your life and those of five companions on nine balsa-wood logs held together by rope. History would be made, if not of the kind author and expedition leader Thor Heyerdahl imagined."Ours was a journey with an objective, and we did not want to be classed with acrobats who roll down Niagara in empty barrels or sit on the knobs of flag staffs for 17 days," he writes.Oh well. Heyerdahl wanted to prove it possible for ancient Peruvians to colonize various Pacific islands, and managed instead to prove man's ability to realize the impossible fortified with little more than bravery. As feats go, it's a little like missing the Moon and landing on Mars. No one would remember the Kon-Tiki 65 years after its voyage, or speak of it in classrooms around the world for two generations, if it had achieved a mere scientific objective.As a literary endeavor, "Kon-Tiki" the book leaves me somewhat flat. Published in 1948, one year after the expedition itself, it's an adventure story in which adventure is nearly entirely absent apart from the fact Heyerdahl and his companions are on this creaking raft in the first place. Other than early steering troubles on the Pacific's unforgiving Humboldt Current, a rough encounter with a whale shark, a close shave with another shark, and a wave-ripped landing, all described in a curious, detached way, what we get is a fairly placid ride. There are arresting observations of oceanic life, especially as the Kon-Tiki becomes a kind of lifeform itself, with crabs and barnacles finding safe harbor in its wood, plants growing around its edges, and pilot fish swimming in formation beneath. But there are many lulls in the story, too.What was it like for six men traveling in such close quarters and such uncertain circumstances? "No two of these men had met before, and they were all of entirely different types," Heyerdahl states early on, warning of "the danger of psychological cloudburst" there. But nothing more is ever stated about the interpersonal relations aboard the Kon-Tiki; we don't even get to know any of these Norwegians (and one Swede) well enough to tell them apart beyond their names.The book does make a strong case for the fortitude of man, whether ancient or modern, provides some fine nature writing, and occasional gleamings of welcome humor. Heyerdahl makes a strong case for his belief in Mesoamerican settlement of the Pacific islands, even if his voyage doesn't prove anything. [The Kon-Tiki not only required towing out to sea but made an inauspicious landfall if one is to believe in the viability of his theory.] More than anything, it's time well spent with an interesting group of men doing a rather incredible thing, even if they were more impressed with the theory behind it than the feat itself.
5 Thor Heyerdahl wrote about testing his theory on how the islands in the south Pacific became inhabited.  He succeeded in proving his theory was possible by building a raft and taking off from Peru.  Anyone who enjoys adventures would like this book.  It is probably a book that a lot of people have read in high school but I had not.
4 A very wow story.When the author was told that a particular people's migration was impossible, given the ocean going technology and distance involved, he set out to prove it wasn't.Crazy, brave, or whatever, but a pretty impressive real-life adventure tale, along with a spot of first-hand scientific historical research.
5 A great book that makes you want to try this, but not really.  One of my favorite adventure books and I have read many.  Glad it included pictures so you can really follow as a passenger.
4 Kon- Tiki was the first nonfiction adult book I read as a 10 year old.  I read it out of nostalgia, because of the movie release this summer.  I remember several parts and others became enthralling.  Those men had incredible courage and determination!
5 This book has all of the allure and excitment of a pirate tale, Swiss Family Robinson and Robinson Crusoe and its real to boot! I am totally buying this book as an addition to my library I'm building up for my children. I think the author's passion for the sea, adventure, history and the Polynesian people are inspiring. This book will make you want to see Peru and the Polynesian Islands, and if like me, you've been there already, you'll want to go back with the book in hand. The only slow point in the writing is in the beginning when the trip is just being put together but once the journey is under way Heyerdahl comes into his own and you are engulfed by the exciting world of the sea, the last great frontier!
5 From the opening sentence to the final period, "Kon-Tiki" is a page-turner.The story is absurd on its face: One man, obsessed with the idea that the Polynesian islands were colonized by voyagers from South America, can't get anybody to take his theory seriously. "They didn't have proper boats," was the argument.Heyerdahl insisted that the colonists had set forth on balsawood rafts. This assertion was met with derision.To prove his theory, Heyerdahl decided to do it himself: to sail from the coast of Peru roughly 4,000 miles to Polynesia. The story of how he assembled a crew of like-minded fools, put together his unlikely craft, and made the incredible journey reads like the best of fiction.Heyerdahl never bogs down the reader with pointless minutia, but he nevertheless treats the reader to details that make the story come to life: the phosporescent plankton, the daily breakfast of flying fish picked up off the deck every morning, the tiny crab who became a pet of the crew. And he doesn't stint on adventure, from the man nearly lost at sea to the harrowing wrecking of the raft on the reefs."Kon-Tiki" is simply a great story, engrossing even to those not usually given to reading survival stories.
5 I thought that it was well written.  It was a very exciting story.  It was also great to see the movie and what the movie didn'tcover I got the story from the book.
2 While the concept is quite fascinating, the actual &quot;adventure&quot; is somewhat boring and uneventful.  Not that I need loss of life or violent hurricanes for excitement, but a &quot;major event&quot; was the daily  circling of dolphins, which Heyerdahl calls to our attention at least ten  times.  This alone attests to the opinion that the book is not organized or  written well.  It is a loosely conected batch of ramblings.  Perhaps some  of the power was lost in the translation, but in general, the story rates  right up there with my 3rd grade narrative on my summer vacation.
4 This is an excellent morale boosting story for anyone with a wacky idea that just won't quit, and has been dying their whole life to say "Ha, I told you so!".  It's also a great travel epic complete with the quirky locals, the gadget guru, and a group of men willing to risk their lives for an ultimate adventure.Parts of the book did read like a 1960's documentary.  I could almost envision the "exciting world of color" technicolor intro and Thor narrating over the action.  But I think it all adds to the ambiance of the book.  It makes you realize in days before GPS and sattellite radios how crazy this band of pioneers really were.  Also Thor doesn't really get into the emotional implications of first signing on to the expedition, then being at sea with a handful of men for three months. Instead he spiced up the day to day desciptions with detail about sea life and what the crew did to entertain themselves.  I would have imagined the trip to be much more monotonous and morale killing then he makes it out to be, but it definitly makes a much more exciting read.I woudl recommend this book to any travel book lover.  It a classic of it's genre and a must read.
4 It's a great read and an epic journey. What amazed me, even more than the raft itself, was that the crews' relationships with each other survived the trip. I don't know many (any) people I'd want never to be able to get out of sight of for months on end...Read and be impressed, be very impressed!
4 Great book.... I loved this story. I was surprised at how quickly it got to me. It came as desrcibed.
5 This was a gift for a friend whose name is in the title, just spelled differently.  He had never heard of the book, and it is one of my husband's favorites, so my husband bought it for him. He loved it as well.
5 I first read this book when I was a kid. Although it was a Readers Digest condensed version, I was fascinated with it. I also remembered feeling envious of the author and his crew for their adventures. I am a little jealous to this day. The planning and implementation of the trip was fascinating. The observations of the environment and sea life were meticulously described. This book should be required reading in school, if it isn't already.
5 Thor Heyerdahl's masterful retelling of his epic voyage from the shores of Peru westwards across the Pacific. High adventure of the old type. The journey was intended to demonstrate the possibility of transoceanic vaoyages in ancient times, using the most primitive of crafts. He proved his point, in the most direct way possible.But as well as being a daring adventurer, Heyerdahl was a master story-teller, and he enthralls his readers with accounts of the ancient legends of Peru; of the Virachochas, led by Kon Tiki, who were said to have fled from their Andean homeland westwards across the ocean. We hear of the ancient and mysterious ruins around Lake Titicaca, which the Incas told the Spaniards had been built by the Viracochas. These people were said to have been a white-skinned race which had originated far to the north and west.In subsequent years Heyerdahl traced the origin of the Viracochas and the other "white" Indians of the Americas to the Atlas region of North Africa; and he demonstrated, in the Ra expedition, how ancient sailors from that region could have crossed the Atlantic to reach the Americas.Before he died, Heyerdahl had the satisfaction of seeing everyhting he said fully vidicated by science. To start with, in the early 1990s a forensic toxicology team in Germany, led by Dr Svetlana Balabanova, discovered traces of tobacco and cocaine, two American narcotics, in an Egyptian mummy. After repeated the tests many times, and examining other mummies, they found the same thing again and again.In the meantime, it has become clear that a whole host of American drugs (such as the notorious jimson weed) were known in the Old World in ancient times, and used in the various Mystery Cults to provide initiates with out-of-body experiences. Almost all of this knowledge was suppressed in Europe and the Middle East, where Christianity and Islam took a dim view of such things. It was preserved, however, in the Sanskrit literature of India.A little later in the 1990s an American team of geneticists dicovered a type of European/Middle Eastern mitochondrial DNA (the x haplogroup) in Native American populations. Again, after checking and rechecking for errors, they published their findings. And the percentage of this Old World DNA was highest in groups of Native Americans that were traditionally known as "white," such as the Ojibbewa in North America and the Yanomamo in South America.When this is added to the clear evidence that Clovis Man was essentially Caucasian (as Kennewick Man has shown), then there's no doubt that Heyerdahl was right. But how long will it be before this is recognised, and Heyerdahl gets the academic recognition he deserves?
5 I first read of Thor Heyerdahl's voyage across the Pacific when I was in high-school and it had left a lasting impression on me.  I recently ran across the book and reread it.  Kon-Tiki is an amazing story of Heyerdahl's determination to prove a theory that it is possible to sail from Peru to the South Pacific islands by raft.  He puts together a successful expedition, and with a lot of luck manages to prove his point.  Along the way, you get a history lesson, geography lesson, marine biology lesson, and a wonderful sea-faring adventure story all in a fast-paced book.  And with the photographs accompanying the prose, you feel like you too are on the raft with them.
5 The voyage of the Kon-Tiki ranks as one of the great adventures of ourera. But was Heyerdahl's journey that of a &quot;luckyadventurer&quot; whose theories could be justly dismissed as&quot;junk science&quot; by the archaeological establishment? Or didhis knowledge that the seas were virtual conveyor belts unveil thepossibility that ancient peoples were not limited to migration overland bridges but could more easily have voyaged in rafts over openseas? Tom Dillehay's dating of the Monte Verde site in Chile to 12,500years ago -- hundreds of years before the Mackenzie corridor openedthe remote possibility of Beringia (dry Bering Sea) migration -- seemsto have driven a stake into the theory that man first migrated by landto the Americas. Now paleontologist Walter Neves has revealed that a11,500-year-old skull from central Brazil (&quot;Luzia&quot;) has theround eyes, large nose and pronounced chin characteristic ofAustralian aborigines and native Africans. Will Heyerdahl's theoriesfinally receive the attention in academic circles they have longdeserved?
4 I read the book first. Then years later I saw a documentary about it. The book is much better. If you like sailing adventures, then you'll probably like this book. It takes us from the beginning of his idea, through sailing adventure, and provides analysis at the end. It's a fairly quick read at about 250 pages. It is very well written. It's a book that I may read again in the future.Visit my Amazon Collections to see my 4-star and 5-star books:http://www.amazon.com/gp/customers/A12LH2100CKQO/collections
5 I thoroughly enjoyed reading Kon-Tiki by Thor Heyerdahl.  The narrative was easy to understand.  The detailed description put me right on the raft with Thor.  As I read through the adventure, many of my questions were answered.  I especially enjoyed the scenic descriptions.  I was also impressed by the honest telling of the learn-as-you-go revelations.  I can't imagine anyone not enjoying this book.
5 Read this in my 20's, enjoyed it.  Remember some of it from the latest movie, had to re-read it.  A tale to be treasured..
4 Although the middle part of this book drags (which is why I gave it 4 stars instead of 5), I was really satisfied when I finished reading this book.  I was on vacation in Oslo and had visited the Kon-Tiki museum.  I  had never heard of Thor Heyerdahl before, but from what I saw at the  museum, I was very fascinated and intrigued by the story of his trip across  the Pacific on a balsa-wood raft.  The week I came home I immediately  started reading this book, and I was not disappointed.  I was really  fascinated by  the accounts of interaction with sea animals, whales,  sharks, dolphins, etc. that I immediately wanted to go sailing on a wide  open sea in order to see all these exotic animals that Heyerdahl and his  crew encountered.  This book allows you to live vicariously and experience  three months worth of sailing on a raft in the Pacific Ocean.  This is a  definite read for the sea lovers and travelers out there in the world who  yearn for adventure.
4 Heyerdahl was either extremely ignorant of the sea, completely sure of his hypothesis that ancient peoples traveled the sea in rafts, or both.I worked offshore, and couldn't imagine doing what Heyerdahl did. I've spent my life on the water and the sea just has never been so forgiving in my case. To build a raft for the first time without testing it first against the sea was just madness. But to put out, without the technology we have today, that was just ballsy.In the end, history proved him right, over and over again. Heyerdahl is a man who certainly knows how to put his money where his mouth is. If you want to know about the spirit of those who have the faith to really lean on their convictions, this is a great book.-H
5 I recently saw a list of bestsellers from my birth year of 1951.  Kon Tiki had been #1 throughout most of that year so, out of curiosity, I bought it.  It has opened an entire new world to me!  Adventure, culture, bravery, aquatic life, and so on!  The best book I have read in years!!!  Mr. Heyerdahl writes like he is just talking to you in your living room, so down to earth and very entertaining in his calm, methodical approach to situations most of us would run screaming from!  I highly recommend this book to everyone, young and old!  It is a classic.  My dream is to one day travel to the Kon Tiki Museum in Oslo and actually see that magnificent raft.  Read this book!  You will never forget it.
5 In this classic, Heyerdahl constructs a raft to sail 4,300 nautical miles from Peru to the South Pacific Islands in order to prove his theory that the natives of Peru could have migrated to these islands thousands of years ago. This book contains a great deal of information of interest to scientists. These include the appearance of previously little-known fish, the scope of marine bioluminescense, the deployment of ocean currents, etc. It is interesting to note that the Polynesians realized that the Earth was round. A re-examination of the common belief that prescientific peoples invariably believed in a flat Earth is clearly warranted.
4 I had just finished his story of living in the Marquesas Islands with his new wife and just had to have more. Although it took a while to get out on the ocean blue, it was fascinating to read of their daily lives. Be careful though not to jump ahead and look at the pictures and the captions, or it will give too much away.
4 I was pleasantly surprised by this book.  It was well-written and poetic in places.  I still have two chapters left to read.
4 I had heard about the legendary Kon-Tiki adventure all my life, but never really understand the magnitude of the accomplishment of the 6-man team until I read the book. No wonder the story has captivated thrill-seekers, adventurers and historians for more than 65 years! On a recent trip to Peru, our tour guide proudly mentioned that the Peruvians were responsible for populating the Pacific Islands, so I decided to finally to read this great adventure book.Early in the book Heyerdahl writes that in ancient Peru, "Kon-Tiki was high priest and sun-king of the Incas' legendary 'white men' who had left the enormous ruins on the shores of Lake Titicaca... Kon-Tiki... and his closest companions escaped and later came down to the Pacific coast, whence they finally disappeared oversea to the westward." Heyerdahl was convinced that Kon-Tiki was identical with the white chief-god Tiki, son of the sun, whom the inhabitants of all the eastern Pacific islands hailed as the original founder of that race. Heyerdahl decided that he needed to prove his theory by demonstrating that a primitive balsa-wood raft could have been carried by the currents from Peru to Polynesia.So he set out to find backers, assemble a team of men to accompany him, build the raft, and acquire the provisions. They knew that once they left the coastal area of Peru, they would not encounter any ships, for no shipping route ran through that part of the Pacific. They had only minimal trials on their crudely built raft, and said that the first days of their journey turned "landlubbers into seamen". By modern day standards, they seemed spectacularly unprepared for this 4000+ mile odyssey. The author writes in intricate detail about how the raft behaved on the ocean, and about their daily routine of manning the helm, setting the sail, preparing meals, catching fish, playing with dolphins and sharks, etc. One of their most exciting experiences was meeting a terrifying sea monster, a whale shark, largest fish known in the world.The writing is quite humorous at times; for instance, "Torstein limped about for some time with a rag round his big toe because he had let is stray into the mouth of a dolphin, which had used the opportunity to close its jaws and chew a little harder than usual." The author can also be quite introspective and poetic at times: "Time and evolution somehow ceased to exist; all that was real and that mattered were the same today as they had always been and would always be. We were swallowed up in the absolute common measure of history - endless unbroken darkness under a swarm of stars."What is oddly lacking in the tale though (and the reason why I granted 4 stars rather than 5), was any significant development of the personalities of the 6 men who inhabited the raft for 101 days. We read about a few humorous episodes and scary events when one of the sailors falls into the sea, but we read almost no dialogue or interaction between them. How did they get along? Did they squabble? Did they get homesick? Were they afraid of never reaching shore again? Did they have wives and children at home? Did they have annoying habits? How did they handle boredom? Did they get badly sunburned? Did someone always sing out of tune and irritate the heck out of the others? Those types of little details would have humanized the 6 men considerably. I can hardly remember any distinguishing characteristics between them, other than 2 of them slaved over the radio all the time, and one dove into the water to save the life of the other who was falling further and further behind the raft after going overboard.Nevertheless, it is a well written chronology of the most impressive feat of floating 101 days across the empty ocean, with only the waves and stars and sun and fish to accompany them. They endured and thrived and have won a well deserved spot in history.
5 I read this book when I was a kid in school. It seemed the ultimate adventure story. I have visited the Kon Tiki Museum in Oslo several times.  Now I have just seen the recently released very-well-done movie of the voyage, and I felt it was time to reread the classic story.  I was delighted to see it was available for the Kindle.  Great read!Kon-Tiki (Enriched Classics)
5 This was a well written and interesting story about the adventures of an interesting man. A nice complement to the recent film, if you happen to see the film first.
5 After noticing numerous similarities between aspects of Polynesian culture and Inca culture, Thor Heyerdahl postulates an ancient connection between the two peoples: he argues that Inca traveled to the South Pacific islands and at least partially colonized them. His theory is immediately dismissed by anthropologists for many reasons. Foremost is the argument that the Inca did not have boats capable of crossing the Pacific. All they had were balsa wood rafts, which the experts argue would never survive the trip. Heyerdahl is so sure he is right, he sets out to prove that it is possible to cross the Pacific in a balsa wood raft by making the voyage himself!He recruits five Scandinavian shipmates and heads down to South America to build a balsa wood raft. After wading through much red tape, his crew finally builds a replica raft and sets sail. Everyone thinks they will likely die on the trip, but they are determined to prove them wrong. And they do. On the way, they have fantastic adventures with sharks, unexplained huge creatures far below the raft, fish jumping on board for breakfast, men overboard, and a final exciting crash landing on a South Pacific island.I can't say enough about how enjoyable this book was, but I also can't help but be sad that in the days of satellite mapping, GPS, and red tape, such adventures now seem out of reach. This book has a bit of everything: science, history, engineering, philosophy, and of course loads of maritime adventure from an era when the world's geography was a little more mysterious.
5 This book was an incredible gripping tale of Thor Heyerdahl's adventurous travel to Polynesia to prove that such travel was possilbe years ago.  Thor Heyerdahl was not only an entertaining writer but an avid adventurer.  He writes in a way that allows you to take the journey with him on the balsa raft that he uses with six others to travel from Peru to Polynesia.  He definitely proved his point.
5 This is a classic.  I just got a used copy from a friend, and started reading it to my kids.  I was hooked immediately.  Really well written.  Fantastic.
5 If one word can sum up this account of Thor Heyerdahl's amazing voyage it's: Adventure!  From the mid 1930's through the mid 1940's Heyerdahl studied the culture and history of the South Sea islanders.  He also conducted extensive research on the cultural history of Peru and the Inca civilization.  The conclusions he reached, based on these investigations, was that early seafarers from South America may have colonized some of the South Sea islands like Polynesia and Easter Island.  Critics of Heyerdahl's theory claimed there was no way for for the Peruvians to cross the vast stretches of ocean that lay between South America and the south sea islands as their balsa wood rafts were only good for local voyages, up and down the South American coast.  Other scientist of the day pointed out that &#34;sweet potatoes&#34;, a staple food of some south sea islands, was native to South America and the only way it could have gotten to Polynesia was via human transport  (When early European explorers, sailing from the west, &#34;discovered&#34; these islands the sweet potatoes were already there).  So it went, with experts on either side pointing out various reasons why, or why not, the theory was valid.  The debate continues to this day with some, as yet, unresolved issues.  Heyerdahl  realized the burden of proof was on him.  The first step in validating his theory was to prove that it was possible get from Peru to the Polynesian islands on a balsa wood raft.  And live to tell the story!  So began one of the greatest endeavors of exploration and discovery in the 20th century.  The expedition was plagued by problems from the start: getting proper funding and equipment for the trip; finding large balsa wood trees in the mountains of Peru and getting them to the coast; finding a safe and secure place to construct the raft; communicating with Peruvian officials for government permits; and the list goes on.  At times the problems bordered on the humorous: launch day was a scene worthy of the Keystone Cops.  Once they were underway the real danger set in,  crossing busy sea-lanes at night in a drifting raft was no joke.  Multi-ton cargo ships don't stop on a dime.  Then there was the Humboldt Current sweeping them northward towards the treacherous waters around the Gal&aacute;pagos Islands.  For a while it was touch and go for the inexperienced landlubbers, the Kon-Tiki voyage was almost over before it really began.  So, if your in the mood for a little adventure,  let Thor Heyerdahl take you on a voyage of discovery as he and his crew follow the sun.LastRanger
4 In 1947, 6 Norwegian men, most veterans of World War II, set out from Peru on a primitive raft, and drifted with the prevailing winds and tide until they reached Polynesia . This is their story. The unlikely feat proved that ancient people (circa 500 CE) could have made such a trip.
5 a real adventure tale but this one really happenedjust a great read.  should be required reading on the high school reading lists.
4 I read this book and its companion book, "The RA Expeditions" several years ago and enjoyed them both very much.  They are both true adventures of expeditions that were conducted to prove that travel over long ocean distances could have been accomplished on raft type vessels.  Very interesting reading and brings in some interesting ideas as to how some of the islands came to be inhabited. The author shares some of the most amazing experiances that he and his group encountered in the preparation stages and then the actual voyage.
5 With fond memories of poring over a colorful "youth" version of Kon-Tiki when I was a school boy in the 1960s, I recently picked up a copy of Thor Heyerdahl's full-length recounting of his exhilarating 4,300 mile open-sea expedition, to understand the background and motivation behind the voyage in more detail.  Kon-Tiki is a fascinating book, documenting the even more fascinating true story of why and how six courageous men set sail on a primitive balsa wood raft from Peru in April 1947, blown along on their hundred-day journey to Polynesia by westward trade winds, the same air currents that might have carried early (possibly even the earliest) settlers to these islands 1,500 years ago.Ostensibly, the purpose of the voyage was an exercise in experimental archaeology and ethnography, to demonstrate that a fair-skinned, reddish-haired people, originating from "where the current comes in from the Atlantic . . . instead of in the more temperate [Asian] regions where civilizations . . . have had easier conditions for their development," could have, as some cultural clues suggest, sailed westward from the Americas to become the first human inhabitants of the South Pacific, including Easter Island, Hawaii and Tahiti, beginning around 500 A.D.  However, as the author himself points out in the brief Appendix, "My migration theory . . . was not necessarily proved by the successful outcome of the Kon-Tiki expedition.  What we did prove was that . . . the Pacific islands are located well inside the range of prehistoric craft from Peru."Beyond its (controversial) ethnographical underpinnings, Kon-Tiki contains a wealth of interesting ancillary information about botany (how the sap in the core of freshly logged balsa wood prolongs flotation, while the softness and absorbency of its outer layers protects ropes and prevents fraying), ichthyology (the gigantic and ugly whale shark, deadly snake mackerel Gempylus, pilot fish, flying fish, how to catch sharks with one's bare hands, how to harvest plankton for a meal, etc.), agriculture (the origins of the sweet potato and palm tree), and cultural anthropology (generosity and warm spirit of the native people on the island of Raroia, where the Kon-Tiki landed, later studied by crew member, Bengt Danielsson).But, most of all, Kon-Tiki is an enthralling and inspiring adventure of a driven man (Heyerdahl) with an idea and a mission, who succeeds, against the advice of experts ("If we added up all that the different experts, each in turn, had pointed out . . . there was not a length of rope, not a knot, not a measurement, not a piece of wood in the whole raft which would not cause us to founder at sea"), in accomplishing what common opinion deems impossible.  Apparently, such enthusiasm is contagious (or at least genetic), as the author's grandson (Olav Heyerdahl, Tangaroa expedition, 2006) recently completed a retracing of the Kon-Tiki's 1947 voyage.  In the author's enthusiastic words during the raft's harrowing reef crossing at voyage's end, through bubbling "witches' cauldron" with green walls of sea water towering 25 feet above, "Hold on!" and "Hurrah!"  Definitely a thrilling story!
3 This book was just okay. We read it for my book club, and I found it interesting in parts, but also boring in parts. The writing was good, but I think the subject matter overall was just not of great interest to me. People interested in history and building things may find this to be a great book.
5 If you feel really crummy, you are getting really desperate and you absolutely have to cheer up, this is the book for you! The author writes with a sublime un-self-conciousness (is that a word?) conveying the power, beauty, and adventure of the ocean and his amazing quest to prove an idea. The power and human spirit of this man is awesome. It feels something like Hucklebery Finn but this is reality.
5 I needed a new copy of Kon-Tiki so I bought this one based on price.The book and font are tiny. Hard to read for middle aged eyes.The book itself is a great story and a must read for the adventure fan, but spend a little more and get a better version.
5 An exciting book by a brave and gifted man, who, in the 1940s, sought to prove his theories that settlers of ancient Easter Island (the most isolated land on earth) might have come from South America. He did so by setting sail on a balsa raft from Peru and going thousands of miles into the Pacific, with a small crew of friends in a remarkable adventure. Heyerdahl was a genius to realize that ancient man need not have been hindered by oceans, which in fact could have acted more like conveyer belts than barriers. (I also recommend his books about the Ra expeditions in reed rafts from Africa to America.) The success of the Kon Tiki mission was a bold and evocative backing up of this general theory, though he also offers other kinds of fascinating evidence along the way. (By the way, I always grit my teeth when I hear modern scientists trying to discredit Heyerdahl by asserting that today's Easter Islanders are Polynesians who came from farther west, which isn't in doubt and wan't to Heyerdahl either. But they are not reading him closely - he suggested an *earlier* migration from South America, which was replaced by Polynesians later on. Perhaps Easter Island was settled twice.) Anyway, a good sea yarn and one of the world's rare radically eye-opening books.
5 The theory suggested by Thor Heyerdahl that the islands of Polynesia were settled from sea-faring travelers from South America has been doubly disproved by both language and DNA.  So why read this old book copyrighted in 1950?For the sheer adventure of it.  Never has an escape from the war-torn modern world come at a greater seductive appeal than in KON TIKI: Across the Pacific by Raft.Crewed by five nutty Norwegians and one brave Swede, Kon Tiki is built from giant balsa trees freshly felled in in the forests at the foothills of the Andes and floated down the river to a naval yard on the coast of Peru.  Surrounded by modern warships, the logs are lashed together with rope and a deck and cabin of plaited bamboo is added.  Towed out to sea, the strange little craft and crew (six men and one parrot)is caught in the cold Humboldt Current and taken north, then the sail fills with the tradewind and it is swept east toward the islands.Sadly, after two months, the parrot is washed overboard.  The remaining crew (six men) learn that the steering watch must wear a safety rope, that it is possible to catch sharks by hand and that the easiest way to make breakfast is to gather up all the flying fish that have jumped on board overnight.  The grainy black and white photographs alone are enough to start the reader on a reverie of escaping to Tahiti.  This is beach reading of the most dangerous sort!But aside from the sheer adventure, an important point was made by Thor Heyerdahl's voyage.  In our modern era we are so impressed with our own technology that it is easy to lose sight of how clever our "primitive" ancestors were. Heyerdahl built a boat from ancient descriptions and discovered halfway through the voyage that it had a sophisticated steering mechanism which he didn't use since wind and current were taking him in the right direction.  Kon Tiki could have made landfall sooner had he aimed for nearer islands.  That this remarkable craft survived contact with a reef that had ripped up more modern boats shows that even amateurs could arrive safely.  One wonders what the original builders of such crafts could do?
5 This is by far one of the best books I have ever read! It is also a true story, which makes it even so much better! If you have not read it yet, you are missing on life!
5 In 1947, Ethnologist and adventurer Thor Heyerdahul organized and led the famous Kon-Tiki transoceanic scientific expedition.The purpose of the voyage , of the primitive raft sailed from the Pacific coast of South America to Polynesia. Demonstrating the possibility that the Polynesian make have originated in South America.I had heard of "Kon-Tiki" for years. But never really knew what it was all about. I just thought it was an "Old Classic story in Literature". Not until a story on CBS Sunday Morning, did I realize what Kon-Tiki was about.Having had lived on islands in the Pacific. I had spend many a night just gazing out in the ocean wondering how people came to be on these tiny islands.The story of Kon-Tiki, Thor Heyerdahl and his crew is a wonderful story. Something that lives on, through the ages.Covering over 4,300 nautical miles ( or the distance equal to Chicago to Moscow) six men and one Parrot , living 101 days in the Pacific. Floating on a small raft made of balsa wood. The only casualty: The Parrot went "over board" in a storm.First published in 1949, Kon-Tiki, to this day, is still a classic!
5 Kon-Tiki starts with an idea, conceived during Heyerdahl's stay on a South Seas island researching his doctoral thesis: could Polynesia have been colonized by trans-Pacific emigres from the pre-Colombian cultures of South America?A true scientist, Heyerdahl isn't satisfied with deciding &quot;yes&quot; - he must test the theory!  In the hands of a lesser man this would have produced a musty old thesis collecting dust on the back shelf of an anthropology library.  Instead, Heyerdahl marshals five friends of heroic spirit, acquires 9 giant balsa wood logs and some other supplies, and within a few months he sets sail from Peru to cross the Pacific.  Drinking fresh water stored in hollowed-out bamboo shafts and eating fish that leap aboard the raft, they make their way across the ocean, well knowing that despite the advanced radio technology of 1936, their chance of rescue in the event of mishap is nil.The only sea book I can think of to rival this for sheer interest and adventure is Verne's &quot;20,000 Leagues under the Sea,&quot; - a fantasy.  Heyerdahl's work is true, and his heroic heart shines through in every word.  His love and reverence for the ocean and the primitive culture he sought to imitate, combined with his scientific clarity of exposition, make it a joy to read and will instill the sea-lust into even the most devoted landlubber.I think everyone ought to read this book, for sheer pleasure, and as an example of what can be done with stout heart, clear head, and good will.  I recommend it to you without any reservation.
5 A classic I read as a child and have passed the novel on to my grandson. A story of unbelievable adventuous spirit and commitment to try an ocean crossing in an ancient craft following a legendary route. A great tale of survival and the human spirit.
4 This book is a surprisingly fresh read for a book written more than forty years ago.  Heyerdahl's raft journey would have been survived by few men.  It's a tribute to what determination and preperation can do.  A very  enjoyable read.
5 I read this book when I was in my teens, and I'm happy to see that it has been reprinted. Although I always preferred to read fiction over nonfiction, for some reason I picked this book up and began to read -- and I couldn't put it down. I found great excitement in the real-life adventure of Heyerdahl and his crew building a raft in Peru, then sailing the Pacific in order to prove that people from South America could have sailed to and settled Polynesia long ago. The details of building the draft and getting it to the ocean make the book come alive, as do the details of being on the ocean on nothing bigger than a raft held together with ropes and vines. A wonderful true-life adventure story.
5 True story of adventure long before GPS or solar powered satellite phones.  Short but entertaining read. Do they still make these kinds of souls?  Orlon Slax
4 Early in "Kon-Tiki," as Thor Heyerdahl and his compatriots are a assembling a make-shift raft to float across the Pacific, a government official calls Heyerdahl to his office."Are your parents living?" the official asks.Yes, says Heyerdahl."Your mother and father will be very grieved when they hear of your death," says the official.It was a reasonable assumption.  What Heyerdahl and his five Norwegian friends were proposing was beyond audacious -- it was foolhardy, by any standard.  Here were six young men, none with sailing experience, who were building their own Inca-style raft out of balsa logs and hemp ropes and planning to sail it across thousands of miles of ocean from Peru to the South Seas.Surely, they would die.Of course, they didn't.  For over 100 days, the Kon-Tiki bobbed along like a cork in high and low seas making slow but steady progress before eventually landing the men on an island in French Polynesia. In doing so, Heyerdahl, an anthropologist, had made his case that it was possible that the South Sea islands had been populated by immigrants floating on rafts from South America.It was a remarkable accomplishment, and while it is a tale imperfectly told, "Kon-Tiki" is quite worth reading.This is a book where the events carry the writing. For the most part, Heyerdahl does an able job of presenting the story, but he curiously skips over some parts.  For instance, he doesn't explain clearly why he allowed the voyage to begin by having the Kon-Tiki towed out of port and many miles out to sea. After all, wasn't the point of the expedition to show that the raft could make it all the way on its own?  (There may have been a good reason -- perhaps to avoid shipping traffic -- but he doesn't say what it is.)Because the trip actually turned out to be easier than expected, the middle section becomes somewhat flat.  The crew had plenty of fish to eat, and collected rain water to drink.  They found ways to make the craft easy to steer.Also, while Heyerdahl is detailed in his descriptions of the fish they saw while crossing the ocean, he fails to illuminate the personalities of his five crewmates.  Even by the end of the book, they remained indistiguishable in my mind.These are weaknesses, yes, but hardly fatal ones, and the overall boldness of this adventure is what carries this book.  There are exciting moments -- when one of the men falls overboard and is nearly lost, and when the Kon-Tiki dramatically crashes into a reef at the end of its voyage. And the crew's short stay on an island inhabited by just 127 villagers is memorable for its idyllic picture of the South Seas lifestyle.
4 It's an amazing story and a wonder the group survived.THe book is written in a very readable style and after 50 or 60 years is still worth reading this tale of adventure
5 This book is for the voyeur that wants a window into the lost age of adventure, those years before 1940. The book is rightly regarded as one of the greatest accounts of real life adventures ever written. It paints exhilarating, vivid pictures of risk taking, and of the human hunger for adventure and desire to return to experiencing life through ones primal instincts. This book is about survival, a chase, and pushing the boundaries of what is possible. It sets The Sea against Man, thin odds against practical ingenuity, conventional academic thought against independent, irreverent, defiant thinkers. Reading about the author's 4,000-mile journey across huge expanses of treacherous ocean brings out the would-be adventurer in the reader. The adventurers' single mindedness and determination against all odds and in the face of nay saying experts (who condemned the journey from the start as foolish, and said their voyage never would or could succeed), sets an inspiring example of how determination and perseverance can lead to accomplishing what self-appointed experts and nay Sayers declare impossible. During their voyage the author and his team pushed the boundaries and commonplace notions of what is possible. The author in part wants us to understand that not all seemingly adventurous fools and are so foolish; that determination can see one across barren, stormy oceans, be they real or metaphorical. On completing the book, all that remains is for the reader to respond to its heed, to push ones own limits to their edge. In a corporate world where too often money is the primary force in leading us to act, where the value of an activity is measured by its potential financial payback, it is refreshing to be reminded of other motivations for action, and of other rewards. The ultimate reward of this book is that it can reawaken in the reader a primal instinct to pursue, instincts which often seems irrelevant or far away in our modern, comfortable lives... this book also reminds the reader of how to dream and the virtues of following dreams. The book serves to remind us of how, why, and where to find adventure ... personally, I walked away from the book exhilarated, and convinced that anything is possible, should I choose to look beyond conventional thought or lifestyle and reach for the stars. ***** Highly Recommended.
3 I love to read when I can find the right book.  When I find the right book I don't put it down til I'm finished (usually in one to three days).  Not bad, but I have put this one down several times and still haven't finished it in a year.
4 The experts of the day had one view on how Polynesia was populated.  Heyerdahl had another.  Rather than continue futile academic arguments, he set about proving that his theory was valid.  I imagine many people thought he and his companions were crazy to set off across the Pacific on nine balsa logs lashed together, and perhaps they were.  In his low key, practical way he describes the adventure of a lifetime, which also proved his point.  I recently came across the movie on Netflix, and decided to read the book again, and was just as taken with the adventure as when I first read it as a boy in the 1950's - I felt I was with them on the raft.
5 Really enjoyed reading the history of this expedition. Kon-Tiki is a very entertaining yet educational read.As a licensed Ham operator I thoroughly enjoyed reading how important amateur radio was to this expedition.
5 I was very pleased that I stumbled across this book and thoroughly recommend it. In terms of history and the movement of people the book is very important. The idea that the Polynesian islands were populated solely from Asia had to be re-thought after this unbelieveable journey was made, even history books had to be re-written. Before the incredible journey was taken not many poeple thought it possible that a raft could leave the west coast of S.America and reach the polynesian islands solely by nature alone ie current and wind. Most people excepted what scientists wrote ,that is the polynesian islands were populated from the west side of the Pacific(asia)only and no native South Ameicans could have made such a journey especially before technology came into play. But these men had done there homework on sea currents,weather patterns(winds) and construction of the raft, which was constructed using the same materials as they had used in inca times.If you want an insight into how ancient peoples risked everything by sailing into the unknown this is the book for you,its compelling stuff.
5 This was one of my summer reads and I found it incredibly entertaining. The story of how a bunch of crazy Norwegians, many of whom were WWII vets, floated across the South Pacific on a balsa raft during the middle of the 20th century is one of the best adventure stories I have ever read. The line between scientific investigation and insanity is thin on this one. The men set off to prove a link between Ancient Peruvians and Polynesians by proving that the Peruvians had sailed as far as Polynesia on balsa rafts. The group procures its wood from the dangerous, lawless countryside of Peru, floats it down a river to the sea, and sets forth on an epic adventure on a scrappy looking sail driven raft they slapped together using diagrams based off ancient documents.The accounts of flying fish, battles with sharks, and struggles against the elements are highly entertaining. They drifted across seas drawn by the currents through areas of the ocean free of shipping lanes, an adventure unparalleled for its time. Their raft literally became a home to hundreds of sea creatures. They encountered sea creatures that nobody had ever seen before. Although their voyage seems crazy, it was really done and I was actually relieved when the raft broke up on a reef on a South Pacific Island and the men were able to swim to safety.If you've ever dreamed of doing something crazy in the name of scholarly pursuits, or if you like a good adventure tale, this is a good read. Its also an interesting piece of history and Thor Heyerdahl went on to receive hundreds of awards for his incredible accomplishment.
5 Adventurer Thor Heyerdahl was not only a pioneer of exploration and experimentation, but he pioneered a genre of writing: survival in nature, particularly on the sea.  Nobody does it better than Heyerdahl, who makes science and nature instantly relatable and intriguing...exciting and relevant.  This is a classic story, vividly told, of the monumental task of building a raft, assembling a crew, and setting out for the great unknown in dangerous, shark-infested waters.  Simply put, this is one of my favorite books of all time.  Read it now, and thank me later.
5 This is one of the first books I have ever read, simply because we had it in the house and I was an avid reader.  That's why I've never forgotten it.  I was glad to see the movie recently just to revive the memory of the childhood book.  It was exciting to see the sail with a huge Tiki head on it and the characters from the book. I would highly recommend it to everyone because it reads like an adventure book, but it is all real.  Very inspiring!
4 I clearly remember reading Kon-Tiki when it was new and I was in High School.  I truly wish, sometimes, that I still had that old paperback but it has gone the way of such things.  Now I have this new copy, and the adventure is still there.  Heyerdahl gives a very thorough overview of the preparations, the voyage itself, and their arrival in Polynesia.  In fact, almost too thorough at times.  This is why I rated it at only four stars and not five.  Still in all, it's one helluva good read, just be prepared for some ramblings at times.  Even with these, the book can still take you aboard the raft and carry you along with it.  Four stars, yes, but still a very worthwhile book.
5 I finished this book a few months after Heyerdahl's grandson completed his own Kon-Tiki adventure taking the path of his grandfather from Peru to the South Sea Islands on a balsa wood raft.  Will a book be the result of this most recent Heyerdahl excursion?  Time will tell.It will be hard, however, for the younger Heyerdahl to top his elder's classic saga.  This is a wonderfully clear read for all ages and a self-portrait of a good, decent, brave man who did something because he knew it could be done.The highlights for me are the descriptions of the marine life Heyerdahl and his five compatriots encounter on their trip, including the massive blue shark whale, the dolphins, and the playful flying fish.  The "homecoming," in which the six Scandinavians are welcomed by the Polynesian people in an elaborate ceremony, is also delightful and a wonderful way to conclude the adventure.KON-TIKI deserves its classic status and should be read by anyone looking to see how resillient the human spirit (and body, for that matter) really is.
5 Although the theory this adventure was trying to prove (that the South Pacific Islands were populated by people from South America) has been disproved, it still DID prove that ancient natives were indeed capable of great sea voyages using simple boats. (Many experts said this was impossible.) I loved this book and was pulled in from the very first page. I love true stories of people who throw caution to the wind and have astonishing and unique adventures. Imagine sailing over 4,000 nautical miles on a raft. I learned a great deal about sea life as I read the book. I found myself going to the web to find more facts about the fish and other marine life.  Also incorporated into the book is legend and lore about Polynesian culture and history. Including Easter Island. I spent 2 weeks on Easter Island, and have a special fascination with it. I enjoyed this book immensely!
5 shared memories
5 Nothing like reading the book! if you live adventure and sea, it is a must. The movie is very good, but reading the book is much better!Roberto Anez Nava
5 Besides being an excellent explorer, the author is an excellent story-teller. He start his narration telling the difficulties of having his studies accepted by scholars. They doubt his theory on the South American natives being the ones to populate the Polynesian islands, because they thought it was impossible for them to reach the islands using just a small raft.That triggered the desire for the author to prove himself right. He started looking for ways of doing this travel, finding crew and financial resources. After solving the financial problems through the sponsor of people from the explorer's club in New York, he start traveling multiple times to Washington to get licenses and approval for using military food and he find his first travelmate, Herman Watzinger. They are joined by Knut Haugland, Bengt E.Danielssen, Erik Hesselberg and Torstein Raaby. The book describes this incredible and marvelous journey taken by six people (five Norwegians and one Sweden) through the Pacific Ocean. Some photos taken by the author are presented in the book. This book shows how much courage those guys needed to have to expose themselves to the wind, the rain, the lack of comfort, and the risk of death just to prove a theory.This book is more than just a traveller's journal. It is a masterpiece and it should be in the permanent library of any serious reader.
3 Read Kon-Tiki as a boy and was inspired to read it again after seeing the recent movie (twice!). I downloaded this Kindle edition to my tablet rather than my Kindle thinking that would be better for viewing pictures and maps which would surely be included in this &#34;enriched&#34; edition. Halfway through the book now and I have not encountered a single map or picture in spite of the fact that there are constant references to all the photography that was done on the voyage. T
3 I'm enjoying the book but it's one of those that will take me a year of on and off reading to make it through.. and the lack of plot line (aside from crossing an ocean) makes it easy to do so.
3 The classic theory is that people from Asian migrated to North American via Bering Straits due to lower sea levels caused by the glalcier era.This books proves that people may have floated across the Pacific Ocean over on a crude raft.An adventure well worth reading.
5 Immediately after WWII, young Thor Heyerdahl tried to submit a paper to academia outlining his idea that the Polynesian islands were not settled from India and Asia, as was the current wisdom, but rather by people from South America. The problem with this idea, pointed out by a number of people, was that the only boats available to the natives of that area were balsa-wood rafts. It was almost impossible to imagine that such a raft could possibly travel 3,600 miles across open ocean to arrive at the Polynesian Islands intact and with living crew. Some people laughed outright at the idea. Many of them thought the idea was crazy.So, in true mad-scientist form, Heyerdahl said to himself &quot;I'll show them. I'll show them ALL!&quot;. Rather than building a mad-scientist deathray, which would not only be cliche but also out of his field (anthropology), he decided to literally show them. He, himself, would build a balsa-wood raft, adhering precisely to the old designs, and he would personally sail that raft from the coast of South America to one of the Polynesian islands a quarter of the world away.The saga of his quest to first find someone to back him on the journey, someone to crew his raft, a way to BUILD the raft, and finally the incredible adventure of actually taking the _Kon Tiki_ across the greatest ocean on Earth, makes fascinating reading. Such a voyage was something of an effort even for modern machines of its era; had Heyerdahl not done it, no one would have believed it. Instead he set sail and brought the future with him.This did not end Heyerdahl's adventures, but instead began them. Later he developed a theory that the Americas themselves were, at least in part, visited by or settled from ancient Egypt. Since the only boats THEY used to cross oceans were made of reeds, no one would believe it was possible...
4 The expedition on the Kon Tiki were finished over 50 years ago. Still, the imagination stirs at the thought of having a theory, building a raft and crossing the ocean for 100 days. They had little fear during a grand experiment. I can only shake my head in wonder and admiration for five Norwegians and a Swede with nothing but an idea and a willingness to take whatever chances necessary to prove it. Some might find it dry, but my mind conjures pictures of days on the raft, steering toward an idea. Why did they do it? Because they only asked themselves "Why not?"I guess it was a dare to be great situation and they did indeed dare.
5 4550 Kon-Tiki  Across the Pacific by Raft, by Thor Heyerdahl  translated by F. H. Lyon  (read 26 Mar 2009) This is a famous book and was a best seller in 1950 and 1951.  It tells of a 101-day tip from Peru to French Polynesia made in 1947 by six Norwegian men on a raft using balsa logs.  It is a very interesting story, and one stands in amazement at the daring of these men, making such a fearful journey, with no support, though they did have radio equipment on board.  I found the account totally interest-holding.  The author was convinced that people from South America in about 500 A.D. settled in Polynesia.  His trip at least proved that the trip was possible.  I think the book ranks with other great adventure books I have read, such as Touching the Void, by Joe Simpson  (read 9 Sep 2003) and Alone, by Richard E. Byrd  (read 10 Apr 1979) and We Die Alone, by David Howarth  (read 26 Aug 1999).
4 A well written adventure, highly recommended.  It is rare that I read the same book twice, but I did with Kon-Tiki.
5 Very much a classic. Worth 100 fiction books and should be recommended reading for most kids I think.The men have a bit of a gung ho attitude to life and limb, but overall a very moving account of a handfull of men who survived WW2 but decided life offered more.A lost era and a fascinating adventure.
5 A captivating true story of courage, daring and endurance beyond belief. Thor Heyerdahl wanted to prove his assertion that brilliant ancient navigators braved treacherous elements to explore the vast Pacific aboard a raft made of logs bound together with ropes. Braving storms, sharks and knowing that if you fall overboard the raft has no power to go back to pick you up. His five member crew were adventurous volunteers who gladly accepted the huge risks.Fortunately for us readers Thor is also a brilliant story-teller, so that we can vicariously share the experiences of these six heroic adventurers who risked their lives every day during the historic three month expedition drifting at the mercy of wind and currents across the vast ocean to Polynesia.
5 "Kon Tiki" is one of the great adventure stories of all time. In 1947, six young Norwegians floated in a balsa-wood raft from Peru to the Polynesian islands of the South Seas. The trip took them 101 days and they traveled 4,300 nautical miles across the Pacific without seeing a single other boat or ship. Only occasionally were they able to communicate with the outside world by radio, and the possibility of rescue should their primitive raft sink or break up in the heavy seas they often experienced was slim to none.The journey was inspired by the theories of Thor Heyerdahl who speculated that the ancient civilizations of Peru had floated across the Pacific to reach the Polynesian islands.  Scoffed at by scientists, Heyerdahl organized the expedition to prove that a raft crossing of the Pacific was possible.  It was a foolhardy stunt -- but makes for a great story."Kon Tiki" tells the story of the expedition from beginning to the end when the crew of the raft is marooned on an idyllic paradise isle in the South Pacific.  Rereading the book after many years, I was most impressed with how isolated and empty the Pacific Ocean was and how unexploited was its sea life in 1947. I fear that such is no longer the case.Heyerdahl's theories of oceanic migrations from the Americas to Polynesia are still pooh-baahed by archaeologists today, although it seems that the sweet potato by some means made it from Peru to Polynesia in pre-historic times. Whatever your opinion may be regarding Heyerdahl as a scientist the story of the "Kon Tiki" is unique and original.  Read it and weep because the opportunity for an adventure of such scope and daring is no longer possible in our over-crowded world.Smallchief
5 This was the best book I have read in years, in fact I can't remember a more interesting and exciting story, It made me wish I could have gone on this adventure with them, the way the book was written makes you feel as though you are there.
5 I have read this book several times over the years. If you like sea stories, this should be in your library.  It's a very enjoyable read.
4 I enjoyed reading about an adventure that few people would have the courage to try.  It was from a different era when it was easier to bypass the bureaucracy of today.  The descriptions of the building process and the voyage were excellent.
5 Forget idiotic movies like 'Jaws,' these Scandanavian maniacs grab sharks by the tail and kill them for fun. A suicide mission that turned out to be  one of the most amazing adventures ever.  Across the Pacific on a Balsa  raft, at the mercy of the elements? Are you nuts? Not Thor and his band of  merry men; they were theoretically convinced and determined to put their  tails on the line to prove it.  I have never read anything in my life so  full of intensity, danger and heroic, romantic adventure. Also check out  the video 'Kon-Tiki' featuring  all the amateur footage shot on the raft  which, although very haphazard and incomplete (as it had to be under the  circumstances), turns out to be extremely moving.
4 pretty awesome book about a really bold norwegian. the story kept me interested throughout, hardly a dull moment at sea. I'd seen a documentary about the voyage and wanted to learn more and was not disappointed at all. well written & worth reading.
5 I made some Mormons angry over my reviews of books that defend the Book of Mormon, and they have been slamming my reviews. Your "helpful" votes are appreciated. ThanksOn Kon-Tiki: I absolutely got lost in this magnificent adventure. Nevertheless, Heyerdahl's theory that civilization was spread around the world by some lost white race is simply bogus racism. Still, I enjoyed all his books, including "The Ra Expeditions," and "Aku-Aku."It is sad to think that Heyerdahl's career as a fearless adventurer is marred by his zealous devotion to a dated idea. Yes, Peruvian Indians could have crossed the Pacific, but it is more likely that contact came from the other way. At any rate, Heyerdahl manufactured the archaeological evidence he found on Easter Island.In the July 2002 issue of the "Smithsonian Magazine," Richard Conniff demonstrated that Heyerdahl actually paid the natives to make reed-boats relics (Kon Artist?" was the title). "A good story," said Conniff, "can be so compelling that teller and subject become entrapped together in its charms...." (p. 28). This astute observation could apply to novels claimed to be actual history, and anyone interested in the Book of Mormon should give it long thought.Heyerdahl wrote about Pedro Pate, an Easter Islander and how Pate found a two-masted reed boat in a cave. Conniff wrote: "I showed Pate a two-page photograph of the reed boat from Heyerdahl's book, and he grinned. He'd carved the boat himself, he said. Dubious, I offered him $100 to carve such a boat now, 37 years later, and he accepted." "A few days later, he presented me with the 18-inch-long reed boat he had carved. It was as good as the one in the book" (p. 29).In "The Ancient American Civilizations," Friedrich Katz asked some very hard questions of Heyerdahl's theory."If the Polynesians really do come from America, why do their chronicles record the exact opposite direction, naming South-East Asia as their place of origin? Why is their language first and foremost related to South-Asiatic and Malayan languages? Finally, as Trimborn remarked, 'Were not the Polynesian Vikings, rather than the Indians, not the sailors who crossed the high seas?'" (p. 18).Heyerdahl should also be criticized for playing word games, selecting a word here and there, but ignoring the whole language. Many linguists criticized this erroneous method of relating two ancient peoples. See Robert Wauchope's magnificent little book, "Lost Tribes and Sunken Continents: Myth and Method in the Study of the American Indians." See my review.Lost Tribes and Sunken Continents Myth Method in theMormon writers frequently cite Heyerdahl because he proved that ancient voyages across the oceans were possible--an idea going back hundreds of years and not new with Heyerdahl. Very few scholars ever denied that such ancient voyages were possible.But ah, there's the rub, as Hamlet said. If they occurred, what would be the effect on an entrenched native culture? The Book of Mormon has ancient voyages (the Jaredites were supposed have crossed the ocean on a 344-day voyage in eight submarines in about 2,000 BC). It is primarily about the great civilizations the Jaredites and Nephites established in the Americas.Robert Sharer summarizes the modern state of knowledge in his heavy and authoritative book, "The Ancient Maya." Sharer writes:"After more than a century of gathering and analyzing archaeological evidence, we have discovered nothing to support the idea of intervention by people from the Old World." "This is not to say that accidental contacts between the Old and New World peoples could not have occurred before the age of European exploration" (p. 6)."On the basis of the available evidence, then, the courses of cultural development in the New and Old Worlds seem clearly independent of each other and devoid of significant contact until 1492" (intro., p. 7).The ancient Maya civilization, Sharer continues, "are to be `explained' not as a product of transplanted Old World civilization, but as the result of the processes that underlie the growth of any culture, including those that develop the kind of complexity we call civilization.""The idea, which either explicitly or implicitly asserts that the peoples of the New World were incapable of shaping their own destiny or developing sophisticated cultures independently of Old World influence, is still popular in quarters.""But this is but one more popular myth devoid of fact, for the evidence points unmistakably toward the evolution of civilization in the New World independently of developments in the Old World." See Sharer's book and my review.The Ancient Maya, 6th EditionNone of these serious criticisms of the claims of Mormons or of Heyerdahl's theories, however, should detract from Heyerdahl's great adventures. His accounts of his raft voyages are breathless and compelling reading.For a masterful telling of Polynesian history (especially about Easter Island) by a scholar with a Moari heritage, read the essential book "Vikings of the Pacific," by Peter H. Buck. Click here to read my review:Vikings of the Pacific
5 With each passing year, less and less of the world remains to be discovered. With GPS and satellite imagery, our oceans have been charted and the jungles surveyed. Our world is no longer a mystery. No longer do we have maps fringed by threatening pictures of dragons and sea monsters warning sailors and explorers of the unknown that lies out there. But when I picked up this book I was taken back fifty years in time. Back to a time when men ate meat raw and walked around with clubs hunting big game. OK, perhaps I am getting carried away.Thor Heyerdahl believed the Polynesian islands were inhabited by sea faring travellers from Peru. But his thesis on this topic was ridiculed because no one would believe that the pacific ocean could be crossed by a flimsy raft made of balsa wood and bamboo. So Heyerdahl decides to prove IT IS possible by building a raft using exactly the same materials the ancient Peruvians used and sailing off the coast of Peru hoping to eventually reach Polynesia.Nearly every step off his journey was filled with nay sayers who said he was crazy and "experts" who variably told him he was going to die, the raft was going to break apart, or the balsa wood would absorb the sea water and sink. He ignored them all. When they told him balsa trees of the size he needed no longer existed along the coast, he took a jeep deep into the jungles through flooded roads and GOT his trees. Which then they floated down to the ocean in a river.Heyerdahl is keenly aware of his surroundings and describes his voyage vividly and in simple prose. I could smell the sea breeze and feel the spray of the ocean. It was like taking a mini vacation every time I sat down with this book. You'll swim with whale sharks and get caught in ferocious storms. The six men caught sharks with their hands and even had a pet parrot. I suppose all self respecting seamen need to have a parrot.The ending to this book was surprising but perfect. It brings the story full circle and could not have ended any other way. So prepare yourself a margarita, kick back, and begin a sea adventure.
4 As an Asian-Canadian, I had no trouble relating to the narrator of &quot;The Bonesetter's Daughter&quot; and in this way, I am sort of biased towards this book.  However, I think that all readers will find that the writing is charming, truthful, humourous, and witty.The story is revealed from both LuLing's (the mother) and Ruth's (the daughter) perspectives.  As LuLing's story unfolds and we discover more about her past, we begin to empathize with LuLing rather than view her as Ruth's burden.  Although I have never read &quot;The Joy Luck Club&quot; I know that Amy Tan seems to have exhausted the subjects of the importance of family history, culture, and mother/daughter relationships.  However, I do think that these are worthwhile themes and deserve recognition if the novel is as well-written and touching as &quot;The Bonesetter's Daughter&quot;. Highly recommended.
4 If you like books about the mother-daughter conflict, this is what you may be looking for. Amy Tan wrote an incredibly captivating story of Ruth, a American-born Chinese ghostwriter of (ironically) self-help books, who is a perfectionist to the degree that she feels restrained, has mute spells once every year and has a deep aversion against her mother. The old lady, Lu Ling, starts showing signs of dementia and Ruth gets worried. Ruth worries a lot generally, but mostly about herself, her life, her image (even self-image), analyzing every detail, constantly referring to her being Chinese in the US and thinking that this is the source of all her problems. With her mother sick, Ruth remembers the manuscript given to her by LuLing some time ago and her mother urging her to read it. Unfortunately, Ruth, opposing her mother's background and lifestyle, has never mastered Mandarin to the degree allowing her to read Chinese characters without difficulty, so she needs the help of the translator. When he reveals her mother's autobiography to Ruth, she learns the most astonishing truths and the facts about her mother allow her to understand her mother and come to terms with herself. The secrets Ruth may have learned earlier, if only she listened to her mother, are laid now in plain view in front of her. This could be creating more problems for a person of Ruth's personality, but, strangely enough, this shock is what she needs to accept herself and let go of the phobias and obsessions, which have been haunting her all her life.The book is divided into two parts, first one being more of an introduction to Ruth's character, and the second one (longer) - LuLing's manuscript. They complete each other very well, the story is superb, the book is well rounded up and reads fluidly. The only "but" I might have that some themes are treated a bit superficially, but I guess this is difficult to avoid in a book touching the subject so serious as a generation conflict in the immigrant family.
4 I just heard Amy Tan speak at a conference this weekend, and I can't say enough about this articulate, funny and spiritual writer. In Bonesetter's Daughter, she dealves even deeper into her oftentimes troubled relationship with her mother and the overwhelming tragic influence of her Chinese past on her family. An important exploration into the women's experiences in China, it is also a study of human emotion and its heritage for future generations. Amy Tam began this book at her mother's exhortions to tell her &quot;true story&quot;. In the aftermath of her experiences in the last moments of her mother's life, Amy Tam revised the whole focus. A true story of the heart.
3 I finished this book in two days.  But mostly because I was bored at work and had nothing better to do.  If more effort had been required for me to find the time to read this book, it would have taken much longer to finish it.Split into three parts, the second part (the recounting of Luling's story) is by far the most interesting.  I would have enjoyed even more information about Luling and how she became the type of woman Ruth shows us in the first section of the book.  The first and third sections of the book are about Ruth and her relationships with her live-in Art and her mother, mostly with her mother.Most of the conflict in the first and third sections are internal to Ruth... and since I did not find Ruth an interesting or sympathetic character, they were difficult to get through.  But the second section was alive with color, description and activity.  Something I felt was lacking once the section was over and I was again trapped in Ruth's brain.Overall, this is not a bad book.  Perhaps those liking more internal conflict or those that do not have a good relationship to their mother will enjoy and relate to this book more.  As for me, give me more of Luling and her family in China.
5 I am not a fan of historical novels but this one really touched me. I thought the author made it realistic, though painful and weaved cultural banalities into deep emotional truth telling. Spend time reading this to begin to understand the faade of coolness and distance in the Chinese culture.
5 If only photograph could speak - telling the story of a woman, a family, a culture, a history, a village, a country, a continent, a war, a life - then it would be a photograph worthy of a novel by Amy Tan.  I read this in two full days.  I just couldn't put it down.
3 I like that Amy Tan depicts an America through a outside viewpoint.  All of her books serve as a quasi-history lesson for me.  I've learned so much about Chinese culture and history just from reading her books.  Though all of her stories tell of mother/daughter relationships, they are not one dimensional.  Tan gives her readers a multifaceted view of the world.  Every mother/daughter relationship is not the same, but most of us can find something in her stories that we relate to.  her writing helps validate the lives of so many people, people who'd probably not have their voices heard in mainstream America. I applaud her efforts and look forward to another dose of Chinese/American soulfood.
2 After reading some of the positive reviews of this book, I wonder if I missed something.  I loved Tan's other books; salivated for Chinese food while reading them.  But half way through this one, I returned it to the library.  The prose was lacking its usual charm, and I found the setting and characters to be flat.
1 Are you kidding?? 18.99 for an e-book? Come on, Kindle! Almost twice the paperback price. Shame on you. Part of the incentive of buying a Kindle is to save money on books. You're going to kill your market by pricing books this high!!
4 As an English teacher, I knew I needed to read some more literature by female authors so I could make better recommendations for my students, and I'd heard good things about Amy Tan, so I took this book home from my back table to start this year's holiday reading.While the major theme of mother-daughter relationships is not my favourite, I did appreciate it as I saw some shadows of my own daughter's, wife's and mother-in-law's lives. There is an excellent mystery story here as well, as Ruth attempts to find out more about her mother's and grandmother's histories. Tan uses multiple images of "voices" with great effect: Ruth's eccentric refusal to speak for a week each year; her role as a ghost-writer in which she helps others find their voice while relinquishing her own; Precious Auntie's loss of voice and use of sign language; LuLing's skill and teaching about the communications in Chinese calligraphy, etc.The narrative structure is unique and compliments this theme - the first part of the book is told from Ruth's perspective; this gives way to LuLing's perspective in the second part via her book of memories which includes writings from the grandmother, Precious Auntie; then the third part returns to Ruth's perspective, with a renewed understanding of LuLing for her and the reader.Tan's prose is immaculate - so easy to read, yet vivid and entertaining.Because I'm not so interested in her subject matter, I won't read another book of Tan's in a hurry, but I will encourage students to read this one and even select passages from it as examples of good writing.(This review was originally published on Goodreads.com at: [...]Check out Antony Millen's own novel:Redeeming Brother Murrihy: The River To Hiruharama
3 In this tale, a modern day writer discovers her mothers journal and has it translated. The story shifts from present day to the past of the mother, and then back to the present.Although I found parts of the book interesting, it consistently failed to hold my interest. I'd rather invest my time into something that grabs me. Do I have any specifics to illustrate why? I understood some of the metaphors and symbols, and I also understand that some of the content reflects the author's life, but I think I've found fuller descriptions and illustrations of life in other cultures elsewhere--maybe I just don't relate to this one.
5 The characters come to life for me in this novel. I can see them, hear them and sympathize with them. Tan has captured souls as well as their stories in a way that please readers of quality fiction. I've read it several times over and plan to read it again.
4 I can't say enough good things about this book. It's a beautifully crafted and dramatically conceived novel that compares two generations, contrasts the immigrant experience with the experience of the native born, and explores the traditional and changing roles of women in China and in the United States. This is simply a great story and it never lags or bores you. I zipped through it quickly, and I look forward to re-reading it again in the near future.
5 MRS LOUIS DeMATTEI---amy tan-2/19/1952--61 years old.BONE SETTERS Daughter----RUTH YOUNG andM O MLU LING ----- mom gives RUTH some  writingsthatREVEAL parts of her LIFE that RUTH has NEVERKNOWN.SECRETS that can be WRITTEN about BUT NOT saidOUTLOUD!HAUNTING themes ---SIGNIFICANT images.A very nice read.bette 64 okc
3 Though this book is heavily based on the fact that Ruth Young's mother is Chinese in background, and much of the book takes place in Ancient China, where superstition rules and destiny is pre-ordained, the book still manages to take an intimate look at the relationship between mothers and daughters. Ruth Young is a ghostwriter for self-help books, fairly successful, when she comes upon a diary of her mother's written in Chinese. Her mother had given it to her some time ago, and now Ruth, learning her mother has Alzheimers, is filled with guilt for never having read it. Determined to have the journal translated, Ruth Young learns much more than she bargained for, and in the process comes to love and understand her mother more than she ever thought possible. It is a heartwarming story, and the ragged descriptions of LiuLing (Ruth's mother), her sister Gaoling, the horribly scarred Precious Auntie, and Peking Man will transport your mind to the time and place in ancient China when it all happened. Though warm and interesting, I did find the story colorful but somehow flat. It was not the kind of book that I couldn't wait to get to the next page, and I think that was because it needed more emotion. It makes a solid read and will interest you, but just doesn't make a bestseller for me.
4 While I don't consider this her best,it is nevertheless a warm,understanding tale of the inevitable differences between mothers and daughters,regardless of race.It switches between modern day U.S. where the daughter is a ghost writer for some fairly esoteric authors and pre-WW2 China,with it's description of village life with all its superstitions.I was as fascinated by the descriptions as always,when reading about a totally different culture from my own.
5 Amy Tan and Joan Chen have teamed to share a beautiful tale of three generations of Chinese women. I loved the story, and was captivated by both narrators' abilities to draw me into the lives of Ruth (a self-sufficient American editor), her mother, LiuLing (showing definite signs of Alzheimers), and LiuLing's mother, Precious Auntie (disfigured and unable to speak due to terrible facial burns). LiuLing and Precious Auntie's stories are told through old letters...Precious Auntie's tragic tale is shared with her daughter LiuLing too late, and LiuLing's life finally unfold's for Ruth *nearly* too late. I loved the relationships between the women, recognizing some of the same early signs of mental aging in my own mother and mother-in-law, which really helped me identify with Ruth.Give this one a try. I hope you're as captivated as I was, listening to a wonderful story read by excellent narrators. LOVED it.
4 After having read the 'professional reviews', I purchased the book somewhat skeptically.  I have enjoyed much of Amy Tan's writing in the past, but there has also been some that I wasn't as fond of, so I thought, OK - I'll get it, and we'll see.It was a good read.  The mother-daughter stuff was very interesting and realistic.  The male-female relationship stuff between the main character and her boyfriend was at first tiresome and then at the end of the book, I was happy for them but thought the conclusion was probably less realistic (but that might be my skepticism talking).Definitely the best part of the book is the mother's story in China.  It kept me wanting more ... and I guess that is what good writing should do.  Amy Tan's passion about her heritage and China really shines when she writes this part of the tale.  I definitely wanted that part of the story to go on .... and without giving away too much, I wish the package given by Precious Auntie to LuLing was still around to be translated too!!I found the last part of the book to be a quick read -- and while some have criticized the ending as 'too neatly wrapped up and tied with a pretty bow', I don't think it was.  I do think it was probably more happily ended than it would have been in real life, but hey, it's fiction!  And, gee, wouldn't it be nice if in real life it would have ended this way.
4 This is the first novel of Tan's that I have read.  At first, I had a difficult time becoming engaged in the story.  The story was not really something I enjoyed at the onset.  However, as the plot thickens, and the work unfolds, Tan develops a beautiful story filled with history and rich in character.Tan's descriptions of China and Liu LuLing are wonderfully rich.  Her mastery of the setting enfolds you in the story.  Reading this book sweeps you off to another place and another time.  I could taste her descriptions of food, feel her descriptions of pain, and envision myself in the settings she creates.This tale is incredibly bold.  It deals with subjects that are realistic, and intriguing.  It also weaves in historical information in a very effective manner.  It is a poignant look into the world of a very interesting Chinese family.The only thing I didn't really enjoy was the first few chapters.  The story set in China was so much more alive and interesting.  The rest of the story seemed a bit lackluster.  I understand why Tan chose to do this, but, I feel that there could have been more effective ways to address the past, present and future.If it were not for my online book club, I would have passed this book up.  It is not a book I would normally read, but I thoroughly enjoyed it.All in all Tan presents a beautifully written story that is definitely worth the read.
4 She creates such a complete world for her characters to live. Her own going theme of mother-daughter conflict within a Chinese immigrant experience has never been more rewarding.
4 Tan weaves a vast tale of family secrets revealed, in which people seem to hide all that is best in themselves. The secrecy impoverishes their relationships, till the truth comes to light and exposes their authentic greatness. All their suffering, struggling, even their soul-murdering resentment of each other, then comes together in a coherent pattern of beauty that's almost too good to be true. Maybe the ending is a bit too happy. But Tan is not one to deny the ultimate human dream. And the path to that ending is so real, so gritty, at times so heart-poundingly gripping, that all the happiness is richly deserved.--author of A Galaxy of Immortal Women: The Yin Side of Chinese Civilization
4 Tan's ability to bring the reader in to the character portrayal of Mother Vs. Daughter is amazing. Surely this is a theme that she enjoys writing about and it's obviously a non-wasted talent for her to do so. By the end of the novel, I found myself caring deeply for Lu Ling and mourning her loss of memory through Alzheimer's, concerned for Ruth in her quest to find "Precious Auntie's" real name, as well as despair for Precious Auntie and her eventual tragic fate in the family history.  This, my second Amy Tan novel, did not leave me disappointed.
4 In one of my online book groups The Bonesetters Daughter was coming up as this months read. I live in Norway, and if I don't buy books through mail, there are not many English books available here. I had bought my share of amazon books for the month, and thought I had to pass this one. Then, while browsing one of the bookshops downtown I bumped into it, and decided to skip lunch a couple of days to buy it. Anyway, books are more important than food! Started the book almost at once, and got into it right away. The book tells the story of Ruth Young, and her mother LuLing Liu Young. LuLing Liu Young is in her eighties, and has started her fight agains Alzheimer disease. She came to USA from China as a young woman, and has lived almost all her grown up life in San Francisco. Her daughter Ruth also live in SF, with her lover and his two daughters. Ruth has a difficult relationship with her mother, and fails to understand her. But as LuLings disease gets worse Ruth decides to move in with her mother. This is also a good excuse for Ruth to have some distance to her live in man, trying to find out if their relationship is something they can save. And now alot of things from her childhood get it's explanation. Her mother has had her lifestory written down, and when Ruth gets help to translate this and reads the story, we are taken back to a China very far from the modern USA today. The story is told with annexation, humor and love, and Ruth manage to handle her own life now when she understand the past. This is a love story, love between mother and daughter.Love which is there in spite of all the difficulties such a close relationship give. And it is a story about a mother and a daughter discovering that they are bond together by bones, though their lives are very different. I'm very glad I found this book, and now, after reading my first Amy Tan novel I know that I will read more.
5 It's been a while, since I've read Amy Tan.  She once agin got it spot on with mother & daughter relationships,  all the time weaving a beautiful historical story.I totally recommend The Bonesetter's Daughter to all my women friends and my daughters.
5 I loved this book. Amy Tan always brings her readers to another time and place. I could not get enough of the story or the characters. Amy Tan does a great job of bringing you views from different cultures and generations. Can't get enough.........
4 A good read, but nothing outstanding.  The story was a bit predictable and didn't keep me turning the pages eagerly awaiting the outcome.
4 I'm not the best at reveiws, but i know that I read this book in 4 days- amazing for a working college student! I could barely put it down. it involved simple daily life, but it wasn't dull. The history of the families in this book were fascinating and touching, all mysteris came into place. I like reading asian-american literature and would recommend it, better then joy luck club i think
4 It took me a while to finally read Amy Tan and so glad I picked this one to start with.I really like history so was facinated with the story of Ruth's mother when she refelected on her story back in China.I really related in a way with this story because my mother has Altzheimer's and so made me reflective when Ruth finally came to terms with her mother's illness.I loved the way Ruth grew in this book and came to terms with herself and her mother when she found out who she was through her mother's writings and the real story of her background.The characters were real like her aunt (what a character)and Auntie Precious who she found out to be related too, but I won't tell what relation in case someone hasn't read the book.Forgiveness, coming to terms with life, and finding out who you really are will be the things you will experience when you read this book.Enjoy this book, I did!
4 I've read all of Amy Tan's books, and while I enjoyed this one, I would say it's my least favorite.  It just didn't get me like the other ones did.  This latest book is about the turbulent relationship between Ruth and her widowed mother LuLing.  Ruth has never really understood why her mother acts the way she does, but when LuLing begins to show signs of Alzheimers, Ruth begins to discover many things about her mother's past that have been kept secret for many years.  The 165-page flashback of LuLing's early life in China is very good, but it's at the end of the book.  It would have been better to read that whole flasback first, because it explained all of the mysterious and unexplained references in the first half of the book.  I had to go back and re-read the first half again, now that I knew what everything meant.  So, if you're a Tan fan, this won't disappoint, but it doesn't quite live up to her first books.
5 I read half of this book on a plane ride and decided to wait a couple of weeks before reading the second part.  It proved to be the best decision, because my imagination ran wild thinking about Ruth and the challenges she had to face as a young girl.  As I started the second half yesterday, I just could not put the book down. The mix of emotions had me laughing, crying, and wishing to remember all those great moments with my own mother.  Very touching book!  It awoke feelings and emotions that I had buried deep in the past.  It was easy to relate to all the women involved but specially to Luling and Ruth. It's a tale of love and forgiveness between generations and the discovery of the self with its lacks and gifts.  It's a story of the realization of who we are and how we arrived here.  I really enjoyed this book!
4 Amy Tan gives us another glimpse into mother and daughter relationships in the Asian-American community in California. It would be nice to see this author venture into something new, but sticking with what she knows does not take away the enjoyment of Bonesetter's Daughter's tale of family struggles. Ruth is a modern woman who loves and, in no uncertain terms, loathes her mother. Her mother, too, has had problems with her own mother. The Bonesetter's Daughter focuses on these relationships and tells an interesting story -- one that kept me turning the pages. I enjoyed reading this novel. It's a quick, engaging read -- especially when Ruth's mother tells her side of the story. Her narration was wonderful and compelling. Amy Tan isn't breaking new ground here, but this novel is a must-read nevertheless. Highly recommended...
4 This book proved to be beautifully written and was able to embody the contemporary life of a professional Chinese woman and her struggle to deal with her mother's new dependence upon her because of her age. Amy Tan has created a respect for a parent, a daughter and her culture while bringing these two woman together in harmony. It breathes history.
4 The Bonesetter's Daughter is a wonderful example of Amy Tan's considerable skill as a master storyteller. Here she exposes to us, layer by layer, the deeply complex relationship between Ruth Young, a ghostwriter of self-help books, and her mother, LuLing.Realizing she is having problems with her memory long before Ruth suspects it, Luling painstakingly writes the facts of her life as best she remembers it, so that her story doesn't die with her failing memory.The start and finish of this novel, which chronicles Ruth's struggle in coming to terms with her mother througout her life and Ruth's stumbling upon LuLing's memoirs, frame the middle section of the book, which consist of the memoirs themselves.I found the novel absolutely fascinating, and read through it in a single sitting.Two mother-daughter stories are presented here, as the relationship between LuLing and her mother are also central to the telling of this wonderful story. Amy Tan does a superb job of presenting these separate yet connected narratives into a masterpiece of a book, blending character, dialogue, and narrative seemlessly (and seemingly effortlessly) together.Readers of the author's previous novels will find similarity between The Bonesetter's Daughter and her previous novels. Some readers, as I, will find everything comfortably familiar. On the other hand, it is only fair to criticize the formulaic sameness of her work. The repeated exploration of the relationship between a Chinese-born mother and her american born daughter is a bit off-putting; as is the parallel telling of two generation's narrative. Also, I don't find that her male characters are realistically drawn, and the relationship struggles between the daughter and her significant other (at least in Ms. Tan's last two books) seem rather superficial.These (admittedly) rather minor complaints are the only thing that keeps me from giving the book five stars.
5 I picked this book up at a book exchange in Iguaz&uacute; Argentina for the bus, and it really had me spell-bound. I read 200 pages on a long bus ride and reserved the last 100 for my last week in Buenos Aires. Tan is a phenomenal author at developing characters that are easy to relate to.LuLing is Ruth's mother and immigrated from China to the US. We learn through Ruth during the first part that life has not always been easy for LuLing, and as she ages, Ruth has more burning questions about her past.Ruth, on the other hand, is a strong woman who is a provider for her family. She is caught between the abuse her mother and her partner's children give her. I fell in love with Ruth's character because I relate to her desire to hold her family together. At the same time I also relate to her grand emptiness that sometimes is experienced while doing everything for everyone else.I certainly will be reading more of Tan after this amazing novel.
5 In THE BONESETTER'S DAUGHTER, Amy Tan's literary talents shine even more brilliantly than in her other books, all of which (with perhaps the exception of her last) deserve serious reading.  Released on Tan's fiftieth birthday, her newest novel shows a maturity absent from her earlier work.  As a result, this book feels more complete and richer than her others - a real feat.Ruth is a ghostwriter, an appropriate job considering that her mother believes she has a special ability to channel the spirit of long dead Precious Auntie.  Ruth lives with her boyfriend, Art, and his two daughters, and has strung together a hectic life of professional and personal responsibilities, losing herself in the needs of others.  When her elderly mother LuLing begins to show signs of dementia, Ruth is thrown into crisis, knowing that she is losing someone she has never truly known.  Because she can no longer trust her mother's answers to questions, she hires a translator to decode her mother's story, a manuscript written in elegant calligraphy which Ruth has never found time to decipher herself.The translation of LuLing's story, a compelling narrative of a girl and her disfigured nanny, Precious Auntie, occupies the middle of the novel. Slowly, the reader is led through the intricate paths of LuLing's childhood and the truths she has hidden.  Knowing what we do about Ruth and her mother, certain details take on a complexity of meaning.  When Tan returns us to the present day in the closing chapters, we understand not only the difficult relationship between Ruth and her mother, but gain insights on life itself and the fragility of love.This is truly an ambitious and successful novel, with only a few missteps on Tan's part. Her ability to tell a story and to engage the reader completely is as strong as ever.  If you are an Amy Tan fan, you can't afford to miss this one.
5 The First book I read by Amy Tan was &quot;The Kitchen God's Wife&quot; and I thought that she would never be able to create another story as good as that one but she has in &quot;The Bonesetter's Daughter.&quot;  I love the way Ms Tan can write about the Chinese Culture, which I find extemely interesting and also create compelling Mother/Daughter relationships.The story opens with Ruth Young, a 46 year old ghost writer who lives with her boyfriend and his two daughters, dealing with the fact her mother Lu Ling has Alzheimer's Disease.While Ruth is taking care of her mother she comes across two packets of papers which she finds out later after they are translated is the story of &quot;Precious Auntie,&quot; who is the Bonesetter's daughter and Lu Ling's natural mother.  On Precious Auntie's wedding day her father and husband are tragically killed and later her face was burned and disfigured.  She has a baby but is only a nursemaid to her own daughter while her in laws are considered to be the parents.  When Lu Ling becomes of age the family is ready to marry her off to a family that Precious Auntie objects to and from there on the story really takes off with the way that Precious Auntie decides to stop the wedding.I truly loved reading this book and I really enjoy Ms. Tan's writting style.  I have read all of her books and I hope that she intends to write more.  I recommend highly recommend reading this book.
4 Amy Tan has again brought us into her world and culture. This is the story of an Asian daughter who has long since settled in the USA and her relationship with her Americanized daughter who has never seemed to understand the woman within her mother. It is only after Ruth reads her mothers life story, which has been written down for posterity, that she begins to see the great struggles and difficult life her mother has survived.The story is written with a magical hand and reads like a myth to be passed on and treasured by the family that follows. There are many surprises for Ruth along the way as she continues on her trek, unveiling the source of much that has comes to pass.This is a wonderful book. I was able to listen to it as a book on tape and was highly entertained by the intonation of the voices and accents which made it so real. An excellent choice, I would give this book 4.5 stars.  Kelsana  8/17/01
5 Having had the opportunity to see Amy Tan's work, &quot;The Joy Luck Club,&quot; I eagerly plowed into &quot;The Bonsetter's Daughter,&quot; expecting to be moved and transported to a different time and culture -- I was not disappointed.  Ms Tan shone through brilliantly with vivid details of the life of the character LuLing.  From LuLing's childhood in China raised under the watchful eye of Precious Auntie, to LuLing's realization that Precious Auntie is actually Precious Mother.  It is a story of time lost forever between a mother and daughter, and once lost it can never be recaptured.  LuLing suffers much in this dramatic story and is forever haunted by her past and her much-too-late discovery of her true loss.  This carries over into her relationship with her own daughter, Ruth, a ghost-writer or 'word-doctor' as she jokingly is referred to.  Abound with miscommunications, coupled with old world superstitutions, LuLing and Ruth never seem to be solidly on the same page.  Unfortunately it is only near the end of this touching story, and at the point when LuLing is rapidly losing her memories, that these two women finally bond -- too late.
5 Having been there, a member of the sandwich generation, stuck between the needs of aging, dementia prone parents, and young adult children and their young children, Ruth Young's story reminds me of my own years of tears, frustration, and laughter.  For in The Bonesetter's Daughter, Amy Tan has written the Chinese-American version of a task so familiar to American Baby Boomers of all cultural backgrounds:  the story of adult children and their parents.Tan's portrayal of Ruth and her mother in their patterns of love and near hate, of communication with reservation is right on target.  When living a busy personal life, it is hard to come to grips with the needs of elderly parents, to take the time to finally know them as one should.  Ruth's need to take on the parent role, to take care of her mother, to accept her mother in spite of past misunderstandings, is redolent of so many of us who have &quot;been there, done that.&quot;The dialogue and mimicked accents of Chinese pronunciation are always perfect in Tan's writing.  Thank heaven for the comic bantering between mother and daughter.  One chapter brings out-loud laughter, the next somber thoughtfulness.  Tan's three part novel sets the stage for the importance of Ruth's mother's past in China, an obscured past with secrets, ghosts, and horrors.Once again, Ms. Tan has captured my imagination, entertained and moved me, brought me to an enhanced understanding of the importance of family, no matter what the culture.
5 Ms. Tan has written a monumental novel of the 20th century Chinese immigrants' challenges.  The book offers many insights into how children can better integrate into their families by understanding their elders' experiences rather than trying to be totally independent of those experiences.  The Bonesetter's Daughter also provides rich food for thought about what the relationships should be between women and men, and parents and their children.  The book employs a recycling narrative that will remind the reader of opening up nested Russian dolls.Ruth Young finds that her mother is failing, especially with her memory.  Already busy with a life as a ghostwriter and taking care of her boyfriend and his children, Ruth feels overwhelmed.A few years earlier, her mother had become interested in passing along some of her heritage and had given Ruth a document written in Chinese.  Because Ruth does not read Chinese well, she had put the documents aside.  As her mother's mental condition deteriorates, she finds her mother's mind disturbed by having forgotten her mother's real name.  Looking through some old papers, she finds another document written in Chinese about things her mother does not want to forget.  Hoping to help, Ruth arranges for the documents to be translated.The bulk of the book then recounts her mother's history in China and in the United States.  These experiences were rich and varied, and reading about them will fascinate you.Addressing the issues raised by solving the question of Ruth's grandmother's name causes Ruth to grow and evolve in her own relationships.The book is filled with rich themes that are explored from many different dimensions.  For example, ghosts are real and important to Ruth's mother, LuLing Young.  As a young child, LuLing decides that the ghost of her mother resides in Ruth.  To appease her mother, Ruth plays along and answers her mother's questions.  You will be fascinated and amused by the results of these discussions.  Since Ruth is also a ghostwriter, you will get a new perspective on how ideas are expressed and perceived.  Who the author is counts, as well as the content.  The author adds credibility so that the information is acted on, and the content either provides good or not so good advice.  The story validates both the mother's and the daughter's views of ghosts.If you are unfamiliar with the history of mainland China in the first half of the 20th century, Ms. Tan's book will give you many of the important outlines as they were experienced at the local level.  You will encounter the shift away from binding women's feet, the beginnings of education for women, the falling off of the old crafts and beliefs, the effects of drug addiction on families, the influence of Christian missionaries, scientific investigations of human evolution, and the development of new ways for women and men to marry and relate to one another.You will be fascinated by the many echoes of the experiences that LuLing had with her mother, and those that Ruth had with LuLing.  I was reminded by this of how much of our parenting styles we learn from our parents, for good or for ill.  So we have a behavioral heritage as well as a genetic one.The book's story-telling style is gracious and smooth-flowing, not unlike putting your hand in a warm, pristine stream in the mountains.  You will feel yourself gently pulled along in a way that you will enjoy.  I was reminded of the way my mother would tell me stories when I was a child.The Bonesetter's Daughter is beautiful, delightful, and enlightening.  What more could one ask for from a novel?After you finish the book, be sure to learn all you can about your ancestors from those who are alive and knew them well.  You will probably find many wonderful connections to yourself and your own issues that will help you.This is an outstanding book for a book club to read.  You will find many interesting questions for discussion here.  In particular, you won't be able to decide what some of the story means until you discuss those aspects with someone.Follow your beliefs . . . wherever they take you!
5 This story was gave me much to ponder, had me in tears at times, and laughter at other times.  I thoroughly enjoyed the experience.  It's incredible to me that a person could create such an interesting, detailed story -- I'm in awe of Amy Tan!
5 The author presents glimpses of the Chinese (and Chinese-American) mind-set and ways of dealing with the eternal problem of being an almost &#34;Stranger in a Strange Land,&#34; without malice to either culture.  Each of her books is MUST_READ for anyone who wants a REAL view of the life (or lives) of real people! Neither totally tragic nor comic, her books all show life as it is lived. I frequently wonder how much is her own experience.
4 In &quot;The Bonesetter's Daugher,&quot; Amy Tan explores the tortured relationship between a modern Chinese woman and her old-world mother.  Ruth Young has a busy life, trying to cope with her demanding job, her live-in lover and her needy, elderly mother.  Ruth and her mother, LuLing, love one another, but they are separated by a gulf of misunderstanding and by long-buried secrets.  Only after LuLing's health deteriorates does Ruth have a manuscript translated that her mother had written for her years ago in Chinese.  This manuscript reveals to Ruth how LuLing became the person she is today.  Ruth learns that her mother is a woman of deep feeling and courage, who suffered much heartache and disappointment during her years as a young woman in China.  &quot;The Bonesetter's Daughter&quot; has a lengthy flashback sequence that movingly depicts the details of LuLing's birth and her troubled early life.  Unfortunately, the ending (which takes place in the present) lacks the impact of the flashback sequences, and the resolutions of the conflicts in the novel are a little too pat.  However, I recommend this novel for Tan's deep understanding of what makes mothers and daughters love and hate each other, often at the same time.
5 This story pulls the reader in and I found it nearly impossible to put it down. One of the.most memorable books I've ever read.
1 Inteeresting
4 Amy Tan has given us another in a series of comforting reads focusing on the relationship of mothers and daughters in the California Asian-American community.  I agree with other reviewers here that I wish she would branch out a bit--but her staying with what she knows does not take away from the enjoyability of Bonesetter's Daughter.  Ruth is a modern woman who loves, and to a certain extent, loathes, her mother.  Her mother, as well, had a very difficult relationship with her own mother.  The Bonesetter's Daughter focuses on these relationships and tells an interesting story--one that keeps those pages turning.  I enjoyed reading the novel. It's a quick, engaging read--particularly the part of the novel where Ruth's mother gets to tell her own story.  Tan isn't breaking any new ground here--but I've said before--you don't have to read War and Peace all the time.  Enjoy this one.
5 I read this book in one day because I simply could not put it down. It is a great story about the healing power of forgiveness with understanding.  Anyone who has a tough relationship with a parent will commiserate with the main character, Ruth Young, and after finishing the story, will be left wondering about the circumstances that shaped their own parent's faults. Entertaining and thought provoking.
5 Excellent read; vintage Amy Tan.  Strong female characters are colorful, survivors, and come alive off the page.  A must-read for all women, particularly those of Asian descent.
4 I was reading in a recent interview with the author, that Amy Tan's latest novel is based a lot on her own family's history.  Maybe that is why the novel is so engrossing.  Staged in San Francisco and in China during the first half of teh century, the book walks us through the life of three generations of women.  As usual, Amy Tan is brilliant--a plot that has its twists and turns as well as a psychological perspective into what makes us what we are.My only disappointment is the kind of unexpected and seemigly quickly written happy ending.  I have no problem with happy endings, but there needs to be a more thorough explanation on how it happened. On the otehr hand, in the interview I read with the author, she said that is how the actual real story ended...
4 I enjoyed The Bonesetter's Daughter so much that I read the entire novel in one day, which is saying something for a 350-page book.The book is divided into three sections: first, we meet a Chinese-American woman, Ruth, who has a difficult relationship with her elderly Chinese mother, LuLing. We read about their current struggles and get extensive flashbacks from their often dramatic past. The heart of the novel comes in the next section--LuLing's memoir about her young life in China--and the final section ties things together. At this point Amy Tan seems to have perfected her craft: the plot is fascinating throughout, the characterization excellent, the prose and dialogue and solid. Elements of Chinese history and culture are woven seamlessly into the story. The main characters' relationships are quite nuanced and the end is satisfying. I don't really have anything negative to say about this book, which is rare.Why only four stars, then? Because I've read Amy Tan before, and this book is very similar to her others. If you've already been exposed to her work, then you already know Ruth, LuLing, Ruth's aunt GaoLing, even her boyfriend Art. The relationships between these characters and even LuLing's eventful past felt very familiar; to some readers this will seem comfortable, to others, formulaic. It didn't really take away from my enjoyment of the book, but it did keep it from having that extra "spark" that would cause me to give 5 stars. I would certainly recommend The Bonesetter's Daughter; it's just unlikely to seem original to those who have read the author's other works.
4 One thing you've gotta say about Amy Tan, the woman knows how to weave some beautiful prose!I recently finished this novel and have it say that I thoroughly enjoyed it! I was quite engrossed in it and couldn't seem to put it down at times, especially when it gets going. There were a few slow parts, but that's to be expected with pretty much any novel these days. Although, I liked that it wasn't slow at the beginning. I was almost immediately interested it the story, and for me, that's very important as I can get bored easily and I HATE novels that take forever to spark interest.The Bonesetter's Daughter is a very good story of mother and daughter dynamics, and a story about learning to appreciate your family and where they came from. There were sad parts to it, but also very funny parts and heartwarming parts too. The end was beautiful and very fitting. I was pleased with the end, and for that I was so happy. There is nothing worse than a great novel that just ends on a bad note.Overall, 4 stars. It wasn't the greatest novel I've ever read (see "Memoirs of a Geisha" by Arthur Golden), but it was very, very good and definitely kept my interest going. I enjoyed it, and I'm sure you will too! Amy Tan has written another beautiful novel. :)
5 Amy Tan is an exceptional writer and more importantly an exceptional storyteller. This book is so wonderful and so moving that I finished it in one day. Soul, heart, and magic are what make up this novel. You feel every moment of this story. Our schools should make this required reading...for the history, the racism, the love and reapect for our elders. A wondrous book.
3 This book left me with mixed emotions. I have to say the story is good, and if developed properly it would have been a fantastic read, but, it is not very well developed, it is very slow at some points, too fast at others, and  it sort of  felt like homework.The book is divided into three parts. The 1st part is basically about childhood and teenage memories of the daughter. You end up thinking the mother is totally mad and belongs in a nut house!The second part (the best by far) is the life of the mother in China at the turn of the century. This part was nice because it gives the reader a pretty good idea of what life was like, the traditions, the beliefs, the hidden emotions and the fears of normal people; but it tells a very sad story.Finally the third part is again, the daughter, who, after reading about her mother's life finds out she really loves her, and forgives her, and well... a fairytale ending.In my opinion the book was very descriptive in the first two parts and then it went into a very quick and short, extremelly nice and unbelievable ending.The life of Ruth, the daugther, seems very hollow and unimportant after reading the mother's, and the characters are very black and white, not very realistic.If you really want to read it, I would recommend burrowing it from someone, or reading it at the library.
1 The members of our bookclub recently read this book and unanimously agreed that it was a waste of time and money. Amy Tan's writing style is uninspiring; she writes very matter of factly, leaving no room for imagination to the readers. The story line, as many other reviewers here have commented, is poor. If you are looking for interesting and well written novels on China, try 'Wild Swans; Three daughters of China' by Jung Chang, or an older classic 'The good earth' by Pearl S. Buck.
4 This novel was beautifully written.  Amy Tan once again manages to weave storylines of modern Chinese-American women w/ those of earlier Chinese women.  However, I have a hard time liking her Chinese-American women.  They are so flawed, and usually so critical of their mothers, that I wonder what sort of terrible childhood, mother-daughter relationship Tan is working through with her writing.  These American women, unlike their Chinese mothers, seem to blame everything on Mom (typical American?), while the Moms survive and usually gain a measure of success without ever laying blame on the backwards time or village they grew up in, they flourish despite wars, terrible husbands, and miserable families.  Anyway, this novel was particularly interesting because the inspiration came from real life.  Despite finding the strained  mother/daughter thing to have been done to death by Tan (can you name a novel of hers where a tough mother/daughter relationship was not at the center?), I actually enjoyed this novel very much.  The daughter's struggle with mom's dementia was particularly moving and well written.
3 I'm a big fan of Tan's, but in this sometimes thrilling, sometimes disappointing book, all of her weaknesses as a writer (all writers have weaknesses) are on full display.  First, in previous novels she's always written about America (the present) and China (the past) with two completely different styles: in China people (mothers) deal with birth, death, war, ghosts, curses and numerous mythological elements, while in America people (the daughters) worry about mortgages and whether their lame white boyfriends will commit.  The American sections are generally far less dramatic because there's less at stake; but in previous novels she made the parts about the Americanized Asian daughters compelling by capturing the emotional complexity and conflict of their lives in an (I think) accurate and honest fashion.  That's why I enjoyed &quot;Joy Luck Club&quot; and &quot;Hundred Secret Senses&quot; all the way through.  In this book, the balance is lost: the Chinese section (the middle) is incredibly absorbing, while the American section (beginning and end) is dull and not even very honest or plausible.  At the beginning the book comes off like Gail Sheehy-style therapy as the Americanized daughter frets about her Mom's medical diagnosis.  Good for Reader's Digest Drama in Real Life[TM] but not the stuff of great novels.  Then comes the &quot;Mom back in China&quot; section, which is completely different: riveting, much richer in detail than the American parts [go figure that!], and heartfelt; I couldn't put it down.  But once Mom hops on the boat to America, we're back to worrying about rent and mortgage and whether Ruth's white boyfriend will commit.  Bo-ring!!!  What happened to the ghosts and curses?  And she wraps it all up with a nice ribbon, everything ends happily, no unresolved dilemmas.  It was the inability to resolve dilemmas that made &quot;Joy Luck Club&quot; an honest book; and that made &quot;Hundred Secret Senses&quot; 98% honest.  To make matters worse, Tan can't create a believable male character (white or Asian) to save her life; what's her problem?  Here's the real question: why is it that this talented writer can describe a Chinese orphanage in the 1930's with so much detail and vividness, but can't describe modern San Francisco (where she grow up) with an equal level of detail or interest?  Despite my complaints, I am still devoted to the author of &quot;Joy Luck Club&quot; and &quot;Hundred Secret Senses&quot; and will read her next book.
4 Amy Tan did it again. She manages to give us living inside old China and at the same time, the difficult relationship with her mother in modern times. It's not a fast moving book, but if you're interested in relationships and how the past affects the present,and appreciate good writing, there is much insight in the book. Any daughter with an aging mother can relate. The mother's story is a fascinating glimpse into a girl growing up in the former China.From the author ofThe Winter Years of World War II
5 By seamlessly interweaving contemporary Asian-American life with life in long ago China, bestselling author Amy Tan reminds us of how the past affects the present.Ruth Young, a California ghostwriter, is unable to express her feelings to the man with whom she has had a ten-year relationship.  When LuLing,  her wearisome, dictatorial mother,  becomes a victim of Alzheimer's disease, Ruth sees that without a mother's memory her own sense of identity may be lost.Fortunately, LuLing has kept a diary of events that occurred during her childhood in China - the discovery of the Peking Man's bones, invasion by the Japanese, the rise of Communism.  We learn of Precious Annie, her nursemaid, who was burned so terribly that her mouth was sealed by scar tissue and she could not speak.Speechlessness, an inability to communicate has haunted three generations until the day that Ruth reads of her mother's tortured past and comes to understand her.Ms. Tan, who collected her own mother's stories, well knows the value of personal history even though at times the past is &quot;what we choose to remember.&quot;
2 As a fan of Amy Tan's work, I was deeply disappointed in what I can only describe as a derivative, unoriginal, and uninspired chip off the Amy Tan template. If you've read her previous novels, don't expect anything new here. In fact, Tan's writing skills seems to have eroded, becoming more bland and cliched. Meanwhile, it seems she has been running out of ideas, milking the &quot;mother-daughter&quot; theme quite dry. The storyline is compelling, and in particular the story of Precious Auntie has the potential to be heart-rending -- but my problem here is that I've heard it all before, and everything that transpires, including the narrative structure of the story, is predictible. The gratuitous intervention of Luck in the conclusion is egregiously unbelievable.If you're new to Amy Tan, perhaps this merits 3 or 4 stars -- but in that case, I would recommend &quot;The Joy Luck Club&quot; (still, I believe, her most ambitious if not best work) and &quot;The Kitchen God's Wife&quot;). Otherwise, this book left me concerned that one of my favorite authors is losing steam and inspiration.
3 Found this to be a bit overly sentimental...to the point of sappy at times.  Didn't have the depth of the Joy Luck Club or the humor of Saving Fish From Drowning.  Involves conflicts between a mother and daughter and that mother's conflicts with her own mother, growing up in China decades earlier.  The latter is the more interesting and is planted in the middle of the book, between a beginning and ending that take place in current day.  A few things bothered me about the book.  One was the fact that the daughter, Ruth, was given many pages that her mother (who is the bone setter's daughter) wrote in Chinese, and although her mother told her to read them and that they were 'her own true story', Ruth doesn't bother and throws them in the bottom of a drawer.  It is many years until she feels the need to have a translator read the story and give her an English translation.  What is on the pages is her mother's story in China that we read in the middle of the novel.  The translation reveals the rather amazing life Ruth's mother had lived and secrets that Ruth could have know years earlier, if only she had read it when her mother gave it to her.  If my mother had written her life story and given it to me, I would have been eager to know what it contained and can't imagine throwing it in a drawer and forgetting about it.  I guess the moral of the story is - always do what your mother tells you.  You might learn important lessons.
5 I went to a reading/talk/booksigning given by Amy Tan when the Bonesetter's Daughter  was published.  During the talk, she told us that the Chinese woman on the cover photo of the first edition (some editions don't have the same photo) is her grandmother, and she told us about the photo.  I noticed that Amy Tan's photo on the author bio looked strikingly like her grandmother's photo on the cover, even down to the pose, facial expression, and some similarity of clothing.  So while Amy was signing my copy of the book, I asked her if the similarity was deliberate or coincidental.  She said that it was deliberate, and told me a little about the photo shoot.  She also said that as far as she knew, I was the only reader who had ever noticed this.  Of course, I never would have noticed it except for what she'd told us about the cover photo.  That got me looking for physical similarity, and that's how I noticed the other things.I'm posting this here because I want other people to know about this!  It is such an interesting and wonderful aspect of the book.The photo on the cover of The Bonesetter's Daughter is cropped.  You can view the entire photo (there is another, unknown, person in it) on page 71 of the hardcover edition of The Opposite of Fate.
4 I really liked this novel, although the beginning was a little slow and I felt like it wasn't going anywhere.  I got into it when Ruth started telling her history, and then I really got into it when we were learning about LuLing's history.  I've read all of Amy Tan's books and this one is probably my second favorite (after the Joy Luck Club).
3 Much is being written pro and con Amy Tan's new novel THE BONESETTER'S DAUGHTER and the views are as divergent as the book itself.  As in her &quot;The Joy Luck Club&quot; Tan starts her story in contemporary San Francisco in the midst of East/West dichotomies, shaky mixed marriages, burdens of living in the present with the clash between caring for parents who are senile  and finding places for their custodial tending. The first section is a bit on the whining side...until Tan pulls her magic trick and makes us want to understand lineage and heritage as much as her narrator wants and needs to know.  Part Two is sheer Chinese history (with a good bit of true events sprinkled into the fiction to keep us alert) and that is where the novel shines.  Tan may not be purely Chinese in her style but what she writes works so well that she is able to drive her character revelation to surprising ends that rewards us up to the last page.  A great novel? No.  A well spun tale? Wholeheartedly Yes.
4 This is a beautiful story of a woman's discovery of her mother's and grandmother's pasts, and of a deeper understanding of herself.  It is a cross cultural story of both Chinese and American cultures, and their intersection.  The characterization is excellent - great depth and complexity.  The plot tension is also well handled.  In this book, truth uncovered is painful, but also freeing.  Tan shows the reader that there are multiple views/interpretations of events, values, personalities, and communication.  I am glad I read the book, although I did get exasperated with the prevalence of manipulative martyrdom in the women.  I was puzzled that a child who had always been taught she was a bad person was actually loved by the person who degraded her.  And I was even more surprised that that child, who had known nothing else, had a strong sense of self and self-worth.  Did it ring true?  I'm not sure.  If it didn't, it's a major flaw in the book.  Manipulative martyrdom is ubiquitous in some cultures, especially ones in which women are powerless.  I am sure Tan's depiction was true to life for the Chinese culture about which she wrote.  Nevertheless, I was put off by it.  It was so omnipresent that it felt like a device.  And it's predictability had me checking to see how many more pages to the end.
3 Those of you who have read Amy Tan's other books, particularly THE JOY LUCK CLUB and THE KITCHEN GOD'S WIFE, tell me if this rings a bell:  &quot;Daughter of first generation Chinese-American mother is largely unappreciative of mom's story and her family history until it's almost too late, but ends up learning it all despite their differences.&quot;You got it... Ms. Tan is evidently stuck in this mode.  We even get the old Japanese occupation theme, the missionaries (remember THE HUNDRED SECRET SENSES?), the battered wife syndrome, etc, etc.While the book is well written, it's old hat for those who have read other Amy Tan books.  I got more out of her first two books than THE BONESETTER'S DAUGHTER offers... in my opinion they're richer with insights about Chinese culture and what it's like to be a Chinese-American than this book is.  Amy Tan is definitely worth reading.  I would suggest you save yourself about 18 bucks and buy a nice paperback copy of either or both of her first two books.
5 Beautiful engrossing even mysterious parallel stories about three generations of women. That they are Chinese and chinese-american is both incredibly important and irrelevant - they speak to all of us.  I enjoyed the story of the daughter - the &quot;ghost&quot; writer as much as the less well known and understandable almost fantasy story of her mother and grandmother.
5 This book explores the relationship of Ruth and her Chinese mother. As her mother fades into Alzeimhers, Ruth is forced to become the mother and in doing so comes to a greater understanding of her mother and how she came to be who she was. She finds her mother's story, written down before her memory went, and this book tells this and Ruth's in juxtaposition. I see some criticisms from Asian readers that this is stereotypical. Indeed I can see the truth of that. to build the interest Ruth's mother's story is told from her birth as an illegitimate daughter of a bonesetter's daughter who lost her fiance on her way to the wedding. Horribly injured, Ruth's grandmother raises her daughter within the family of her dead fiance as her nurse. Several generations later in America, Ruth has her own struggles in her relationship with her long term partner and his daughters. In learning her mother's history, Ruth comes to a better understanding of herself and her life.This is a beautifully written story and Tan manages to bring the characters to life.
4 1.  Amy Tan is such a great novelist that it's basically impossible to write a 5 star book all the time.2.  Thus, while I enjoyed this book, it just felt a bit formulaic.  But then this may be my impression because I've read her other books.  Perhaps first time readers may not feel this way.3.  Either way, this is another worthwhile read for all fans of A. Tan, as well as first timers.
5 Amy, please help me write my family's history!  Actually, so many elements are similar to yours, I may not need to.  I started crying after reading just the Acknowledgements and the Dedication.  I nursed my Chinese mother and grandmother as they both died within the last 3 years.  I never knew their original names until I wrangled them out of my grandmother a few months before she died.Ruth's frustrations and guilt are portrayed exactly as I felt them while growing up.  I loved the many-layered theme of the ghostwriter.  This book touched me deeply, and I don't know how I'll be able to do a better job with my family's history.  Some of the details are different, but the feelings are exactly the same.
4 This book is quite well written and worth reading but not quite good enough to get a 5 star rating from me. I did however give it 4 stars. It was an interesting story line but sometimes strayed from the storyline. All in all however worth buying.
3 This was not my favorite Amy Tan book. The story seemed slow. I read the book out of curiosity, but it was not a story I craved.
5 This is the first of Amy Tan's books that I have read, and I REALLY loved it.  The book is a study of the relationships between a woman, her mother (a Chinese immigrant to America), and her grandmother.  The Bonesetter's daughter is the Grandmother.  The story is told from the Granddaughter's perspective, as she is dealing with her mother's impending Alzheimer's, and as she is going though some relationship problems with her long-term American partner.  I really enjoyed the total immersion into Chinese culture that comes through the mother's and grandmother's stories.  Amy Tan combines an intriguing story of Chinese and American-Chinese cultures with issues that many American women in their 30's and 40's are facing.  An extraordinary book.  I look forward to reading more of Amy Tan's books.
5 Amy Tan is a very fine writer of Asian ascent. She is able to capture both women's psychology and Chinese culture and heritage in such details and nuances that it is a real pleasure to enter her world. This book concentrates on the relationship between an Asian-American daughter and her mother of pure Chinese ascent who immigrated after the Second World War. The mother is caught up in her old age by Alzheimer's and she is the victim of dementia. But bafore starting to lose her memory she committed to paper a story of her life in China. The daughter is intrigued by her mother's dementia that goes back to the past over and over again and she tries to find out what went wrong in those days that would explain the present situation. And when she finds her mother's pages, she finally can relate what she had lived in her youth with a tyranical and often frustrating mother and what her mother had lived in her early years in China. And little by little she discovers the great mystery of her grand mother and her dramatic fate.This first line of inquiry is doubled with the relation of the heroin with her manfriend and how their relation can evolve into a real permanent relation, after ten years of permanent non-permanence. The mother is the catalyzer of this evolution. And the mother finds some kind of happiness in this old age by being moved to a special assisted living institution, with her full agreement, though she is lured into the first three months' experience of it, and in finding some manfriend in the man who translated the pages she had left behind for her daughter.The very strong point of this novel is the entertwining of two cultures and especially the great importance of the Chinese heritage in the psyche of the mother, but also of the daughter due to the education she got from her mother. And this all comes to the search for the mystery grandmother and the ambiguity of the name she has been given over decades and decades of life in China, and in finding the real name of that grandmother. This is a really muticultural book because of this blend of cultures, influences, psychologies in the various characters and particularly in the daughter, a second generation Asian-American, who cannot really find her balance in American society if she does not totally assume the heritage of the mother's past that was transmitted to her indirectly through common life with her in her childhood and youth years. There is no balance of an individual if he or she does not assume the past and the roots of her blood line.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.
4 Amy Tan has proven by now that she does one thing; the important thing to know is that she does it EXTREMELY well.  We all rush out to buy her latest, and she's never disappointed us.I, too, was surprised by all the criticism.  What did people expect when they bought her book?  Stories about electrical engineers in Turkey, physicists in Pakistan or a medical/detective thriller a la Robin Cook or John Grisham???  We buy Tan's novels because she lets us feel what it is to be a Chinese woman, both in America or in wartime China.  And she proves that those feelings aren't specific... that we are all alike in many significant ways.Imagine sitting through a piano recital and snorting cynically at the end, &quot;same 88 keys, over and over again...!&quot;  The number of keys are limited, but the number of possible combinations are infinite.  So fair's fair.  We expect Tan to deliver a new combination of the themes she weaves so deftly, and she hasn't let us down yet.  She hasn't exhausted her material yet; the proof is that we keep coming back for more.
5 This is one of those books that you hate to finish. Yes, it's that good. Covering the lives of three generations of people on two continents, Amy Tan's novel about Ruth and her relationships, her profession as a ghost writer, and her Chinese heritage is a great read.Although it's a work of fiction, The Bonesetter's Daughter is also quite informative. Because of Tan's tremendous ability as a wordsmith, I was able to visualize life in China through the eyes of LuLing and Precious Auntie. I learned about war, extreme poverty, arranged marriages, opium, missionaries, orphanage life, Chinese food, and even a little about how LuLing and her contemporaries viewed "foreigners."Speaking of LuLing, she was Ruth's mother and a very strong woman. For starters, she survived the suicide of her mother, the death of two husbands, rejection by the person she called Mother, horrid living conditions, and a boat ride to America where she began a totally new life. Once she even held rice water and chicken blood (Japanese chase-away juice) in her mouth in order to fool the Japanese into thinking she had TB. It worked.There are commonalities between Ruth and LuLing's lives and that of other women and their relationships with their mothers, friends, lovers, husbands, and children.  Regardless of social class, race, religion, or language, we all need love, experience doubt, feel fear, and need inner strength. We're all part of a family, one that stretches back into the past and reaches forward to the future. Just as Precious Auntie and Luling live in Ruth's bones, our ancestors live in ours, and this novel beautifully reminds us of that fact.
4 Yea, Amy Tan comes through again as the masterful storyteller we have come to know and love. It felt like it took a bit to get up and off the ground with this, but once involved in the complex web of ancient China and current day USA, you can't leave until the final page has been turned. And then you are left longing for more! Go, Amy!
5 I loved this Amy Tan book called Bonesetter's Daughter.  It was an insightful glimpse into Chinese culture and the mother and daughter's "on-and-off-again" relationship.  The American born daughter struggles to understand her mother's secret life left in China, and the struggles she endured to make a better life for herself.  I loved the story and the graphic way only Amy Tan can paint a picture so vividly.
3 Kind of hard to follow, however, very interesting.  Always interested in history and what better place to get it but Amy Tan's books.
5 Amy Tan writes great books.  This is as good as it gets.  A great book well written by a wonderful author.  I love reading her books. She pulls you into her story even if like me you have no personal knowledge of the culture she writes about.  I was enthralled by this one. I read it cover to cover without putting it down.  It's a book you're sorry to see the end of.  Finishing it was like saying goodby to a friend.
3 This book is built around an interesting idea.  Ruth, a Chinese American childless woman in her late 40s discovers her mother's history when she finds out that her mother has Alzheimer's.  By learning about her mother's descent from a bonesetter's daughter and her difficult early life, she better understands who her mother is and who she is.  Unfortunately though, it reads like an early draft, in need of more work in order to truly bring the readers into Chinese life.  It pales compared to Wild Swans.  A book with great potential, but overall, disappointing.
3 I admit that I had some difficulty getting into this book.  Part of my struggle has to do with the fact that my own mother is in a nursing home suffering from senile dementia.  Reading the first section of Ms. Tan's book was like reliving the process of accepting my mother's deteriorating condition, and then making difficult decisions on my mother's behalf. In this first section Ruth, a Chinese-American book editor who lives with, but is not married to Art, discovers that her mother has Alzheimer's Disease.  Because of her concerns about her unmarried status (fueled by her mother's disapproval), as well as her need to deal with her mother's health, she is forced to make some major decisions about her own relationships.Aside from my own issues, I felt that the first section of the book was merely a "set up" for the second section.  This part, which tells the history of Ruth's mother, takes place in China and is fascinating. I was particularly impressed by Tan's description of the culture and spirituality of Chinese writing.  She describes how the caligrapher does not simply put pen to paper and draw characters;  drawing begins as a process within, travels down the arm and into the fingers and then onto the paper.  I loved the names of places and people--a Village called Immortal Heart, the name, Precious Auntie (the bonesetter's daughter).  Ms. Tan weaves some 20th Century Chinese history into this section of the book, and we see ordinary Chinese people as victims of invading Japanese soldiers as well as Mao's Communists (a must read for a view of 20th Century Chinese history is the novel, The Wild Swan).The third section answers some lingering questions about the bonesetter's daughter and her family.  It also resolves the situation between Ruth and Art, and Ruth and her mother.  Ruth is able to place her mother in a very expensive assisted living home (primarily through the funding of her estranged lover), and despite misgivings about her mother's acceptance of her new living conditions, all goes smoothly.  (Trust me, putting your mother into a final living situation is never smooth). The mother even finds a love interest, which Ruth feels improves her Alzheimer's symptoms (please!). We learn all the family secrets, Ruth goes back to her man, and the book ends a tad too "happily ever after".
5 &quot;The Bonesetters Daughter&quot; by Amy Tan was definately my kind of mystery!  Page after page of suspense and tension.  But then again this is a story by a writer that I have been in love with for a long time (her writing anyway).The characters are very realistic, the dialogue right-on, and the plot a real page turner.  Who could ask for anything more?&quot;A 'High Five' on a job well done!
5 In &quot;The Bonesetter's Daughter,&quot; set in San Francisco and in North China, Amy Tan tells the story of Ruth Young and her mother, LuLing, in a story that reflects much of her own background. In the story, Ruth is a successful &quot;book doctor,&quot; a ghostwriter who translates other people's thoughts into a coherent book--a skill at which she is adept.  She is the &quot;as told to&quot; name below the author's, although the real creative effort is her own.Like Amy Tan herself, Ruth is in her forties, and the similarities do not stop there.  While the book is not strictly autobiographical, there are a great many parallels between the author and Ruth.  For example: both of their mothers were stricken with Altzheimers disease, and both had stormy relationships with their Chinese mothers, both of whom were suicidal.Ruth's mother, LuLing, came from China in the late 'forties, as did Amy Tan's mother.  The story is told in three parts: first is Ruth's ten-year relationship with Art and his two daughters--teenagers in the story--with whom she lives; a relationship that is in trouble for reasons that Ruth cannot determine or resolve.  Art seems to be a self-centered individual who takes advantage of Ruth's tendency to always place her own interests secondary.The second part of the story is LuLing's own story in China, which, fearing memory loss, she is writing, in Chinese calligraphy and which she eventually presents to her daughter.  Ruth, because of their difficult relationship lets the manuscript gather dust for seven years, untranslated.  LuLing's life story is a tale of tragedy and suffering, lost love and a tempestuous relationship with her own mother, Precious Auntie, which  later--after her mother's death--haunts her.Finally, in the third section the focus is on Ruth and what she does with her new knowledge.  The crux of the novel, however, is the second part: the story of LuLing in China, her turbulent relationship with her mother, and the war-torn environment of China in the 'forties.The story is about relationships, and the search by both LuLing and Ruth for their family's Chinese background, which is enveloped in mystery involving, among other things, the discovery, which actually took place in 1929-1937, of  the bones of Homo-erectus, also known as Peking man, which were found in a cave at Zhoukoudian, near Peiping (now known as Beijing).Amy Tan has drawn on her own experiences to create her characters.  In fact, in an interview with Nita Lelyveld, she says that her own mother was her muse.  She could hear her mother's voice saying the things that LuLing said, and that she &quot;did her best never to listen to her mother.&quot;  In a parallel to Ruth's relationship with LuLing, and in turn, LuLing's with her mother, she says &quot;my mother drove me crazy,&quot;This is a sensitive, emotion-driven story about mothers and daughters, told by an excellent writer who has lived the things she writes about.  Amy Tan is a woman writing about women.  A wonderful story.  It held my interest to the end.Joseph Pierre
3 I'm a huge fan of Amy Tan's, but this book let me down. Don't get me wrong -- it's a GOOD book. But I expect GREAT books from her. Her previous books (especially Joy Luck Club and Kitchen God's Wife) held my interest so much more. I felt that the characters in The Bonesetter's Daughter weren't as believable or likable. I agree with the other reviewer who wrote that Amy Tan should try writing a book completely about the old days in China, and leave the modern Chinese-American descendants out of it. Now THAT would be interesting.
5 Ruth Young is a Chinese American woman who lives in California with Art, her significant other.  She considers herself to be a very contemporary woman, but she's so obsessed with the small details of life that she makes herself miserable. Although she's professionally successful as a ghostwriter, she feels that Art and his two daughters take her for granted and don't value her as a person.LuLing, Ruth's mother has always been somewhat of a burden to her daughter.  Ruth loves her desperately, but she believes that she and LuLing have never really understood each other. Her own name, Ruth has always been an embarrassing mystery to her because her mother has never been able to pronounce the name correctly Why would LuLing choose a name for her daughter that she really couldn't even say?  Her life is filled with unanswered questions.One day Ruth finds some pages written in Chinese that LuLing had written and given to her years ago.  Her own Chinese is not up to interpreting the writing, so she turns to a translator for help in reading the pages. The story of LuLing's life in China is an amazing saga and the author beautifully explains the richness of the Chinese culture. When Ruth reads the transcript of LuLing's words, she finally understands her mother, and all of the mysteries in LuLing's life are revealed.I especially enjoyed the recorded book because the author joined actress Joan Chen as a co-narrator.
4 Another good read from Amy Tan. Some parts are typical Amy Tan: Mother-daughter conflicts over old China ways and new American ways. Another Amy Tan convention; mother with permanent mental scars from old life in China of which for the first 40 years of her life, daugher is unaware. Daughter finally becomes aware of mother's full past which enables her to understand, respect and more fully love her mother and herself. Typical Amy Tan but still very interesting and engaging. Especially the final 2/3 of the book.
5 Such an interesting look into Chinese history. I listened to this book on CD. So good, that I passed my exit right up on my way to work! You'll love it!
2 If this is your first Amy Tan book, then you will probably like it. However, if you've read the others, then this is just a tedious rehash of what she has already written. American born daughter, Chinese born mother. Chinese born mother who struggled in China against horrible men, an unforgiving society, and so on. The story never changes. The American born daughter is always the same in every book, as is the comparison of the two generations. I liked her first book, the Joy Luck Club. That was fresh and original. But then she just repeated it with the Kitchen God's Wife, which was just a continuation and a rehash of the first. I only got halfway through it before it got just too repetitive. I skipped her third book because the plot sounded too familiar. This one I took out of the library, and got about halfway through before I just had to put it to rest. Same story, same characters, just different names. It would be nice if Tan could write something original, instead of this same worn out theme. Unless you're interested in re-re-re-reading the Joy Luck Club, pass this one by.
5 One again Amy Tan creates a masterpiece. I could see and experience China so clearly in my mind, I now feel like I've been there. I have a new respect for old Chinese women and I am in awe of the strength of people of the world. This book isn't just an entertaining light read. It stays with you. An 85 year old man recommended the book to me. He said "It's the kind of book that would appeal to middle aged women. I didn't like the modern day parts about this woman's relationship with her mother, but the parts about China were wonderful and more than made up for the boring parts."  I would have to agree that some parts were better than others, and women would certainly appreciate the mother-daughter relationship issues. You can skim through those parts if you want without losing the old lady's story. I highly recommend this to anybody who likes to read- man, woman, any age.
5 I agree with a previous reviewer who said the male characters in the story are underdeveloped.  But it doesn't matter.  Because this is a story about the relationships between mothers and daughters.  It is a beautiful book, full of love, hope, and sadness.  It made me cry.  I loved every page.
5 I love Amy Tan's writing, and this book was no disappointment. It got some bad reviews, but I didn't care, I bought it anyway, and I don't agree with thier assesments.  It is all the more poignent that Amy's mother suffered from Alzhiemers, as did the mother in this book.  Don't wait for the paperback. Treat yourself.
5 Ruth Young's life is in turmoil. Her interest in her live-in lover seems to be waning and her relationship with her mother, never an easy one, seems to be getting more difficult as her mother slips into Alzheimer's disease. Ruth is a ghost-writer and that seems to be symbolic of her, because she writes about others but she cannot seem to establish a life of her own. All of this changes when her mother gives her some manuscripts which are titled &quot;Things I know that are true&quot; and &quot;Things that I must not forget&quot;. Ruth has the papers translated from the original Chinese and as she reads them, her mother's life becomes real to her and the secrets which her mother has kept are at last revealed. Learning about her past, Ruth can then begin to heal in the present. Although the culture in the book is Chinese, the themes are universal and the ideas of redemption and healing are truly uplifting. Amy Tan is a wonderful story-teller who writes from the heart and who has a unique ability to touch her readers.
5 The Bonesetter's Daughter begins as Ruth, the daughter of Lu Ling, an elderly Chinese woman who immigrated to America some time after World War II, describes their life in California.  Ruth is struggling with her mother's dementia which the doctor's think may be Alzeihmer's as well as in her personal life with her 10-year live-in boyfriend who doesn't seem to want to take things to the next level.  About 100 pages into the story, Ruth begins to gain some interest in her mother's autobiography which was written some years ago before Lu Ling's memory began to be affected by age.  Past progress in reading it has been greatly abated by the fact that it is written in Chinese.  After finding a translator, however, Ruth reads the entire story of her mother's childhood through to young adulthood.  Tan  switches now to the voice of Lu Ling as she tells her own story in her own words as it really happened.  A shocking and moving tale, Amy Tan has brought to life the challenges faced probably by many young women in China during the war.  It is compelling, fascinating and challenging as well.  A great summer read.  Don't pass this one by.
4 Ruth Luyi (all that you wish) Young discovers that her mother is suffering from Alzheimer's. She moves in with her mother to ensure her safety.In the bottom of a drawer she finds the papers her mother had given her years ago - her mother's story of her past. It starts out, "These are things I know are true.."What a beautiful storyteller Tan is. Her strength is when she transports us back to China and we are there with Liu LuLing (remain true) and Precious Auntie making inksticks for the family business. We can see, feel, taste, smell all the surroundings.Ruth struggles to remember the name of her true grandmother, and it escapes her until the right set of circumstances stir the right memories to cough it up. I was disappointed by the wrap-it-all-up fast conclusion, I felt a little cheated. But overall a fantastic read.
3 I have recently read Amy Tan's The Opposite of Fate and thought that it was fascinating.  She indicates that many of her books were inspired by herown life and family stories.  That is evident in The Bonesetter's Daughter but this particular "novel," although fascinating and mystical is also dark anddepressing.  I generally expect a final result of feeling that I have reaped knowledge and insight into another culture but I am not feeling that uplifting resultfrom The Bonesetter's Daughter.
4 All of the above reviews are right on - I agree except for the fact that it starts off a bit slow. Stick with it and you will be so glad you did. I felt extremely empowered once I finished it, it's a must have!
3 I almost feel bad criticizing this book for being overly formulaic when I actually enjoyed parts of it so much. Yes, this is typical Amy Tan fare, which includes mother-daughter angst, immigrant culture, and old Chinese family secrets dusted off and gradually exposed through some engrossing storytelling.  The story shifts between present-day San Francisco where we follow Ruth Young and her struggles with her Chinese-born mother, LuLing, and pre-WW2 rural China where we are treated to sumptious descriptions of old customs and superstitions surrounding LuLing's family origins. As with Tan's other books, it is when she takes the reader back in time to China that the story really shines. When the plot returns to America, it almost feels like a complete let-down.In present time, Ruth's mother, LuLing, suffers from dementia, and as a result she has written down her life story in Chinese for her daughter to read. Ruth, who is not fluent in written Mandarin, hires someone to translate the story, and it is through this translation we are treated to the memoirs of LuLing. The bonesetter is her grandfather, and the daughter actually refers to LuLing's real mother - or Precious Auntie as she is called.  This tragic title character is at the center of the story both before and after her death, and the injustices done to her by her adversaries as well as her own family are heartwrenching. The dynamic between LuLing and her "sister" GaoLing is also well portrayed, and the sisterly jealousies as well as loyalties are well characterized. The family business aspects, caligraphy descriptions and the ink-producing process are fascinating to read.All the superstitions and ghosts that envelope every character in China, however, are the most satisfying parts.There are numerous subplots and transitory characters, both in China and in San Fransisco. There are the two American missionaries along with Sister Yu, who run the orphanage where LuLing spends several years both as student and teacher. There are the British mother and daughter and their talking parrot in Hong Kong where LiuLing as a maid learns English. There are the archeologists who are excavating the Peking Man - and the one who wins LuLing's heart.  The subplot involving Dottie and Lance from Ruth's childhood, however, albeit interesting, seemed to fizzle out without a proper conclusion.Finally, the main male characters in the story were quite one-dimensional (saintly or evil) - but this is rather typical in Tan's writing.The end is too contrived in its desperate attempt to provide some sort of closure between everyone. Also, the translator's role becomes a bit too sentimental.  You leave the book wishing to read more about China, which is actually a good feeling.All in all, this is a comforting hammock read that entertains, engrosses and ultimately fades gently away.NOTE: I just had to edit this review a bit because I just saw Ms Tan in a lecture where she talked quite extensively about her own life history as well as those of her mother and grandmother. It startled me to find out that so much of her books are based on real-life scenarioes including events in The Bonesetter's Daughter. One of the things in the book that I quite frankly thought was a bit over-the-top is the mysterious sandbox, in which the superstitious mother makes Ruth write messages because she believes Ruth is some sort of medium for her deceased mother. Furthermore, this ultimately leads the mother to ask about stock options and which investments to make, and although the daughter just pretends to write these messages, it quite predictably turns out to amass a small fortune in the end.  Ms Tan told the audience that her mother was similarly obsessed with the quijja board during Ms Tan's childhood, and Ms Tan made the board move by her own whimsy. However, the same investment inquires (and thus Tan's "recommendations") also led her mother to invest in some lucrative deals in real life! It made me appreciate the story a bit more - just knowing that such a peculiar notion as the sandbox was inspired by real-life events...
4 Amy Tan has done it again with The Bonesetter's Daughter. Not only do we have intriguing story of China in the days before and after the revolution, but we also have an age-old story of the tension between mothers and daughters that is so difficult to define and so easy to identify with. Ruth Young and her mother, LuLing, have a tortured but magnetic relationship, a bond that involves superstitions, ghosts and criticisms that come close to destroying Ruth both as a child and as an adult. Her mother's daily fear of the ghost of her mother, who influences her entire life with barely hidden guilt, permeates Ruth's life too.As a child, Ruth learned to survive her mother's vicious attacks by communicating with Precious Auntie, her mother's mother, by writing on a sand table for her mother. It is only when LuLing is old that Ruth learns the truth about her mother's life, what tragedies she endured, what courage she had, and how very much she loves Ruth.Besides being a good story about mothers and daughters, The Bonesetter's Daughter tells about the relationships between different cultures and the richness that comes from sharing those lives. From Chinese food, dragon bones and the importance of ancestors, to the ideas that begin to erode ancient Chinese thought and custom, this is a good read, one that will leave the reader feeling good and satisfied.
4 i looked up Tan after remembering how much i enjoyed reading The Joy Luck Club in high school. The Bonesetter's Daughter was dull in comparison. Tan again explores the lives and stories of a Chinese-American daughter and mother. Unfortunately, the two stories are too unrelated and the rich, twisting plot of the mother's severely overshadows her daughter's tired, &quot;working woman in bad relationship&quot; story. Tan manages to save herself with her usual capture of the Chinese culture in its fullness, the delightfully crooked dialect of Chinese speaking English and the frustrating and affection relationship between a mother and her daughter. It was good, but not her best. If you haven't read Joy Luck Club, go there to satisfy your taste for Tan.
5 Amy Tan masterfully weaves together the stories of mother and daughter - growing up a girl in China and growing up a Chinese-American in the U.S.  She also touches the face of Alzheimer's disease and how it can impact a family.All of the stories are intriguing. As one is layered against another you see the similarities of these seemingly diverse women. The events are at time funny - at other times painful - but always touching.The reader can never go wrong with Amy Tan. Her stories are a great read. I would also recommend the audiotape version of the books (which are read by the author). Sometimes it is nice to hear a story told aloud. In either media, Tan is a fantastic storyteller.  Also don't miss &quot;The Joy Luck Club&quot;.
4 Amy Tan created a brilliant novel with realistic characters and an engaging plot.  The Bonesetters daughter follows present day, Ruth as she struggles in her relationships with Art, her significant other; her mother, LuLing; and most importantly, herself.Luling is a very traditional Chinese woman who is living with a dreadful past of her own.  Luling struggles to identify with her daughter Ruth.  As Luling is developing dementia she decides to record her history on paper as her mother did for her.  Ruth dismissed the memoir until many years later when she had it translated and discovered her mother's past as well as her grandmother's (Precious Auntie) past.  Through this memoir, Ruth discovered the truth about the women in her family and the truth for herself.Amy Tan created very strong women and their journey and trials will attest to their nature of survival.  The Bonesetters Daughter was by far one of the best books that I have encountered.
5 Amy Tan is in a league of her own. I wish that she produced more adult novels, but the ones that she does write are certainly worth the wait. "The Bonesetter's Daughter" is a touching and engrossing tale. It even made me weep at certain parts. Amy Tan is a master wordsmith and crafts the most amazing novels. I highly recommend all of her works.
5 AMY TAN AND JOAN CHEN MADE ME LAUGH AND MADE ME SOB IN THE SPACE OF MOMENTS.I HAVE NEVER BEEN AS MOVED.IT IS AN EXERCISE IN PERFECTION.MISS TAN REVISITS THE TERRITORY INTRODUCED IN THE JOY LUCK CLUB AND NOW IT IS EVEN MORE RIVETING.THIS WAS THE LISTENING EXPERIENCE OF A LIFETIME.
4 So begins a packet, written in Chinese, that Ruth finds hidden in her mother's secret floorboard.  Ruth has been having trouble recently, in attempting to deal with issues ranging from her American boyfriend, stepdaughters, career and her mother's increasing forgetfullness.  When her mother is diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, Ruth realizes that it is time to put her life and family together.Ruth has the packet translated, and discovers her mother's history.  These are things she never knew, but which help her understand her mother's feelings and emotions.  Her mother's history is undeniably tragic, yet strangely provides hope for both mother and daughter.Tan has succeeded again with a compelling story of the bonds that tie mothers and daughters, especially those with cultural differences.
5 This novel is almost a few stories within one story.  The present of a daughter dealing with her frustrating mother, raised in a different country and lifestyle, getting old and losing her memory.  The past of their growing up together.  The distant past of her mother growing up in a very different culture.  It makes you want to sit down and ask your mom: just what didn't you tell me about who you were before I knew you?  If you get the chance, get this book and listen to an unabridged version:  I don't remember who does the reading of the women, but the Chinese accents of the mother and auntie add so much to the tale.  It's a well written story that weaves back and forth flawlessly, seamlessly and effortlessly.  Your mind doesn't have to stop with each transition.Considerably better than the Joy Luck Club!
4 I read the Joy Luck Club as my first exposure to Amy Tan's writing.  I thoroughly enjoyed it then, but after reading this, I'm beginning to see a pattern in Tan's writing.You have a Chinese-American daughter who doesn't understand or appreciate her mother's odd superstitions and customs.  As the mother ages though, the daughter eventually learns her mother's whole story, and learns to appreciate where her mother is coming from.  The daughter discovers that her mother is a remarkable woman and deserves her respect.  With her newfound respect for her mother, their relationship grows stronger, and you have a sentimental ending.That said, while Tan seems to cash in on same themes in her writing, I still think it works.  The story contained in The Bonesetter's Daughter is engaging, worthwhile, and tragic.  This book held my interest well and as such allowed me to finish it in less than a week.  This book is well constructed - with LuLing's (the mother's) story contained between two sections involving her younger daughter Ruth.While Ruth and her live-in boyfriend (with his two daughters) struggle to stay connected, Ruth has to deal with a mother who is increasingly unable to live by herself and manage her own affairs.  Ruth is wearing out as her mother, her boyfriend, and her work all demand her attention.  She moves in to take care of her mother and in their old house is faced with her childhood memories.  One night she discovers many pages of chinese calligraphy her mother had written years ago.  Unable to fluently read her mother's story, she hires a translator to reveal her mother's secrets.  The translated story reveals the truth about LuLing's upbringing and ancestry in rural China, her adventures in love, and her struggle to escape during World War II.  When Ruth finally learns all of this, her life seems to fall back into place, but I'll leave the details for you to read the book yourself.I think this book is a worthwhile read for a Christmas break - a good escape from reality for a brief time, and who knows - maybe you can learn something about your own family relationships.
3 Bonesetter's Daughter was recently lent to me by a good friend. It was my first Amy Tan novel, so I thought it was really going to be good--Tan is on many school booklists and her books are considered classics; however, I was fairly disappointed with this book.This book had unbelievable potential. There was the story of Ruth--a Chinese-American, middle-aged woman who had &quot;issues&quot; with her Chinese mother and American boyfriend. Ruth's story, however, wasn't the &quot;main&quot; story. There was the story of LuLing, Ruth's mother, who grew up in China in a fairly wealthy family with a somewhat dark past and who struggled to enter the United States. LuLing had &quot;issues&quot; with her &quot;Mother,&quot; sister GaoLing, and &quot;Precious Auntie.&quot;I honestly enjoyed LuLing's story. It was very dramatic, heartbreaking, and all the page-turning parts of the book were associated with this tale. I did not understand how important Ruth's story was supposed to be. I guess she was supposed to be there to show how protective LuLing was of her past, and to show how LuLing physically and mentally declined as the years went by. I also didn't like Ruth's story because it never really seemed to &quot;go anywhere.&quot; At the beginning of the book she had huge problems with her mother and her significant other. At the end of the book, while she had a deeper respect for her mother, she still had problems with her and never stopped having problems with the significant other--though at the end I think Tan tried to patch them up.Overall, this book was an OK read. It wasn't &quot;boring&quot; or hard to read, but I think the two plots lines could've overlapped more, and I think that Ruth's story particularly should've had more substance. I would not buy this book, but would check it out of the library just for fun.
4 This was my first experience with Amy Tan's work and I enjoyed listening to it for the most part.  The mother's history was fasinating--complete with characters and events that were fresh and moving.  The daughter's narrative seemed self-centered and wining by comparison.  Perhaps that was Ms. Tan's intention, but I found myself annoyed and almost stopped listening.  The narrators were good but again the daughter's portion was less appealing than the mother's part.
4 If you have liked Amy Tan's other books, this one will be very familiar and you will probably like it as well. I think this is about my fourth Amy Tan novel, and my complaint is not that it is any less good than her other books. My complaint is that it is exactly the same as her other books. I think all can be summarized as:&quot;Woman in her 30s/40s (the women seem to get older in subsequent books) living in the Bay Area doesn't understand the idiosyncracies of her somewhat demanding mother, but that is only because she is unaware of the difficult time her mother had in her younger days in China because her mother doesn't talk about those times. During the course of the book, the younger woman learns more about her mother's past and finds a new level of respect, understanding, and affection.&quot;If this is your first or second Amy Tan novel, read it and enjoy it. If you've read more, be warned that this is more of the the same. My message to the author: Your books are entertaining, but perhaps subsequent novels will be more interesting it you change the format a bit. I am an example of a fan who is unlikely to read yet another novel with the same story.
4 Amy Tan writes about wonderful people.Amy Tan creates exceptional characters.Amy Tan will write you a story that is so rich and clear you can almost touch it.That is what I love in reading Amy Tan. As your average southern white female, I'm not exactly versed in the world of Amy Tan's characters. But she takes me there. I find myself so completely involved in the world she writes about that I forget where I am. Isn't that why you pedalled your bicycle to the library in the summer when you were a kid? Amy Tan will remind you of that sense of discovery you had back then, when you were reading all the great classics for the first time and the discovery of it all was an addictive thrill that kept your library card smoking and well worn with use.She has a gift in her storytelling for expanding the universe. Read this book.
5 Another great story by Amy Tan. Dementia can be very truthful, sad, and yet a beautiful story of a mother and daughter really knowing who they are,where they came from and how important family is
5 This book delivers the knot in your throat that you've come to expect from Amy Tan. She is the master of parallel structure, taking the reader back and forth from modern-day U.S. to wartime China. Ruth, the American-born daughter, is a richly developed and sympathetic character. Her story makes up the book's first section. The reader is exasperated by her overbearing mother, until Tan switches voices. LuLing's story is harrowing and poignant and, of course, changes the reader's mind. You won't be disappointed in this novel, which moves quickly.
2 All of Amy Tan's book are the same: mother-daughter conflict and reminscing the past in China.I enjoyed the beginning to middle VERY MUCH, but when it got towards the middle-end to end, I wasn't too interested in it anymore.  I wanted to stop reading it, but I had to find out what happened, so I skipped a few pages and went right to the end.I thought this book would focus a lot on her mother's illness, but it was more about her childhood.  It remind me very much of Adeline Yen Mah's &quot;Chinese Cinderella&quot; or &quot;Falling Leaves.&quot;  (&quot;Chinese Cinderella&quot; is a good book by the way.)I feel the flashbacks could've been cut short.  I feel the ending could be better too.  If you want to read a good novel with Alzheimer's in the story, read Nicholas Sparks' &quot;The Notebook.&quot; Beautiful book.
5 Beyond loving Amy Tan's work across the board, the Bonesetter's Daughter is a captivating read, enlivening notions of family, memory, love, and culture (and more). The skepticism that the &#34;child&#34; brings to her mother's mysticism reflects the orientation of many 21st century westerners, and Tan skillfully weaves eastern and western notions in a narrative that is rich, compelling and imminently rewarding. One caveat: I read this book on Kindle, and wished I had the paperback version.
5 Amy Tan has done it again in this novel.  She's captured theexperience of being a Chinese-American daughter in cultural clasheswith her Chinese-born mother.  And she tells a fascinating story thatmoves between modern San Francisco and a rural China in the1920s.Ruth Young, in her mid-forties, makes her living as aghostwriter for self-help books and is going through difficulties withher live-in boyfriend and his children.  Her mother is in the earlystages of Alzheimer's and Ruth is watching her gradual decline.  Butwhen she comes across a memoir her mother started writing yearsearlier, it not only brings up her own memories, but she starts tounderstand her mother better through the gradual revelations of thefamily secrets.The chapters about Ruth set the stage for the coreof the book, which is the story of LuLing, the mother. We learn aboutthe bonesetter's daughter, the terribly scared nursemaid namedPrecious Annie who raised LuLing and the connections between thegenerations.  It's a story of betrayal and ghosts and a curse throughthe ages.  It's a story of relationships between sisters and teachersand mothers.  It's the story of healing and hope and redemption.  Andit's all so interesting that it's hard to put the book down.Ms. Tanis a fine writer.  She brings out some universal truths about a worldI'm familiar with as well as those of a world that has vanished andcan only be recreated by the skill of the author.  Her sense of placeis extraordinary and she puts the reader right into the skin of thecharacters, building the story gradually and adding telling details atjust the right moments.  I was swept right into it and found bits andpieces intruding on my thoughts until I could get back to it later.It was 353 pages but I wish it had been longer.
5 Amy Tan has maintained her excellent status in my eyes with this work.  It keeps your attention and gives a wonderful glimpse into Chinese culture, much like her other works.  I recommend it!!
4 if you have enjoyed Amy Tan in the past, you will like this book.  Tan does a great job of creating characters that the reader becomes attached to and wants to know what they end up doing.  The historical aspects of this book are also very interesting and enlightening.
3 While this opening line of the preface is engaging, the promise of such entrapment is never fulfilled.  Disappointingly, as the story of `The Bonesetter's daughter' unfolds, the novel continues to lose the aspect of it's initial charm and quiet grace.  I wouldn't say that I am sorry to have read this book, I simply expected to walk away from it with a lot more than I did.The author, Amy Tan, unleashes her latest novel (said to be somewhat autobiographical) in three distinct parts  The first being told from the voice of a 30something, Chinese, American, Ruth Young.  The main points of Ruth's own life, her annual voicelessness, her relationship with a live in boyfriend and his children, her flighty and superficial best friend, her annoying mother and  her flamboyant publisher,  are set up to be significant in the basis of this novel.  The only one richly explored is the relationship with her annoying mother and her mother's ancient, secretive ancestry, which is the focus of the second part of this tale.  The reader and Amy discover the secrets of her mother's traumatic and tragic childhood in China (before and during the Second World War), and her immigration to so-called American freedom.  The final part tells of what Ruth does with her newly acquired knowledge of her ancestral past and how it changes both her feelings towards her mother and her own life.Critics complained that `Bonesetter's Daughter' was too `Americanized', and they are correct.  Tan attempts to incorporate two very different styles of writing in this book; one of authentic, cultural memoirs and the sultry, everyday experience of the modern American novel. If you are looking for something similar to the beautiful wisdom of popular titles such as `Memoirs of a Geisha', you will be disappointed as this is only a small part of what makes up this book.  If you are after a style similar to the types of work that continuously make Oprah's list, you may be a little more satisfied- but not fully as the novel doesn't fully explore the relationships that make up this alternate plot. There are parts that are as charming and delightful as the preface alludes to, but not many.  I believe that Tan is a gifted author and has the ability to do great work, I just don't think it was adequately displayed here. `Bonesetter's Daughter' had too many loose ends, too many questions left unanswered and explored too many sub-plots to be truly enjoyable.
4 When Tan visited Guizhou to write a story about the Dong minority for National Geographic, she was immediately inspired to write about that area.  While there, a fire broke out, prompting her to think about accidents and responsibilities.  The person who caused the fire was banished from the village, and the town was rebuilt in a way that the villagers thought would ensure better Feng Shui.  The villagers concluded that the fire was the result of bad luck brought on by "illegal" burials of ancestral bones, which upset the town's cosmic balance.  Tan loved uncovering the town's stories, and the results of her musings on her time there grew into the book The Bonesetter's Daughter. Also included are her explorations of her own mother's battle with Alzheimer's. The book was included in Amazon.com's Best of 2001 book list, and the book's front cover features a photo of Tan's grandmother.The Bonesetter's Daughter tells the story of LuLing Young's battle with alzheimer's and her daughter's attempts to repair past hurts and to understand her mother's life.  One day, two packets of papers written in Chinese calligraphy fall into the hands of Ruth Young. One bundle is titled Things I Know Are True and the other, Things I Must Not Forget.  In these documents LuLing --the elderly matriarch, born in China in 1916-- has recorded her family history, determined to keep the facts from vanishing as her mind deteriorates.Ruth's relationship with her mother has been rocky, but feeling remorseful over their differences, she hires a translator to decipher the papers.  She also resolves not only to ask for her mother's life story, but to listen, for once.The story takes place in a remote, mountainous region where anthropologists discovered Peking Man in the 1920s--not unlike the Guizhou village that inspired Tan.  Here superstition and tradition rule, and LuLing's family --a clan of ink makers-- believes themselves cursed by their connection to a local doctor, who cooks up his potions and remedies from human bones.  The resulting journey from the Chinese village to modern America of course offers up Tan's speciality: empathetic insight into the complex relationship of Chinese mothers and their American-born daughters and the effects of the Chinese past on their American present.  The book also offers a new twist, however,  in Tan's exploration of the role of the supernatural in her characters' lives.Although her books are starting to seem a little formulaic, they are never disappointing, as they are always very engaging and thought provoking.  After I read two of her books, I knew I was going to read them all.  As always, this story is another good read.
4 This book explores the mother daughter relationship we all face.  It eloquently explores the issues involved including how we are raised and how we take care of our parents.  In addition, Amy Tan once again weaves a terrific story to her exploration of the relationship.
3 This is a perfectly okay book, and doesn't take too much concentration so it would work on a plane or a beach, BUT...after reading Tan's other books, I'm disappointed.
3 Although this novel has elements of a great story, including good writing, good story and characters you grow to love and care about, there was just something missing.  A good editor, maybe?The story begins with Ruth, a 40-something ghost writer whose love life is less than perfect, and whose mother is showing signs of Alzheimer's Disease.  Mother-daughter conflicts and painful memories on both sides have their roots in long-buried family secrets.  Until the secrets of the past are unearthed, neither woman is able to love herself or others fully.  The story really slows down in the middle, when the mother relives her childhood in China, and reading it becomes more like homework than pleasure.Buy the paperback, or better yet, check it out of the library.
3 Since my mother had dementia, I found her frustration interesting.  Her mother should have shared more of her life experiences with her as she was growing up.
3 In her latest novel, Amy Tan does what she does best: dissecting inter-familial relationships with precision and compassion. Rather than a rehash of an old storyline (as some reviewers have said), Ms. Tan steps into new territory in this book: the so-called &quot;sandwich&quot; generation, adults with grown children now dealing with care for ageing parents.Having recently read PAPER DAUGHTER: A MEMOIR by M. Elaine Mar, I found myself more aware of the huge generational differences between an American-raised daughter and a Chinese-raised mother. The old ways so ingrained in the mother, LuLing, circumscribe an entirely different way of life than that of her American-born daughter, Ruth, one where the loving mother criticizes her child as a way to show love. But in America, with new traditions, Ruth feels demeaned. Fortunately, a sense of the ancestral resonates in Ruth's heart when she attempts to journey through the landscape of the past via LuLing's writings. Ruth discovers her mother's essential spirit, gaining wisdom about the differences in their lives and cultures.This book also disabuses the reader of any romantic notions concerning rural Chinese life. Tan paints images of decay, death and ghosts, family tragedy and dreams. There are many ways to tell a story, and Amy Tan has mastered the multi-layered art of the Chinese and American. As she develops a tale more American than Chinese, she seems to be trying out other options in her range. For the most part she is successful. The only plot line I found superfluous was the &quot;significant other&quot; that Ruth lives with, as well as his teenaged children. None of these characters were more than props, not significant enough for me to care whether they were still around at the end. Amy Tan has proven herself to be more than a one book writer, and I'm sure she will continue to develop her craft and offer fans more well-wriiten novels.
4 Immediately got immersed in the story of Ruth Young's mother, LuiLing and grandmother, Precious Auntie and their lives before coming to the US from China. Very fast paced.
4 There are so many things about this book to love - the setting (China, in particular); the vast scope of the story; the deft way that the author ties together the present and the past; the commitment and love between LuLing and Ruth, LuLing and GaoLing, LuLing and Precious Auntie; how Tan's writing style and word choices seem to exude the culture she is writing about, including a subtle but still noticeable shift in tone in section two (LuLing's story).I connected with the story immediately, and particularly with Ruth.  I related to her inability to feel confident, to believe that she actually had something to say, to think that anyone would be interested in her words.  I got how she allowed herself to "disappear" in her relationship, never seeming to require anything concrete or real from Art, not even sure he really loves her, yet continuing on in a sort of hazy mediocrity.  I understood her choice to do the work she did - behind the scenes, anonymous or very nearly so (even if, in the end, she tended to resent the lack of credit), and risk free, meaning any criticism of the work would be directed to the author of record, not her (a "ghostwriter," but in reality the actual author of all the books she worked on).Perhaps more than any of the above, I had a visceral and immediate connection to her relationship with her mother.  Their conflicted, competitive, critical and volatile relationship was as familiar to me as the back of my hand.  I was transported time and again back to my own experiences as a child, an adolescent, and a young woman as I read the arguments & struggles between Ruth &  LuLing.  I found LuLing controlling, irrational, hypercritical, and impervious to reason.  I felt the frustration that Ruth felt right along with her, and when time & again she allowed herself and her own desires to be eclipsed by her mother, I wanted to shake her out of her lethargy.And then came Section 2.Once again, I felt like shaking someone and screaming "Wake UP!"  But this time, it was LuLing herself.  As I progressed through this middle section, I began to understand LuLing in a completely different way, and while I still didn't (and don't) understand the necessity of incessantly criticizing and insulting one's daughter, I did ultimately comprehend the enormous suffering that LuLing endured & overcame.  I understood how it shaped her and hurt her, how it gutted her and made her strong.  She was so much more than Ruth's experiences, GaoLing's interactions or Precious Auntie's recollections.  It was clear that Ruth needed to know her mother's history and understand where she came from in order to appreciate her strengths, weaknesses & eccentricities.  She needed to know those things to also heal herself, to recognize that despite herself she had a good partner, and to allow herself the luxury of committing fully to the relationship, loving without reserve, and being likewise loved in return.Amy Tan weaves this exotic, timultuous, and ultimately cathartic story in such a way that it leaves you wanting more...to continue on with the story, to find out what happens next with the characters you've come to love.  That's good writing...really good writing, and it's worthy of a place on everyone's bookshelf.
4 My first experience with Amy Tan was an amazing one. I did not expect to get so caught up in the story of the three women this book devotes itself to, but I did. I fell in love with the passion of Precious Auntie, the quirkiness of LuLing and the struggling Ruth - and the author did not fail to deliver a happy, resolved ending.Overall a wonderful story. It was involved, well laid out, the anecdotes were interesting and provided needed depth. Very much recommended.
5 The Bonesetter's Daughter succeeds superbly by continuing the theme of Amy Tan's The Joy Luck Club and The Kitchen God's Wife, but with different characters and a different story.  In those novels Chinese American children, particularly daughters, are excavating their ancestral roots.  Again, in her new novel, Amy Tan is focusing on mother-daughter relationships, a secretive mother, and a daughter who must discover those secrets in order to heal childhood wounds, reconcile with the mother, and resolve adult relationships.The story divides into three sections, the first and third set in the present, and narrated by daughter Ruth Young, a counselor and ghost writer of self help books, who has a long-term live-in relationship with a Jewish man and is a second mother of sorts to his two daughters.  The middle section takes place in China and is the story of Ruth's mother and grandmother.  It is actually Mrs. Young's journal.  The first section sets the stage, shows us Ruth in the present and also Ruth as a child at critical junctures.  Amy Tan adds another element to the story, that of Mrs. Young's Alzheimer's disease, which lends poignancy as well as urgency to the discovery and translation of her journal.As we enter her mother's life story the mystery of her seemingly (to Ruth) irrational or eccentric behavior as a mother starts to make sense and feels like the pieces of a jigsaw puzzle being filled in.  One example is the tradition of sand drawing in order to divine the intent of the gods, which was common in Mrs. Young's childhood in China, and which she foists upon a reluctant Ruth from time to time.As the story comes back into the present in the third section, the focus is three-fold, wrapping up the plot,  but also showing us a realistic and compassionate portrait of an Alzheimer patient and the family who have to deal with a dreaded disease, as well as the hurdles of prejudice and misunderstanding that immigrants have to deal with, and the adjustments that they make in order to survive.  As Ruth discovers through the journal, her mother is not just &quot;eccentric&quot; or &quot;crazy&quot;, but a lot of her mysterious behavior is rooted in Chinese tradition and in the unearthed secrets of her family history.  Ruth has been given a gift beyond measure.
5 I think this is the best book Amy Tan has ever written!  It is better than her other books, which are great too.  I highly recommend it.
5 Another great story from Amy Tan. Sad, haunting, & very hard to read at times. Not a quick read, but well worth the time!
5 Amy Tan engages the reader from the first sentence and then leads them through a progression where one feels there are there watching, feeling everything that is happening in the book.
5 A moving story is set against a rich backdrop of culture and history.  You may find yourself wiping away tears while you read this.
4 I have to give Amy Tan credit for doing a masterful portrait of a woman with Alzheimer's-like dementia!  I have had both a mother-in-law and a grandmother-in-law with Alzheimer's, and reading Tan's depiction of Ruth's mother was moving and painful and frustrating--all very recognizable to someone who has had experience with this terrible situation.I will admit that this story echoes much of Amy Tan's earlier works, dealing with the relationships between Chinese mothers and daughters and the secret, painful, hidden lives that the mothers have led.  I think this version of this story works well, however.Ruth, the daughter in this novel, has her own coming of age story here, where she has to deal with the the adult tasks of caring for her mother and staking out her own adult relationship.  I liked Ruth, and I deeply empathize with many of the issues she is dealing with, and the impact of her mother's secrets on her life is deep and powerful.My main concern here is that maybe the ending is too good.  The end of the novel is rather like the happy ever after of a fairy tale.  To a certin extent it didn't seem to ring completely true to me.
5 After reading The Joy Luck Club, I was certain no other book written by Amy Tan could rival. I was wrong; The Bonesetter's Daughter was a thorough and very enticing read. The book chronicled the lives of two people- Ruth and her mother, Lu Ling. The two had a shaky relationship ever since Ruth was a little girl. After discovering many aspects about LuLing's life, the reader gains a more clear knowledge of LuLing's behaviour and understands how she acts with Ruth. The story was very touching, with many sad things happening to both characters. This story, like Joy Luck Club, offers much insight into Chinese cultures and customs; it also shows the loss of identity that comes along with trying to adopt an American identity on top of another culture.
3 One of the best things about this novel, I believe, is the accurate description of dementia.  It doesn't matter if one is Chinese, German, or a mixture of everything, the mind of an elderly person with dementia is frustrating to those around especially immediate family.  As LuLing becomes increasingly confused, there are other times when she is highly accurate.  Of course, the daughter is frustrated.  That frustration provides the framework for this novel in which the daughter uncovers her mother's real past.That said, as a fan of historical fiction, I did enjoy the middle third of the book the best.  LuLing's early years in China are the most interesting.  The depiction of the dynamics of a Chinese family are intriguing.Although as I said, I felt it was an accurate description of dementia, I give only three stars because I did feel the dementia/mother/daughter plot line a bit contrived. And, there seemed to be just a bit too much stereotyping of characters:  the teenager step-daughters, the mother's language, the assisted living director.  In short, a good read but not one that goes down as an all time favorite or especially memorable.
5 The landscapes and canyons between mothers and daughters are most often minefields filled with good intentions, hard lessons and hard choices, and the inevitable clash of generations. Sharpen the generational differences with the cultural gulf between rural china and urban San Francisco, and throw in family secrets and encroaching dementia. The result in the hands of Amy Tan is a nuanced and heart-breaking tapestry as American-born Ruth struggles to come to grips with her mother's increasingly erratic behavior, and the familial backstory that eventually puts all in focus. I greatly enjoyed listening to the audio version of this as I drove, in part because the author herself shares the reading with Joan Chen, and because on audio, my mind slows down to visualize the rich detail I might otherwise miss.
4 A middle-aged woman must come to terms with her mother's onsetting Alzheimer's. The mother's story is a major element, casting doubt on just how much is dementia and how much is her keeping skeletons in their closets.This was my first Tan novel, and I was surprised at how well it was written. The stories are rich in detail, and do a good job of evoking reader pathos as well as a sense of "there." The last act of the book was a let-down, though I can understand why the author chose to handle matters the way she did.Talking to a friend of mine who knew "The Joy Luck Club," it would seem that the Author has a penchant for exploring mother/daughter dynamics, so perhaps this is retreading familiar ground. Since it was my first book of hers, I didn't mind.I was impressed enough with this that might pick up another book of hers in the future. Obviously, one has to be interested in Asian culture to get the most out of this, but it's probably mainstream enough for "the masses" as well.
5 An extraordinary tale of three generations of Chinese women and how their life stories fuse.  Ruth, first generation Chinese-American, learns of her mother's (LuLing) and grandmother's (Precious Auntie) past through a written memoir authored by her mother.  The memoir is LuLing's attempt to capture what she knows to be true from a childhood of secrets and superstitions handed down by Precious Auntie.  Tan uses the onset of Alzheimer's and the ghost of Precious Auntie as the vehicles through which LuLing reconnects to the reality of her past. Ruth's relationship with her live-in lover set the stage for the discovery of how her family's past usurps the sense of happiness and belonging in her relationship.Through these characters, the reader learns the role that love, loyalty, and sacrifice play in the cultural traditions of the Chinese.  The story is told through the first person perspective of each woman and third person narration is used to pull it all together.  Tan's writing is authentic in tone and true to culture.  You'll be hard pressed to find more beautiful writing in American contemporary fiction.  The Bonesetter's Daughter is an excellent read, imparting wisdom that will reside within the reader for a lifetime.
5 Like Tan's other books, mothers and daughters feature heavily within the tale. This one is rather different, and deals with a girl learning more about the woman she didn't know was her grandmother until much later on. I feel bad for Precious Auntie because she can't raise her daughter as her own and has to pretend to be an aunt, but at least her husband's family took care of her. Like her other books, the women have to deal with American cultures/traditions after growing up in China. The ink business was also interesting, and overall this is a great Amy Tan book. I really enjoyed reading this book, I read this after I read her first three novels, they're all great reads.
3 While this isn't up to par with her other novels, in my opinion, this is excellent Tan. Obviously, this story is very near and dear to her heart and it shows. The story is very touching, although I did not feel quite as drawn to these characters as I have those in her previous novels. Still, it's hard not to like something written by Amy Tan.
4 The one-star reviews are accurate and I agree with their criticism.However, surely we know that Amy Tan is not writing anthropological, or sociological material for academic research nor for intellectual inquiry. She's writing novels to entertain and to MAKE MONEY. Her genre is no more, or less worthy than espionage thrillers, medical thrillers, forensic thrillers,... or any other type of novel. She has a formula that works so it makes sense to keep using it!Amy Tan's books are faithful renditions of the Asian propensity for tragedy, managing relationships, victim of global events, self-sacrifice,... She paints characters with the right gestures, accents, behaviors and beliefs.If you like cultural/social details, accurately described but in an entertaining way, do read Tony Hillerman's many books about modern Navajo culture.The Shape Shifter
2 This novel took a long time for me to finish.  I know this may be unfair of me to say, since I'm not sure if Tan went through a lot of work for this novel, but I think it is just plain boring overall.  I don't know whether it is the raw subject matter about a Chinese woman trying to take care of her mother who is going through dementia, or whether it's me.  Maybe it is the subject matter--a bit too depressing and I didn't want more things bringing me down in life unless it reveals something noble or lends an insightful slant on the depressing subject (dementia, care for elderly parents, senior residential living places).Tan gives realistic details about growing up Chinese-American, such as the protagonist, Ruth, being the English spokeswoman for her mother, the accents, which, by the way, the author always does a great job in all her books, and the funny ways the daughter deals with the mother (telling half-truths so that she doesn't have to deal with her mother's wishes or when she wants to do something simple like hire a housekeeper for the mother).  The author included a subplot that went nowhere, the Dottie and Lance bit when Ruth was growing up.  I guess that was just written as a taste of Ruth's childhood (?).The part of the book that sort of picks up is whenever we read about the past life of the mother, LuLing, in China.  This is a common thread in all the novels that I've read by Tan.  When the story goes back in time, it gets interesting.  When it flashes to the present, the story is dull.  LuLing's history as the granddaughter of a bonesetter plays well, as do the parts about Precious Auntie and the tragedy behind her facial disfigurement and the American-run orphanage to which LuLing was left.The element that could have "saved" this book in my eyes was the dragon bones hidden by Precious Auntie that may belong to the Peking man's bones.  This thread in the story was just dropped, and nothing memorable came of it.  I believe, if memory serves me correctly, the excavation work for these bones and the cave where the Precious Anutie hid the bones (Monkey's Jaw) were destroyed when the Japanese came in and after that no other mention of the bones.  If the author wrote something to tie in the bones and how it fits with the story, I think I could have liked this novel more.  For instance, Tan could've written that LuLing or Ruth went back at a later time to search out Monkey's Jaw and found a remnant of these bones that she has kept to this day.  I would pass on this novel and read Tan's better works like The Kitchen God's Wife, The Hundred Secret Senses, or The Joy Luck Club.
5 By far the best part of this excellent novel is the middle section about life in China.  The recreation of Chinese peasant life, the fascinating tour into calligraphy and the art of fine ink-making, the discovery of Peking man -- this is the stuff of great novels. It makes me wish Tan would devote a whole book to more traditional Chinese tales without the mother-daughter immigrant adjustment theme that runs through all her books.  Don't get me wrong -- it works here and the relationship between Ruth and her mother is not by any means an exact replica of relationships in her other novels.  There are many new twists.  Despite other criticisms, I found the book fast reading and gripping once you get past some of the preliminary chapters.  Since many Americans are interested in Chinese history and Tan recreates eras so well, I'd like to put in a request to see her next book take place entirely in China.  Tan should be commended for branching out from her familiar territory and writing such a good story.
4 My initial reaction upon finishing The Bonesetter's Daughter was similar to that expressed by other reviewers.  I, too, thought that Tan had simply rehashed her earlier books.  My reaction was made more severe by my dismay at the lazy ending that is tacked on at the book's end.  However, I decided to approach the book from a different angle.  I asked myself, &quot;If this were Tan's first book, would I recommend it?&quot;  The answer to that question is undoubtedly yes.The reason for the recommendation stems from the fact that The Bonesetter's Daughter displays both of Tan's strengths as a writer:  the ability to create strong central characters and the skill to describe vivid settings for those characters.  Tan's skill for creating strong female characters is clearly on display in this book.  All of the female characters display an emotional resonance that makes it easy for a reader to relate to their circumstances (even if the reader isn't Oriental).  Readers can also relate to the story's themes through the wonderfully descriptive settings that Tan creates.  Other reviewers have commented that her descriptions of China are much more vivid than her descriptions of San Francisco.  I felt it was a choice that Tan made on behalf of her readers whom most likely have not been to China.  In order to bridge that lack of awareness, Tan is more descriptive in the sections set there in order to provide the reader with a better grasp of the conditions under which the characters live.  Regardless of the location, the settings provide the reader with a dramatic backdrop for the story.Many of the frustrations expressed by other reviewers stem from the fact that Tan is clearly a talented writer, yet seems unwilling to stretch her talent into exploring new areas of the human experience.  I share the desire that she will one day tell a story that is a little more than another exploration of the Oriental mother/daughter theme.  However, until she finds another topic for which she has a strong emotional connection, we will have to evaluate her current product on its own merits.  Given that condition, The Bonesetter's Daughter is a worthy addition to Tan's impressive body of work.
4 The story of The Bonesetter's Daughter is yet another 'come to terms' with your Mom and your life story.  But that is okay, because this story also brings with it history, emotion, culture, multi-culture, saga, and just plain great story telling.Ruth, the main character and the one who narrates the book is a 46 year old Chinese-American learning to come to grips with her life, including her live-in American boyfriend of 10 years, his two daughters, her career as a ghost writer, and finally, her aging Chinese mother, Lui-Ling.The story grabbed me for several reasons.  One, because I could relate to Ruth as an American, two I could relate to Ruth as an American who feels 'different', and three, the journey this book takes you on is like one of an exoctic vacation... to China.  However, this China is not present day, it is China during the early 1900's when Ruth's Mother, Liu Ling was growing up.All of these subjects within the story line propelled me to read this story faster than most books I read.  I am so very fascinated with family saga, relationships, and ultimately how our history affects who we are today.  This book did it all for me and I recommend it highly.
5 This is the story of a Chinese woman and her American daughter. The daughter has a hard time understanding her mother and feels that she is losing her grip on reality. She believes her mother is constantly confused and can no longer take care of herself. Then one day she comes across the true story of her mother's childhood and what she had to go through to make it to the United States. It is a tale of much suffering, but a great deal of inner strength. Through this story the mystery that is her mother is unraveled, and through this new understanding of her mother, she can begin to understand herself.This book was riveting from start to finish. It begins with a simple phrase, which drew me in and wouldn't let go: Things I Must Not Forget. I was touched by the story of hardship, but it was also a story of finding inner strength through adversity. This strong message held me throughout the story, and also after I finished. I felt I could relate to the characters on a personal level, something that I've found in all of the Amy Tan novels I've read. each character is very human and three dimensional; a blending of good and bad traits. I loved this book and highly recommend it for anyone.
5 Amy, Amy, Amy. I have adored every Amy Tan book so far, and this is no exception. Although I thought it was going to be. It starts out in present day, and I thought &quot;Oh, bummer. I miss the magic.&quot; The magic is her uncanny ability to open a window to China's past and hand us a passport that lets us stand there and feel the earth beneath our feet. What a gift she has. And then -- lo and behold -- she does it again! There we are, in the past, living with the characters in true Amy Tan style. This is like poetry -- smooth as silk, rough as broken glass. And so realistic. Her characterization of bullies hits home; it reminds me so much of some I've known. And the heart-piercingly accurate portrayal of Alzheimer's was done so tenderly it made me weep. What an excellent writer she is! Most memorable line: &quot;We are divine, unchanged by time.&quot; This is a love story, a story of survival and of family. It's really several stories intertwined (nothing new for Amy). Amy is one of the best artists we have living today. Write more, Amy!!
3 I enjoyed the book, but mostly for the middle part about Old China. I thought the cultural and history references were very interesting. I found the part about Ruth to be somewhat flat and inspiring. Ruth failed to raise any sympathy from me. I found her somewhat immature and very self centred.
5 &quot;The Bonesetter's Daughter&quot; is a story rich with a strong, maternal love that I will cherish forever. The spiritual therapy I received from this book with regards to my own mother was absolutely priceless. I often cried and laughed at some of the remarkable similarities of Tan's characters to my own mother and myself. I feel very happy and fortunate for having the oppurtunity to read this beautiful novel.As for the Asian American, Amazon.com reviewers who find Tan's writing too &quot;stereotypical&quot; to Asians, most of these criticisms are usually unjustified banter. I've got four words for those people, &quot;Show me the proof!&quot;. If Tan's writing seems offensive, boring, or predictable to disgruntled reviewers such as &quot;Native Chinese Reader&quot; or &quot;Asian Guy From New York&quot;, they can quit their whining and try reading works by the numerous other famous Asian American literature authors available at Amazon such as: Maxine Hong Kingston (&quot;The Woman Warrior&quot; &amp; &quot;China Men&quot;), Helie Lee (&quot;Still Life With Rice&quot;), Wakako Yamauchi (&quot;Songs My Mother Taught Me&quot;), Chung Rae Lee, etc.
4 The Bonesetter's Daughter took nearly 100 pages before I got into it, but after that I was really hooked.  Amy Tan is very good at building anticipation.  By the time the secrets begin to be revealed, Tan has built up the reader's interest to the point where you are desperate to know.  Once I was gripped, I couldn't put this book down.  Tan has an excellent ability to take her characters on a journey that will lead them to better understand themselves and their loved ones.  The Bonesetter's Daughter is another example of this ability.My favourite Amy Tan novel was the Kitchen God's Wife.  This book isn't quite as good as that one.  The Bonesetter's Daughter is still well worth reading and highly enjoyable.
3 Amy Tan's Joy Luck Club and The Kitchen's God Wife were inspirational and beautifully new...I understand that writers need to write from within their most known material, but I feel that Amy Tan has written enough books on the same material...and sometimes it feels like she is trying to come to terms with her own family mother-daughter relationship...cultural acceptance, etc.  I am also the daughter of a mother who was born in a foreign country, and I was born in another foreign country...I understood the needs of Amy Tan to find some solace and some closure, but I feel that in as much as this last book was interesting, I felt somewhat bribed...I wish she would write about her own feelings, express her own emotions, and not cast them into these very estranged women...always the chinese mother has had such a horrible experience and therefore the grown daughter is not complete...It would be nice to see Amy change a little...I enjoyed the world of Auntie and China...but the American chinese Ruth was kind of boring and predictable...not as touching as her other stories, either...will be more careful in buying other books by her...
4 I have no idea of how good, bad or indifferent her previous work might or might not be.  I HAVE heard a great deal of wonderful things said about her previous work, but never felt drawn to reading it myself.  But then I read a synopsis about &quot;The Bonesetter's Daughter,&quot; and something clicked.  This sounded like a book that I really should read.  Judging by the reviews that I've read here, readers seem to either really like or really hate this particular book.  There doesn't seem to be any middle ground.And my reaction to &quot;The Bonesetter's Daughter&quot;?  It may have a flaw or two, but it is still one of the best books that I have ever read.  The story and the characters drew me in from the very beginning, and held on until the very end.  I wanted to know what, when, where, how and why the story was going to progress. Not too many books do that for me these days.By the end of the story I felt such emotion that I wanted to cry for these characters.  I wanted to cry because of the importance of family for all people.  What Amy Tan wrote touched me that deeply.
5 One of the first books assigned by a teacher that I loved. It had an awesome story line. And I liked the rich history that you got from the book.
4 Ruth, a ghostwriter for women's self help books, lives with her boyfriend Art and his two daughters in San Francisco.  She becomes increasingly concerned about her mother's dementia.  Ruth finds it hard to tell what is real and not real in her mother's mind until she comes across a diary recording her mother's past.  Ruth discovers that her mother LuLing is from the town of Immortal Heart in China.  There her family was well known, not only for their ink business, but for her father's being a famous "Bonesetter" who treated his patients with "modern, try-anything, and traditional" medicine. Crucial to his practice of traditional medicine were dragon bones gathered by LuLing's family from the Monkey's Jaw, a secret place in a cave in the deepest ravines of a dry riverbed. LuLing's most beloved nursemaid, Precious Auntie,  taught her the secret of unearthing these dragon bones.This beautiful story, like other Amy Tan novels, dwells on women's relationships.  As the novel opens, we explore Ruth's feelings of frutration as a daughter trying to deal with an independent, yet increasingly demented mother.  We also see her trying to be a mother to her boyfriend's two young daughters.  As we read the diary of LuLing, we see how hidden family secrets twist women's relationships into never-anticipated situations.This work is so beautiful because it deals with real emotions, different for each individual, in two different cultures, settings, and times.  It helps the reader imagine what it would be like to be in any of those sitations by showing one family's experiences within that realm of existence.
5 Amy Tan's "The Bonesetter's Daughter" is a must read!  Very interesting, insightful, thought-provoking.  I highly recommend this, especially if one has time during the summer for reading and enjoying a very well written book.
5 I will rarely reread a book because there are just so many other books out there that I really want to read. One book I really enjoyed in 2001 when I read it was Amy Tans: The Bonesetter's Daughter, and, since I needed a good audio book for a short trip, I decided to try this story one more time. I was not disappointed. The author and actress Joan Chen were co narrators of this audio book, and they did a flawless job alternating between the Chinese and American accents.The Bonesetter's Daughter is a story about a mother and a daughter raised different cultures. Ruth is an American born Chinese woman, and her mother Luling was born and raised in China.Ruth Young is a 40-something ghostwriter in San Francisco who periodically goes mute, a metaphorical indication of her inability to express her true feelings to the man she lives with, Art Kamen, a divorced father of two teenage daughters. Ruth's inability to talk is subtly echoed in the story of her mother LuLing's early life in China.LuLing has always been a burden to Ruth, overbearing, accusatory, darkly pessimistic. Now, at 77, she has Alzheimer's, but she had recorded in a diary the extraordinary events of her childhood and youth in a small village in China during the years that included the discovery nearby of the bones of Peking Man, the Japanese invasion, the birth of the Republic and the rise of Communism. LuLing was raised by a nursemaid called Precious Auntie, the daughter of a famous bonesetter.Answers to both womens' problems are revealed as the reader hears Luling's touching story of growing up in an orphanage.One of my favorite passages:These are the things I know are true:My name is LuLing Liu Young. The names of my husbands werePan Kai Jing and Edwin Young, both of them dead and our secretsgone with them. My daughter is Ruth Luyi Young. She was born in aWater Dragon Year and I in a Fire Dragon Year. So we are the samebut for opposite reasons.This was just a beautiful story, which demonstrates how we really are a product of the environment in which we were raised; how the past affects our future. I was especially touched by the mother/daughter relationship, as Ruth became involved in the care of her aging mother.
5 I loved this book.  And thought it was better than "The Joy Luck Club.  A must read for any of you women that enjoy family saga type novels.
5 I adored this book, having been fortunate enough to &quot;inherit&quot; a copy from a fellow vacationer.  The emotions it brings forth through the telling of the family history concurrent with the mother/daughter relationship are many and I highly recommend this book, especially for women!
5 Wonderful, rarely have I come across a book as good as this one. Its just beautiful, so simple yet so complex. So close to real life yet riddled with mysteries and beliefs which transcend pure facts.Have read most of Amy Tan's books and though there is some similarity in them all, like the China born mother and America born daughter, their relationship,their past and present lives, I found this book by far the best. Infact, would rate it so high not just in comparision with Tan's other books but also in comparision with all books I have read.What makes this book so special? If you ask me honestly I don't know the whole answer to this one. I think, your experience with a book is not just based on the written word, it goes beyond it... and I wouldn't really want to sit down and think out how I feel about it and restrict it in words, I believe a lot of magic will be lost if I do that.What I can say, however, is that the best thing about this book is that it has a character of simplicity.LuLing Liu, the mother is a beautiful person. There is a sadness in her past which she has hidden all her life, there are memories of love, of Precious aunty, of guilt, there is a shadow of fear and a whole lot of strength with which she has survived all this. The life she lives today is connected forever to her past and yet she has carved out a place for herself in America along with her sister GaoLing and her America born daughter Ruth.As Ruth begins to understand the person her mother really is after years of not truly knowing her, through the manuscript her mother has written of her life.. the story unfolds. Somewhere along the story, Ruth not only understands her mother, the bond that they share, but also herself...
2 "The Bonesetter's Daughter" was a good book-- it was interesting and well written; however, it felt too much like some of Tan's other works, it was as if I were re-reading the same book only it had a different title.
4 Have read a few of Amy Tan's other books, Kitchen Witch and this one are interesting how she goes from today to her mother's past.  Holds my interest till the end!!!
4 I just finished reading The Bonesetter's Daughter, by Amy Tan, and it's fabulous.The novel begins with Ruth Young, a middle-aged ghostwriter living in modern-day California. Ruth is living with her lover, Art, and feeling out of sorts with herself. Her mother, LuLing, is a first-generation Chinese immigrant with a failing memory. Worried about her mother, Ruth moves in with her to ensure that she's eating, resting, and taking her medication as she should.It's then that Ruth recalls a sheaf of papers that her mother gave her many years before, written in Chinese. Ruth's Chinese is doubtable, so she'd never taken the time to translate her mother's writings. Suddenly overwhelmed with her mother's fragility, she pays a scholar to translate the text. What follows is the story of LuLing's life before she came to America, and it is a fascinating tale.LuLing divulges that she was a bastard child, not actually the sister of the woman Ruth calls Aunt Gal. She was previously married, she taught at an orphanage, and she has been keeping certain secrets about herself and her life for nearly fifty years. Learning about who her mother is helps Ruth understand her own identity and appreciate her family history.The story of LuLing's life is rich and detailed. I loved Tan's descriptive writing about life in China and LuLing's relationship with her mother. I also enjoyed the myriad parallels that Tan drew between Ruth and LuLing, similarities that Ruth herself did not know existed until she read the manuscript.Worth reading.
4 This book has gotten a lot of mixed reviews from readers, and I suppose I can see why. This is one of those books that takes a lot of patience and as a whole probably does not appeal to a wide range audience.Personally I enjoyed The Bonesetter's Daughter, but I have to admit this was definitely a book that I had to take my time reading. It was a slow paced book, one that took quite a few chapters to catch it's stride. I found that I would only read a chapter at a time before wanting to direct my attention to another book or another activity all together.Surprisingly, my favorite part of the book was towards the end, when we hear LuLing's story. Once I reached that part of the book, I found that I wanted to keep reading and what prompted me to give this book a four star rating even though, based on what I've written, would probably have only earned a three star rating.I'm definitely glad that I finally gave Amy Tan another chance. I read The Joy Luck Club ages ago, and while I enjoyed it...didn't feel compelled to read another Amy Tan book. Now I think I will make an effort to seek out more of Tan's books.
4 Amy Tan is always able to weave and interesting story that encapsulates both past and present day. The mother and daughter stories are something most women can probably relate to on some level. An interesting read and once I got past the first little bit, the story flowed very well. It gives the reader such an insight into historic China.
5 Amy Tan makes you care deeply about the characters in this book from the first pages.  The story of Ruth, the daughter, is told in the third person and the story of her mother, Lu Ling, is told in the first person. Some reviewers have been critical of this form, but I thought it brought the story together beautifully.  As soon as Tan introduces a character to the story, the image of that character stays with the reader through the whole story, so skillful is she in her descriptions.  Little things give insight to the main characters.  For instance; Ruth is trying to decide if she should buy flowers at the grocery store and if she does, what kind should she get?  She agonizes over this decision and finally decides to buy flowers that have "lasting value".  Tan obviously chooses each and every word she uses with great care.  It makes reading every sentence a true joy.  I seldom read a book more than once, but I'll keep this one and read it again.  It has lasting value.
5 One of Amy Tan's best.  Have read it twice and enjoyed it the second time around as much as the first.  In-depth character development and a wonderful twist involving the main characters.  You don't want to miss out on this wonder book.  You will hand it down to your daughter and granddaughter.
3 I found I had to reread, to catch back up, as it wasn't one that made me want to hurry and see what was coming.  I love many of Amy Tan's books, my favorite being &#34;The Joy Luck Club.&#34;  This one wasn't up to her standards.
5 As with all of Amy Tan's books I couldn't put it down.  I love her visual imagery the puts you right with the characters.  I am drawn to the struggles to find oneself that is reflected in the Characters across time, culture and sexual bias.  The Bonesetters Daughter is an amazing tale of three generations of women who struggle through life, in a tearful journey that shows how hard women have it in a society that revolves around men, they can still stand up for themselves and live through their children. Bravo Amy for a wonderful story.
5 Being an Amy Tan fanatic, I have read most of her novels and this one reminds me very much of the novel about the chess prodigy (can't think of the title just now,) the mother's mannerisms and exclamations, even the living arrangements. The book has it's fresh points, it's weak points, and a few surprises along the way. Tan did something very refreshing, however, she added two books within a book. The character Ruth's life story is the focus of the book. When a grim fact is discovered about her mother, Ruth decides it is time to investigate LuLing's life. In the book is a memoir of LuLing's life and her &quot;nursemaid&quot; (I won't say more than that for now,) Precious Auntie. The book deals with the very real emotions of caring for the elderly. As the very same thing happened to my grandmother, I can admit being especially touched. I am proud to say that I OWN this one. It's far too good to just borrow from the library.
5 Thank you, Amy Tan.  I was beginning to wonder if you were too busy with childrens books to give us another bestseller.  I loved the Joy Luck Club and the Kitchen God's Wife.  I must admit that I wasn't as fond of the Hundred Secret Senses.  I found this to be a wonderful study of the problems we all face in dealing with aging parents.
5 I began this book with a favorable bias since I am a big fan of Amy Tan.  However, only a quarter into the book, I was mesmerized by the use of language and the intricate tapestry of the tale that the gifted author wove.  Anyone who has had to deal with the strains of an aging mother will immediately identify with the conflicts that Ruth feels as she is sandwiched between being a daughter and being her mother's caretaker.  The author tells the tale in an entertaining manner yet with a steady pulse on the reader's emotions.  The guilt and anxious of Ruth are skillfully drawn as an artist does with a blank canvas in selecting just the right patina of paint.  The scenes are loving illustrated but there is not a trance of being mauldin.This story of ancient times is really a story of modern times. As in real life, this fictional tale documents that we are all influenced by family background and tensions.  In the modern world, we no longer live with superstition and tradition as does LuLing and Precious Anne.  Yet this is not the heart of the story.  The heart is the familial squabbles tht erupt around every corner of life and this is what the modern reader most identifies with in this powerfully told tale.
5 First, a confession: I have not yet read this book! But,today on PBS, I was fortunate enough to stumble on "The Journey of the Bonesetter's Daughter" -A documentary of the making of the San Francisco Opera Company's production of Amy Tan's novel. This was so wonderful that I am here buying the book! This is autobiographical, and if the Opera is not in DVD, perhaps this snippet will be produced by PBS or friends. The production looks incredible and was painstakingly created. Hope the book arrives soon!
4 Amy Tan presents here a wonderfully entertaining piece of work.  The struggles, the family, the discoveries; it's all wrapped up very nicely in this book.  It is well worth your time to enjoy.
5 Another great story of the intricate relationship between mothers and daughters. Bringing the past into the present. Amy Tan does not disappoint.
4 The always complex relationships between mothers and daughters seems to be even more so between Chinese mothers and daughters - and most extremely so when the daughters are American-born. Amy Tan's multi-layered family tale is set against the backdrop of her mother's progressive Alzheimer's and the confusion of past with present that is a recurring and ever-worsening problem for both the mother, Lu Ling, and her daughter, Ruth. Much of the tale is told through a series of journals Lu Ling kept when she was a young woman in China, and the comparison between her situation then and now is poitnant.Not quite The Joy Luck Club, but very, very good.
5 I love the many dimensions that Tan brings to her stories.  This novel is about Ruth, a Chinese-American woman searching for her own voice and identity (it seems autobiographical) as she deals with her mother's dementia, her husband's ambivalence about commmitment, and her young stepdaughters' sometimes cruel rejection of her as a parent. As usual in Tan's novels, an ancestral ghost guides Ruth into the past, helping her to gain insight, forgiveness, and strength.Her themes are cross-cultural, mother-daughter, the impossibility of understanding and the inevitability of acceptance; they are profound and simple at the same time.  I read this a second time in preparation for seeing the San Francisco Opera's production of Bonesetter's Daughter: the book is much better than the opera...it leaves more to the imagination, of course.  Amy Tan is one of the greatest storytellers of all time.  This book, like most of Tan's books, takes you into the modern psyche, ancient China, the spirit world, cross-generational fights, modern marriage...and into a great story that is also about you.
4 Amy Tan's previous three novels made us weep, made us cry.  She made us proud to be what and who we are.  And this much awaited fourth novel doesn't disappoint and she has done it again with grace and style.  This novel is tightly woven and it's contagious to read.  Every words and sentences are written with poise and with a purpose, and it's no wonder Amy Tan is one of the best in her field. This novel is loosely based upon her real life experience with her mother who is showing sign of dementia.  In this novel, the ghost writer by the name of Ruth is having a trial separation with her husband, trying to get along with her angst-ridden children from her husband's previous failed relationships, having a strained relationships with her mother.  Whilst she's having a successful career, her private life is an utter mess.  When she discovers that her mum's mental health is falling apart, she moves in with her mum to take care of her, and along the way, thru a translator, she starts to unveil the secrets that her mum has been hiding for many years, especially about her mum's maid that she called Precious Auntie.  Later on, Ruth discovers the true identity of Precious Auntie, the sacrifice her mum has made for her and her mum's sister, the curses that has haunted her mum over the years, and how those factors intertwined with her life somehow.  Amy Tan's play of words, her eye for detail, her understanding of the Chinese older generations who repress their love in the open but expressing it in a subtle way to their children are admirable.  This is a book about learning to let go, learning to love and be loved, redemption, motherly love.  It is simply as good as it gets.  Highly recommended.
5 This is my first Amy Tan book. Having bought it at a sale (3 for $10), I was ecstatic to finally found one book I&#8217;ve been meaning to read for quite some time.The Bonesetter&#8217;s Daughter talks about the estranged relationship between mothers and daughters. It is about the women who shaped Ruth Young&#8217;s life. The story shows that it is not too late for people to forgive each other and themselves.The Bonesetter&#8217;s Daughter is bold and troublesome all at once.The first part focuses on Ruth, a workaholic in her mid 40s. It talks about Young with her life partner, Art and his two adolescent daughters, Dory and Fia. Things start to get complicated when Young finds out that her mother, Lu Ling, is showing signs of dementia. The late Precious Auntie, whose real identity shows later in the book, is a constant figment in Lu Ling&#8217;s life. The relationship between Ruth and Lu Ling is fustrating. There&#8217;s resentment and bitterness.The second part evolves to Lu Ling&#8217;s young life. Sisterly love. Marriage. Curses. Family secrets. I&#8217;m not a believer when it comes to superstitions; I find them silly. To quote from the book, it is bound by grudges, debt and love.The Bonesetter&#8217;s Daughter builds up slowly. It reads well and is rich with humanity. The last 70 pages offers commentary on forgiveness and pride- as Ruth finally understands what her mother and grandmother has done for her.
2 Having read Tan's other books, I was looking forward to reading this one. I was disappointed. The Bonesetter's Daughter is dull and not nearly as good as The Joy Luck Club or The Kitchen God's Wife. Read those instead.
4 The Bonesetter's Daughter by Amy TanAmy Tan created another wonderful story about a Chinese immigrant in THE BONESETTER'S DAUGHTER.  My third Amy Tan book, this one tells the story of Lu Ling, a Chinese woman who was raised by a nursemaid she knew only as "Precious Auntie", and lived with a family that she thought for many years was her own.Lu Ling's story, however, starts in present day San Francisco with her daughter Ruth who works as a "ghost writer", creating books for clients who tell her what to write.  She's single but lives with her boyfriend Art, who in turn has two daughters from a previous marriage.Ruth is encountering problems with her mother - Lu Ling is starting to exhibit memory problems and weird behavior patterns.  She claims she is one age, but Ruth knows she is another.  She claims that her mother is one woman, but Ruth knows it's another.  Seeing her mother fall apart leaves Ruth anxious and upset. And the fact that Art doesn't seem to feel this is his problem too, doesn't make it any easier for Ruth.Ruth has problems of her own, mainly her life with Art and his two young girls, but with Lu Ling's health falling apart, she shifts her focus on her mother.  While going through her mother's belongings one day, Ruth finds a set of manuscripts that she remembers were written by her mother. As she starts to slowly translate the Chinese characters, she realizes it is her mother's life story.From this point, the book turns to Lu Ling's life in China as a young girl and what brought her to America all those years ago. We learn of Lu Ling's life with Precious Auntie, Lu Ling's first love, and the impact of WW II on China and her part of the world. The biggest impact on Lu Ling's life, however, was Precious Auntie, who was a bonesetter's daughter, a bonesetter being a type of medicine man.  It was Precious Auntie's death that helped Lu Ling learn about her true heritage, and how important the nursemaid was in her life.What happens to all of them is left for the reader to find out, but I would like to recommend THE BONESETTER'S DAUGHTER as one of my favorite Amy Tan books, next to The Joy Luck Club. Tan's novels about the Chinese immigrant ring true for me, and as a third generation Japanese American, I find that I can relate to the "Americanized" characters that Amy Tan creates in her books.  Regardless of ethnicity or background, I highly recommend THE BONESETTER'S DAUGHTER.
4 I loved the book; in a way, it was as though I read two different books.  The first part of the novel, with Ruth in present day San Francisco living with her &quot;significant other&quot; and being a pseudo-Stepmom to his two daughters, was frankly quite boring.  Ruth was really getting on my nerves.  I felt she let the girls treat her badly, and the way she seemed to need their love and approval was disgusting.  Ruth was such a doormat.  But then Ruth finds her mother's diary in which she has written down the things she does not want to forget.  The story takes off for me then.  The story Ruth's mother tells is a great historical fiction love story.  I was fascinated by hearing details of China during World War II.  The characters were well drawn and I cared deeply for them.  I thought it was a wonderful story of mother-daughter relationships.
5 This book kept me engaged throughout, but did take a little to get into.  I always love the way Amy Tan writes about mothers and daughters and creates a captivating story as well as believable characters.
5 This was the first novel I read of Amy Tan so I didn't have her previous works to compare it against. Now that I've read her other novels, I still give this book 5 stars.Her dialog between the characters is incredible and the nuances she fits in make the relationships so real. Her writing style makes you feel for the characters. You end up really caring about them and what happens to them.
5 I picked this book on a whim and was moved to tears by Amy Tan's loving adaptation of relationships within several generations of women.  The Bonesetter's Daughter was a beautifully written story that I really enjoyed reading.
3 The Bonesetter's Daughter chronicles the stories of three generations of Chinese women beginning with the Bonesetter's Daughter, her daughter LuLing, and finally LuLing's daughter, Ruth who lives in present-day America, all intricately woven within the back-drop of World War II and the invasion of China by the Japanese.  The book itself is divided into a "prologue" and three parts.  The prologue and the third part are written from the perspective of LuLing with the second and fourth parts written from Ruth's perspective.  The prologue is a short introduction (only 6 pages) which serves to introduce LuLing to the reader, to insert foreshadowing, and to set up the intrigue in their story:  who is the Bonesetter's Daughter and what role is she to have in forging the mother-daughter relationship between LuLing and Ruth?Part One of the story begins with the introduction of Ruth, who is a Chinese-American woman working as a ghost writer and cohabiting with a man and his two teenage daughters.  There is a related plot line examining Ruth's relationship with her partner, but for the most part Ruth's and LuLing's (the Mom's) tense and difficult relationship is described beginning with Ruth's childhood up to present day.  In essence, LuLing's history is shrouded in mystery and these two women simply do not know or understand each other. The chapter ends with Ruth discovering LuLing's diary written in calligraphed Chinese characters prompting her to find someone to translate the diary into English.Part Two transitions into what is presumably being translated.  That is, we are transported back in time to LuLing's and her family's history in "Immortal Heart", China circa early 1900's.  Tan does a marvellous job of detailing the geographical, cultural, political, and historical context in which LuLing was born.  In Part Two, all is revealed in detail concerning LuLing's lineage, childhood, and early adulthood leading to her arrival in the United States, post-World War II.At this point, in Part Three, the reader returns to Ruth's perspective in present day U.S.  As LuLing's story is uncovered by Ruth, she reaches new understandings concerning her mother and thus becomes enlightened about her relationship with her mother and with her partner.  I don't want to reveal too much of the plot here.This is the first Amy Tan book I read.  It was chosen as part of my Book Club and I was excited to read it as I've always been so curious about what the buzz was all about with Amy Tan.  Tan does some things really well.  The development of the characters is so incredibly well done.  Whether you like the characters or not (and they are each deeply flawed), you can still empathize with them because they are so rich in description.  Similarly, Tan does an excellent job of vividly describing the setting of the story so that you feel you are actually there experiencing the same things as the characters.  So, I do feel that the storytelling is very engaging.  But, by the same token, I did sometimes feel that some things dragged on to the extent that I was left wondering "What is the purpose of this paragraph?"  I found this to especially be the case with regards to the descriptions of food.  For example:"In the vegetable aisle, Ruth headed toward a bin of beautifully shaped turnips.  They were each the size of apples, symmetrical and scrubbed, with striations of purple.  Most people did not appreciate the aesthetics of turnips, Ruth thought as she chose five good ones, whereas she loved them, their crunchiness, the way they absorbed the flavor of whatever they were immersed in, gravy or pickling juice.  She loved cooperative vegetables.  And she loved turnips best when they were sliced into wedges and preserved in vinegar and chilies, sugar and salt." [ p. 38]Am I missing some critical symbolic meaning of the turnips!?  Where's the editor here?  Chop, chop!!  These types of passages just made this book feel looooong.Another thing that Tan did beautifully is thread the theme of voicelessness and written text throughout the narrative.  So, for example, each generation of these women experience "voicelessness" in very different ways, but both use and find their voice in identical ways, through written text.  In the case of Ruth, Part One begins with the following:"For the past eight years, always starting on August twelfth, Ruth Young lost her voice." [p. 9]As it turns out, Ruth is also a ghostwriter.  Writing proved to be a critical and important tool for each of the women in the book.  In fact, LuLing's family owned an ink-making and selling business - this is not mere coincidence but central to the book's plot.  But there is also the more symbolic reclaiming of voice which occurs as well.  Tan's writing in this respect is exceptional.So, the reason I'm only giving this book 3 stars is that, while the writing is beautiful and the narrative rich, I found the story itself to be underwhelming.  Further, I felt that the characters in the book were "stereotypical" to the extent that it made me uncomfortable in some parts.  But then, it was written by a woman whose parents were Chinese immigrants, so I guess she would know!  But, at the end of the day, the story was very slow to develop - I would call it a sleepy yarn of a story and I simply did not find it that memorable.
5 This story seamlessly meshes past and present--three generation's worth--into a beautiful, nearly flawless, piece of work.  Tan connects the past and present through a manuscript written by her main character's mother.  Whole chapters are devoted to her mother's childhood and young adult memories, as are entire chapters devoted to the main character's childhood and present-day adult life.  I am amazed that while reading this generation-spanning novel, never did I lose track of the novel's setting or time.Amy Tan's novel provokes empathy, joy, sorrow, laughter, and a host of other emotions.  This is her novel's strength.
5 This is a wonderful new book by Amy Tan.  I was intrigued just by the title.  The bonesetter is a doctor who creates powders and potions using dragon bones to heal ailments.  I love reading about Chinese women too.  This is the reason I bought this book.  Luling is a strong woman who raises her daughter Ruth  by herself after outliving 2 husbands.  Luling  is the daughter of a mute nursemaid whose identity is unknown to Luling until after her death. I loved reading about how Luling grew up  in an orphange.  She finds love and a vocation in the orphange. This is probably the most touching part of the book.  Ruth Young is a ghostwriter who takes on the responsibility for her mother's care after she develops Alzheimers disease while juggling her career and other demands. This is a very enjoyable book.
4 (***1/2, really)Not the sort of novel I'd normally pick up, but I got a cheap copy at a yard sale, and -- surprise -- I enjoyed it. Tan's portrait of a challenging relationship between a daughter and a stubborn mother in the early stages of dementia is authentic and touchingly written. My willful Irish-American grandmother had Alzheimer's, and these scenes struck familiar chords. The story becomes even more involving when it travels back into the colorful past, through the mother's writings, to her life as a girl and young woman in China, where she struggles with her own real and surrogate families and endures tragedy and war. Through these memoirs, the daughter learns that her mother had kept back a few important secrets, and struggles to bring them forth from her as her mind erases itself.The overall setup is a little contrived, though, and, outside the central relationship of the novel, the parts of the story set in modern San Francisco are formulaic. The ending is a little too neat, as well. Yet, I found the mother-daughter story and the China story absorbing. It was a good listen (beneath ear protection) while mowing my parents' field.
4 I'm a big fan of Amy Tan and looked forward to reading this book.  Her historical detail as well as the subtle (and not so subtle) nuances of mother/daughter relationships are as distinct as ever.  My main complaint would have to be the ending - things are just a bit too happy and unrealistic.  Relationship problems are resolved and LuLings financial status improves, even if her memory doesn't.  While I was content with the resolution of conflict between mother and daughter, I felt the other relationship resolutions were just a bit too neat and tidy for this to feel completely realistic.But I recommend this book to any Amy Tan fans and those experiencing Ms. Tan's writing for the first time. Her historical descriptions are rich with vivid detail, giving the reader a good understanding of life in China in a bygone era.
5 Though many critics have grown weary of Amy Tan's exploration of the mother-daughter relationship, their assessment of her recent novel, The Bonesetter's Daughter, does not capture the paradigm behind LuLing's relationship with Ruth.  Their relationship is strained, like all of Tan's novels, and the family's past is full of embedded secrets that only an archeologist can uncover.  However, the novel also examines the effect of a detrimental disease on the relationship and Ruth's struggle to learn about her grandmother, her family name, and her mother's engrained superstitions.  The only link she has to the past are a few trinkets and her mother's account of what happened in a language that (out of rebelliousness) Ruth never learned.This book not only expresses Ruth's frustration with her mother's oppressive parenting and superstitions, but it also deals with Ruth's guilt about how she treated her mother, and how she strives to take care of her when she learns of her disease -- A disease that will erase her mother's and her past.I highly recommend this poignant book to Tan readers and others alike.  I think the critics have grossly underestimated its worth.
4 The Bonesetter's Daughter is vintage Amy Tan  - fascinating interplay between traditional life in China in the past, and today's lives of Chinese Americans. Her familiar motif is learning from the past to make better adjustments to our present lives. I gave this four stars, not five, because for me the beginning chapters about the protagonist's difficulties in her American life were too long and repetitive. But once Ruth, the young Chinese American struggling with her mother, gets a translator for her mother's handwritten memoirs, the book came completely alive for me. Ruth begins to find out the truth about her mother's past life. This section is a novel within a novel, and since her mother escapes from China and comes to America, this part of the book might well have made a more powerful novel on its own. In the segment on the present, Ruth's mother is approaching dementia, manipulative, negative, and secretive. Ruth herself is rather uninteresting, and her lover's daughters are irritating. Worst of all, Ruth's mother is palpably unpleasant. In her memoirs, however, she is revealed to be strong, wrong-headed as young people often are, and yet brave and loving. How on earth did this interesting and fully developed woman become the harridan mother of the first part of the book? The picture of China during the Japanese invasion and just before, during China's initiation into the world of early paleontology, is fascinating and new to me, and quite beautifully delineated. And the anti-secret message is more complicated than usual in Tan's novels: keeping secrets, she suggests here, can be either life-saving or deadly, and maturity may well be learning when to keep information to ourselves, and when it is vital to be open. Wonderful.
4 Love all of Amy Tan's novels. Never a disappointment.
2 This is Joy Luck Club all over again, but less interesting because it follows the stories of fewer characters.The happy ending is pathetically contrived and sudden.  The protagonist's boyfriend and his daughters are so unappealing in the first half of the book, it's very jarring to have that turned upside down so suddenly.This can be an enjoyable read, but don't expect anything new.
5 I loved this book.I loved how the present twisted into the past.Only once Ruth understands her familiespast does she start to understand herself & her mother.Over the book her relationships change with everyone.It is beautifully written & I love learningthe Chinese superstitions and how it changed the path of her family.This is for the good and the bad.I would highly recommend this book.I will be reading some more of this authors books!I give this book 5 out of 5.
5 This is another hit from Amy Tan about mother-daughter relationships.  Once again, it focuses the similarities and differences between a Chinese-American daughter and her traditional, even superstitious, mother.The tale of Lu Ling, and of her bonesetter mother, is really inspiring.  I really enjoyed reading about early 20th century China, and there is even a sort of mystery in the book about LuLing's past and the identity of her mother.  The story unfolds to us at the same time that it unfolds to Ruthie, the daughter who is dealing with her mother's memory loss.  My close friend's mother also suffered from a stroke, and I know firsthand how difficult it can be when a parent becomes more like a child.  Also, Ruth's relationship with her live-in lover is very commonplace and identifiable.I read many Amy Tan books when I was still a child and they were wonderful then.  As an adult woman, they resonate so much more in that parts of my own experiences are reflected.  This book is a fast and compelling read.  I'm sorry I waited so long to pick it up.
5 I have read all of Tan's books and in my view, The Bonesetter's Daughter this is the best; it's one of those books that gripped me from the very first page.The best part of the book is LuLing's journal: the memories she is  setting down for her daughter, Ruth,  about her life in China and what she knew about her mother, Ruth's grandmother, before her memory began to fade. Most painful for her is that she has forgotten her own real name; in awaking the memories she is in fact trying to find the name that will provide a key to the past.  This part of the story is magically evocative. Tan writes with great tenderness and warmth of LuLing and the reader is transported into this wonderful woman's very soul.LuLing is strongly drawn, she possesses an inner fire and a moral strength and it is she, not Ruth, the modern American woman, who pulls the fascinated reader through the story.I have to admit that the chapters in which Ruth is the central character were less fascinating, and I tended to rush through them in order to return to LuLing's story.
4 I bought the saving fish from drowning book after hearing an interview by amy tan. It was capitvating!  I couldn't wait to read more.  This got me hook on amy tan.  This is the 2nd of her books I have read.  This had in depth character relationship between the main character and her mother, her live in boyfriend, his kids, his x, but concentrated on the aging mother daughter relationship.
5 I loved this...very magical and charming story....let your imagination soar with this story. Reserve judgment and just get swept in.
5 This is my favorite Amy Tan novel... The story begins with Ruth, an American born Chinese, who has struggles with her aging mother Lu Ling. As Lu Ling's mind begins to fail, truthful memories from the past come out and begin to intrigue Ruth. At the same time, she hires someone to translate a packet of Chinese notes that reveal her mother's background. The story of Precious Auntie and the upbringing of Lu Ling in a poor town in China are simply fascinating. The reader will easily get drawn into the story. As Ruth discovers the true spirit of her mother, she is able to make peace with some of the quirks and and superstitions that caused pain during her childhood.
5 To be perfectly honest, I don't read much fiction written by women. As a rule, if I am going to read fiction, I like it to be relevant to my way of thinking and a story told by another man is more likely to fulfill this requirement.  To date, Jean M. Auel is the only female author whose books I've read all of. Having read only "The Bonesetter's Daughter" by Amy Tan, I'm fairly certain she will be the second exception to my rule.I found this book to be beautifully written, interesting to follow, and as relevant to this son of an Immigrant Croatian seaman who married the daughter of Sicilian peasants as it would be to any first generation, "only-child", "middle-aged", American. Amy's problems were my problems. Her frustrations were my frustrations. Her dilemmas were my dilemmas. Her guilt was my guilt. As I read the story, there came parts in which I felt like offering advice to "Ruth", because I knew how things would work out in the end, having been there myself. I wonder if even Ms. Tan realizes how common the situation she describes is.I think I'll go read the memoirs of some great hunter to  "cleanse my palate" before picking up a copy of "The Joy Luck Club".
4 Another good book by Amy Tan. I found it intriguing thought some of the characters were positively annoying. Those fears, insecurities and mambo jumbo left me flat. The story is amazing. The flow is incredible. I am not sure if her intention was to show how annoying such paranoia is. If her intention was that, she succeeded. :0)
5 The Bonesetter's Daughter by Amy TanIn the Bonesetter's Daughter Amy Tan has deftly woven the contrasting lives of Ruth, an American woman of Chinese descent, and Ruth's mother, LuLing, a Chinese woman who fled to the United States after the communists gained control of China. Ruth and her mother had spent much of their lives arguing and failing to understand one another, and now, as Ruth's mother begins slip into dementia caused by Alzheimer's, Ruth realizes that she has only a short while to try to understand her mother.When she realizes her mother's memory is slipping, Ruth finally has some papers that her mother had written in Chinese and given her to read several years earlier translated into English so that she can read them, and learns the secrets her  mother has hidden all these years. This story of the family's life in China is the heart of the book, and would be worth reading by itself, but interweaving of this plot with Ruth's life turns a good book into a great book. We see Ruth mature as her mother's illness rips Ruth from her comfortable middle-class existence. We see the huge contrasts in the lives of these Chinese-American women in just two generations, and realize how difficult it is for one generation to truly understand each other. It is here that the book gains its universality-- none of us can truly know our parents for they grew up in a time that is lost to us, like Ruth's mother they keep secrets, and they try to protect their children and give them easier lives. Unfortunately it is often only in our parents' old age that we have the maturity to begin to understand them.
4 This has been the first book I read for Amy Tam, and I must add her style of writing did positively surprise me, which would encourage me to read more for her...After a slow start, the book starts getting much more interesting, it enters more into the chinese culture, the beliefs the older generation had, and the hard life they had to go through, it does tell us how much different we can be, and how we have the tendency to blame others for our mis-fortunes!!!It has been a book that I wanted to finish in one sitting...It has been written with lots of emotions, it is a sad book, the kind that shows life in it's unfair picture....but contains a lot to learn from, and pages to read again and again...I like the way the book went into detail regarding LuLing's story, and everything she went through and discovered, just an incredible story...for sure a book to read
3 One of my all-time favourite books is The Joy Luck Club.  I've read each of Amy Tan's subsequent books.  Her first book was a rare and wonderful story and a true joy to read.  Of all the later books this is the one that I enjoyed the least.  It's not a bad book, and it's not even a bad story, but I expect so much more from Ms. Tan.  I enjoyed the middle section of this story the most - the one that goes into the past in China.  That part had a lot of Amy Tan's wonderful prose and characterization.  I enjoyed the last part of the book the least.  It seemed unfinished somehow, and left me wondering what was the purpose of transporting us to China just before the War and the Communist revolution?  Ms. Tan's mediocre efforts are better than most author's best, so I also am not sorry that I took the time to read this book.
5 Amy Tan does an incredible job of weaving time and people together to give her readers clear insight into her heart. It is obvious that this story is quite personal to Tan, and it's perfectly done, in my opinion. There are beautiful cultural features, emotional moments, and plenty of humor. The viewpoints of people one would not ordinarily run into in a regular day are represented with honor. I especially love the relationships between generations, even more than those among people of the same generation. Tan allows her characters to develop, to grow, and to become more than they were at the beginning of the story.
5 Truly an absorbing book...I could hardly wait for the ending...but somehow wished it would never end. Ms Tan's characterizations, as always, come alive, and I found myself seeing through their eyes. Just a wonderful read.
5 Amy Tan makes me disappear into the novel she is writing and I feel like I am sitting right there watching the story unfold.
4 What does an author need to keep his/her readers seated for a whole sunny afternoon indoors to seak the answers to all the puzzles faced by the protaganists? An oracle bone, and a surname almost drowned in the Alzheimer-stricken mind.That's what Amy Tan did to me. I wanna know what becomes of the oracle and what's the last name of the bonesetter's daughter. And to suit my curiosity, I spent not just an afternoon, but this whole sunny Chinese Lunar New Year's Day indoors.It's with such delicate and detailed touches that Amy wrote about Beijing and Zhoukoudian in the 1930s, and with such passion put into the characters Precious Auntie, LuLing Liu, Ruth Young..., that you want to laugh as they laugh, weep as they weep, recoil as they recoil and curse as they curse. Gradually, you'll forget all about yourself and start living their family history, fictional or literal.Amy Tan didn't let me down. Nor did she in Joy Luck Club.
3 I have mixed feelings about this book.  I found the beginning part of the novel (present day San Francisco) to be very slow, uncompelling, with unsympathetic characters.  I put this book down several times and picked up others books to read instead.  The only thread that captured my interest in the first section was the vividly drawn tension and obvious frustrations between Ruth and her mother LuLing.  That said, as soon as I hit the second section (LuLing's childhood/adolescence/marriage in China), I couldn't put the book down.  Tan's storytelling giftedness shines in this middle section - finely drawn characters, action, landscape, rich history and culture, myths and superstition galore.  Kudos to Ms. Tan - this middle section is writing at its best!  And then I hit the end (back to present day SanFran) - big bummer.  The saving grace for the reader of this last section is being able to watch Ruth's understanding/respect/love of LuLing expand and deepen.So there - in a nutshell, I didn't like it.  Then I really really liked it.  Then I didn't like it.
4 I loved the fact that the writer found her own voice through her grandmother who could not speak.  She found her voice through her mother's words of remembrance and her aunties` validations.A great story for those of us who worry too much about day to day perfection without knowing that the history of the generations that laid the groundwork for what we currently experience.I think it says to slow down, really notice what is going on, and try to understand the past to live fully in the present.Amy Tan is wonderful.Definitely an interesting and satisfying book.
4 The strength of this book, for me, was not the Ruth the daughter, but her mother's story, told through the middle two-thirds of the book. While some reviewers might see only another 'mother/daughter' struggle, I believe the deeper storyline is about the acceptance by daughter's of the responsibilities of that relationship, or rejection, and consequences of both choices. Ms. Tan's talents as a storyteller make the theme enjoyable and thought provoking. Especially if you are a daughter or a mother.
5 I liked it better than The Joy Luck  Club.  Found the main character to be easy to identify with. Very good book
5 ... (> ) yes...again, Mrs. Tan has outdone herself. Who here thought that she was amazing with the Joy Luck club? and the Hundred Secret Senses? Many authors would be a dried out husk and shell. But noooooooooooooo....this asian just keeps on coming back stronger then ever.Alright! I admit it! I'm rather partial to asian authors because...i am too. I have heard countless remarks about how asians were brainwashed, they don't have any imagination. (ow..ow...and ow...) But I can point to any of her books and say: can you write that? HUH?! But...enough about the author...back to the book!The starting is inticing. what's written on the note? who is she?! the entire book has the underlying values of (random fuzziness) I wept, sighed, and wondered about my lost heritage. Her books do that to you. This one, shook me by my hair and turned me upside down. This story isn't just about mothers and daughters, it's about the search for forgiveness and trust. An excellent present. This book deserves nothing but to be devoured hungrily by the vultures of the book-world. enjoy.Raven~
4 I picked this book up on the recommendation of my online book club.  A number of folks had raved about Amy Tan and her writing which had inticed me to give her a try.  I must say I was not disappointed.Amy Tan delves into the lives and relationships of mother and daughter blending the past with the present.  Ruth finds old writings in her mother's house that lead her on a voyage of discovery, a voyage that takes her back to the old ways in China prior to WWII.  Through this voyage she comes to know the secrets that govern her mother's past, the secrets that help her to come to terms with her own life.I very much enjoyed Amy Tan's style of writing and plan to add her other books to my reading list.
5 I love how she writes.  I have read every book she has written.  I read this years ago and felt it was due again and it didn't disappoint even the 2nd time around.  She is a master story teller.
4 Tan is a talented writer. I find her style to be both interesting and funny. I was disappointed to find bad language, though, and I'm going to tear out chapter 6 before passing the book on to my aunt. It was a little raunchy.
5 I have read all the books written by Amy Tan and this, her new book certainly delivers the expected beautiful prose.  Tan is an absolute master at creating full bodied flawed human characters.  She always manages to make them truly realistic because she does not treat her characterisations like glass that may break if it is pushed too hard, instead she moulds her charaters into situations and has them react in a truly believable manner.  One of the things that I particularly like about this book, and in fact all of Amy Tan's books is the overwhelming feeling of triumph.  I realiise that this sounds odd, as this book like her others frequently deals wiith loss and hardship.  However, the triumph is quiet and permeating.  It seems to me that the triumph is in that fact that the women in the book exist, that they have survived whatever has gone before.  In conclusion, this book is an absolute gem.  The characters are wonderful.  You can't help but sympathise with Ruth as she watches her mothers mental deterioration and finally comes to know and understand more about her mother than at any other time in her life.
4 The story stared off quite slow, but really pulled itself together by the middle, remaining strong to the end. The story is complex, blending Old World situations and tradition with modern thinking. The author has developed a number of strong characters and allows the reader to enjoy the family mysteries as they are told over three generations.  I listened to the unabridged audio version of this book and both readers were solid.
5 This is the third Amy Tan book I have read.  I started reading her works a couple months ago starting with the &quot;Kitchen God's Wife&quot; then the &quot;Joy Luck Club&quot; and &quot;The Thousand Secret Senses.&quot;  All were wonderful except The Thousand Senses, which I just could not get into.  The Bonesetters Daughter is excellent as Ms.Tan once again weaves a story whose characters capture ones interest. Her characters are believable and endearing and as you read you feel you become part of family remembering the past.  I enjoy her work because she is well researched, descriptive and colorful and at times very funny.  I can't wait for her next book. I highlt recommend The Bonesetters Daughter.
4 If you can get through part one, which I found slightly boring &amp; slow, it will be worth the time. The last two parts of the book are much more interesting &amp; fun to read. They really grab you in &amp; good luck putting the book down. All together, it was a great book, like I said, it's just the first part that I had a hard time getting into. This was my first Amy Tan book, I have the other 3 on my shelf, and are about to read those.  I've been a fan ever since I saw the movie, The Joy Luck Club.  One of the best movies ever.
5 If you are at all familiar with Amy Tan then take my word for it she has done it again.  If you arent familiar with this author, this book is a good one to start with.  This book has a multigenerational dimension that is not only entertaining but touchs a need for connectedness in each of us.  Amy Tan opens a window into a world that westerners have never known and helps us to see into the hearts and minds of others and to come away knowing that we are all the same, yet different.
5 Amy Tan weaves her magic again in her newest novel &quot;The Bonesetter's Daughter.&quot;  She takes the life of a woman Ruth Young, and chronicles how her mother's past has influenced her own future.Ruth Young is a ghostwriter who, throughout her whole life, has felt like something is missing.  Her Chinese mother falls ill with forgetfullness and Ruth is forced to take care of her.  Upon cleaning her mother's house, Ruth finds a set of papers that her mother has written in Chinese.  The wonderful story of LuLing and Bao Bomu unfold as Ruth translates the beautiful story.The story is absolutely great.  I couldn't put the novel down.  It gives the reader a great look into Chinese culture and also the culture of women. We see how one life affects another, starting with &quot;Precious Auntie&quot; and continuing all the way down to Ruth herself.Without giving away too much of the story, this book is awesome.  Amy Tan is an excellent writer.  She makes us feel close to the people she writes about.  We feel for Ruth and LuLing.  We can understand their pains and the happiness.  I would suggest that anyone who liked the movie &quot;The Joy Luck Club&quot; should read this book and all of Tan's books.  You will not be dissappointed.
4 Amy Tan has written another book about a Chinese-American woman and her strained relationship with her Chinese mother.  If only these shallow-San-Fransiso-yuppy-women could understand their irritating mothers, maybe they could have a successful relationship with a man.  Right?  Fortunately, Tan takes us back to China for most of this novel and writes an epic of tragedy and beauty.  Amy Tan has taught me a lot about Chinese culture and history.  I love her characters (especially the mothers).  I always feel as if I can actually hear their voices and accents. This book is well-worth reading.  If you are an Amy Tan fan, this book is very similar to her others, so you won't be disappointed or surprised. (The Kitchen God's Wife is still my favorite.)
3 Amy Tan is a wonderful writer with a great gift for being able to pull words together on paper like an artist makes brush strokes to a canvas . . . while I enjoyed some parts of this book because of Tan's writing style, I found that overall the book moved a little too slowly.  The "bonesetter" in the title refers to a doctor who could set bones and attend to maladies in China in the early part of the 20th century.  The bonesetter's daughter, in this case, is the protagonist's grandmother.The protagonist, Ruth, and her own mother had quite a troubled and very complex relationship that was not really dealt with until half way through the book.  The first third of the book spent quite a bit of time on Ruth's relationship with her live-in boyfriend, Art.  I would have liked to have spent more time on unfolding the relationship between Ruth and her mother from the beginning.  Thus, I am only giving it three stars because of its slow pace.One great thing about Tan is that she has the ability, as in other books she has written, to take a difficult subject and somehow inject humor into the pathos that exists.  I appreciate her as an author - I just don't think this was her finest work.  I enjoyed her book, The Kitchen God's Wife, much more because the story line was not muddled by tangential relationships as was the case in The Bonesetter's Daughter.
4 The Bonesetter's Daughter is a poignant moving story of three generations grandmother, mother and daughter set in China and California. Funny at times but richly emotional this book is a must read. This book is about understanding the people who mean most to you while trying to unearth their past. Extremely well written - touches your heart.
3 Ms. Tan has given us another muti-generational story about mother and daughters.  Let's get right to it:  The middle section of this book which tells the mother's story of her life in China is superb.  This section is a marvelous mixture of myth and reality and is beautifully written. When will Amy Tan give us an entire book like this?And there are other nuggets of good writing in this book, especially when she's writing about writing.But.....haven't we seen this story before?  Mother-daughter conflict, unhappy relationship with live-in boyfriend, self-worth problems.  Since I've read Ms. Tan's previous books, this all seemed pretty familiar to me, almost formulaic.Overall, the book seemed to have a number of interesting ideas that should have been developed more fully.  For example, is this a book about memories, about secrets, about language, about caring for aging yet independent parents?  Any one of these ideas deeply and insightfully developed would have led to a better book.  As a wonderful professor once told me, &quot;say more about less.&quot;
4 All of Amy Tan's books have very similar themes, and even similar plots, but she still manages to put a different spin on each of her novels.  This one seems to have more of a supernatural tinge, drawing the reader in from the very beginning.  This book didn't have the same historical sweep as The Kitchen Gods Wife, but stood its own all the same, drawing more from Chinese archeological aspects such as oracle bones and the Peking man (or woman).  Like all of Tan's books, Bonesetter's Daughter delt with an American-Chinese daughter (Ruth) struggling to understand and connect with her mother and her own Chinese heritage.  The midsection of the book is Ruth's crabby and senile mother's (Luling's) story: growing up as the bastard child of the deformed Bao Bomu in World War II era China.  As the story unravels, we cdome to understand, along with Ruth, the insights into Luling's life in modern-day California that explain her seemingly odd behavior.
5 I loved this book. It is classic Amy Tan style - richly and beautifully written, about mother-daughter conflicts that all parents can relate to although referring to a culture with which many people have no familiarity. As the daughter of immigrants from from Eastern Europe, the issues described in this book were strange echoes of my own childhood. These subjects are universal.Much of the book is told through the eyes of the mother. The roots of present-day conflicts between the daugher and her mother go back to the previous generation in mainland China. This juxtaposition could be clumsy and contrived in the hands of a lesser writer, but Amy Tan has mastered this form.The only quibble I have is that the daughter narrator is initially too spineless to stand up to her live-in boyfriend, who comes across as a jerk, and his two obnoxious daughters from a previous marriage. These conflicts are later resolved, and said boyfriend suddenly does an about-face and turns into a prince in a manner that is just too unrealistic. That quibble aside, this is a wonderful book and a must-read for anyone, especially those with a teen-age daughter.
3 You must trudge your way through the first of this book before you come upon anything worth reading about. Yet, that first section becomes important toward the end when the author brings you back to modern times. Had Tan spent the entire novel on the Mother's Chinese upbringing, this book would have been a much better read. Yet the other section did spark an interest in me to try to write down the story of my own family, or to at least write something. Keep at this book and it will be rewarding.
4 ...I have to agree that this is not her best work, but I still think it's a compelling story--especially (and here I agree with others) during the section that details the main character's mother's life in China.  This is Tan's strong point as a writer--bringing legend and culture to life, and she always does so in a superb manner.  I found the first part, and the last part of the book to be sparse, a bit thin--it felt as if the *real* story was within the mother's past...but all in all, I enjoyed the book as I do all of her work and recommend it---Yasmine Galenorn, author of Embracing The Moon.
3 I thought the book was quite good, but however being so removed from those times I was left with an impression that the author had lean towards justification of British colonization. I am yet to read a truely balanced or neutral book on this subject.Another point I noticed is that the book focuses more on Pakistan and Bangladesh and ignores India almost completely after the partition (independence), which I found suprising. Also a nice additional chapter that could have been a nice ending was to look at the current state of relations between India, Pakistan and Bangladesh and also a look at the relations between Hindu's and Muslims in India.
5 This is an excellent history written by a person who has a sure grasp of the vast facts and numerous personalities involved in India's fight with the British for independence. You will find wonderful anecdotes on Gandhi, Nehru, Jinnah, Mountbatten, Edwina, Churchill, Wavell and Patel. French's analysis is nuanced and balanced. He is not afraid to make judgments on the facts available. French also had access to 92 boxes of newly declassified intelligence documents when doing his research for this book. I would highly recommend this book.
5 A very captivating read. Balanced and insightful, this book presents South Asia's independence and division in a very balanced and analytical light.French dissects Gandhi to show his less well-known side, that he was highly responsible for isolating the Muslims of India into a corner and leaving them with little option to ask for separation. Meanwhile, Jinnah is portrayed as more fortunate than cunning.The most interesting aspect the readers walks away with is how Pakistan, which started out as a bargaining chip, becomes a reality after a litany of misjudgments, brinkmanship and mutual fears.French demonstrates that Gandhi could have prevented Pakistan's birth if he had shown, or possessed, a grain of pragmatism and inclusiveness. Unfortunately, his obsession with Hindu spritualism bordering at madness (with his constant talks on petty issues such as beef, santitation and diets) and the resultant Hindu orientation that Congress exhibited scared the Muslims into a division of India that led to so much bloodshed and acrimony that lasts to this day.
3 Definitely not a travelling book but a scholarly book looking in-depth into the independence of India &amp; its divisions into India proper &amp; Pakistan, &amp; subsequent split of West Pakistan &amp; East Pakistan into present day Pakistan &amp; Bangladesh.  As William Darymple wrote his books via his encounter with common people, Patrick French tended to concentrate more of his effort in researching the archives.  For me, it required more effort to absorb this book than Darymple's, which were always entertaining.  But it doesn't detract from the fact that Patrick is a resourceful author &amp; he successfully investigated few characters that played pivotal roles in the independence of India, both English &amp; Indians included. The myth about Ghandi was brought down to earth, Bose was hailed as a hero despite his involvement with the Axis power for his nationalist attitude, Nehru as a moderate politician in contrast with Patel who had tremendous hatred for the Muslims, Jinna for his involvement with the Muslim League &amp; his deep distrust of the Congress, Wavell for being an unsung hero who had contributed much to India's independence, Radcliffe for partitioning India accordingly with Wavell's initial plan down to the letter, Mountbatten's role for keeping the peace in India during those turbulent time after the independence.  There were also discussions about the Calcutta Massacre, The Partition, the absorption of other kingdoms into India (some of them by force) &amp; the unresolved issued about Kashmir, etc.  To summarise succinctly, what Indians got in the end wasn't Liberty OR Death, but Both of them.  The country is still divided by race &amp; religion after all these years.  This book is a reminder of how lucky we all are for living in the environment, which we are not judged by the colour of our skin, the race that we belong to, but the content of our characters.  Only then, there's this slightest chance the world would become boundaryless and all of us would live in peace and harmony.
4 I've read both this book and the more popular "Freedom at Midnight."  I have to compare the two since they both cover the same subject. They both are very good.Interestingly, I've had both Indian and Pakistani friends recommend "Liberty or Death" which surely is a testimony to its balance.In contrast, neither my Indian or Pakistan friends have much good to say about "Freedom at Midnight" which, I suppose, is another kind of testimony to balance.The main difference is that "Liberty or Death" reads like real history when "Freedom at Midnight" reads more like a novel.  If you like your history written like history, "Liberty or Death" is the better book.Don't get me wrong... "Liberty or Death" is well written and not difficult but he hasn't gone for the "history that reads like a novel" approach.I also seems clear that Patrick French drew from quite a few more sources than did Lapierre and Collins who seem to have drawn very heavily from one soruce -- Lord Mountbatten. Mountbatten is a very good source! But he wouldn't have been very balanced.
