5 Robinson achieves a pitch perfect balance of real science and fiction in Red Mars.  The story of the 100 colonists is gripping.  From John Boone, the legend, Coyote, the mysterious stowaway and the computer-like Sax  Russell, there are characters in this read that you will not forget.  The  Drama is first class and keeps you coming back for more in the following  two books.  The revolution that occurs is really well written.  After  reading this book you will not look into the nighttime sky the same ever  again.  Red Mars may very well be a novel that is prophetic in its  depiction of the future.  I also highly recomend some music to accompany  the reading- for some good sugestions read the next review!  Enjoy!
5 An excellent trilogy.  Hard-bounds were an upgrade from the paperbacks on my shelf.  Quality and service were excellent.  Would order from the company again.
5 And They did land on Mars, and make themselves shelter, and food.  And they did study and learn and shape this new world to thier will.  And it was good.This book is rich in imagery, science, personality, and realism.  I was so thoroughly pulled in by this book that I read the entire trillogy straight through on the momentum of this first book.  This is the best of the series I belive, but the other two books are still worth it to complete this epic tale.  They start in Antartica, during training and final selection of the first hundred to land on mars and build a rich tapestry to start this trillogy from.The Charachters are full of personality and realism, the setting richly described, and you'll find yourself pulled to Mars and dreaming of the day when we really will land there and set up a colony and eventually a new nation.
5 This is a wonderful book.  It gives a clear picture of Mars and what would be involved in terraforming a planet.  It also points out the political issues that would arise when something is held jointly by Earth inhabitants.
5 I have no idea why I chose to read this book.  I don't typically read science fiction of any type.  However, I began reading, and to my dismay, I couldn't put it down.  Certainly the book is laced with science jargon and science facts, and I had to reread a passage or two, in order to attempt an understanding of the science, but...  This book features a strong cast of characters, good guys and bad.  I think Robinson does an outstanding job of introducing us to his characters, and we get a real sense of who each person is and what motivates them.  It's a real study in both science and sociology, and I just LOVED it!
5 KSR is an excellent technical writer.  Some of the plot elements could use a bit of work, but if you accept that the planet itself is the star of the book (and the fight to terraform it), you will not be disappointed.  Have actually read this many times...
4 Robinson attempts a grand and bold vision in his book Red Mars. He melds hard science with the politics and conniving, brinkmanship, and differing visions of the settlers. The description of the myriad ways in which the settlers attempt to terraform Mars is very interesting, but Robinson doesn't quite pull off the human elements--the various and contradictory motives of the various and growing groups on Mars and their plans and plots. A lot of this part of the book devolves into speech-making by the characters in the story, and it makes the book rather boring, especially in the middle of the book. Robinson can't quite pull of what Frank Herbert and Ursula K. LeGuin did so masterfully in Dune and The Left Hand of Darkness, respectfully; that is, to immerse the reader not only in a future scenario, but a political human scenario, played out against a science fiction backdrop.Still, this is a fairly good read, and I recommend it if only for the vision of what terraforming Mars might look like.
3 Red Mars was mildly compelling if not exactly riveting.  I honestly expected more after all the awards and recommendations by friends.  Considering its minimal character development and dry, documentary style, I expected more detailed and descriptive world-building.  While some claim this is a science-heavy tome, I found the descriptions of the tech fairly slim.  Another thing that struck me is how such a devastated earth had an endless supply of both resolve and money for the Mars colonizers.  On top of that, all of that tech seemed to work flawlessly for the most part, which is very hard to swallow.  Also, not sure why it bugged me, but the speed at which the early colonists could move around the planet seemed quite improbable.  There was also a fairly ginormous coincidence where a notable character they were searching for was found, seemingly at random, from among tens of thousands of colonists.Upshot is, I felt obligated to finish it, and might even read the next couple in series, but it felt like more of a task at times than a pleasure, though I admit I was hooked in just enough to keep going.
5 As always, this author does a great job of storytelling and character development.  The pace of the story is just a little slow in places, but overall, well done.  Obviously, Kim Stanley Robinson has done extensive research on Mars;  the geography details enhance the storytelling.  A good read during the Minnesota winter.
1 From the very beginning I knew I would not enjoy this book.  I only read a couple of chapters and put it down.
5 I'm about half way through Red Mars, so this can be only a partial reivew. That said, I find this book compelling, sophisiticated, thoughtful and erudite. The author seems to know a great deal about science, not just the basic chemistry and physics you expect in SciFi authors, but a truly comprehensive grasp of geology. Yet Red Mars is not really about science: It's about people, politics, development and power. A master of character, Robinson does not lack for the descriptive skills of an almost poetic jouranalist, but keeps the story moving with the dramatic tensions arising between characters that changre and eveolve, even as the great Mars settlement experience grows and evolves. In short, one of the best-written books I've read in years: I'm hard-pressed to name its equal.
5 Should be read by all policy makers, economists, sociologists, psychologists, and futurists.  To read this book is to understand why Arthur C. Clarke made the recommendation he did.
5 I am just aghast at the number of non-five-star ratings this book has received. The answer probably likes in the sophistication of the particular reviewers who are underrating this masterpiece. I don't want to make this sound arrogant or patronizing, but the great thing about the Internet (and Amazon reviewing) is that anyone can review, while the awful thing about the Internet is that anyone can review. I'm not sure what else one could want out of a Sci-fi novel than what you find here. My guess is that those who dislike it tend to prefer space opera or pure adventure books. But if you have any capacity to read good literature this novel will almost undoubtedly knock your socks off.RED MARS has been almost universally praised by Sci-fi writers and academics as one of the finest hard science Sci-fi novels in recent decades. Partly as a result of the influence of Philip K. Dick (my favorite Sci-fi writer, but someone who was almost completely uninterested in the "science" in Sci-fi but instead focused on metaphysical dilemmas), STAR TREK, and STAR WARS, Sci-fi has been less and less focused on science in the past few decades and instead has been more concerned with exploring questions like "what is real?" or adventure stories. Time was when the most denigrated form of Sci-fi was the space opera. Robinson's Mars Trilogy is the triumphant return of hard science in novelistic form. But RED MARS is far more than that. It is as political as it is scientific. I can imagine that a few of the people giving the novel low marks are troubled by Robinson's politics, which are further to the left than any prominent politician in America today. It isn't an accident that many Marxist writers, including Fredric Jameson, who Robinson thanks in the Acknowledgments, love Robinson's dystopian take on role of capitalism in forming the world we live in, either on earth (as in his Pacific trilogy) or on new worlds (as here in the Mars books). If you are a big fan of an unbridled free market capitalism (which by its very nature is utopian, in that it continually describes a world that doesn't exist, but insists could if only we would free the market from all political and social restraint) then this isn't a novel that will warm the laissez-faire cockles of your heart. This is capitalism as rapacious, inhuman, and imperialistic.I find the epic sweep of Robinson's vision to be almost overwhelming. He balances almost perfectly scientific, political, social, and narrative concerns. His characters are both many and richly drawn. His Mars exists in a way that only rarely do Sci-fi writers make possible. I can't point to many writers who have made their imaginary world so tangible and believable. I don't have the scientific expertise to address the plausibility of the many terraforming and climate altering techniques and tactics addressed in the novels, but I never found anything in the book to be absurd or silly.I loved the various components making up this book. And the characters are more developed and vivid than in most Sci-fi novels. While John Boone never really emerged for me as a believable character, many of the others like Frank, Maya, Nadia, the irrepressible Arkady, Ann, Sax, and many others did. Thanks to gene therapy that helps extend life by renewing the genetic structure of the body, many, though not all, of these characters make it into GREEN MARS or even into BLUE MARS. The trilogy itself extends over several decades. I can recommend few works of fiction as highly as I recommend this. But if you are looking for a great yarn rather than a great novel, look elsewhere. This probably isn't for you. But if you are instead looking for a truly great novel, for a trilogy that might represent the apex of Sci-fi writing of the past twenty years, do yourself a favor and read not just RED MARS, but the two other novels in the trilogy as well.
1 I just finished reading Red Mars and was so disappointed. This book had so much potential going into it, but in short the characters suck. The main characters in Red Mars are all part of the first 100 people to colonize Mars. You don't get to meet all 100 of them (thank god), but out of the ones you do meet there is not one of them that is likeable. This lack of any characters to get attached to or even like a little makes reading Red Mars a painful experience. There are some good ideas about Mars, the technology to live there, and ways to terraform it all presented from characters that are just not enjoyable.
2 This &#34;classic&#34; is more about relationships than  the development of Mars.  Way too much soap opera for me. I just could not get into it. About half way through, I found myself increasingly skipping pages to finish the book.
5 I have almost nothing but good things to say about this entire series. This book kept me on the edge of my couch the entire time! I'm kind of nerdy, so all of the technical details really added to the richness of the picture for me. This shot straight to the top of my favorites.The ideas covered in this were also very mind-expanding. I do have to say, I wish there was more time given to any kind of gayness or a gay struggle in this. Women enjoyed great status, however. I liked that.
5 100 colonists, dubbed The First Hundred, are in a ship called Ares on the way to Mars at the beginning of this epic novel.  If I told you anything else, it would ruin something.This book is just about the best novel  I've ever read.  It is the most realistic novel written about the  colonization of Mars (and there really have been a great many about that  subject).  The science and politics are believable and the characters are  developed to a level that I have not seen since the some of the great  American classics.This book is truly a pillar in science fiction writing  and is an incredible start to the series.  I read it in two sittings,  which, for a 700+ page book, is really a feat.  If you like Robinson and  are interested in Mars, this book is a MUST read.If you are concerned  why others did not rank the book so highly it is probably because they  might have been expecting more action or the highly descriptive paragraphs  about the Martian landscape, science and technology, and characters used in  the novel bored them.  If you do not find these things interesting, then  the book might not be a 5 star (it might be a 4 star...or a 3 star if you  just want some light reading), but I believe that these attributes add to  the depth of the novel and its overall quality.  It is not a light read or  action-packed, like Dune, but it doesn't have to be.  It's just an  incredible book.
2 This novel fails to impart &quot;that sense of wonder&quot; that I look for in a science fiction novel.  Additionally, the writing is poor.  The author always manages to tell in three pages what three sentences might do as well.  The book is tedious.  The characters are not lifelike.  They do not behave like real people.  To be honest, I found the book to be a bore.  To ensure that I was being fair, I read this novel twice just to make certain that I wasn't missing something.  No change.This novel, the first of an overlong &quot;Mars Trilogy&quot; deals with the initial colonization of Mars by an international group.  Unfortunately, the characters simply do not ring true.  There is little if any plot.In addition to being poorly-written with bloated prose, &quot;Red Mars&quot; also features a massive dose of Political Correctness.  All forceful, dominant characters are women.  Men do as they are told.  Must have been something in the Martion air?  I am all for equality, but people just don't act like the characters in this book.  You can have equality without the characters seeming unreal.I honestly don't know what the fuss was about as regards this novel.  I thought it was barely good enough to finish.As I have said elsewhere, someone still needs to write a **good** and realistic novel about man's colonization of Mars.  This book is a clean miss.
5 &quot;Red Mars&quot; is the best contemporary straight-science fiction novel I've read.  As far as plot, structure and style go, I don't have enough space to praise Robinson.  It's an EPIC (in capital letters).  Granted, he is often a bit long winded, but most of the time &quot;Red  Mars&quot; is a page turner with substance.  His introductory vignetts at  the beginning of each section of the book, in particular, demonstrate his  literary muscle.  You'll be sold after the first three pages!The story  is excellent, but as or more impressive is Robinson's portrait of the  socio-economic/cultural conditions which develop on the planet.  Coming  from the rather arrogant post-modernistic attitude of &quot;we've invented  everything that can be invented&quot; insofar as culture, politics, etc. is  concerned, this book is a refreshing surprise.  From the environmental  Marsfirst movement to the Neo-marxism, the world Robinson has created is  rich and interesting.His characterization is even better.  Normally, I  would resent the obvious plot device, longjevity (sp?), Robinson uses to  allow his characters to live through Mars' entire evolution.  However, his  characters are so different and engaging that I was easily able to grant  him that crutch.Finally, &quot;Red Mars&quot; also has convincing (at  least for a lay person like myself) science.  Their scientific gadgets  which allow them to make Mars more Earth-like are giddily exotic while  staying real enough that I wouldn't be surprised to read about them in the  morning paper.Ultimately, &quot;Red Mars&quot; accels at  characterization, story, style, scope and science stuff.  It's simply  magnificent.  (Sorry for the bad pun in the title.)
4 The first book in a sprawling epic about the colonization of Mars. I found it highly enjoyable for the most part, but it does have it's flaws. Robinson has a tendency to kind of become infatuated with his characters and he keeps them around for a long while. They kind of live in their own heads, come into frequent conflicts with each other, and some of their character flaws become really drawn out. Some of the characters are really hard to like. If you can get past this, there is an excellent story about space exploration here. Also, Robinson is also clearly in love with Mars. If you are as well, you will really grok the series; but pages long descriptions of regolith and craters and canyons might become repetitive to some. I often found myself skipping paragraphs or even whole pages to get back to the metaplot. You can do that without really missing much, at times.For those with patience, and a fascination with the Fourth Planet, you will enjoy this novel of Martian colonization and terraforming.
2 PROS: Realism, distinct characters.CONS: Slow-moving, too political, unlikable characters, repetitive descriptions.BOTTOM LINE: I was looking for a "Sense of Wonder" and was left with a "Sense of What For?"How was I to know that it was a book about politics, economics and sociology disguised as Science Fiction?I had hope for the book in the beginning.  I really enjoyed "The Voyage Out" and the character development (even though, for me, the characters were not very likable).  When they got to Mars, the book seemed to slow way down.  The same features of Mars are explained over and over again.  The author only has to tell me once that the sand/cliff/mountain/sky/terrain is red/rust/orange/crimson/brown/tan...I get it already!  I do agree with other reviewers who say that 150-200 pages of describing Mars could have been left out to make a much more enjoyable book.The parts about the colonization were technically interesting, but overpowered with political issues (not a favorite SciFi topic of mine).  While I think the events were a realistic expectation for people under such a situation, it just makes for very dry reading.  And after all, I'm reading fiction for its entertainment value, not for it's educational value.
3 I like the ideas.  I like the characters.  But did I mention that it was really long?  I think that if you really studied this book you could create an entire 3 dimensional model of mars.  Mr. Robinson describes nearly every peeble and crevise on the planet as if he spent 16 years there wandering the barren wastes.The bottom line is - clip 200 pages of scenery description out and it would get 4 stars.  I would have never finished this book if I was reading it in book form.  I did it on tape and it took me about 3 weeks.
2 ...so I started reading this book. About a third of the way through my doctor prescribed clonazepam and I no longer needed the book. Honestly, I can't see how anyone could get through this book without already suffering from insomnia as badly as I was. It is the most boring book I have ever read and I could only force myself because it was the middle of the night, there was nothing to do, and I had mistakenly bought it.I am a fan of hard science fiction, and that is what this book purports to be. But hard-SF needs to be speculative and push boundaries. This doesn't. An analogy might explain - in the 19th century cantilever bridge building might have been seen as cutting edge technology. Imagine someone writing cantilever bridge fiction. The science aspect of it would be completely uninteresting. It would be a story about the politics and economics of getting the bridge built. Well this book is about that interesting. It's a collection of uninteresting unealistic characters involved in endless contrived office politics trying to get some uninteresting science and engineering done. It just so happens that it's on Mars but most of it is far less interesting than bridge building. I'm not exaggerating. We have to read about how concrete foundations were laid, how bricks were manufactured and have to suffer detailed geological surveys of the areas the characters visit.If your preferred genre is boring books try "Report on Probability A" by Aldiss. I used to think it was the most boring book on earth but at least it was short and turned boredom into an art form worth rereading. Read Mars is boredom without purpose. Your time would be better spent actualy reading some real science about Mars.Addendum, Jan 1994Well I did eventually finish this book even tyhough I thought I'd given up. Some things do happen later in the book. The characters remain supremely uninteresting and there are still no original ideas. But there is some entertaining large scale destruction if you like that sort of thing. So I bumped the rating up to 2 stars.
1 I purchased this book because it won a Nebula award.With all due  respect to Mr. Robinson, this book is dull.  It is a mindnumbingly dull  read because of the endless exposition.  It just goes on and on and on and  it takes forever for anything to happen.You'll either love this book or  hate it.  I didn't like it and I opted not to read the sequels.
4 Robinson is an excellent writer and this is an excellent trilogy, but the emphasis is on science.  Those looking for light-reading action fantasy should look elsewhere.  On the other hand, if you love science fiction with meat to it and you find Mars fascinating, these are the books for you.Asimov, Heinlein, Clarke...no other science fiction author has ever put so much real science into his writing, and that's only half the appeal.  To get the full experience, allow yourself the time to follow the musings and personal journeys of Robinson's characters as well as the main plot.  Robinson's books are better savored than read.
1 Warning! These books are hypnotically attractive. The cover art is outstanding: excellent artwork for each, red motif for RED MARS, green motif for GREEN MARS, blue motif for BLUE MARS. At least BLUE MARS was a bestseller, and all three won prestigious awards. RED MARS won a Nebula for best novel, and GREEN MARS and BLUE MARS each won a Hugo for best novel. It is tempting to buy the whole set, which I did.And which I regret.The books have good parts, but you can get good parts in other books without having to wade through sludge. If you want to teach readers about Mars, write a book of nonfiction. If you want to write a story and take readers to places that cannot be reached in reality, then write fiction that is easy to read.These books have too much detail. The author elaborates too much. Many long paragraphs are tedious. Here is one from RED MARS:"Now she could wander in the dim ruby light of sunset, her old jazz collection piped from the habitat stereo into her helmet headphones, as she rooted in supply boxes and picked out any tool she wanted. She would carry them back to a small room she had commandeered in one of the storage warehouses, whistling along with King Oliver's Creole Jazz Band, adding to a collection that included, among other items, an Allen wrench set, some pliers, a power drill, several clamps, some hacksaws, an impact-wrench set, a brace of cold-tolerant bungie cords, assorted files and rasps and planes, a crescent-wrench set, a crimper, five hammers, some hemostats, three hydraulic jacks, a bellows, several sets of screwdrivers, drills and bits, a portable compressed gas cylinder, a box of plastic explosives and shape charges, a tape measure, a giant Swiss Army knife, tin snips, tongs, tweezers, three vises, a wire stripper, X-acto knives, a pick, a bunch of mallets, a nut driver set, hose clamps, a set of end mills, a set of jeweler's screwdrivers, a magnifying glass, all kinds of tape, a plumber's bob and ream, a sewing kit, scissors, sieves, a lathe, levels of all sizes, long-nosed pliers, vise-grip pliers, a tap-and-die set, three shovels, a compressor, a generator, a welding-and-cut set, a wheelbarrow--and so on."This is the worst paragraph I could find, but it should help you to understand what I mean when I say these books are not easy to read.
5 I found &quot;Red Mars&quot; to be a rather interesting book on the colonization on Mars.  The descriptions in the book are pretty detailed (to be honest, a couple of times a got a bit bored) and this adds to the general realism of the book. Personaly, I found the scientific details of the book quite interesting (maybe one of its strongest points), the characters pretty detailed (and most of the time quite believable) and the plot rather interesting.  As another reader said, the book is definitely successful as a thought experiment; I believe this expresses in the most accurate way my impression from &quot;Red Mars,&quot; as well as the other books in the series.  In any case, reading this book made me curious enough to continue with the next books on the series (Green Mars, Blue Mars).
1 I love science fiction and I was excited they offered a few different books for free for the Kindle. I was interested in finding some new authors to read...I will not be reading this one again.I didn't finish the entire book which is rare for me. I'm an avid reader and I can read quickly- this book was like quicksand. The deeper I got into the book the more I wanted out. I couldn't finish the book b/c it was so freaking boring. I've read a lot of science fiction and am tolerant of very descriptive passages but I kept on thinking this would of been better as a movie rather than a book and that is a first for me. The author gets so completely weighed down in his descriptions- images would of sufficed! Wtf...where was the editor on this one? I really dislike rating a book poorly b/c I realize that enjoying a book is largely subjective but I could not stand this one.
4 I'm only on Red Mars so far but I do very much like how it seems as though the author has done his homework.  Most of the science in it seems pretty solid and although it's definitely slower paced than what I normally read and quite a bit bogged down in the human interaction stuff (relationships, whatever) I am enjoying it.
5 1) The characters and how they relate.  Especially Ann and Sax, the polar opposite nerds, the long story between them and the larger story analogous to theirs.2) The constant details of geography and botany.  Much of the book is about (by constantly showing) place, detail, perceiving in detail, and how perceiving in detail relates to passions about places and people.3) Time, change and the present.  A group of the main characters survive through the century-and-a-half of revolutions, career shifts, serial homesickness, population explosion and family, attrition, memory loss and partial rejuvenation.  But there is always a sense of being with people plunked in a live present facing a long haul.4) The economics.  Simply incoherent.  For one long chapter (the idyll amongst the insane new age megacorp surfer-execs) torturously so.  Otherwise you can forgive characters having had ideas, and space and like minds to try them with, finding diverse successes.5) The politics.  Both heroic in the greatest realistic contentious hopeful long-struggling way, and heartbreakingly idiotic in others.6) The science.  Lots, serious, and yet it's bolted to the planet, the solar system and the story. This is not a technical thriller, nor a science-concept-turning-point story, nor a terraforming intensive.  Science and tech are "just" large modern vital organs here, see point 2.  It's mainly life that goes on, and sci/tech (as in real life) is integral to all that getting along and change and uncertainty, and it's neither really subordinate to the story nor the point of the story.  Which in terms of core SF values and approach, is a hellova thing.So, there's lots to withstand but it's absolutely worth it.  For so absorbing a story he manages to end it without that shock of emptiness; one is left to carry on, live, and change things; after all that's what your friends are up to on the last page.
2 I have yet to fully read Green Mars or Blue Mars, but I am in the process of doing so now.  Speaking of those two books, you definitely need to get them as this book isn't able to stand on it's own without the follow ups.  I would like to say that there were quite alot of good ideas in this book.  The whole terraforming of Mars is the focal point, but also the ideas of revolution aren't far fetched.  After all, the same thing happened with colonies over here due to differing ideologies and the length of time it took to cross the Atlantic.There are two main drawbacks to this book that are pretty big.  First off is the pace.  It can be agonizingly slow almost throughout the entire book.  There was only one or two parts (the book isn't divided in to chapters per se) were I wasn't struggling to stay awake.  If you need something to help you get to sleep at night, read a section or two of this book.  It'll do the trick.  As some other reviewers have noted, a good 100 to 200 pages could have been edited out of this book and that would have helped immensely.  Robinson will describe a scene in 50 pages that could easily be half that or less.My other qualm with this novel is Robinson's grasp on medical ideas.  I fully believe that human life spans will continue to lengthen, even in my own lifetime.  However, I don't think a miracle cure to automatically fix all of your body's problems will ever exist.  That's just too far fetched for me.  Furthermore, do you honestly think some scientist out on Mars with limited resources would design said drug?  I wanted this book to be good, I really did.  I'd have to say it's worth a read once, but it's not a page turner by any stretch of the imagination.  Most people probably won't have the patience to persevere through it, honestly.
5 Here's an incredibly realistic account of the terraforming [areoforming?] of Mars in the mid 21st century. Written in the early 90's the details may be outdated by recent Rover and other explorations, but the vivid sense of place amid the weird geology of the red planet makes this first of a trilogy continue to spark thoughts days and weeks after reading it. I used the National Geographic maps of Mars as a reading aide, but found that I started thinking of Mars in terms of Robinsons books, and not just as a fictional construct.Like all great science fiction, the hard science is matched by the explorations into human existence, in this case, following the attempts by many of the 'first hundred' Martian settlers to opt out of the cycle of capitalism and global exploitation that at the time of the books, sees the earth searching desperately for resources off planet.  Various forms of anarchism and communalism are attempted, with various results, hampered always by interference from the global transnationals that run earth.
1 As I write this the Space Shuttle just launched after being delayed for a month with technical glitches - this in 2009. It's still a "hold your breath" event whenever that marvel of space technology takes to the sky. After two tragic crashes, no one can take for granted that the shuttle will go and return safely.Why then does the author think that in the year of 2026, a mere 17 years from now, we'll be capable of putting 100 people on space craft and deliver them safely to Mars! This is the first thing that struck me about this story - totally implausible. And that's before we get into the whole idea of making machines from sand, who then in turn can make other machines, who make other machines who then make every conceivable material thing a crew of 100 and then 1000's could possibly want in outer space. Never mind the dense planetary descriptions and technical psycho-babble the author uses to cover-up these wild leaps of faith. Oh, and did I mention they figured out how to stop aging, even turn the hands of time backward! That's right; these people are still screwing each other at 100 years old. Something I don't really want to think about frankly.Finally factor in the most boring characters and virtually no information of what motivates them - well, someone else said it well. This journey is a three book trilogy but I'm getting off here. The only saving grace for me is that I downloaded this to my new Kindle2 for a cost of $0.00 so all I lost was my time.
5 Red Mars is good old fashioned &#34;hard&#34; science fiction where the author takes his science seriously and crafts a story that is a perfectly plausible extrapolation of current-day technology. It is also well informed and rich in depth on the political, social, and psychological levels. And, not least, it is a great epic story of exploration, conflict, love and loss.The story begins with the launching of the ship carrying the first permanent colonists to Mars. They are 100 scientists, engineers and specialists, mostly Americans and Russians, under United Nations jurisdiction. Even before they arrive, they have split into camps over the issue of whether and how aggressively they should attempt to modify the climate of their new home to make it more agreeable to human habitation. Eventually the decision is taken out of their hands as the multi-national corporations--the true villains of the novel--rush aggressively into the full-scale exploitation of the mineral-rich planet. As more colonists are rushed to the scene and living conditions deteriorate, a crisis looms.One of the strengths of the novel is the way the author tells the story from the perspective of different characters, in each case illuminating the situation according to that character's specialty or personality. Each chapter has its own protagonist, reflecting the focus of events at that time (e.g. scientific, technical, political, social, or interpersonal). Some readers may not care for the absence of a central sympathetic figure, but I think it is what make a novel of this scope move and inform as well as it does.Red Mars is the first of a trilogy, continuing with Green Mars and Blue Mars.
3 Robinson gets the science fairly right in this plodding sci-fi series, but the story he tells is largely unmoving and the characters themselves tend to the cardboard cutouts that are the bane of decent science fiction. The terraforming Mars idea has been done many times, and often better. This one, however, is longer.The best part of the series is the specifics of the science, especially in this first book. I agree with others that Robinson seems to run out of decent ideas in his sequels, often killing off characters, including some of the most interesting ones, for seemingly no purpose. Also, there is also a whole semi-immortality thing going on that eventually grows tiresome.BTW, having recently read The Martian Chronicles by Ray Bradbury, I found that to be a far more meaningful work, even though the science itself was preposterous. Bradbury's stories have far more human truth, and are far more literary, than Red Mars and others of its ilk. And they come in at several hundred fewer pages.
2 I was really looking forward to this book. I was at a book store one day and for some reason Red Mars just popped out, perhaps I was already judging this book by its cover. When I brought it home I was pleasantly surprised to see it on the list I have of "must read sci-fi", so I couldn't wait to dig in.Red Mars is a book that details the colonization and terraformation of Mars and the politics that surround that. Some characters believe we should terraform Mars and others believe we should leave the red planet alone.Initially this book had me hooked, however I was curious as to why the author chose to include such a massive spoiler in the very first chapter and then go back decades in time. I recommend that if you decide to try this book out that you skip the very first chapter and read it later. The only purpose it serves is to spoil one of the biggest events in the book. I suppose the author included it for an initial hook, but it's not worth spoiling such an event just for a hook.The problem is that after the first couple hundred pages this book really becomes a chore to read. The landscape descriptions were interesting at first but over time you just want to read "he drove by a crater", not 3 pages detailing the event. The politics were interesting at first but over time I just didn't care anymore, perhaps it was because there were virtually no characters that I liked all that much.Here's an example of the tedium - there is one whole section of the book that is well over 120 pages and all it really boils down to is a character driving all around Mars, thousands of kilometers at a time only to arrive at these destinations with a couple questions "Do you know the coyote?" and "Do you know the saboteurs?". When the answer is "No." he drives another thousand kilometers to ask another character the same questions. Of course this section being at least 120+ pages means it is chalk full of bore.It becomes quite clear that the author is only interested in is displaying how much knowledge he has of Mars. The plot elements are just contrived and boring. The characters never really develop. If the author didn't mention their aging then you wouldn't even know these characters were in their 60s-70s towards the end (sorry but reading about people in their 60s-70s having sex is just - well, not a pretty scene).There are moments in the book that are exciting and I was hooked at the very beginning. After a few hundred pages I just started losing interest and by the end of the book I started struggling with each page - I was so ready to be done with it. This is the closest I've ever come to not finishing a book. A 5 star book makes me wish it never ends, a 1 star book is garbage through and through - for those reasons I give this book 2 stars because there were interesting moments but overall I had a hard time staying awake slogging through these pages.
3 RED MARS(1993) contains a decent and plausible story about the first colonists sent to Mars in the year 2027.  One of the most believable aspects of the story is the use of Antartica for a training/practice base, prior to the actual mission.Yet, with 2006 hindsight, there are a number of critical situations which don't hold up well 13+ years later... here are a few:1) The year 2027 is overly optimistic for colonization of Mars - mankind will be lucky to have even set foot on Mars by this date, let alone attempt a hugely expensive colonization effort.2) The MARS colony spacecraft is made up of 48 boosted Shuttle upper stages... this is never going to happen - indeed, at this point it is clear that the Space Shuttle won't fly more than a handful more missions... and, certainly, Shuttle upper stages aren't going to be boosted and used for any reason (this upper stage boosting idea seems to have been a pipe dream fantasy of some in the early 90's, and Robinson seems to have fallen in with this group).3) The original 100 member Colony team is made up of almost a 50/50 mix of Americans vs. Russians... realistically, this colonization will likely be made sometime after 2050 by independent Chinese, American, or Indian efforts (with lesser powers Russia, Europe, and likely Japan "helping" one or the other of these future superpowers).4) Later colonization participants include a large faction from the Muslim world... again, this is highly unlikely given the current political climate, and a more "enlightened view" of the Muslim world.This book is part of a Mars Colonization "trilogy", and the last two books, GREEN MARS(1995) and BLUE MARS(1997) won Hugo awards.
4 I hate to use a word that seems like a clich&eacute; these days, but Red Mars is an epic story.The ideas in Red Mars are big, really big. Should Mars be terraformed so that it be more habitable? Should we leave it alone and frozen in time to be studied? Should the politicians on Earth be the ones to govern and rule settlements on another planet? If given a blank slate what would a new society loo like? What factors would shape it? How will people deal with an influx of new people, new cultures, and new ideas? Robinson tackles these issues by telling the colonization of Mars through several viewpoints from characters that run the full spectrum of ideas and motivations that shine a new and different perspective on the events that are shaping their world; their new Martian society. The personal struggles and political turmoil that comes with building a new world can be a little overly dramatic at times and bog the reader down. In the end though I'm glad that the characters don't take a secondary role and are in fact the main forces shaping Mars for what it will become. Without the diversity of characters and viewpoints this would have been just another fantastical sci-fi romp on another planet. Thankfully it is so much more than that.The real meat of this book, however, are the descriptions of the alien landscape and science behind making Mars a place for human habitation. The descriptions will make you believe that you are seeing the sun setting on the polar dunes and looking down from the rim of Olympus Mons on the planet far below. You can practically hear it when a huge aquifer bursts and floods Valles Marineris with a roiling sea of ice and steaming water. It truly is a magnificent world that Robinson was able to build from the ground up. The technical details of their colonization and terraforming efforts are well thought-out. Full of the small details of geology, physics, genetic engineering, mechanical engineering, ecology, robotics, and spaceflight exhibit the research and our level of knowledge of Mars at the time the book was originally published (1993) that Robinson managed to include not as after thought, but as the main course. The detail wasn't confined to the sciences of terraforming. Robinson isn't afraid to explore the softer sciences of psychology of isolation, the economics of martian derived mining, and the politics of multinational corporations. What was really impressive to me was that Robinson managed to do all this without every talking down to the reader. I appreciate it when an author allows the reader to think with them and not force feed the reader into a particular scenario the author has predetermined is the right course.Red Mars isn&#8217;t a perfect book, but there is so much in it that is great, it is certainly worth reading.
2 I was looking forward to reading this book. I really was. I love sci-fi and the idea of going to Mars has always fascinated me.So needless to say I was a bit disappointed to find that reading Red Mars was about as interesting as watching paint dry. No, let me take that back...watching paint dry is more interesting.The book is two things: a character study and a detailed (painfully detailed) description of Mars itself.As for the character study: Different sections focus on a particular character and provide a view from inside that character's head, so to speak. The problem is that the characters aren't particularly interesting, putting a damper on the whole notion of "character study."As for a plot, well, there isn't much of one to speak of. Oh, there's a kind of overall direction of events, but nothing that one would confuse for an actual plot, heavans no.This must have been intentional and part of the artsy-fartsy idea the writer had when conceiving this book as I know that just about every first year writing student understands the idea of plotting.Oh wellAlong with this we get page after page of lovingly detailed exposition on Mars itself.Now, I find Mars fascinating. Just looking at the NASA lander pictures gives me chills. So trust me when I say that the reams of paper devoted to describing the planet gets gets old fast. You will get hundreds of pages describing just about every nook and cranny of Mars. I really can't imagine anyone finding this much detail interesting, unless one is a gelologist, naw...I don't think that I will continue on with the series at this point.
5 so surprised at the ratings for this book that i had to put my 2 cents in ......have read the trilogy 2x, and will read it again at some point, i know.it is a fairly difficult book, as are all of kim stanley robinson's books. i've read them all. this is not easy reading. and no, i am not so completely thrilled at knowing so much about rocks, but......"red mars" is in my top 10 books of ALL TIMES. yes, i really love this book. i suggested it for my book club, who are def not sci-fi readers at all, and yet they all loved it.not a summer beach book. but the characters are real to me, and the continuation of their lives in the next two books makes you feel like you've had a special experience.just read it. you'll see......
4 Robinson's novel is great, particularly if you're interested in how a colony on Mars might actually start.  On the other hand, if you are not quite as excited about knowing the science in detail, you may want to consider reading something else.  I was reminded a bit of Moby Dick in some spots: those chapters describing 19th centry whale processing technology in excruciating detail were never my favorites.  You'll get a bit of that here, too. But Robinson usually stops short of the nauseating level of detail.The characters were interesting and multi-faceted.  The shifting narrator perspectives were especially enjoyable.I'm looking forward to reading Green and Blue.
3 A very fine "hard SF" novel (my rating above should actually read 4 stars rather than only 3). However, I did follow one person's astute recommendation that the brief Part I be read where it falls chronologically in the narrative, which is after Part 5, and I'm very glad I did. The editorial genius who probably convinced Robinson to move that part up front ought to be shot. It would have ruined the narrative momentum had I read it otherwise, and such momentum is exactly what the book sometimes lacks, with far too many l-o-n-g descriptions of slogging across the desert landscape. Also, for such a "real-world" book, the type for which authors are rewarded over the long term for reliably predicting near-future technological trends, one objection I have to Robinson's novel, written in 1993, is that subsequent advances in computer networking and communications technologies are almost entirely absent. This is no small matter, since the characters' relative isolation from one another often drives the plot, rather unbelievably in light of the Internet/cell-phone advances that followed not long after Robinson wrote. He also posits poorly explained advances in human longevity; these appear suddenly halfway through the book and influence the plot thereafter significantly, as well as somewhat for the worse. (However, it should be said that he deals with these treatments much better in the second book, Green Mars.) Overall, though, Robinson's characters themselves are numerous and interesting, and the politics of colonization he describes are fascinating and do indeed leave the impression that this is how it all could eventually play out.
2 Wayyyy too much technical detail, cardboard-ish characters and no obvious plot. I get that this is part 1 of a trilogy - all the mo0re reason that it should get you hooked. Nope. Just phenomenally boring boring boring details. Never seems to get to the point. Probably because there isn't one. 2 stars because it isn't the worst book I ever read, just mostly bad.
5 This is the second time I've read through the Martian series and I just love it.  Very deep, intricate, and smart.  Quite a few thought provoking ideas for when we do finally venture out into the universe.
1 Just plain bad.I struggled through more than half - then I gave up.
5 This was one of the best space saga's I've read in a very long time!  Red Mars had me hook line and sinker!  Green Mars continued that and I could not wait to get to Blue Mars to see how this was going to end.  I was very upset with Blue Mars though as this book had so much fluff, that I felt the author wrote stuff just for the purpose of filling pages.  That said, I would still recommend this trilogy though to any science fiction fan.  It's almost a "must read" in my opinion.  Well worth my time.
5 I read this book quite a few years ago.  I could give you all my very detailed opinion of this book -- I loved it, it would be easy -- but I would never do the book justice.  Suffice to say the characters are marvelously drawn (years later I still think about them) and the plot marvelously intricate.  I've even gotten my mom and sister to read the Trilogy and they both loved it.  What it all comes down to is you should buy it (or borrow it if you must to get your hands on it) and read it (and the other two in the Trilogy --&gt; Green Mars &amp; Blue Mars).  You won't be disappointed...and you certainly won't regret it.
5 I read this book years ago and forgot a lot of it but wrote down I liked the book. Years later I bought it and read it again.Arther C Clarke the late brilliant futurist visionary and Sci Fi genius wrote Red Mars by Kim Stanley Robinson is the best Sci Fi book written on Mars colonization. He should know read his Garden of Mars on Mars Terra Forming.Kim Stanley Robinson is fantastic with character development, character talking and interaction. We see the gigantic ship Ares going to Mars with the first hundred colonists and experiencing a potential deadly solar flare/radiation. Later we see the landing and also part of the crew transforming the moon Phobos into a Mars shuttle/spaceport. Later we see the colonists teaming up and having romantic/sexual relations. Later large buildings,roads and all the infrastructure are put in as well as exploring the different areas of Mars. Later against some of the colonists wishes Terran Forming starts and picks up speed. Then there is a revolution against Earth control...thousands killed on Mars. Phobos crashes into Mars. The "elevator" to asteroid Clarke crashes back into Mars (kind of far fetched for me.) First man on Mars assassinated. DNA repair treatment started on Mars. Man may live to a thousand years.... maybe. Nuclear reactors sabotaged and  melt downs causing gigantic floods from underground aquifers. Atmosphere getting denser and warmer...slightly.  Incredible action and fast paced. A fantastic brilliant book.Only part that slowed down the book and for me detracted from the book was the small part when Kim Robinson gets carried away explaining a Mars shrink theory and plans of social interaction. I wasn't interest in the diagrams or the logic of it. To me it temporarily slowed down the book, but after getting through this the book was great again. The "elevator" from Mars to asteroid Clarke was too improbable to me.I give Red Mars a 4 1/2 stars rating because of the Mars shrink slow down and the too improbable "elevator" to asteroid Clarke but will post a 5 star as the rest of the book was spectacular. I liked the book so much I bought Green Mars and Blue Mars in the same trilogy. Kim Stanley Robinson sure can write. Great Book. If you are interested in Mars colonization and Mars Terra Forming this IS the ultimate classic book for you.
5 This is not a triller by any stretch and soem readers might get turned off by the fact that this is, to me, a political and sociological study of what might happen if humans expanded to Mars.  I found it interesting, well-written, and unlike any other sic-fi/space opera that i had read before.
4 Like many Sci-Fi novels, Red Mars has two stories to tell - a story of science (the terraforming and colonization of Mars), and a story of people (the adventures of the Mars colonists).  The first story is fascinating and  thought-provoking, the second is uninteresting.  Put them together and you  have a really good book that could have been great.  If, like me, you're  interested in seeing what the future might be like, you'll enjoy the book,  but if what you're looking for is an interesting story, look elsewhere.
3 This novel moved quite slowly for me. I got a bit thrown off by all the different narrators at first, but then started to appreciate the different view points.
2 I read a lot of science fiction, and typically enjoy books that work in good hardcore science, be it real, theoretical, or fantastical.  This book manages to come up with a few of each.  There is a great deal devoted to the science of terraforming mars into human habitable environment, and the process of human surviving in the harsh enviroment that exists today.  Honestly though, Robinson would have done better writing a non-fiction essay on Mars habitation than this poor effort at a fictional story.The characters and plot lines are blurry and disinteresting.  Time takes decades long leaps, with little warning and it became confusing and tedious.I had to force myself to finish it, and there is little danger of my reading the next two books in the series, or anything else from Robinson for that matter.
5 before you pick this book up, there are some things you should know about it...and about yourselffirst off, if you are not the kind of sci-fi fan who likes in depth scientific stuff...put this downyou will be bored out of your mind, or find yourself skimming over things.if you like, or at least mildly interested in biology, earth science, chemistry, physics, and just science in general...then read onfor me, this was one of the things that made the book enjoyable.  i find a lot of sci-fi authors just gloss over the science aspects of their books.  robinson takes the time to explain things (sometimes in quite a lot of detail).about the book itself.the book details the colonization of mars, from the start.  the book begins in medius rex...(in the middle of things) with the murder of one of the central charecters.after the murder, you flash back to the beginning of the colinization, from the trip out, to the establishment of the settlementsthe main charecters are the 'first hundred', the first 100 settlers to mars.  there are a few other charecters who pop up, all quite interesting, that are not from the 100.  each of the 8 segments of the book follows around one different charecter (one of the 100), and their interactions with everything.the human aspects of this book are incredibly poignant, and very touching.  combining this with the time setting (relatively near future...2020-2060) this makes the charecters very believable.the major conflict comes in when additional emigrants begin making the sojourn to mars.  initially they are simply more explorers and scientists, who plan on staying on the planet for life.  the trouble comes when transnational corporations (think microsoft + aoltimewarner + general motors + general electric and you get the idea of the money and power behind them) who have grown more powerful and wealthy than all but about ten countries, start to send people up, to mine for metals.  the transnationals have approached mars as an untapped resource, and will stop at nothing to get their way.over all, this is one of the most well written books i have had the pleasure of reading in quite a while.
2 This book begins with a very inspiring and thought provoking speech by one of the most influential characters in the book (John Boone). After reading it I thought I was in for a great read, however from then on the book descends into a monotonous long winded story of some astronouts gradually growing old on Mars. Literally nothing happens for about 300 pages, until some revolution occurs at the end of the book.Some of the things in the book that annoyed me the most were:-The fact that the majority of the people on Mars are potrayed as mindless followers that absolutely revere the old crusty "first 100" colonists.-Bedouins and Sufis on Mars? Come on! Get real!-If you are not an expert on space colonization you will have trouble grasping where the protagonists are, are they inside or outside? Technical names for equipment and habitations are used without being explained, what is a "mohole"? what is a "walker"? what is a "tent"? (as it applies to space habitation)??-The lack of imagination for place names - "underhill" and "Sheffield" are a couple of examples of unimaginitive names for the new planet's cities.The book had about 3 or 4 moments that I enjoyed, but the rest of it was so boring!
4 Kim Stanley Robinson's RED MARS is a monumental work, the beginning of a three book trilogy spanning well over 1,500 pages. Robinson manages to elaborate on points from the most mundane issues of gossip, affairs, and body image; to...well the colonization of Mars. RED MARS is an important work, and I think well grounded, on the relationship between human beings and their place of dwelling. Mars is a living creature here, and mankind manages to twist it in every way from our ideas, objectification, and the inevitable destruction at the hand of these conflicting views.This book is a must for any fan of hard science-fiction. A passionate, researched, and thorough account of the theoretical colonization of Mars...with the occasional lull of thirty to forty pages of terrain under its scientific name, under scientific terms.
3 I found Red Mars to be a very slow read, but surprisingly enjoyable. The story, although bogged down with infinite technical detail (most of which wasn't properly explained), was at its heart a story about people - their hardships and triumphs, their emotions and their conflicts with one another.I really disliked the overwhelming amount of technical detail. There was too much of it...most of the time it was hard to continue reading, and I found myself wanting to skip ahead. I also found it hard to like many of the characters. I had a couple of favorites, but that's about it. I didn't care what happened to the rest at all. At times, I found myself in awe of the way Robinson writes. He has a particular talent for describing things. Unfortunately, it's this same talent that often leads to long, drawn out descriptions that I often found to be unnecessary.It's clear that the plot was very well thought out from the beginning. The idea of colonizing Mars is brought to life in such vivid detail, that's it's hard to come back to reality at times. The story line progressed nicely, although the time frame was somewhat confusing for me. I wasn't quite sure how many weeks/months/years had passed between chapters, or even sections of the same chapter.Overall, not a bad book, and in fact, I plan on reading Green Mars and Blue Mars down the road... but after Red Mars, some light reading is in order.
4 "Red Mars" goes someplace where few other Science Fiction novels go. No... not to Mars. "Red Mars" takes readers on a journey with good character development, politics, believable conflicts, and real science (as opposed to the science in most Science Fiction, which has little basis in reality).This is a hard Science Fiction novel.  For those of you who thank that Sci-Fi is cheesy monsters, blaster guns, aliens in flying saucers, and techno-babble understood only by 45 year old virgin geeks who go to conventions dressed up like Captain Kirk, well, time to read some hard Sci-Fi, and a good place to start would be with "Red Mars".  Admittedly, there are some science concepts that may be above the head of a reader with NO concept of basic scientific terminology, however, this novel doesn't go on at length about Quantum Theory, so most people who have been through middle school science class should have no problem following along.More importantly than understanding science, is understanding the varying political theories of the Martian colonists.  When it is all boiled down, this novel is more about politics than about science, or a high tech future.  Unlike most Sci-Fi which tends to be played out in a far distant future wherein all society's problems have been solved, and people live in a practically utopian existence, the world of "Red Mars" is the world of the not to distant future, in which differing philosophies create tension, and move people to defend their dogma at any cost.  Just like the real world.The brilliant part of "Red Mars" is that each chapter is written from a different point of view.  Therein the story doesn't fall apart into the dichotomy of "the good guys", and "the bad guys", that most stories tend to fall into.  Instead the reader is left to ponder what would be the best system for this world, without being given the answer directly by the author.The only real negative in "Red Mars" is the plethora of characters that exist in the world.  It is a daunting task to remember who is who at times, and the whole time the cast of characters continuously grows as more colonists arrive on Mars.  If one isn't paying attention well it is easy to forget who is who.  Additionally, sometimes the story moves too fast.  While terraforming a planet, building colonies, and establishing a society takes immense amounts of time, and must be moved through quickly (unless the desire is to bore the reader to death), this at times goes too fast, and things seem to appear without warning.  Cities, colonists, roads, and even forests seem to appear out of nowhere.  Again, the reader must be on their toes in order to not be left in the Martian dust.Overall, however, this is a strong story, with compelling characters and believable conflicts.  This is how I imagine the colonization of Mars will occur in 20 or so years when we actually do begin.
5 Mars might as well be Long Island, NY or any other Earth area where environmentalists are battling developers. The terraforming movement in &quot;Red Mars&quot; comes into conflict with those who want to leave Mars as &quot;red&quot; as we found it, moving the plot along nicely in this book and its sequels. But what really drives this book are strong characterizations...men and women who have believable motivations and interactions (loves, enemies, and sometimes combinations of the two).Although the series peters out a bit by the third book, it is an extremely worthwhile read and should satisfy fans who like hard science as well as those seeking character-driven plots. &quot;Red Mars&quot; is one of the modern classics that deserves to be read and reread!
2 This is going to be one short review!: Stay away! unless you like glacial pacing, endless description, and in-depth character sketches.When I first turned to Page One and started, I first thought to myself, "Hey, this guy can write!" I was truly surprised and delighted to at last find a writer who really knows how to turn a sentence and a paragraph.Then I continued into Chapter Two and I began to notice things, such as the gathering aimlessness of the story. Sure, the quality of the prose never sagged, and I was still happy to find that. But I became slowly overcome by drowsiness as it became more and more evident that this guy just doesn't have a story to tell. Even in the places where things -- events -- actually do take place, they are related in bland undramatic fashion. I distinctly remember after a long afternoon on a day off from work, as my eyelids were drooping ever lower, perking up for about a second when I got to the part where the Earth Transnat spacecraft was approaching Mars to intervene in the Rebellion. Boy! I first thought -- something exciting just might begin happening! Boy was I disappointed when the scene just fizzled without any conflict.I should have learned my lesson and put the book aside right then and there. But I slogged on all the way to the end, truly hoping it would get better. Sadly, it never did. I even went on the Blue Mars. Out of luck yet again.If you like Crichton, you will hate Hate HATE Robinson! This book is the polar opposite of the excellent Airframe, Prey, and Jurassic Park. Robinson does at first sight appear to offer interesting material and themes, but his style of execution is just plain bland. If Crichton's fare is thought of as a breakfast in an expensive restaurant of French toast -- crispy at the edges and velvety in the middle, sprinkled with cinnamon, with REAL Maple syrup and butter, with strawberries and sausage on the side -- then Robinson's fare is like a plain bowl of oatmeal made with water, not milk. Mmmmm...steamy, visible texture, slight nutty taste...but after a few spoonfuls...yuck!...this is all there is??Ironic that the Wikipedia entry for the Mars Trilogy is so much more interesting than the book itself! (or then again, perhaps not when considered retrospectively)Yes, I see on the Wiki that things DO after all happen in the books, BUT THERE IS NO PLOTTING, which is to say, events do not lead inexorably from one to the next, as they must in any fictional work of quality. Events do not build one upon the other; these books are essentially episodic with extensive expanses of physical description and endless character sketches.Save yourself alot of time and just look through the Wikipedia entry, or get yourself a copy from a friend who has gone through and highlighted the few interesting passages so you can skip over all the drivel. If you really must torture yourself and read it all yourself, bring a big box of No Doze or some other such stimulant.
1 Not even close.  I bought the series based on the Nebula and Hugo Awards.  What a HUGE mistake....and I will never trust those particular award juries again.  This guy does not have much to say, but says it repeatedly, exhaustively, and ad nauseum.  The characters are exclusively two dimensional, all lacking passion and driven by inexplicable logic to actions that make little sense.  The extensive descriptive narrative is mind numbing and filled with geological jargon.  You spend most of the book wading through this blah blah blah, and when something finally does happen, it is disappointinly anti-climactic.  I will never buy another piece of literature by this author.
2 Man, I wanted to like this book. I really wanted to. I expected to be engrossed with it. I expected this book to provoke some deep thought and reflection in me. I thought the timing of my reading it was especially exciting, with the real-world preliminary discussion and planning for a true human mission to Mars possibly 20 years from now.What I did not expect was to give up on this book within 200 pages. But I did. And I'm pretty disappointed about that.The book's opening chapter involves a dramatic sequence involving several characters who are pretty clearly major players in the storyline. The narrative was B-rate, to be sure, but it was certainly good enough to continue reading, especially to give the story a chance to get its legs under it and really start moving.The next chapter covered the long voyage through space to Mars and what the voyagers had to do to prepare themselves for the red planet as well as passing the time as bored people with social needs in a confined place. Again, not an engrossing narrative, but it introduced secondary players and further developed the primary players, albeit as not much more than soap opera characters trying to negotiate love triangles and power grabs.In the third (massive) chapter, the voyagers finally reach Mars and touch the surface -- and this novel instantly turns into the near equivalent of a graduate-level geology textbook, and any joy or enthusiasm or intrigue or interest I had at that point utterly evaporated. Pages and pages and pages and pages and pages of descriptions about the different colors and textures of the Martian sand. Pages and pages and pages and pages about the different colors and textures and angles and depth of the ice at the Martian north pole. Pages and pages and pages and pages about the equipment that was needed to mine Martian resources and use the ice as a water source. Every now and then a character would display an exaggerated emotion in a quick, superficial way -- I guess just to show you that these characters are supposed to be distinct, real people and that these personalities would clash...eventually...as some point...if their geological expedition ever ended. But before those clashes would come, you'll have to read more pages and pages and pages and pages about the different angles the sun takes in the Martian sky based on the unique rotation and orbit of the planet.I mean, come on.I asked three people I know who have read through the book if I should give up or keep reading. Two of them encouraged me to keep reading but one told me to stop. But all three of them agreed that it was at times an excruciatingly boring read. And while I do like hard science-fiction, and I do enjoy the slower, dryer, more deliberate pace that much of hard sci-fi follows, that third, seemingly endless chapter of Red Mars killed the pleasure of reading for me.From what I've been told, the last quarter of the book gets exciting and intriguing. But I'm not trudging through days of joyless reading to get to it.I just don't understand the mindset of some authors -- especially in sci-fi and fantasy. It's almost like they challenge you to read hundreds of boring pages to make you &#34;earn&#34; your way to the good parts. I don't think it's unreasonable to expect a novel to move at a steady pace from page 1 and sustain that pace more or less until the final page. It's not like I read it for only the first 10 pages, and said, &#34;This thing is BORING! Screw it!&#34; I almost got to page 200, and it was a burden to read one paragraph more. That's not why I pick up a novel. And I doubt it's why you do, either.Note: I gave it 2 stars instead of 1 because I do applaud the effort the author put into writing a book like this. I was impressed by the depth of scientific knowledge. Unfortunately, in writing the book, the author did not have a keen sense of when to pull back on the scientific detail and let a moving plot take over.
5 Top-notch, realistic, believeable sci-fi.This book explores the theories and challenges of terraforming and colonizing Mars.  Robinson, known for his attention to detail and research that goes into his books, does a fabulous job of providing great insight about Mars without bogging the book down with boring detail.  This book is the first in a 3-novel series.
5 After reading Red Rabbit last year, I've decided to read all of the Jack Ryan books in storyline chronological order.  This is set in the late 1960's, early 1970's.  All I can say is WOW!  I'm ready to read more.
5 This was the first Clancy book that I have read. The action is excellent from the first page to the last. The characters are unique in that they tend to fit well. A former Navy seal is the focal point of the book who falls for a girl that is being used by a drug lord. The girl is killed and the Navy seal plans to take his own style of justice to the drug dealers and eventually the ones who killed the girl. Along the way he is challenged by the Navy to go on a deadly mission inside of Viet Nam. Fortunately the mission is scrubbed in time as the bad guys get reinforcements because of a leak back home about the mission. Our Navy seal returns to the states to finish his work with the drug dealers, but also to do one more favor for the government before they give him a new identity and put him to work for them. He has to eliminate the guy who leaked the information about the mission. There are other side adventures that the Navy seal undertakes which makes the book keep the reader's attention as you read through the 800 or so pages of action and thrills. This one is worth the read.
5 Intriguing plot poses interesting moral issues. Sustains high reader interest as story unfolds. Difficult to put down, once reader begins reading.
5 Normally, I expect stories by Tom Clancy to be about combat, but this book didn't center on that, surprisingly. This book centered on John Kelly, an ex-Navy SEAL grieving the accidental death of his wife. He finds a new love, but she is killed by druggies. So, he takes it upon himself to avenge her death by becoming a vigilante and taking out the street scum and trying to find the killers. There is a respite when Kelly goes on an operation in Vietnam, which fails, but all of the subplots are tied together nicely and the action never ends. I couldn't turn the pages fast enough.It has parallels to such great works as Heart of Darkness, and is not bad.
1 This book was extremely tiresome to get through.  The military jargon, the number of new characters being introduced all the way up until the end of the book, the subplots, and pointless dialogues and details make this book about twice as long as it should be, and very very slow to trudge through.  The main character, Kelly, is an unlikable fella who kills and tortures people, and somehow, we are supposed to care about him.  I didn't, and I am not reading another novel by this author, and am somewhat surprised that other people enjoyed this piece of trash.Update: I still hate this book, and find it interesting, but mostly sick that people read negative reviews to find something to be pissed off about and then click 'not helpful,' even though they simply disagree.  Disagreeing is not the same as 'not helpful'.  By the way, the terd that wrote the comment will receive as he gave, got that, Josh Boone?  Better stay home, cuz I'm gonna get you, fartface!
4 I bought this book for my husband.  Although long, he was unable to put it down.  He said it was a very good book.
5 This book is one of the best from TC!  I'm glad my kindle purchase was for a re-read however.  There are many typos in the kindle version (e.g. a 1 rather than a I).  Some/most of these are just annoying, but some make the text unreadable/incomprehensible.  I don't know what the process is for converting a book to kindle format, but if I had to guess based on the types of typos that I'm seeing in there I'd guess it's some for of OCR (which is fine, but they really need to do a better job at proof-reading the digitally converted text).  I've noticed these types of errors in some other kindle books, but this one seems to be much worse than any of the others I've seen in the past (there seems to be an error every few pages).
5 Finally, a novel by Clancy that's not techno-porn. And, really, that's why it's both the highest-rated and best of his works. Unlike, say, a good third of Cardinal of the Kremlin (which was also good) or a good half of Sum of All Fears, this is driven by character and plot development, not technology. In addition, this novel doesn't star Jack Ryan and doesn't deal with the Cold War (comparatively). Maybe Clancy should've stuck with this type of writing.Yes, this is a good novel. Clancy includes some of the espionage-type of narrative without actually dealing with spies or international politics, and he even wraps up all the subplots nicely. Since there aren't a thousand things going on at all times, like in most of his other works, he can focus on believability with this one. Without going into details, for instance, the change in Sandy's attitudes about what John does is natural. The foundation of Clark's methods, attitudes, and profession here are both fascinating and believable. This is a very engaging read with an intriguing, well-developed plot that focuses on character development and not every detail in both the construction and detonation of a hydrogen bomb. That is why all the reviews here and elsewhere paint this as the best of Clancy's novels (or among the best) and why it's a great read even without knowing every detail of decades of Jack Ryan's life. Recommended.
5 Tom Clancy has created several fictional heroes that are at the heart of his many novels. One, of course, is John Patrick Ryan, who has served his country as a Marine, CIA officer, National Security Adviser, and President of the United States.  With the exception of Red Storm Rising (a book that is not set in Clancy's &quot;Ryan-verse&quot;), Jack Ryan appears or is talked about in every novel from The Hunt for Red October to The Teeth of the Tiger.The other major character Clancy readers have come to admire is John Clark, a man who works for the other side of the Agency as a paramilitary officer.  Whether he is in Colombia using a laser target designator to help bomb a Medellin Cartel member's mansion or leading a multinational antiterrorist team called Rainbow, Clark is the type of man our government needs to use while denying his existence.But John Clark has a past wrapped in mystery, one his family doesn't know much about and is a closely guarded secret.  For John Clark was once ex-SEAL John T. Kelly, Vietnam veteran, avid diver and sailor.But when Kelly's girlfriend is brutally murdered by a Baltimore drug lord's henchmen, the otherwise peacable and war-weary Kelly vows revenge. Dispensing his own version of street justice relentlessly and without remorse, Kelly must not only avoid being killed by the drug dealers, but he also has to evade the dogged detective work of Baltimore cop Emmett Ryan, a World War II vet and father of the future President.Adding to his already complicated life, Admiral James Greer recruits Kelly to participate in a daring rescue mission into North Vietnam.  But when a radicalized American antiwar activist gets wind of this secret military operation, events will drive John Terence Kelly down a path that he never intended to take.Although published 11 years after The Hunt for Red October, this taut and thrilling novel is the first chapter of the long-running Jack Ryan saga.  If you are just entering the Ryan-verse, read this entertaining book first.
4 By far my favorite Tom Clancy book. The origins of John Clark are revealed in this underappreciated novel. You get to climb inside his personal motivations, witness his Navy Seal inspired tactics and see how he becomes a black operative working with the CIA as it carries over into later books. Clancy gives you the details, from jury rigged weapons to the psychology of a former soldier with the skills to kill but nowhere to practice them. The story is short on action but long on depth of character. I can see why it wouldn't do as well as a movie but for the sake of fun reading this may be his best work.
5 Five stars because Tom Clancy was the very best writers of military style action. Hard to put any story down he writes.
5 If you haven't reas WITHOUT REMORSE yet, then you don't really understand how good of a writer Clancy is.Set during the early '70s, this novel is the backsttory for John Kelly AKA Clark, the CIA operative who figures extensively throughout Clancy's Jack Ryan series. As much a morality play as adventure, this book explores Clark's life from happily-married Navy veteran to CIA operative. Clark battles his demons, both real and imaginary until he is forced by circumstance to risk it all.The book is technically accurate, and excellent in both character and plot development. It's a page turner and never predictable. I've reread it several times and continue to enjoy the nunaces that escape one on a first read. It would be a great movie if Hollywood wouldn't butcher it like, say, SUM OF ALL FEARS.You won't regret buying it.
4 The evolution of John Clark.  A must read for Clancy fans Jack Ryan novels.  Wish I had read this before any Jack Ryan novels.
2 I'm a big fan of Tom Clancy's thrillers. Unfortunately, most of what makes them enjoyable to me is sadly lacking in this novel - the intricate global conflicts between various countries and political groups, the gobs of military technology, the inner workings and interactions of various government agencies.What we are given here instead is a tale of one man fighting his own private war on drugs. An interesting idea, but unlike Mr. Clancy's usual subject matter he demonstrates little knowledge of the domestic U.S. drug trade. The Drugs Are Bad message is hammered home in an unnecessarily preachy manner, and I found myself wishing that Clancy had been more succinct. Nancy Reagan managed to sum up the point of this novel in three words, and I'll echo them as my advice to potential readers: Just Say No.
1 I could not finish this book. I normally enjoy his books but this one was full of unnecessarily lurid descriptions which left me sick to the stomach.
5 Makes Mr. Clark an  understood character,from his first encounter with pure evil.Parts were almost hard to read,so detailed,were they,so inhumane.Clancy was a master and it's good we have him to hold up for the measure of new story tellers.
4 Without Remorse is about John Kelly and his trasformation into John Clark.  Kelly is ex-Navy who ends up deeply entangled in the fate of a drug ring, while at the same time assisting in the rescue of American POWs in Vietnam.  The purpose of the book is to show the reasons and depth of the transformation of the character, John Clark.  The story takes place in the late 1960s in Maryland and Vietnam.  This is the first book by Tom Clancy that I have read all the way through, and I enjoyed it.  What I liked most about it is the central character, John Clark (Kelly).  John Clark is a character who is highly skilled in covert military operations, including explosives.  He is an experienced ship pilot and a man of moral character.  The book is well written, and the writer is highly knowledgable about the subjects he discusses.  However, there were times that I found his repitition of certain phrases annoying.  Since I enjoyed this book and I liked reading about John Clark, I plan to read Rainbow Six as well.
5 John Clark is my favorite Clancy character. Thus, when I heard about this book I picked it up and read eagerly. I was not disappointed. This novel was a fascinating look into how John Kelly, ex Navy SEAL, became John Clark, CIA allstar.Anyone who enjoyed John Clark's lesser roles in Clancy's other books should definitly pick this one up as well.
5 This is my favorite Clancy book - and edging out the Hunt for Red October isn't easy.  This is a thick book, yet you will get through it quickly because it is so interesting.  It has the most character development of any book.  Rainbox 6 follows this, so you should read Without Remorse before Rainbow 6.  Note, there are fairly descriptive scenes - torturing a man with a pressure tank, young women forced into rough sex (pliers on parts of the body, etc.).  But without villians you can't have a hero.
5 It still holds up after 15 years. I can re read this book over and over and still love it.
4 Tough combat vetran kills drug-pushers left and right, because they killed his girl friend. In between killing gangsters at home he slips (actually swims) into North Vietnam to help save the lives of American POWs.I had to read this big book to the end to find in what creative way he kills off all the pushers, but I could only do it by skiping and skiming over and through detailed build-up that was just too long and slow for me.I prefer, for example, Dan Brown's more concise method of crafting thillers -- due to this prefrence of mine -- I take one star away from Mr. Clancy.
5 Without Remorse is a action/thriller during the Vietnam War. The book is filled with twists and turns at every corner. You'll find yourself flying across oceans, on ships, underwater, or in the big city.  It will keep your attention and you will not want to put it down.The takes place in America and Vietnam. The book follows the life of John Clark, a Vietnam War veteran whose wife just died in a deadly automotive accident. He will meet new people from around the world and do things many people will never even consider doing. At the same time, a up-and-coming drug dealer is beginning to emerge from the shadows to stake their claim on the East Coast.Clancy writes the book from multiple perspectives. This allows the different viewpoints on the same situation to allow you to see through both sides' perspectives. You will come to know the characters throughout the book and learn more about their life.I started this book with no prior knowledge to how Tom Clancy writes. The detail of everything astonished me.Tom Clancy somehow finds to includes small military words, speech, and other things that make it such a realistic experience.While reading the story, you will be immersed in the world of covert operations, intelligence agencies, and underground drug dealers. Each one of these lives are brought out to full detail.The story grabs you from the beginning  and won't let you go until the end. There are many twists and turns throughout the book that will keep you guessing all the way to the end. The story makes you want to see each plot lead through. Every character is created with care and has their own personality.
5 Rest in peace, Tom Clancy. You wrote books so big they could be used as house bricks in an emergency. Your plots were so complex they needed alternate universes to make sense. Your Jack Ryan is one of America's favorite characters, because he represents the truth, justice, and American way that they strive for. You named one of your books "Red Rabbit", which was brave, to say the least... You changed the face of thrillers, of techno-fiction, of spy novels. You were inseparable from the words "New York Times Bestseller", but you never lost your human touch.Not all your books were great, and some were downright snorefestive, but we will never forget your successes: The Hunt for Red October, Clear and Present Danger, and more. Alec Baldwin owes you a debt too, and we're sorry for that Ben Affleck movie...You died too soon, so once again I say, rest in peace. I now turn to John le Carre to fill your empty hole, but I know the page count is too thick for it to be filled up...Once more, we miss you, Tom.
4 I've heard a number of mixed reviews on this book. Most people I've talked to say this book is just so so. Most people on here have written that this book is &quot;amazing&quot;, or &quot;Clancy's best&quot;. I'll agree with the former; the latter will always be up to debate.This book is different than the typical Clany novel in two ways.1) It doesn't feature Jack Ryan.2) It's a personal story.The first point is self explanitory, but the second may need clarification. Those that have read Clancy's other works understand his strenghts: weaving interesting characters in a technical environment designing thick plotlines that span global environments (that may have sounded dumb but it's true).Without Remorse is none of that. It's the story of one man and his quest for vengence. It's also an exploration of whether or not can be justified. Clancy keeps pushing the envelope, baraging the character(s) with events that will test even the most forgiving person's morals. Is vigilanteism justified? I've never read a book that poses as many arguments for it. And yet, even after Clancy makes every excuse in the world to justify Clarks actions in the book, he plainly and tastefully keeps the book as a whole objective, never glorifying violence.In the setting of Clark's quest for vengeance we also get to witness Clancy writing in a more intimate and emotional fashion. The book rarely strays from Clarks point of view (a first for this writer who is known for bouncing all over the place). The story really moved me emotionally a few times as Clancy unfolded the lives of the characters (almost cried in one part).People expecting stereotypical Clancy may be disappointed by this departure, but don't be mistaken; this is a fine book in it's own right. Never have I been more impressed with Clancy's writing.Why only four stars then? Well because honestly the book is not as strong on the plot department as most Clancy books, and the ending is not as climactic as Clancy readers have come to expect. This isn't to say the book is weak in those departments; just not that strong. The other strengths of this book help make up this novel's 'very good' (4 star) rating.
5 This book was extremely well written.  It is a total suspenseful page turner.  I never wanted to put it down.  I had to force myself.  It is a really exciting story of revenge, action, and mystery.
4 Without Remorse may be my favortie Clancy, though I haven't read that many of his books. It focuses on John Clark, a far-more interesting character than Jack Ryan IMHO, and how he got to the position fans know him in. My only complaint about the book is it's just too long. It's been a while since I read it but I remember reading this thing was like running a marathon. While there isn't anything wrong with lengthy books if everything is necessary but I can't say this is the case for WR. If you're a fan of Clancy, Clark, or the overall Ryan series I would definitely recommend this book.
5 John Kelly's wife is killed in an automobile accident. The book begins by describing his dealing with the loss of his wife. John befriends a former prostitute who is on the run from the cities leader in organized crime.  Kelly then falls in love with Pam, a prostitute, who has escaped from her pimp, who works for an up and coming drug lord. John Kelly is an ex-navy SEAL.  The pimp/drug lord has a hit done on Kelly and kidnaps Pam. Though Kelly is left for dead, he is taken to the hospital and recovers. In the meantime, Pam is brutally tortured and murdered.This triggers John Kelly's vengeful attitude. He takes it upon himself to seek justice be tracking down and trying to kill every member of the offending organization.What a brilliant  fast pace book.  I highly recommend it.  I also loved HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER by Tom Clancy.
5 As will all of Tom Clancy's early writing, this story will keep you reading till the end.  Fast moving plot will multiple lines going at the same time and then wrap them all up at the end.In this story you get to learn who John Clark really is, inside and out.
5 Lots of action an suspense.  Great characters.  I couldn't put it down.  Clancy is a great writer.  I can't wait to read the rest of his books.
5 A bit of a departure from his high tech thrillers.  While there is no shortage of high tech gadgets, they are not the focal point.  The focal point is the origin of the mysterious Mr. Clark.  Mr. Clark, who began life as John Kelly, is a highly trained and experienced Navy SEAL.  While home in the U.S., he crosses paths with a domestic drug ring.  If you've ever wondered what a highly trained commando could do to a bunch of ruthless thugs, this is your book.  I enjoyed every word of it.
5 A personal favorite of mine, this is the story of John Clark the famous character in the Rainbow Six/Jack Ryan series. Clark I find to be a much more interesting character than Jack Ryan. Clark has a level of fury and depth that we dont see in Ryan. This is an emotionally intense novel of Betrayal, Revenge, Deception, and War. Basically everything that Clancy has defined over the past decade.
4 Has been a few months since reading this book, but do recall the plot. It holds your interest enough to want to finish it quickly.
5 If you've never read any other Clancy novel, read &quot;Without Remorse.&quot;In typical Clancy fashion, Without Remorse is a lengthy novel filled with great characters, lots of suspense, and more! But it breaks from the Clancy norm in that it's not as intricately detailed, technically-speaking, which makes it a great book to recommend to 1st-time Clancy readers.For those who have read other Clancy novels, and therefore may be familiar with the main character, John Clark... or if you've seen the movie &quot;Clear &amp; Present Danger&quot; or the more recent &quot;Sum of All Fears&quot; and recall Clark (played by Willem Dafoe and Liev Schreiber, respectively)... Without Remorse gives you the story behind the deadly CIA operative.Not that I don't thoroughly enjoy the Jack Ryan series, but the Clark character is mysteriously intriguing and telling his history is Clancy at his best. It's my favorite Clancy novel.
5 I really enjoyed this book as I've read many Tom Clancy books before but never knew how John Clark got his start.  It's interesting and fast moving, filled with excitement and loads of action.
5 My favorite Tom Clancy book, and I've read them all (except the Net Force Series...too Hardy Boysish looking)  The technical stuff gets a bit boring...this one has none...it moves quickly a cross between  &quot;Deathwish&quot; and &quot;The Rogue Warrior&quot; Definitely one of  those books you can't put down!
5 You just can't go wrong with Clancy.  He is easily the best espionage/war writer on the market currently.  No one can create a complex, interwoven storyline like his.  His research is outstanding, his fact checking impeccable, and his characters fascinating.
3 Well written, but a little heavy on moral judgment. Not my favorite, by far. Six more words according to Amazon.
4 I rate this between 3.5 and 4 stars.For once, I did not read many reviews before buying a book. I only knew that this book was all about how &quot;John Kelly&quot; became &quot;Mr. Clark&quot;. I have come across &quot;Mr. Clark&quot; on many of Clancy's books previously but he was always a bit of a strange one to me. I'm glad I read this book as it gave me a great insight into how &quot;Mr. Clark&quot; became what he is today. It was written in the usual Clancy's thrilling and detailed ways and I just loved that part of it.But I have a few complaints. Firstly, I did not like the way our &quot;hero&quot; took the law into his own hands,.. it almost spoilt the whole book for me at one stage (when he actually tortured a man to his eventual death). Secondly, I thought Clancy introduced a few unusual and out-of-character twists in the story at certain stages that seemed to distance the story from reality. For example, how John (an expert who always seem to take no chances in anything he does) took a great gamble by driving Pam through her old rough neighbourhood without even a simple disguise, and also the place where John slept in the car with Pam in the same neighbourhood where a few minutes ago they were being chased by a drug-gang.... sloppy work Mr. Clancy.Other than that it was generally a good read.
4 Clancy is one of my favorite writers and he did not disappointment
3 This was my first Tom Clancy book, and my take away would be it's chick lit for guys. What would you even call that - dude lit? bro books? There was a lot of violence and hypermasculine characters. I enjoyed reading it though and will definitely keep reading Clancy.
4 RE; ABRIDGED AUDIO CASSETTE VERSION. Two simulanteous capers from the same protagonist - mission impossible commando raid and avenging vigilante assassin - should not work together in a credible plot structure, but here it does.  Such is Clancy's skill as a storyteller.  Neither should the hardboiled hero's love-at-first-touch fling with a lost girl be sufficient motivation for the events that follow but, again, Clancy makes it work.  My suggestion: sit back and enjoy a master weave suspense from what should be unbelievable circumstances.  Dukes, although not my favorite reader, does good work with this one.
5 Starting in &quot;The Cardinal of the Kremlin&quot;, readers of Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan novels were always treated to a visit from recurring character John Clark, the mystery man from the CIA that is sent in to do the dirtiest of dirty work and always comes out ahead. The question that lingered was, &quot;Who is John Clark and where did he come from?&quot;. Clancy brought us this book to answer those questions.The book's setting is enough to intrigue me, seeing as it was set in 1970 and I wasn't born until 12 years later! It reflects a different time period than the rest of the Clancy novels, which means a much smaller reliance on technology and more attention given to the personal aspect of the story (much like &quot;Patriot Games&quot;). At this point, John Clark isn't John Clark...he's John Kelly, the ex-Navy SEAL, an honest, hard-working man who has just lost his wife in a car accident. I won't go into what happens in the actual plot, but at times Kelly is forced to cross the lines of law to take necessary action, and even rejoins the service of his country.Later in the book, John Kelly assumes the moniker and the identity that Clancy readers have come to love...John Clark. There are times in the book that you can't believe some of the things that the 'good guy' is doing, but you're still rooting for him because it's part of the story and it's what HAS to happen. The character, and the plot, is extremely well written.Besides Clark, several other familiar Clancy characters are found in WITHOUT REMORSE. James Greer, Robert Ritter (from Clear and Present Danger), and a few others. Minor, yet recurring, character development is something that Clancy is an absolute master at.Even at 750 pages, WITHOUT REMORSE flies by with its furious pace and non-stop action. For an avid reader like myself it's tough for new books to be called one of my favorites, but WITHOUT REMORSE has managed to do just that.
5 John Clark is the prototypical kind of hero our country needs in every community, and while I'm sure some exist, we could use more. This is one of those books I knew Clancy needed to write, and hopefully he writes more, because Clark is fantastic character.Clearly the war on drugs has been lost at virtually every juncture. Traditional law enforcement is akin to giving everybody a can of Lysol and expecting the common cold to be cured. Yeah, you may get the obvious stuff, but there's so much out there, you're sure to miss enough to keep the supply of bacteria flowing.While I'm not a proponent of vigilantism, few people in this country have not been touched in some way by the pushers, cookers and dealers. They aren't just on the street corners in the bad neighborhoods, either. They inhabit every socioeconomic strata, including the gated communities inhabited by the most affluent.There are times where the viruses on humanity need to be cut out like the cancer they are, and a character like Clark can do it. Can you imagine a drug trade in a community where the dealers are shot without warning, upon getting caught dealing by a phantom hero? Or worse, are found naked and dying on the street after some torture in a hyperbaric chamber? I can. The drug trade simply wouldn't exist.Violence should be a last resort at an conflict resolution, but when all other methods fail, then the application of violence should be undertaken -- Without Remorse.
4 This story focuses on John Clark, a change from the usually Jack Ryan stories.  Clark is shown in the gritty special ops world that we always new he had in him.  Clancy takes Clark and fleshes him out in ways that he was never able to do in previous novels.  This story is not a &quot;political thriller&quot; the way that Jack Ryans stories might be called, this is an action story.  When you read this hold on for a great action filled twisty-turvey ride.
5 Oh what a great novel this is.  Clancy weaves a tale that is believable and complex, seemingly having thought of every detail.  We get to see a character that is thoroughly engaging, despite the fact that the book touches on such a touchy subject as condoning murder.  As reprehensible as it sounds Clancy is able to make you agree with him.The book could at times get pretty graphic but I don't think it is gratuitous.  Instead, the detail allows you to feel and see what is happening, as well as let you into Clark's world.I have nothing bad to say about this book, only good.  I would definitely recommend Without Remorse to everyone.5 stars.
4 Without Remorse is another interesting book from Clancy. It focuses on characater John Clark throughout events which ultimately lead to his recruitment by the CIA and the "death" of John Kelly. This book basically contains two seperate plots, one concerning Clark's quest to avenge a prostitute with whom he fell in love with and whom was brutally murdered by her former pimp/drug dealer and a plot in which Clark is asked upon by the U.S. Navy, specifially Admiral James Greer, to assist in the rescue of POWs in Vietnam. Although both plots occur throughout the telling of the novel, the first half focuses primarily on Clark's personal vendetta against the pimp(and drug dealers in general) while a slow transition takes place during the middle of the novel in which more focus is put onto Clark's planned rescue attempt of POWs. I found the situation with the POWs more interesting, but Clark's personal mission against the drug dealers makes for more defining moments which affect Clark's character.( If you've read Clear and Present Danger you'll understand better Clark's antipathy towards drug dealers more after reading this.) Although these two seperate plots are enough for a book in themselves, I thought Clancy did a good job of making them both interesting and important to the story. Without Remorse makes Clark's past much less mysterious which seems in the bigger picture to be the novel's main function. One gains a lot more insight into Clark's motivations and innner mind. One thing I didn't like about this novel was the fact that's it's not made clear until considerably into the story that this is all taking place during the Vietnam era. Until that was made clear I automatically assumed this was taking place in the present. A very interesting aspect to this book is the connection John Clark has to Jack Ryan's father. I won't spoil what it is, but I thought it was a pretty interesting, albeit not necessary, connection. Clark's actions in this novel, as in others, are very questionable and when reading this one must try to answer that old question of "Does the end justify the means?" Clancy presents a realistic world in which there isn't a clear difference between right and wrong and Clark must struggle to balance the law with justice as they aren't always one and the same. In reading of Clark's actions one must ask themselve what they'd do in the same place and question the morality of those decisions and actions. While reading this novel you can't help but somewhat sympathize with and understand Clark's crude, violent acts, but at the same time acknowledge the fact that these acts aren't completely noble and right. Your sense of morals and ethics clashes with your darker desire to see the terrible people in this novel feel the same pain they've caused others. I feel that this book really deserves a rating between 3 and 4 stars, but since I can't give that I'll give it a 4. Overall, I don't think Without Remorse was as good as some of Clancy's other novels, but it's certainly worth the read if you're a big John Clark fan.
2 Competent enough writing, but a  story for testosterone-oozing teenagers, not adults. At least three different potential novels here, without any one of them developed sufficiently.Tom Clancy was never exactly an artist, but this reads like an assembly of various notes he had for different stories thrown together into one bloated book. Very difficult to finish.
5 This book establishes Clancy's character &#34;John Clark&#34;, used in most later adventures.  It also establishes the  &#34;Clark/Ryan&#34; connection that prevails through most of the later novels.The story is full of believable action and adventure found in most Tom Clancy books.  It amazes me that Clancy almost foresees events that happen in the future.
3 This was the fifth Clancy book I have read but my first in many years. Without giving much away it is mainly a story of revenge. In this book you get to see how some of the regular characters in other Clancy novels come to be. I thought the book was fine & if you are just starting out the book does  pick up the pace once you get one or two hundred pages in. I didn't rate this book higher because I feel the story could have been done with less than 750 pages, that's two pretty good sized books. Also much of the book takes place in Vietnam & details some Navy Seal / SOG action. I have recently read the book "SOG" by John Plaster & I have to say the action in that book is hard to beat - & it was hard for me not to compare the two. Without Remorse does finish with a bang just for me it took a little long to get there.
5 Tom Clancy did a great job as usual.  As a writer, he is more than able to transport you to the place of his choosing and make you care about his characters.  Thus guaranteeing that you'll come back for more.  This is a book that I read years ago and I enjoyed it just as much the second time as the first.
5 Without Remorse is another in the series of well written,finely detailed, Tom Clancy books. His writing style and attention to detail keep the reader in the story and well informed.I am a big fan of Tom Clancy. You will like him also.I'd tell you more ,but don't want to spoil it for you.I've read a lot of Tom Clancy books and they are very entertaining.
5 Tom Clancy has written an engrossing story.  I really enjoyed it and then recommended it to my husband, who also enjoyed it.  It was one of those books that was hard to put down.
5 What do you like about a book? Do you like to read a good book and escape into a fantasy world for little while? Do you like to read a good action packed page-turner? Or do you like a good reality based book? If you  answered yes to the first two questions, then this is definitely the book  for you. If you answered yes to the last question, then this probably not a  book you would enjoy. "Without Remorse" is pure fiction. I have read  several of the reviews on this site, and it seems to me that several people  have forgotten that one important fact.This is a dark novel that at its  very heart is a tragic, violent story. The central character in this story  is John Kelly. Kelly is a former navy seal, recently removed from two tours  of duty in Vietnam, that has his world rocked by tragedy not once but twice  in the span of a few months. John Kelly is a man of violence, and decides  to lash out those that have wronged him in the only way he knows how.  Throughout the story Kelly commits several acts that are not only illegal,  but at times shocking. But let's give Clancy some credit for making the  reader care about, and even root for such a violent man. Kelly stalks and  eliminates victims, often randomly simply to disguise his ultimate goal of  vengeance on those that made the mistake of leaving him alive. Kelly  himself admits at one point that he murders one man, for what in his mind  is simply practice.  Kelly is not a psychopath, but a vigilante removing  the dregs of society from the streets of Baltimore. At one point Kelly  intervenes in the mugging of a woman, knowing full well that he has put  himself in danger of being caught, and takes his frustrations out on the  mugger. That moments shows  how in the span of just a few minutes Kelly can  be moved by compassion for the mugging victim, yet hold nothing but  contempt for the mugger and those like him.The interesting plot twist to  the story takes place when the U.S. Navy comes calling to ask Kelly to help  plan a mission to liberate a P.O.W. camp in Vietnam. Kelly reluctantly  accepts his new assignment, and begins to plan and execute two very  different but equally deadly missions. Those of you familiar with the Tom  Clancy series of novels are probably familiar with the "Mr. Clark"  character. Through all of the action in this book we find out how John  Kelly becomes the ominous CIA operative "Mr. Clark". The beauty of this  book though, is that you need not have read any of the previous Clancy  novels to understand what is happening. But if you have read the other  books you begin to get a tremendous amount of insight into many of the  secondary characters mentioned in many of the Jack Ryan series books.Clancy takes a tremendous amount of time introducing you to each and  every character in the book, and at times I will admit it becomes a bit  tedious. However, once the story begins to come together you will be glad  that you had all of the background information. Tom Clancy has a knack of  weaving a very intricate story and pulling every seemingly loose end  together at the end to form an exciting climax. At first glance the shear  number of pages in this book may intimidate you, but if you give it a  chance I am sure that you will not be disappointed.
4 Clancy gets deeply personal and raw in the &#8220;origins&#8221; tale of the mysterious agent Clarke in this novel. Less layered in plot and more character driven than just about any other of his novels, this is a story of violence, pride, love, and revenge that centers on the subset of human culture that makes the dark news headlines: drug dealers, black ops, police corruption, and those that work around these areas with the murky goal of &#34;doing good&#34;. Not for the faint of heart, it is often graphically violent, and the &#8220;good guys&#8221; do not so much &#8220;win&#8221; as come out of it transformed into &#8220;darkly good&#8221; mediators of often covert justice.
5 This one blew me away. I started this book not suspecting much. Wow I was blown away. We start with a man named Kelly and well I can't really say more with out giving the book away. All I have to say is that this books rocks. Clancy takes you for a ride. There is so many sub-plots in this book. So you can never get bored with it. At one time Kelly is doing this then he is doing something with the CIA. I mean it is a big action pack thriller. The ending is what brings it all together to make all his other books make sence and I commened him for that.
2 This book does not deviate from the formula that has made Clancy a successful writer.  There are actually two or three plot lines going on at once, that all tie together in the end.  The downside of this method is the same in this book as it is in his others as well.  Interesting beginning, followed by several hundred pages of less than interesting material, followed by an exciting finish.  It works well in some cases, however this book seemed to lack the suspense that his other novels have.  There were a few twists and turns at the end, but nothing too surprising.My other criticism of Clancy's book is the same as my other reviews.  Too much profanity and the repeated use of violent rape scenes to move the plot along.  That's not entertaining to me.  If it wasn't for the fact that I already have his books sitting on my bookshelf, I wouldn't be reading any more Tom Clancy.
5 This is one of three Clancy books I have in my Kindle.  It is my favorite Clancy book and one of my favorite books of all time.  I have read it at least four times and I will read it again.
3 this was still a great read but not good as some his other books he is still my best author
5 I was told would enjoy this book by Clancy and wow I did.....Is a book that grabs you and the start and doesn't let go until the very last page.. I really got lost in this book, all the way thru is action and just when you want slow down more action jumps up for you..  Some books can be a little slow either at first, middle or toward the last, but not &#34;Without Remorse&#34; if you like action you will love this book as Clancy delivers all the way.....
3 This is the story of how John Kelly became Mr. Clark, the CIA operative that plays such a big part of early Clancy books. It begins with Vietnam veteran Kelly in the midst of getting over his wife's death. He has a chance meeting with a pretty young woman and a night of passion quickly turns to love. The girl's past soon comes back to haunt her however as the pimps she escaped from find her. Kelly is sent reeling with another death of someone close to him. He vows revenge on the entire gang of drug dealers and discovers there are many more girls like the one he loved that need help.While Kelly is carrying out his plans, he is also recruited by the military to run an operation that sends him back to Vietnam. American POWs have been found there. Kelly is put in charge of designing a mission, training the men and leading them to rescue the prisoners.Without Remorse wasn't one of my favorite Clancy books. The Vietnam POW story line isn't heavy enough and the final raid is anticlimactic. The story line with the girl and the drug gang takes up the bulk of the book and while it's interesting to a point, it also goes on too long. I got bored during much of that plot. The book as a whole was trying to show why Mr. Clark can do the things he does but for me it didn't achieve that goal.
3 This is by far my favorite Clancy book, and I would recommend it to anyone who is interested in the Jack Ryan series, or anyone with an interest in military fiction. It is definitely a 4-5 star book.The reason that I give it 3 stars is the Kindle conversion. The formatting is just not professional enough for a Kindle book priced at $6-$7. There are a LOT of misspelled words, and many of them aren't even properly-spelled but wrong words -- they are just gibberish. Also, Clancy makes heavy use of italicized text, which the Kindle version tends to munge up. If it was one or two, I could live with it, but it's at least one every few pages, and some have so many that it distracts from the story.Summary: great story, fantastic writing, just a horrible editing job in the Kindle version.
5 This is my favorite Tom Clancy gook to date. The book goes back in time to tell John Clark's fascinating history as a former Navy SEAL. The book takes you on two stories simultaneously; one being a secret mission in Vietnam to rescue American POWs, and the other, Clark's personal vendetta against a criminal drug ring. In the end, the stories cross paths. My only criticism, is that Clark's character is a little too superhuman, and a little more struggle on his part to accomplish his missions may be a little more engaging, that said, I was hooked enough to continue through this long book rather quickly.
5 Tom Clancy is one of the best writers I know. This book held my attention from the first page. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good story, whether or not they like books about the military, etc. I usually do not, but I love Tom Clancy's books.
5 First thing, ignore the professional reviewer's naked bias.Now, John Kelly transforms into CIA legend Mr. Clark in this unrelenting page turner.  For me, this is the strongest and most dynamic novel in Clancy's quasi-series involving Jack Ryan et.al. Clark, one of the previously minor recurring characters, comes alive with a "vengeance" here. This novel is equal parts background psychological motivation and unparalleled action and suspense.Reminiscent of Death Wish, only with less hand wringing, vigilante justice is meted out as the title indicates- without remorse- in response to pernicious, pervasive lawlessness. As with another 70s classic, Dirty Harry, civil liberties are cast aside by the former Navy seal in an attempt to right the wrongs of a society in chaos. Far from recoiling in horror as a few reviewers indicated, I found this novel inspirational.My advice, for what its worth, is to judge this through the prism of the reality presented in the entire "Jack Ryan' series.  Thus, Clark's motivation is explained, and you can identify or empathize with him or not. This is not an overtly political or a "how-to" book.  I recommend this novel both singularly and as one segment of the series, preferably the later.
5 I knew about John Clark from Sum of All Fears but didn't know anything about him, who he was and how he "came to be" John Clark.  I thought the book was very well written of course, but the story is good too.  John is someone you can really like.  Typically I don't care for the "killers" in the books, but John is different.  This book was just a little bit slow getting started but when it did, it was great.  It goes from one spot in the story to another just a little bit more than I like, but all in all, it was good.  I would read it again and watch a movie knowing the outcome too.
4 In 'Without Remorse,' Tom Clancy tells us the story of CIA legend Mr.  Clark.  'Remorse' Takes place during the frantic days of the Vietnam War  when ex-Navy seal John Kelly is content to live a solitery life after the  death of his wife and child.  When a new friend of Kelly's is brutaly  murdered and he himself injured, he becomes John Clark and takes the law  into his own hands.  While Clark's rampage is in full swing in Baltimore, a  downed Mormom pilot is taken prisoner in Vietnam.  The top brass are  adamant that this pilot be brought back before he is forced to give away  defence secrets.  Clark is called in and sent back to battle for one final  mission.  The results of both Clark's military mission and his destructive  personal vendetta make this a thriller in the great Clancy tradition.  'Without Remorse' sets the stage for the 'Jack Ryan' novels in which John  Clark is a major character and is another thrill-filled novel from the  master.
5 The Most Unput-Downable Of All of Tom Clancy's works. First of all, my apologies to Sir Winston and Daniel Webster for the title, but this was the effect of the book in question upon me. Second, I have just reviewed the one-star reviews of this book, and was amazed, though those people certainly have the right to their opinions. To me, this book is just something, once I have picked it up, that I am in deadly danger from, even if I have picked it up just to look at one section. I end up reading the whole thing. Again. There are sections that just demand that I read them, like where Nurse O'Toole alone sees John Kelly's face when he sees the last picture of Pam. The language is not perfect, but how that is described is very, very good. The scene with the pimp in New Orleans is interesting, particularly because Kelly decides to answer his question. The scene were Kelly reaches the Closest Point of Approach with the one drug dealer on the street is a personal favorite of mine.Tom Clancy wrote a realistic book about what a man would do if he had the training and the motivation and nothing to lose. The consequences Kelly inflicts upon those that hurt him are entirely realistic, and the fact that he considered himself better than his targets was also true to life. Soldiers of anykind who are that motivated would view the drug dealers as scum, and soldiers tend, no matter what a philosopher would tell you, to think in terms of good-guy/bad guy even when they are not so roused. Special Operations soldiers would be even more prone to this mentality, and the way Mr. Clancy has Kelly methodically roll them up is entirely chilling in its ruthlessness.At first, Kelly has no motivation but revenge. "Una salus victus nullam sperare salutem. The one hope of the damned is that they have no hope of salvation." My apologies to linguists everywhere; I undoubtly butchered that translation, but that is Kelly's mentality after the beginning. However, he does evolve as he goes down this path, he does question his conscience, and his motivation changes. The journey becomes less about revenge and more about defending those that can not defend themselves. I am not a violent person, nor do I condone vigilante mentality, but this book is a well thought out exercise in what a vigilante would do. Perhaps this could even be related to Marvel's Punisher, but Clancy's adaptation of this concept is masterfully done. I would dispute those who say it is not technical; it is the essence of the techniques of tactical stealth.This book is not for children, and it is not pretty. People who were adults at the time might find flaws in detail, but I personally could not. People who saw the Vietnam War on the nightly news might also not care for it, for the American Tragedies  and atrocites that covered much of the news at the time hardly have any mention. As this is solely the story of how John Clark came to be, leaving them little-mentioned was the correct choice.All in all, this is my favorite Clancy book for the story it told. The Hunt for Red October might be better, but only by a whisker.
4 Not Clancy's finest work, but eventually became a gripping page-turner for me. I guess it took me a while to get into the story because I kept thinking that the background story of Clark just didn't need to be told. But... once I got past that hurdle and the overly quick development of the love interest between John and Pam, I really got immersed in the story and the parallels Clancy was drawing between the foreign war and the casaulties of the hidden war still raging on American soil in our inner cities.I knocked a star off for the gratuitous insertion of the Ryan family into the story. I mean, come on!
5 Well written, realistic personal adventure book. Keeping in the Tom Clancy style this is another lovel tying together the numerous characters in the Tom Clancy series. Tom Clancy's attentiion to details, and accuracy of times and actual places and equipment give the reader the feeling of really being immersed in the story and not just standing outside.
4 Without Remorse is Clancy's introduction to John Clark, a character who  reappears in many other novels (Clear and Present Danger, Cardinal of the  Kremlin, etc.).  Clark, formerly John Kelley, is involved in two different  plots in this book, in completely different settings but nicely parrelel.  There are no plot holes in this book, and some moments where you just stop  reading because you are so suprised by what you read.This book is also  the &quot;death&quot; of Kelley.  On his mission of revenge he loses his  humanity, and this death explains some of his other evil actions, as in the  finale to Rainbox Six.
5 In 'Without Remorse,' Tom Clancy tells us the background story of CIA legend Mr. Clark. Six months after the accidental death of his pregnant wife, John Kelly pulls over and picks up a young girl standing by the side of the road. Kelly falls in love with Pam as he helps nurse her back to help. Pam reveals that she was a teenage runaway that was made into a drug addict so that she would become a prostitute to make money for a group of drug dealers. Kelly wants to see who these people are and where they operate at, since he has friends on the police force in the city where Pam was a prostitute. As they are patrolling the neighborhood, they are spotted by the drug dealers. Kelly is shot and left for dead and Pam's body is found a few days later in a public park. Kelly decides to rid the city of the drug dealers his way - killing each of them with a different weapon so the police won't have a M.O. to go off of.
5 Well written story from Mr Clancy. This will hold your attention until you are so tired you have to go to bed, then get up to finish it.
4 A spectacular reading novel. Clancy has a style which appeals to most readers. He can "draw" brilliant "pictures" with words. Clancy certainly seeks well-informed sources for his research. His ability to include the subtle bits of detail to complete the "mental picture" is matched by few. This reader is anxious for another Clancy novel.
4 Tom what can I say so enjoyed this  book.your characters so real.plenty of action and hero's.sometimes evil has to be taken care of .lots of turns.villains got some rough justice due them.
4 This is a great read... Brutal and dark but really shows where Clark came from. It mentions Ryan senior, Jack's father, but should not IMHO, be grouped as a Ryan novel. Just saying...
5 This just popped into my review folder. I read this book many years ago but, Without Remorse is perhaps my favorite book of all time. This was written back when Clancy did all his own writing and research and it shows. While in the beginning you may ask yourself, why do I need to understand how to tie a bowline or a clove hitch for example, you will find out as you read that you are being lead down a path of understanding that makes the story rich and visual. For anyone who wants to know how John Clark began and how he became such a bad*ss this explains it all in the most brilliant work Tom Clancy has ever produced.
5 An absolute amazing entry into the Jack Ryan universe. This novel provides the back story of the mysterious character of John Kelly A.K.A. Mr. Clark. The events take you on a two fold journey. One a revenge trip John takes on the local pimps and drug dealers who attacked him and killed his girl. While doing this he also plans and executes a Special Ops mission into Vietnam to rescue an American P.O.W. The action is intense and keeps moving at a steady pace through out. If you are new to Tom Clancy, this book is a great place to start.
5 I bought a kindle for myself for Christmas...Clancy is my all time favorite author and I have read most not all (not a fan of the new ghost writing novels...YUCK) of his books. This is my favorite one...so...gonna buy the kindle version and see how it goes. Will come back and update what I think...
5 REALLY A GOOD BOOK READING THIS ONE WAS ENJOYABLE THANK YOU IF ALL HIS BOOKS WERE AS GOOD AS THIS ONE IT WOULD BE A PLEASURE TO READ
3 I've been reading Tom Clancy since 1989, when my dad gave me copies of Hunt for Red October and Red Storm Rising as I left for college. I've loved most of his work (things started going seriously south with Rainbow Six), in particular Without Remorse. A few weeks ago, I decided that I wanted to revisit this favorite, so I purchased the Kindle edition.This novel focuses on the events leading to John Kelly's transformation into Mr. Clark, a central figure in several of the Jack Ryan-centric novels. Largely absent from Without Remorse is Clancy's typical wide-angle view of events with periodic zooms into the events in one setting or another, though it's clear that the historical context shapes the story. The story is well-paced and Clancy does a solid job of making us care about the central characters.The Kindle edition of Without Remorse, however, reads like someone tore the pages out of the novel and scanned them into the computer using a version of OCR software dating back to the mid-90s. There are quite a lot of mangled words, spacing is often weird, and punctuation frequently doesn't make sense. If you can overlook this sort of thing, the Kindle edition will work just fine for you. If you find that such problems interrupt the flow of the story, as I do, you're better off passing on the Kindle version and tracking down a hard copy from your local library or used book store.
5 This book will take you from the very start 'til the end. A real &#34;Can't put it down&#34; must read.
3 Clancy is an excellent writer I'm sure. I just found this book hard to follow and a too deep into details. Bounced around too much for my taste. The story was actually very good but I just got board with the detail depth and how long it got to conclusion.
2 I did not enjoy this book at all. would not reccomend it. This certainly was not one of his better books.
4 This was a great book. Very different from the other Clancy books that I have read, but very good none the less. While Clancy's books deal with espionage, and war, this book takes those aspects and put them in the background. Shoved to the foreground is a revenge story. This is a great book with characters that you care about, and some very exciting action sequences. This book is highly recommended.
4 Without Remorse is prerequisite reading to fully appreciate later books with Mr. Clark, to fully appreciate why he does what he does.
5 This is one of Tom Clancy's best novels yet- and surprisingly it doesn't way over a pound. It misses the mark by 1 ounce. This book was actually created after The Hunt for Red October and Patriot Games, but is the first  in the series. It is- more or less- a prelude to the series. Amazingly  enough, Jack Ryan does not play a particuly big role in this book. But none  the less, Tom Clancy shows how one man can change from a normal citizen  into a cold-blooded killer who will stop at nothing to reach his goal. I  suggest this book to anyone who likes Tom Clancy and is willing to devote  some time to a book. This is one of my favorite books in the series right  next to The Hunt for Red October, which has to be the best.  This is just  the book to start off the series.
2 At some point, Tom Clancy moved from being a great technothriller writer to a strident right-wing journeyman pedestrian page filler.  I think this was the book where that turn became obvious.  While there are excellent technical details and the novel moves at a fairly rapid pace, there are also many strident pages full of racist stereotypes.  Unfortunately Clancy also tries his hand at writing sex scenes and he is embarrassingly bad it.  A disappointment.
5 This is the Tom Clancy before the horrible Red Rabbit and the long and also horrible the bear and the Dragon. What I mean is that this is Tom Clancy at his best. This is my fav Clancy novel. It is about John Kelly whose wife has just died, and months meets a woman who he finds out had a terrible past. He tries to help her but then she dies also and Kelly sets out to punish the men who did that to her. Meanwhile there are American soldiers trapped in a Vietnamese camp and the American Government wants Kelly to help them rescue them. It is an action packed novel. If you like Tom Clancy novels, this is one novel you must not miss. To my opinion this is Clancy's best novel.
5 This story is in the best tradition of Clancy. Parallel stories, all filled with action and suspense. Some end the way you expect and some don't. The characters come alive as only Clancy and a few others can make them.
5 This is the story of the origin of Mr. Clark first introduced in Clear & Present Danger. It's one of Clancy's best novels & gives you a little history lesson in the origins and previous work from many other characters from the Jack Ryan series of novels. Great book I still can't believe this one has never been made into a movie.
5 I've read this piece three years ago,while serving my first year in the israeli defence force . Looking back at this stage of my life I can say  honestly that I was very young, naive ,and &quot;green&quot; . Things have  changed greatly ever since, but some remain the same .  This book came at a  very confusing time for me : I wasn't satisfied with my service and thought  of other options ,one of them was the Israel Marine Commando - our version  of the Navy Seals. This book actually had helped me make up my mind to  dismiss this option.  Don't get the wrong impression. It's a must read  .The first 100 pages are the best I've ever read. The story is so thrilling  ,it's hard to put it down .It made me realize how terrible the status of  the women in our society was and still is. I actually cried out loud in  pain while reading . Those days were exetremly violent in Israel ,every  monday and thursday I'd read about a woman being slaughter ,and felt the  urge to do something ,to fight those killers,to punish them like Kelly  punished the murderer in the book.  In regard to the Commando dilemma ,I  realized they make a killer out of a man. I descided I don't wanna kill  anybody . It's not my way.  Eventually ,the issues the book deals with are  somber and very important to disscuss ,but my space here is limited. I  would like anyone with interest in this subjests to contact me for further  discussion. And please read it, it's an experience that is hard to forget.
2 I'm hardly a bleeding heart liberal and I thoroughly enjoyed "Dirty Harry" and "Death Wish" (movies that you could really relate to in the context of their time, when it seemed the criminals had more "rights" than their victims) but this book is too much even for me because the vigilante style "justice" that our hero, John Kelly, dispenses to Baltimore's drug dealers and pimps in his quest for revenge is almost impossible to justify. That's the principal plot of this book, along with a somewhat interesting sub-plot that explains how Kelly was recruited by the CIA to set up a mission to rescue some POW's in Vietnam, which in time led to his taking on a full time job with the Agency, along with the alias John Clark.What sets the story in motion is when Kelly encounters a skinny, but attractive girl named Pam who is on the run from a gang of vicious pimps/drug dealers. In the first 100 pages or so, he falls for her, and with the help of a friendly doctor, gets her cleaned up and drug free, only to lose her when the gang spots her riding with him through their turf. Right off the bat this seems like an act of monumental stupidity on Kelly's part. He knows how ruthless these gang types are, yet he brings her back to their neighborhood without putting her in any kind of disguise! What a bonehead! And to top if off, after he initially eludes the bad guys by driving his 4x4 through a muddy lot in which their low riding sports car gets stuck, he then parks just a few blocks away, where the villains track him down and ambush him, giving him a nasty shotgun blast to the arm while taking Pam to be killed in an extremely cruel fashion.The rest of the book is about Kelly's one-man mission of vengeance. He finds that by disguising himself as a wino, he can roam the gang's territory without attracting attention, and he then starts homing in on the gang as he kills off an assortment of small fry dealers in his quest for info on his real targets. And that really is the problem with this book. It is entirely reasonable to cheer him on when he actually starts working on Pam's killers, including a scene where he tortures to death a particularly vicious [man] named Billy, but the rest of his killings are little more than cold blooded murder. True, pimps and drug dealers tend to be human scumbags, but neither crime warrants the death penalty, as Clancy seems to be suggesting. Viewed purely as a work of fiction, "Without Remorse" is basically OK, but in moral terms it comes off as somewhat disturbing.
5 Without Remorse is without a doubt ONE OF MY FAVORITE CLANCY NOVELS! John Kelly (Codename: Clark) is a CIA analyist and former Navy SEAL. Now this his is younger days working for the CIA back in the 60's during the war in Nam, and he did some secret covert missions for the CIA. Clark picks up a prostitute named Pam, and Clark befriends her since she has no family, and she tells Clark about what the pushers do to her and this is how she makes her money, so with anger flowing through his blood, Clark is ambushed by the pushers in the ghetto, and Pam is taken from the jeep and is tortured and beaten. Now with Pam dead, John decides to get back at them by bringing them war, since they asked for it, and they got it.Now with John fighting the pushers, John befriends Sandy, a doctor at the local hospital for Pam, and they become close, and she does not know what John is doing since he keeps it quiet. Now John is sent to North Vietnam to rescue a down F-14 Tomcat fighter pilot being held prisoner by the North Vietnamese and the Soviets. So with the pushers put on the side, he goes to Nam and he does what he has to do, and he gets out. He then comes back to America, and killing al of the pushers who had the hand in killing Pam, he now confronts the main gun in the drug pin, so he gets his revenge, and joins the CIA, so with the pushers dead, and the police on him for murders of the other pushers he killed earlier, the cops are on his tale, and Emmit Ryan (Jack Ryan's father) is on the case, and now it has gone cold, but he has a suspect: John Kelly. So with the help of the CIA, they faked John's death and they give him a new name; John Clark.The novel is very exciting, and this is a must read for any new of old Tom Clancy fan out there. Ignore his new stuff with caution, just stick to The Hunt For Red October to Rainbow Six.
5 I used to read Clancy's novels, such as "Red October" and "Clear and Present Danger," then lost interest as he became more technically minded and lost some of the heart behind his storytelling. Nevertheless, fellow readers have insisted for years that I need to read "Without Remorse." I finally dove into the story on a long flight--and without remorse!Clancy goes further back in time in this story than in any other, visiting the years of the Vietnam war and burgeoning drug trade on the streets of Baltimore. John Kelly, later known as the infamous Mr. Clark, is the lead character. Clancy readers are familiar with him from Jack Ryan books, but this novel is all Kelly's. It starts with him in mourning over the loss of his pregnant wife, then gives him a chance at a new life when he picks up an alluring, yet darkly mysterious, woman alongside the road. That fateful decision will bring him love and peace, as well as deep anger and violence.As Kelly sets out on a path of vengeance, hunting down despicable men on the streets of Baltimore, he also trains for a mission to rescue American pilots from a Vietnamese POW camp. These two stories converge, with Kelly at the center. Not all will go as planned. And we will understand why, where, and how "Mr. Clark" became the feared CIA agent in later (chronologically) books.Clancy focuses on the human story here, and it's a potent formula when bolstered by his weapons and military knowledge. This ranks up there with some of my all-time favorite action novels, and certainly ranks as my favorite Clancy title.
2 Tom Clancy probably wrote this on a ship in his early 20s.  It's a great example of a first novel, and how much better an author can become.  There is less than 1 paragraph about Jack Ryan in this book - when he thinks about which college he will attend at age 18 - VERY misleading to Jack Ryan in parenthesis in the title!
5 I've read many of his books and am frequently bored or find it poorly  edited - but this book was great - a big difference beyond the others. Far  more badass than the previous (and even future ones somewhat) - very cool  how he gets back at the bad guys (at one point acting as a homeless person  - the description of how he lives is great). A great action novel - not  much of a thinker's book, but are any of Clancy's?
5 While it's sometimes hard to follow with sudden scene changes, this was really good & very complex. It made me think.
5 A superb introduction into the shadowy world of John Kelly, aka John  Clark. From the moment he picks up the young female hitch hiker, and from  when she dies at the hands of the drug dealers, you know what happens, he  gets his own revenge. It was pretty awesome but alarming how Clancy went  into his own exact details on how Kelly/Clark builds his own firearms. So,  maybe liberties were taken and the narrative states a lot that he is a Navy  SEAL, trained to do all these things he does. But my one criticism is this  for the plot. If Sandra O'Toole, his nurse girlfriend really didn't like  him killing all these drug dealers when she found out he was responsible by  her own intuition, surely she would have left him? Any woman with enough  intelligence would! 'Without Remorse' - healthy attitude or a state of mind  from the indoctrinations of military training and the Vietnam War? Judge  for yourself.  So the revenge element becomes another Goons of  Hazzard/Death Wish type scenario. If one can convey the atmosphere of  despair at being a victim of a horrific crime like that as well as Clancy  and makes an impression on someone, is this a good thing? Think . . . I  know I was beaten up in school several times and I did take a violent  revenge, admittedly, but I never felt better for it. Kelly's portrayal as a  jarhead robot brainwashed by the ongoing war effort works in fiction,  though. Just don't emulate it. . .  As far as the CIA recruiting him for  his skills, this is an interesting angle. The Vietnam scenes of the POW  camp with the Russian and American officers held prisoner shows how in war,  people are the same. Humans, not combat robots. Just the same, discussing  each other's strategies on nuclear defence and asking themselves why they  are enemies?  Naval scenes with Admiral Greer in an early incarnation -  as excellent as ever! And we do see an early incarnation of Jack Ryan,  while his father Emmet hunts down Kelly.  Altogether, one to read for  yourself and one to think carefully about afterwards - does Kelly's end  justify the means? Drug dealers may be scum, but death puts them out of the  misery of living to regret what they've done wrong at the hands of the  crazies inside.  Well done Tom Clancy.
4 P. 46. Clancy describes her as a pharmacologist. She is portrayed as a physician in healing Pam and Doris. A pharmacologist is NOT an MD. She may have been a 'doc' but only as a PhD.514 &#34;held&#34; should me &#34;he'd&#34;
2 This novel really did not hold my interest.  It starts out with a number of seemingly unrelated incidents.  The author apparently knows where he is and when he is, but it would be nice if he would share that with his readers.  The novel then proceeds with a bunch of parallel plots, jumping continually from one to another.  That is compounded by the author occasionally telling you how to build a watch when you just wanted to know the time.  Do we really need a manual on building sound suppressors for handguns?The various plots eventually start to come together but, by that time, I was losing interest and skimming over substantial amounts of material trying to get on with the story.  I regret that I followed the advise of the majority of reviewers, who rated it with four and five stars, and purchased the novel.  It is a skimmer rather than a page-turner, and it is not on my listing of recommended novels for other readers.
3 I know I'm going to aggravate most die hard Clancy fans by giving this three stars but hey, it's an 'OK' book.  Could have been about 300 pages less and still got his point across. I did like how Kelly took out an entire gang with ease throughout the book. It just seemed like there was too much going on for all this to be believable though. Come on, the guy is planning a raid on a Vietnam POW camp like the real life 'Bo Gritz' and at the same time is putting away the local bloods and crips with a K Bar.This book would have gotten a better rating for me if less time was spent on the rehab of a drug addict and more time spent on the POW camp raid. (I had no idea before reading this book that it was also about American POW's so that was a nice surprise.) All that buildup for.... Well I don't want to spoil anything but there only about 3 pages out of the 750 that dealt with the snatch of that Russian officer. I think that in the time frame we were dealing with, the local cops wouldn't have cared much if a guy was wasting the local drug dealers. Maybe in today's world they would have to put on a dog and pony show with interviews and the whole nine after pressure from civil rights, but not in the late 60's early 70's.In the end, this book falls short of explaining to the reader exactly why Clark is the special ops/covert guy he is today.
4 This book is a departure from the formula of his previous works like Clear and Present Danger, and Patriot Games.  It is a story of revenge taken by Clancy's CIA operative John Clark.  We see how Clark came to be who he is  in the Jack Ryan novels.  This book was fantastic and it is recomended to  all as are all of Clancy's novels.
5 I am a new Tom Clancy reader starting with rainbow six then moving on to this book, to read a little more about john clark (Kelly).  I have to say it did keep me on the edge of my seat with all the twist and turns, he could have made this into three different novels if he wanted.  I loved it.  Thought it an excellent read and am looking forward to reading more of Clancy's titles, I hope they are as good as the last two.
5 And here's why...Its his most accessible by far. I had learned about John Clark in reverse, my perceptionwas that he was just another cold blooded killer, a machine programmed to do the biddingof the CIA. This tells his story with great compassion and sensitivity and thats why thisis my #1 Clancy thriller of all time.Gone are the laborious details of submarines, fighters, tanks, etc. that so many yearn for,what we have is an old fashioned story of love and revenge. And boy does Clancy get the revengepart right. Somewhat implausible for purists, but come on people, this is a fast, gripping,and highly satisfying feast of methodical payback! Just the way its supposed to be. A mustread.
4 My only complaint about this story is that it is the first in the JOHN CLARK series, NOT the first in the JACK RYAN series. Jack Ryan has a bit part and no more.I did like the story a lot, and plan to read the other two books in the JOHN CLARK series. I also just finished the real first book in the Jack Ryan series - Patriot Games - and liked it even more. I expect I'll enjoy all nine books in that series.
5 If you are a Jack Ryan fan then you will want to read this book to continue with his stroy.
5 Without RemorseThis is my favorite Tom Clancy book. Makes you want to dress up as a hobo and join in the crusade.Gunner September 2007
4 Another side-show attraction to the Ryan series which tells the background of John Clark and how he came to be the most trusted field operative in the Ryan series. Excellent concept to provide answers to one of the most mysterious characters in contemporary spy novels.  Book can be some-what over the top graphically, but serves a purpose in the story.  Must read for any John Clark fan.
5 In what is easily the best book I've ever read, Tom Clancy creates a cast of characters that trancend the series of Jack Ryan.John Kelly, In what is easily the best book I've ever read, Tom Clancy creates a cast of characters that trancend the series of Jack Ryan.John Kelly, the main character of the novel, is easily the most astounding person I've ever read about. From his times in Vietnam as part of the Third Special Operation Group, to the harrowing tale embodying the main plot of Without Remorse, you just can't help but be taken away with the perfect machismo and badass-ness of the character.The storyline in itself is excellent, keeping you turning the pages as the action comes hard and fast, packaged with much of Clancy's trademark informative prose.I would reccomend to all who love a good action / military read.
5 Superior read. Tom Clancy at his best. Exciting and a good mystery with lots of action. The origin of John Clark!
5 Read it for the second time and enjoyed it as much as the first time.A fast moving, page turner. Typical Clancy.Outstanding
5 I had read Without Remorse more than ten years ago and came upon it again as an audio-book. I do a lot of driving and find a story well researched, well written, and well read, a pleasure that makes the investment in driving time easy. Traffic jams, and delays are now endurable.John Clark is a man focused upon Justice. He makes the effort to identify the problem and those responsible then sets about to correct the situation without lawyers. The world needs more men like John Clark.
5 Great character development. Straight forward believable plot. Good assembly of reoccurring characters from other Clancy Books. Very tough to put down.
5 I've read most all of Mr. Clancy's novels and John Clark is probably my favorite character in all of his books. This novel explains Clark's whole existence in a very real and believable way so any reader that picks up a Jack Ryan or Rainbow Six Novel will be well informed not only about Mr. Clark but several other main characters in a lot of other novels as well without having to scratch there heads trying to figure out where these particular people come from. Plus it's a great standalone novel all by itself.
3 I would not recommend this book.  As nearly all Clancy books it is looooong.  In this book Clancy attempts to develop the history of the character "John Clark" aka John Kelly.  But, unfortunately, Clancy has become such a big star in the publishing industry that he obviously can trump the suggestions of a good editor.  And this book woefully needs an editor - ANY editor.The story:  John Kelly looses his wife to an automobile accident, then picks up with a girl he meets hitchhiking who is killed by her former pimp setting Kelly off on a killing rage.  Intertwined with this story is another largely superfluous story of Kelly as the point man in a Vietnam prisoner rescue operation.  This latter less interesting and predictable story takes up over half of the book.The story line of Kelly seeking revenge is a good albeit hackneyed one and he should have run with this one.  The end, to my mind was tortuously unbelievable.  I simply do not believe that Kelly's character would have acknowledged these crimes particularly since he went to such great lengths to protect himself.  Kelly also gets improbably sloppy at the end which to my mind was completely out of character.This will be my last Clancy book.  The promise revealed in "The Hunt for Red October" and developed in subsequent novels seems to have run aground.
5 The enigmatic Mr. Clark was always my favorite character of the Ryan canon, and this book takes him back to his beginnings, in the 1960s. Really Clancy's only "historical" novel, this thriller is probably his most emotional, with a story that pulls you into a vengeful thrill ride.It's been a common ploy in thriller fiction, the highly trained soldier going after the criminals who murdered his girlfriend, but no one does it in such a visceral manner as Clancy in Without Remorse. I've read the book probably five times since it came out, and it never gets old. Highly recommended.
1 I WAS GOING TO PERU AND NEEDED A LONG BOOK, THICK. I HAD NEVER READ ANY OF CLANCY'S BOOKS BUT HECK, I'D SEEN HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER, THE MOVIE, AND IT WASN'T HALF BAD. CLANCY'S POPULAR, A BESTSELLING AUTHOR. HOW FAR WRONG  COULD I GO?  PRETTY FAR APPARENTLY.  WHAT A TURKEY. INFANTLE. THE GRAMMER  WAS HORRIBLE. BUT I READ THE GLOWING REVIEWS OF THIS BOOK AND I WONDER,  WHAT IS A REVIEW? WHAT DOES IT MEAN? IT WAS THE ONLY BOOK IN MY BAG SO I  SLOGGED THROUGH THIS CONSERVATIVE, JUVENILE POT BOILER WONDERING WHICH  CHARACTER WAS THE DUMBEST.  IT WAS LIKE THEY ALL TOOK STUPID PILLS. IT  WOULDN'T HAVE MATTERED IF EVERYBODY DIED IN THE END. I WAS CURIOUS, OFTEN,  ABOUT WHO WAS PROOF-READING THIS FIFTH GRADE LEVEL ATTEMPT AT STORY  TELLING. WHAT A MESS. IT WENT ON AND ON AND ON. IN CONTRAST, IF I CAN  RELATE SOMETHING POSITIVE:  J. F. FREEDMAN'S, AGAINST THE WIND, (SAME TYPE  OF STORY) WON'T WASTE YOUR TIME.
5 This should be a movie and William Defoe has just got to play Kelly/Clark!This is a definate departure for Clancy to focus closely on a single plot line, but he pulls it off expertly.  If you haven't read the earlier books, read them first.  This one is intended to fill in the dark background of the character you've already come to appreciate - and what a dark background it is!  And who wouldn't want to step into his shoes vicariously, brutally deal with some of the scum in the world (without any remorse), and get away with it all?  Sign me up!
5 For me, Without Remorse is Clancy's breakthrough. He takes his characters emotionally to the next level. Predictably the action and wartime policy intrigue feature prominently, as John Kelly (aka Clark) is dispatched to Vietnam to free a POW. But the other half of the novel is about his vendetta against a crime syndicate in Baltimore. What did they do to face the wrath of this one-man wrecking crew? They killed a girl who nurtured him in a time of need. Kelly's revenge is brutal amd just. There's an interrogation scene halfway through the book involving a decompression chamber that pushes the emotional boundaries of the novel and moved me to tears. The ending chase sequence explains how Kelly reemerges as Clark later in the Ryanverse timeline.
4 This is the first book on the timeline that would be considered part of the Jack ryan story.  It is about John Kelly (clark) and how he goes after some bad guy &quot;WITHOUT any REMORSE&quot;.  A great story.  Review is for Audio cassette.
5 The first thing you notice about 'Without Remorse' is that it is NOT a Jack Ryan adventure, in fact he is nowhere to be found within the many pages of this book.  Clancy took a gamble on this knowing it would ultimately turn off some of his die hard Ryan fans, but if you pass this one up, you are losing out on quite a literary adventure.  Only John Clark comes close to being as well developed as Ryan...but we have no idea about how he came to be who he is today, and more important, the WHY?  'Without Remorse' tells John's tale, which is far from a pretty one.John's tale begins during the Vietnam War and moves from one continent to another and show's us what John is made of, and why. He never set out to be John Clark (not his real name), in fact the events which transpire and ultimately force John to do the unthinkable are horrific indeed, but it makes you wonder what you would do given the same circumstances...  I wouldn't go so far as to say I would actually do the same, but would I entertain the thought?  Yeah, sure.  What limits do we have as humans?  We get to find out Clarks here in a decidedly different story than what we have come to expect from Clancy, and easily one of the better novels he has produced.  I also very much enjoyed 'Rainbow Six' which seemed to be panned by many, but hey, I'm a BIG John Clark fan...  'Without Remorse' is a worthy addition to Clancy's great collection of works, and very worthwhile to buy and read.
5 Finally, John Clark's story is told, and it is truly remarkable.  Clancy was in rare form when he put this one together.  Kind of a blend of THE TERMINATOR and DEATH WISH.  I loved every minute of reading time that went into this book.  One of the best back-stories ever.  Highly recommended.
5 John Kelly - SEAL, Vietnam vetern, married.  Then his wife was killed... and his unborn child... in an accident.  Meets a girl, Pam; a runaway from a life of abuse, prostitution, and drug running.  He gets her straightened out... but in another accident, she is tortured, raped, and killed by the drug dealers she escaped from.Enter his life as John Clark; CIA operative, with a mission to rescue POWs in Vietnam - officially declared dead.  Enter his life as John Kelly - serial killer of those and others who killed Pam.  Enter Sandra, a nurse who provides help to another victim of prostituion and drugs who John attempts to rescue.  Finally, the understanding of John Kelly - now John Clark... a dangereous enemy who kills for his country, both foreign and domestic... who kills those enemies who prey on the innocent... and totally without remorse.Without Remorse gives us a greater understanding of the forces that drove John Kelly to become a serial killer, and his CIA identity of John Clark to operate as he does.  Even more so, we understand the position of his future wife.  Sandra is a nurse, dedicated to the art of healing.  How can she resolve the conflict between John and his killing with her desire to heal?
5 While I usually do not read fiction, I was pleasantly surprised by how good this novel is.The novel follows the story of John Kelly (also known as Mr. Clark).  Kelly is an ex-Navy SEAL who is now an underwater demolitionist.  The book takes place in the early 1970's during the fading years of the Vietnam War.  Kelly's wife is killed in an automobile accident.  The book begins by describing his dealing with the loss of his wife.  Kelly then falls in love with Pam, a prostitute, who has escaped from her pimp, who works for an up and coming drug lord.  The pimp/drug lord has a hit done on Kelly and kidnaps Pam.  Though Kelly is left for dead, he is taken to the hospital and recovers.  In the meantime, Pam is brutally tortured and murdered.  As I do not want to give away the rest of the book, all I will say is that the rest of the book deals with vigilante justice.The length of the book is extremely intimidating when you first start reading.  However, the book reads like an excellent movie.  The story is told from three main viewpoints, Kelly's , the police, and the drug ring's.  Clancy does an excellent job of tying the three views of the same story together at the end.  The chapters get a little lengthy at times, thus not leaving a convenient place to stop reading.I would highly recommend anyone who likes reading fiction revolving around the military or vigilante justice.  The book gets a little lengthy, but stick with it.  I though the ending was a little predictable, but it was still a splendid read.  The book had me on the edge of my seat the entire time I read it.
4 John Kelly is a former Navy SEAL now a civilian demolitions expert.  His pregnant wife is tragically killed in a car accident.  As he tries to move on, he meets Pam, a drugged out hooker who is trying to escape her life and move on.  Just when John is falling in love with Pam and trying to help her change her life, she is brutally murdered by the drug ring that controlled her and other prostitutes like her.  Now John must deal with his anger and compounded sadness.  How he chooses to deal with it is highly controversial as he uses his extensive military training to hunt down and take out all of those that are involved with Pam's death.At the same time, the war in Vietnam is raging and numerous American soldiers have been taken prisoner in a secret location and reported dead.  The military calls on John and his expertise to plan an extration of these soldiers and reunite them with their families.  John Kelly is living a double life - both involving cunning, strategy, and killing.  He wrestles with the morality of what he is doing as it compares to the evil people that are his targets.Tom Clancy never disappoints.  The plot covers a lot of area, but he manages to link the various stories together and keep the reader interested.  The book goes on a bit too long at times and could probably have benefitted from being trimmed down.  But overall, the pages turn and make for a facinating story.  The action is intense on every page and well worth the lengthy read.
5 Without Remorse is by far my favorite Tom Clancy novel. John Kelly, also known in later novels as "John Clark," is a former Navy SEAL who does a good deed for a drifter, Pam, who turns out to be a runaway sex slave/prostitute; and he ends up falling in love with her. He helps her beat her drug addiction and learn to respect herself. They make a special life together.When Pam makes up her mind to go to the police with the information she has on the men who kidnapped and enslaved her, she does so in order to help the other girls still in captivity. Unfortunately, she is seen and recognized by her former captors before she can talk to the police.They shoot John and recapture Pam.When John recovers in the hospital and discovers that the woman he fell in love with has been brutally raped, tortured, and murdered--her body even being displayed in public as a warning; he sets off on a quest for justice and revenge. The methods he uses to exact his revenge are imaginative and well described.I've already said that this is my favorite Clancy novel. It is also my favorite revenge story. I've read it numerous times, and I'm sure I will read it several times more. This is a good place to start if you haven't read anything by Clancy before.
5 The line between social justice and vigilantism can be a fine one, as Clancy clearly demonstrates in this no-holds-barred thriller detailing the pre-CIA life of recurring character John Kelly (a.k.a. John Clark).Kelly, still grieving the loss of his wife, meets an exciting young woman with whom he develops an instant chemistry. Within just a few days of inviting Pam onboard his boat and getting to know her, he falls head over heels in love--but not before discovering that she's a drug addict and a former prostitute. Undeterred, Kelly sets out to cure Pam of her addictions. As part of the healing process, Kelly takes Pam back to the streets of Baltimore. As extremely bad luck would have it, Pam is recognized by her former pimp, who shoots Kelly and kidnaps the girl. Days later, Kelly turns up in a hospital, and Pam turns up dead. Kelly vows to rehabilitate himself and avenge Pam's murder, eventually drawing on his considerable skills as a former Navy SEAL and embarking on a campaign of terror against the city's drug world that has cops scratching their heads and dealers quaking in their dark alleys.Meanwhile, in war-torn Vietnam, a U.S. spy drone snaps a photo of a high-ranking military official who is supposed to be dead--a man with knowledge that could be extremely beneficial to America's enemies. The Pentagon's top brass decides to stage a rescue, and who better to lead the mission than former SEAL John Kelly? Now, torn between his desire to punish his girlfriend's murderers and his loyalty to his country, Kelly has to decide which mission is more important. The choice he makes will affect not only the course of Kelly's life but the very condition of his soul.The literary device of hero vs. human evil is a familiar one, and the ethical questions the book raises are worth considering. As with many of this author's novels, caution is required; the book contains accounts of torture, physical and emotional abuse, drug use, and war violence. The first chapter contains a relatively mild sex scene, and bad language is used throughout. But Clancy is a master of political and military intrigue, and the objectionable material is included not for its own sake but to support the compelling story and believable characters. Readers who are able to cheer for an antihero with a conscience will love Without Remorse.
5 This is where is all starts in the series. This book will catch your attention and  you won't want to put it down. Its very deep and you get to know some of the characters we know in later books in their early life.
5 This is the fifth time I've read &#34;Without Remorse&#34; so that should tell you something!  In my opinion, it was Clancy's best novel.
1 An exciting story of a serial killer vigilante as American super hero in a black and white world of myopic tunnel vision. If you don't mind troglydyte heroes who are predominantly white, and unidimensional villains who are predominantly ethnic or racial minorities than this book is for you.
5 This is great recreation reading. I get drawn in to the character and when I'm done with the book I feel satisfied with my reading time. I guess you could say that I am a great fan of this type of plot and non-fiction material.
5 This novel was written during a period when Clancy was in &quot;The Zone.&quot;  This novel provides the reader with a background of a character that we know from previous novels as John Clark.  Clark, an ex-Navy Seal, who possesses a great deal of intelligence and ice water in his veins when confronted with evil.  He shows absolutely no remorse and offers no apologies for exterminating the criminals who wreak havoc on society.  This is a very dark novel with extremely graphic descriptions of gratuitous violence coupled with excessive profanity.  However, the book is also a great yarn with intricate sub-plots and places the reader in the midst of the action that took place during the Viet Nam War era.  What's interesting is that Jack Ryan, son of a homicide detective, makes a cameo appearance as a college senior and discusses career options with his dad.A shame that this book was never made into a movie.  It would have been awesome.
5 Im really not a huge Clancy fan,I liked Rainbow six and clear and present danger but the others I read were very average and boring,but Without Remorse is probably my favorite book of all time.I have read it 3 times and it is enjoyable from begining to end.If they only could of done a movie of it.But like the other movies they would of messed it up.
1 I couldn't read Tom Clancy's Red October, or any of his other books. They were just too detailed on the different ships the Navy has, bombs, etc. However, Without Remorse is more character driven and less technical. It is a fast paced, good story. I really enjoyed this book.
5 I thought I had read all of Clancy's books, however, I found this one by accident on Amazon and believe it was one of his best works.  Loved the story line with a fantastic, unexpected ending.  This is a must read.
5 I continue to think that Clancy is a quality author and I will read anything he (not the team) writes.  This is no exception.  I really liked the development of "Mr. Clark", he is now the standard for the anti hero.  The story was also another good one, our hero saying enough is enough and putting his foot down.  You get everything you expect from one of his books, great characters with a lot of development, a strong story line, many sub plots that come together in the end and details - lots of details about weapons, tactics and anything else guys like to talk or read about.  I felt like going out and kicking a little drug dealer butt myself after finishing the book.
5 This story is set in Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan series.  By the chronology of that series it is the first book, but should NOT be read first.  In order to appreciate its finer points, readers should be familiar with CIA operative John Clark and his behind-the-scenes role.  This is John Clark's backstory.John Clark was once John Kelly, a Navy SEAL and Vietnam veteran.  He sails, dives and enjoys life.  When his girlfriend is killed by drug dealers, John is devastated.  His anguish turns to rage as he learns about the trafficking in drugs and human lives in his city, unnoticed by John and almost everyone else.  He puts his combat skills back to work as he stalks and kills violent criminals.  He also begins working for the Federal government on very similar missions.  It becomes increasingly likely that his two lives will collide.This is an excellent book which explains much about the skills, attitudes and loyalties John Clark demonstrates throughout the Jack Ryan series.  Several familiar faces appear briefly in the story, making intriguing connections.  Well-read Tom Clancy fans will enjoy these revelations, but they are not necessary to follow the story.  The story itself is a good one, but has some very disturbing events and implications.  Not for the squeamish.
5 I've read all the Jack Ryan books and this one does not dissapoint.  Hunt for Red October was just the begining for me.  I have read all the Ryan books.
5 For Clancy lovers, the names Clark and Ryan are not new.  What is new, though, is this book, which strays from Ryan completely, and gives readers the background of Clancy's most mysterious character.  This book, in my opinion, is nothing like any of the other Clancy tales to date.  It was published right in between some of Clancy's most popular books, yet has nothing to do with any of them.  It takes place in the Washington/Baltimore area and Vietnam and is a great thriller.  There is no technical mumbo-jumbo that is typically found in Clancy's works.  It's all action of the best kind.  If you have never before read one of Tom Clancy's books, I highly recommend this one as your first.  It's a great book that will be enjoyed by all and read over again.. I've already read it twice!! Enjoy!
4 I thought this was a great book.  It was full of suspense and action and true to Clancy gave us an inside view of how Clark deals with an urban problem.
1 Clancy should stick with the techno stuff.  His attempt to show the more human side of his characters flops.  Kelly, and every other character, is one-dimensional.  It is simply too trite that a man could fall instantly in love with a hitchhiker, without our having any hint of what he really sees in her, then spend the rest of the book obsessed with avenging her death.  Not that the guys didn't deserve it, mind you.  He does play with the gray areas of justifiable actions outside the law, kind of a human super-hero vigilante for whom police are probably grateful behind closed doors.  But this book has the literary depth of your average Sergeant Fury comic book.
5 so much that he has read it about 10 times over the years.  He got rid of his book collection when we moved to Maryland from California, and has been slowly replacing them.  But this book he wants me to read, because it is all taking place right here in Maryland.  Fun...I hope
5 Clancy cleared the bar (that he set himself) easily with this one.  He has written/co-written/consulted on some dogs, but I've always been a fan.  The attention and commitment to detail are superb, as are his sources (obviously).  I've read and re-read most of his books more than twice, and all of them to date at least once.  This is where John Kelly (Clark) hits the scene,  and his story is world class REAL and emotional, even for "Mission: Impossible" fiction.  There's nothing in Clancy's books that "couldn't happen" even when not at his best.  You can read the back cover for the storyline, but I promise that once you open the front cover you won't stop until you've read everything in between. Cussler, Ted Bell, W.E.B Griffin, Dan Brown...I read them too, but Tom Clancy at worst is a great read.  And his best is THE best, and this is one of them.
5 In this book we finally get to know Mr. Clark.  Clancy, unlike he does in his other books, focuses a lot on a love story which is the basis for the action in this book.  Although Mr. Clark's military skills are talked about in great description, it is not another military he ends up using them against.  His fight is against drug dealers and pimps, and the story is great.  One has to read it to understand because this is not the typical "love story", in fact it is a love story that you would think Clancy would write.  Kudo's to Clancy on his endeavor out of the normal military novel.  I hope we get more books focusing on Mr. Clark and his group, Rainbow Six (another great Clancy book).
5 While I find it a bit of a stretch to say this is part of the Jack Ryan story, it does provide the complete back story to one of the best characters in the Jack Ryan story line, Mr. Clark.  The story blends a human story with classic Clancy international politics and espionage better than any of his other works.  The read is enjoyable with multiple story lines running in parallel and converging with proper closer.  I miss the original cover art, but this is Clancy at his all around best.
2 Tom Clancy's strength has been writing the techno-thriller.  The weak points in his books have been characterizations and dialog, especially casual conversation.  All of his characters have been one dimensional,  wooden stereotypes.  Trying to expand more on wooden characters is one of  the reasons his Executive Orders is so bad (one of many reasons).Without  Remorse is a basic action/revenge novel. It is set in the low tech drug  world. It relies much more on character and emotions. Some interest,  dimension, and character development is given to the hero by evolving him  into a revenge machine without remorse.  But, that is the only interesting  aspect of the hero and Clancy ends up cheapening it by later glorifying it  in this book and Executive Orders.  The other characters in the book aren't  very interesting.  Clancy is very awkard with the love stories and emotions  and some of it is just embarrassing.But Clancy isn't the only action  writer that has problems with character development (Ludlum is only mildly  better).  What's really important, is the book exciting?  The ending is  pretty good and there are a few good action sequences in the middle.  But,  there are long boring stretches while Clancy tries in vain to develop the  characters.This book is about the origins of Kelly, the CIA agent who  appears in most of the Jack Ryan books.  I started reading Debt of Honor,  but stopped when I heard about this book.  I switched to Without Remorse  because I thought that there might be important insights in this book that  lead up to the later books.  It turned out that there were no important  revelations here and it really has no impact on the later stories.  For  someone who continues to follow the Jack Ryan series, this book might be a  must read.  But, I may have given up on Clancy after the horrible Executive  Orders and there are many writers who do this type of story better.
5 This book is great. It kept me wanting to turn the page after page. The beginning was alittle slow but that is in all books. It picked up the pace. Tom Clancy did a great job and whenever i think of this book I think of a movie. That's how good he was at describing everything. I still think I watched a movie and not read a book. Great Job here Mr. Clancy
1 A friend recommended this to me, saying, "Really amazing suspsense/thriller about a man whose girlfriend is killed so he goes on a vengeance spree to avenge her death and kill the drug dealers involved."By that description, this sounded really promising.  Who doesn't love a good vengeance tale?  And killing off the scum of the earth?  Even better.  I was really shocked when I hated this book...and I don't mean "disliked", I really HATED this book.  Sorry Tom Clancy, I'm sure you're someone I'd love to have a beer with in real life and you've written some great novels, but this just isn't one of them.Just about every negative review mentions the overlong sequence about Clancy's character building a silencer for his gun.  Yes, that was tedious to read even for someone who loves guns.  The other group of negative reviewers are the liberal types who find vengeance stories appalling anyway.  However, what was more tedious to me was reading about some self-important idiot picking up a hooker off the street, falling in love with her, and nursing her, and then attempting vengeance for her after a romance not even remotely believable.I've known men who have this fantasy...and that fantasy is to find a weak, beautiful woman who will do whatever the hell he wants her to do and will shut up.  They're also the type that insist on marrying foreign women (I have to laugh when their foreign wife makes American friends, watches American TV, etc. and becomes exactly what they always hated anyway).  If you've ever hung out with one of these un-gentlemen, then you know EXACTLY the type I'm talking about and you know Kelly is exactly this type.  Kelly's girlfriend is completely one-dimensional.  No personality whatsoever...but probably plenty of venereal diseases if you're into that kind of thing, I guess.  Kelly seems to be one of those guys who hate women and really, really hate women with any intelligence whatsoever.  I've never read a character quite so flat as Pam, Kelly's hooker-turned-girlfriend.  She's not a gal you could take out for coffee and the best conversation of your life.The whore just ends up getting them in more trouble, of course.  I don't think it is a spoiler to say she is killed, but here is where the story falls completely flat.  In order for the whole vengeance scenerio to work out - we, the reader, actually have to CARE that the character was killed.  Pardon me for being crass enough to say that I just don't care about dead, previously drug-addicted hookers with no personalities who are taken in by some guy who talks down to them as if they are five.  When Pam, Kelly's girlfriend, finally bites the big one, there is no sadness in it.  Kelly's wife had died 6 months prior...and instead of mourning her like a gentleman, we find out he is cavorting with hookers throughout that six months and then picked up this other piece of trash by the side of the road.Clancy wrongfully assumes we're going to believe a vengeance scenerio where a man goes on a killing spree over a whore he treated like a piece of furniture, anyway.  Maybe if it was his dead WIFE rather than the hooker, the story would have had some meaning behind it, held some water.  Instead, the premise is set up and I just found myself caring less and less the deeper I got into this book, the torture scenes, etc.  If you're going to make someone seek vengeance quite the way Kelly does, you'd better make it fully, 100% believable and justified.  In this case, there was nothing. Seriously?  Clancy?  Is that the best you could do?  Why not his wife?  His daughter?  His sister?  There has to be SOME personal connection to your cause to carry a plot like this out and there is NONE!  It has to be a cause that the reader can connect with, as well.  It's got to make your blood boil just READING about it...but alas, a whore - who CHOSE her lifestyle, CHOSE to use drugs, and CHOSE to be a waste of space.  That's who you choose as our flaming cross?  Then you can't even show why she's worth it?  I just didn't find it believable, at all, and I like reading about men of noble character and strength - the type of men you won't find cavorting with hookers shamelessly.  Read something by James Alexander Thom who writes more about the true character of a hero without traversing through cess pools of society caused by people who chose to live that lifestyle.
5 I had read this book when it first came out almost 20 years ago. This is a re-read of my favorite Clancey novel, a tribute to one of the best writers of this genre. The tough guy novels of today seem bland by comparison. Today it is about Terrorism and the Middle East. Back then it was about Vietnam and the Soviets. This is masterful story telling.
5 "Without Remorse" is the page turner to beat all page turners.  I brought this book to Korea with me the first time I went there, knowing that I'd have some spare time at the end of a six week tour there.  I was expecting to maybe read half of the book in that time and finish it when I came home.  No way!  Once I started this book, it was done in less that 48 hours.  You simply cannot put this one down for something as trivial as sleeping or eating.  Tom Clancy goes into great detail giving the whole backstory on John Kelly/Clark.  Once you've read this book, you'll be thinking back on all that came before and after it saying to yourself, "this is how and why John Clark does what he does."  It is extremely heart wrenching to read what happens to Pam and how John Clark deals with it.  You feel as if you want to be there with him, ready to take out some vigilante justice.  I had originally skipped this one and read his next novel, what a mistake that was.  Even though I knew that John Clark was in the next novel, I kept saying a prayer hoping he doesn't get killed in this one.  That is how good a writer Tom Clancy is.  I don't know if there's such a thing as a writer's hall of fame, if not, there should be one with Tom Clancy right there at the top.  Thank you very much to Tom Clancy for an absolutely great read!
5 I ordered this book to be mailed to my son in a correctional institution - he thought it was VERY good.
1 Maybe it gets to the exciting part somewhere, but all I've seen so far is melodrama and weird situations - like when the girl who the main character picks up  meets two strangers that are man and wife doctors, she allows the wife to give her a physical exposing that she was sexually brutalized and on drugs!Yeah, sure! And then this dock blabs it all to her new boyfriend, then the main character after sleeping with her for several days, only after the doc's report, notices the welt scars on her back!  Umm, I don't think so.And all this while, the main character is bawling about his wife who passed away 6 months prior, and the only action we get from him is him repairing the propellers on the doctors' boat!I am glad amazon has a lenient return policy. Four days of on and off reading and still no action gets this thing returned!
4 I fully admit it took me a while to get over my initial shock that Tom Clancy had written a book that focused not on Jack Ryan but on John Clark.  While I did not enjoy this book as much the two Jack Ryan books that came before or after it, "Without Remorse" is still a worthwhile effort and I consider it superior to Clancy's most recent novel, "The Bear and the Dragon."  This is not a story driven by technology but by the intense desire of a man to have the world make sense.  It is a more intimate story that we are used to from Clancy.Actually, "Without Remorse" represents a logical extension of one of Tom Clancy's strengths, which is the depth of background he provides his characters.  Think of how he first presents "Red" Wegner and Ding Chavez in "Clear and Present Danger."  Wegner appears (so far) only in that one book while Chavez has become a major supporting character in the Clancy oeuvre.  Yet Clancy basically uses an entire chapter to give the background on each character.  In "Without Remorse" Clancy lays out the entire back story of John Kelly, the man who would become better known to us as  John Clark.  Clancy has done this before with "Patriot Games," where we find out what the oblique "Sir John" references in "The Hunt for Red October" were all about.  Now he does the same for Clark, who has really replaced Robbie as the character carrying the main subplot in the Ryan books."Beware the fury of a patient man."  The quote appearing in the frontpiece of the novel is from John Dryden (yes, the nasty little boy in "Shakespeare in Love" in one of that movies best in-jokes), and it concisely sums up the moral of this particular story.  Six months after the accidental death of his pregnant wife, John Kelly pulls over and picks up a young girl standing by the side of the road.  This spontaneous act is very much out of character for Kelly and the decision turns out to be both fortuitous and tragic.  Kelly finds comfort with Pam, only to see her killed by the drug dealers from whom she was escaping.  However, "Without Remorse" is more than a revenge story, because at its heart it is the story of a man finding himself and his purpose in life.  The other major plot line has to do with the former SEAL being recruited by Admiral James Greer for a rescue mission of American P.O.W.s held in North Vietnam.  This book provides all the pieces to the puzzle that has been John Clark in the Jack Ryan novels."Without Remorse" is also unusual because there are strong romantic elements in the story, as Kelly finds not only his purpose in life but the ability to love again.  The fusion of these two things is clearly crucial to the development of the character.  This is clearly the most intimate of Clancy's books, which is probably even more of a change of pace than having a different main character.  Ironically, I find myself rereading the parts where Kelly deals with the pain of losing the women he loves more than the parts where he takes vengeance upon those responsible.  The book does contain some of the more brutal scenes by Clancy, made more intense because they are acted out on the streets of America, not on some back alley in Russia or Iran.  Kelly is clearly a vigilante in this book and that is certainly a troublesome description for a character we do not see as being in the &quot;Dirty Harry&quot; mold.Helpful Hint:  Do not skim pages or you will miss a brief appearance by Jack Ryan, although his father is indeed a key character in the story.  There are also several supporting characters who will reappear older and wiser in the Ryan novels.  And a final personal note: I have never seen Willem Dafoe as Clark.  Actually, I have always thought of him as a younger Don Davis, who is much more the Teddy Bear.  Give up?  Davis played Major Briggs in "Twin Peaks."
2 This is a tedious by-the-numbers revenge fantasy written by Clancy or Clancy's team of writers (it's hard to tell which, I suspect his better and earlier books were his and his alone). In a nutshell Jack Ryan is a former Navy SEAL badass (sound familiar yet?) who falls for a junkie hooker who then gets killed by her drug dealer. So he skulks around Baltimore executing people connected with her murder.This story has been done better by countless other writers...
5 Classic Clancy--a real thriller.  I had previously read in in hardback when it first came out, but downloaded it to my Kindle to re-read (I have gotten to the point where I can hardly stand to read hardcopy books anymore because I am so enamored of my Kindle)...
4 For those of us that avoid interactions that are a tad towards violent behaviors Clancy has a way of allowing those of us to sublimate without harming anyone or being harmed... Action, adventure and many times a good result after a time of severe difficulty...
5 Tom Clancy once again writes another great book.  His focus is on one character in this book. So this would be a good book to start with if you have never read Clancy before. If you like his works, this is a must. I  could not put it down. This is a wounderfully developed character. This  could also be titled, &quot;The making of a great agent.&quot;
5 I loved this book and it remains one, if not THE favourite CLANCY book I've read. It is a lot smaller in scale to the rest of his novels and thats why I think I like it so much. It was such an easy read compared to the brick-like Executive Orders, and the tension is stratospherically high at the end of the book - but in a good way (unlike the pain-staking ending of SUM OF ALL FEARS where you just want to reach in and beat The President and his National Security Advisor to death for being so dumb for soooo long)!!!The beauty about this book is that you dont have to have read any other Clancy book before either. It's totally self contained and thats the way I like it.
5 I just finished reading this book for the second time, more than ten years after the first.  My memories of the first read were the things having to do with Kelly/Clark: his reaction to Pam's death, his killing rampage and simultaneous kindness toward victims, the rescue mission in Vietnam, and of course the incident that sums up who Kelly/Clark is in my mind: his encounter with Pierre Lamarck ("Why are you doing this?" "Practice").  All was as riveting this time as the first time.  But at the same time, several things stood out to me this time that hadn't had as much of an impact the first time.One was the development of other characters besides Kelly/Clark who figure in the later (i.e. set later in time) Clancy novels.  One was Bob Ritter.  He was presented as somewhat of a scumbag in the movie version of Clear and Present Danger.  Here we see him as the champion of "keeping faith," the idea that if America won't take care of the people that serve her, people won't want to serve her.  It makes the Ritter of Clear and Present Danger (the book) seem much more human as he struggles with the conflict between loyalty to superiors and loyalty to subordinates.And there's Sandy O'Toole, later of course Sandy Clark.  One wonders what sort of woman would want to be the wife of someone like Clark.  Here we see her struggles with her mixed emotions and the events that lead her to finally stand behind him wholeheartedly.  And finally, Emmet Ryan.  Although no longer living by the time Jack embarks on his CIA career, Jack's respect for him is never far from the foreground, and here we get an in-depth look at some of the thought processes of the man who was the primary formative influence upon the future president.Also, as a devout conservative Christian myself, I am always sensitive to the portrayal of religious people; too often anyone who takes his/her religion seriously is portrayed with tired caricatures and stereotypes.  Not the case here.  Pam Madden's father resembles the usual stereotype, closed-minded, intolerant, unforgiving - except that he's not presented as a religious person, but as one who is into "the form of religion but not the substance."  That's fair.In contrast to Mr. Madden, we have Rev. Meyer, the pastor of one of the female victims.  He is presented as one who does indeed take his religion and his God seriously.  He is certainly not without his weaknesses and struggles, but as a former minister myself, I have to say that the thought processes depicted for him are much the same as I'm sure I would go through under similar circumstances.  And we have Robin Zacharias; I'm not a Mormon, so I can't speak for them in evaluating his portrayal.  But if I look at Colonel Zacharias not specifically as a Mormon but just as a man who takes his religion seriously enough to be at the center of his consciousness even in a secular career, I have to consider the portrayal sympathetic and fair.
5 In my opinion, this is one of Tom Clancy's best works. The back story on John Clark, particularly his early history in the SEALs, the CIA, and why he had to change his identity are all fascinating caveats of this book. You really feel for the hardships which the character faces, which are starkly different from those of Jack Ryan. I highly recommend reading this, whether you are a Clancy fan or not.
4 Really enjoyed this book even if it was a branch off of the major plot lines of Clancy's other books.  Found it to be one of the best books in the Jack Ryan series.
5 It's been a long time since I've read any of Tom Clancy's books I couldn't put this one down and look forward to reading many more.
5 First, I must say that I rarely give a book 5 stars, especially fiction, but Mr. Clancy has created one of the most intriguing books I have read. The plot(s), characters, and dialogue are simply exceptional and for the first time with one of Clancy's novels, I can honestly say that it wasn't long enough. This a book that has it all.....action, fierce characters, compassion, heartache, oh, and did I mention ACTION. This will be one of the quickest 750 page reads you will ever have!
2 The master story-teller has slipped a cog in this disagreable book about disagreable people.This is the back-story of John "Clark,"  general doer of necessary but unpleasant acts in Jack Ryan's sphere.Clancy's habit of starting paragraphs without immediately naming the character is even more confusing, in that he uses flash-backs tucked into the then present time, without clueing us in.He goes in great detail into disgusting things done to a couple of lost souls, several times.And as usual, uses names the same as other people's, with a Ryan who is not Jack and not even a relative.  (Let's recommend one of the books of given names written for prospective parents who lack inspiration.)(I will admit that two-thirds of the way through I skipped to the last chapters to get the conclusion without having to wade through any more of all of the above -- and I'm a compulsive reader.)It does at least introduce Admiral Greer, a help to those of us wanting our imaginary world organized.I'm hoping the next is cohesive and not unnpleasant.
5 ... A book grabs your imagination, your intellect, and your feelings never shared, then shifts the personal paradigms of thought and changes a life.  This book is one of those books.  Well written, often enjoyed, and thoroughly enjoyable.  The classic thoughts of good vs. evil, play across a panorama as foreign as an alien planet and as familiar as a well worn pair of shoes.  Thank you Mr. Clancy for a for a grand adventure.
5 What makes this book a treat is all the technical information that goes into it. I'm not a soldier, weapons expert, or engineer, so I found the plethora of information a bit overwhelming, but I did come away having learned a few new things. The fact that this book is so well-researched gives a solidity to the novel that utilizes this information to tell us what is going on and what is being used. This was my first Tom Clancy book, and I was not disappointed at all. This tale of revenge and the man who metes it out rather meticulously - can't help but admire Tom Clancy for detail - made for a very enjoyable read. I do feel that the ending was just a bit cheesy (I shan't spoil it for you) but it was overall solid and satisfying. Two thumbs up!
5 This is probably my favorite Clancy novel to date!  Just an awesome story about how one of the greatest Clancy characters got his start.  This book sucked me in completely and could not help but feel I was there with the characters.
4 I am a bit Clancy fan and have read all of his recent stuff.  It was great to read one of his first novels.  Many of his recurring characters were introduced here and it was interesting to see John (Kelly) Clark as a young man just starting out.  Clancy's writing has certainly matured over the years, but this was a great, exciting read.
4 to me the only things i didn't like were it seemed too long, in some of the chapters there were more than one story. what i mean is you were reading about a and the next minute b and sometimes c. there might be people who don't mind this but i'm not a fan. i guess other than  my nit picking it was not a bad book.
5 A very good read. This book was a very good vehicle to bring us Mr. Clark. The drug lords had  no idea thar they had met their worst nightmare. He displayed the killing skills that he he obtained in Vietnam and the C.I.A.  to gain vengenance. As all Clancy fans know,Mr.Clark came to be one of Jack  Ryan's most trusted as well as capable associates. With this book a star  was born.
5 Clancy shows a much more human side to his characters in this story.  The people are no longer simply soldiers, but now they are people with real feelings and values.  There is minimal &quot;military action&quot; in  comparison to many earlier Clancy novels, however, this is actually good.  As I read Without Remorse, I could almost feel the hurt, anguish, and  (later) satisfaction of retribution.  This book takes you on a real  emotional roller-coaster.
3 Part Death Wish and part Missing in Action, this tells the story of how former navy seal John Kelly became CIA operative John Clark.Set in the waning years of Vietnam, we meet recently widowed John Kelly as falls in love with a prostitute. She is brutally murdered by her drug running pimp and most of the book chronicles Kelly's quest for revenge, interspersed with the CIA's attempt to rescue american POWs from North Vietnam.It's not a bad book, but for most part it is just a standard revenge fantasy. Yes we'd all like to imagine what a trained special forces operative could do to street gangs, but the joy of reading a Tom Clancy book is to be immersed in the world of murky and clandestine geopolitics- and this book has very little of that.
5 This book is incredible.  A real detachment from Clancys normal style of writing.  This book had a great degree of emotion.  It is a prequel to all his books and i think a running tie for #1 no techno stuff to bog you down.  It really put you in the mind of John Terrance Kelly; one of the first  navy SEALs.  It explains Kellys tranformation into Mr. Clark.  A MUST  READ!
2 Story line lacked credibility unlike many of Clancy's books.  Reading the book it occurred to me , gee, he must be getting paid by the word.  I was disappointed.
5 One of my favorites heroes, besides Jack Ryan, in Tom Clancy's books is John Clark. He is a dark figure with a mysterious past. He's a man admired for his action and his word. He works in black ops but has his own moral code. Clark is a man of action. This book essentially covers Clark's past. His girlfriend was murdered by Baltimore drug dealers who raped her while slowly asphyxiating her with a plastic bag. A horrific death that profoundly affects Clark. But he doesn't mope nor sit idly by. This ex-SEAL sets out upon a course of justice. He dispenses justice in the only way these murderous scum understand - by executing the drug dealers who peddle their death and addiction to adults and children. Clancy uses the story to give us greater backstory on Jack Ryan. His father, Emmet Ryan, is a detective trying to track down the killer of these drug dealers. But Clark keeps moving forward `Without Remorse'.
3 It was hard to bring myself to read another Jack Ryan novel, especially one as thick as book is. It was a daunting and adventurous feeling before I delved into the book.I was honestly expecting much more action in Vietnam. If you have pictures of Huey helicopters on the cover, I'm expecting some good portion of this book to take place in Vietnam. However, most of the book is set in the streets hunting down and killing drug dealers (1 rightousness point!). Unprotected sex with an escaped prostitute (-1 logic point). Training with soldiers in the country (1 cool point). One car chase (-1 cliche point)Considering the length of the book, I expected more. I'd say this is a substandard Clancy book. I want more military and less "ex-solider" kind of stuff.
5 Have read all of Tom Clancy's books several times over.  This is one of his main characters, John Clark's life and how he became a legend in the CIA.
4 This is a basic reread - early Clancy and the origin of John Clark.  Back far enough so that it reads like new and as usual, hard to put down.
4 I am a fan of Tom Clancy novels.  I love the twists and turns and the unexpected situations the characters come upon.  Without Remorse definitly held up.The things I disliked about the book were things that would make it not a good book.  I generally dislike the language a lot of the characters used, especially those in the drug rings.  But I realize that is probably true to life and must tolerate it in that snese.  It does serve the purpose of making me dislike the drug cartels even more than I already did, if that's possible.I felt fear and apprehension while Kelly/Clark returns to VietNam.  I understood why he did the things he felt he had to do, though terribly wrong in principle.  I liked most that Kelly/Clark realized he could not change the world, only contribute in some small sense.  If he believed he could right all the wrongs in the world, it wouldn't be as compelling to read.  But he wants to typify the idea that good people cannot stand aside and let evil occur, else they are supporting that evil.  But he does it with a vigilante type justice that should only be taken up in novels.I relly liked how the Ryan family became involved in the story.  If foreshadowed and made me think what would Emmett think knowing his son will soon be under the protection of that 'Invisible Man'?Without Remorse is a definite must to those who are Clancy fans.  Enjoy.
5 Clancy gave us the moral dilemma of trying to decide what is right or wrong and what do we consider justice.  He gave us a story that was filled with unjust events happening and the struggle we face when evil crosses into our lives.
5 Makes you think about what is happening TODAY in the world in North Korea and China. We invent ... they copy then use it against our own technology. Hopefully we have some secrets left!!
5 I love this one. If you ever wondered about Mr. Clark and where he came from and how he ended up where he did, this really explains it well. You have to really be a die hard clancy fan to understand what this one is about. If you don't know any of the Jack Ryan books, you won't be into this one. This is the beginning of John Clark.
5 Although the Jack Ryan fans are used to the books building on one another, this one features a side character. This book can be read by anyone who feels that books just can't do it for them. I have lent this book to three or four others, and the ones who actually read it loved it! It's a great book!You do not have to know about Clancy's previous books to enjoy this one; that alone makes it a good selection in some cases. I would think that this book would be enjoyed by anyone who likes action movies.
5 Time to piss off a lot of people, but I've read my share of Clancy and I gotta tell you this:  He's not a very good writer!!!  Oh my gawd!!  Someone catch the lady who just fainted.  Clancy is a great researcher, which is clear in any of his books.  But...that doesn't make up for transparent characters and gratuitous plot manipulations.  Now . . . I loved Clear and Present Danger and Red Storm Rising, Patriot Games was okay and Hunt For Red October was straight-out boring in most parts,  but I read Without Remorse when it first came out and I had hoped that Clancy had taken a Creative Writing course in his spare time between reading technical manuals for Typhoon-class submarines and interviews with the CIA.  There is a different voice to Without Remorse.  Its straight-forward, kick-ass reading.  Reads like an early Metallica song.  This is the evolution of Mr. Clark, Clancy's spook character.  Vietnam-era.  Someone f*cks around with a girl he cares about and all hell breaks loose.  This is, hands down, the best Clancy book I have ever read.  It's like his version of Diry Harry.  Great.  Too bad he will probably never duplicate its sheer exuberance.  Oh well.  Read it!  It rox!
5 as with all tom clancy books its a keeper. the man had a real talent for making his books page turners and always interesting. read them all.
5 Tom Clancy has always impressed me with his knowledge of weapons, mechanics and politics.  This book shows a new side of Mr Clancy.This book should be called &quot;The Making of Clarke. This book takes you on the journey of Clarkes life. It tells not only of the events and people that change a man, but the man himself struggling with the changes.  This is a must for Clancy fans!
4 Tom Clancy remains consistently good.  It appears that he has an inside track on current events.  After reading his books and picking up the morning paper, I feel I am reading old news.  His characters are great and believable.  Great book.
5 I sent this book to my brother in prison. He loves to read and he loved reading this book. He wants more.
5 Great story line & plot of how John Clark became one his main characters in his others books. The story keeps you in suspense through out the whole book. It ranges from drug dealers in baltimore who killed his girl friend & how he took them down, to going to vietnam to rescue downed pilots in a prison camp.John Clark come out as a person who does whatever it takes to get the job done even if it means killing drug dealers to revenge the killing of his girl friend, and he kills a lot of them. This is one great book which is hard to put down once you start it.
4 This is a good story, but it is a little hard for a layman to get the drift of all the situations until you reach past halfway....then it really becomes interesting.  Great character descriptions and all in all a good read.
5 Tom Clancy is my favorite author. While some of his books are better than others all are worth reading or buying!
3 Not one of Clancy's best. It seemed to really get boring as the story went on, in fact I have not finished it. It just didnt keep my attention.
5 This is one of my favorites. One of my favorite types of hero's are the Anti-hero variety. Such as the Punisher and Batman. John Clark fits the bill of the typical anti-hero and Clancy did a wonderful job in creating the transformation character of John Kelly into John Clark.I read this novel after I got hurt and it was a page turner for me, it allowed me to take my mind off my present problem. This also served a second purpose, which is why I like the anti-heros, who would not like to have the ability and means to go after people who hurt you and do it very well and call it "justice", this leap is great, because normally we could never do such a thing and when a good novel comes around and does that for us, we have to pause and read it. I would never condone such actions in this book, but, nevertheless, it is always fun to see bad guys get what they deserve. And Clancy does an excellent job!
2 I haven't read much Clancy since I was a teen reading Red Storm Rising which I liked a lot.  This book however was a disappointment.  First of all there's too many different stories happening at once.  It's got spy tales and intrigue (a left wing activist and his KGB contacts), police procedural with Det. Ryan (Jack Ryan's dad), Mafia connections and drug dealing, the usual high tech military aspects with all the jargon, and a long drawn out POW rescue attempt in Vietnam. By far the worst and main story is of Navy Seal/CIA recruit superhero John Kelly/Clark and his bloodthirsty goal of revenge.John's wife was killed in a tragic car accident 6 months earlier and so he picks up a skinny and beat down looking hitchhiker off the street and takes her to his boat.  Almost immediate she pushes him down onto the deck and makes love to him. There is supposedly a connection because each sees each others pain and suffering and understands each other.  She doesn't mind that the blood type of at least three different men must still be inside her from the previous night of being treated like a dog by her pimps and drug pushers before she escaped.  Well soon she is killed and Kelly goes on his revenge rampage by just sneaking up to drug pushers dressed as a drunken hobo and shooting them point blank.  Sometimes he doesn't even ask any questions of them yet he always knows where to go to next.  After one double homicide, Kelly is escaping the scene when he sees a nurse being threatened with a knife by a kid who wants money.  He quickly dislocates the kids shoulder takes his knife and drives it through his skull.  Eventually, he gets all the bad guys and suffers no consequences.  In fact he gets a job at the CIA.In Clancy's Vietnam, all the aviators and POWs are of course heroes and the Vietnamese are routinely referred to through most of the book as little monkeys, and little yellow cowards, brutal child rapists and so on.  I would have like to have heard some more honesty here.  He could mention something about the US propping up a Latin American style terror regime in S. Vietnam.  The bombing of S. Vietnam, the use of chemical warfare  on the land to drive the people into concentration camps and the eventual spread of this war all over to N. Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos.  The US dropped more bombs on Cambodia for instance than the entire Allied forces during the entire second world war.  The only character who seems to know this is going on is portrayed as a leftist pot smoking traitor who is forced to commit suicide by Kelly.  This book kinda makes me sick the more I think about it and I shall not go on.  I know Clancy supports right wing ideology and sometimes is on right wing radio and TV and with this book makes porn for the right.  With that said as long as you know this is fantasy and fiction it's ok, because there are good parts to the book.  I mostly focused on the bad because I don't want people to think this is realistic or that the world works like this or that everything is in black and white. For a more realistic perspective of the drug trade on the street level watch the series The Wire and grow some sympathy for people who are trying to survive in a different way of life from you before you cheer some fantasy right wing superhero murdering them.
5 Very well written. Probably the best of the "Jack Ryan" series for me anyway. Already had the soft cover, wanted to get an extra for the Kindle, and well worth it.
5 Having read all of Tom Clancy's books, this is the gem that stands out way above all the rest.  It has adventure and danger, as do all his books, but it deals with love and heartbreak to a degree not seen in his other books.  This book is very much about honor and duty, sacrifice and betrayal.  There are many segments of this book which are unforgettable!  This book is one of a kind in its genre and is well deserving of the label &quot;Modern  Classic.&quot;  In this book we see the beginnings of a central character in several Clancy books written earlier, but chonologically later in time, the enigmatic Mr Clark.  No problem is too difficult for Mr Clark in the other novels, and now we know why.  I strongly encourage all adventure/espionage genre fans to read this book, as well as other readers looking for a compelling read.  This is the best of Tom Clancy and that is saying something very strong indeed.
4 Without Remorse gave the backstory on one of the most secretive and coolest character in the Clancy series.  Although this installment in the series started off kind off slow it soon became action packed and I think  it contained some of the coolest fight scenes in the entire series.  Learning about John Clark's past also made him a much deeper character andn  explained much of the mystery in the earlier books
2 Only Clancy would make a serial killer the hero of a book.  The truly sad part is how many other characters in professional positions look the other way.  In the past, I have enjoyed Clancy's works.  This one went over the limits good taste.  I added the second star because like many Clancy works it is well written.  I did finish it.  Readers should be cautioned that it is a disturbing concept. In the real world, this hero would be seen as an evil villian of Manson or Gacy dimensions.I will admit a personal bias.  I am a strong supporter and advocate of local police departments.
2 This review refers to the abridged audio book, read by David Dukes.The story was entertaining enough, but Mr. Dukes' reading was quite disappointing. He seemed to squeeze all of Mr. Clancy's many characters into one of a few vocal catagories: noble, pinched, gruff, and female. (The &quot;female&quot; voice, a too-soft falsetto southern belle, was particularly painful.) Many passages began with Mr. Dukes reading spoken dialogue which I mistook for a completely unintended character. Also, his voice tends to taper off at the ends of his sentances, I suppose for dramatic effect. I often got the impression that Mr. Dukes was thinking, &quot;Man, I really sound cool reading this really cool book...&quot;FYI - On a side note, I'm not a fan of written or verbal profanity, and this book has more than its fair share.
5 I absolutely could not put this book down! John Kelly/John Clark (Johnnie Boy!) is an awesome character that I would love to see Mr. Clancy use more often. I won't detail the plot and spoil it for you, but the way John handled the disgusting murder of his love Pam was phenomenal. I think he had the right phylosophy. A great way to clean up the neighborhoods. I enjoyed the "human" side Mr. Clancy interjected where John wasn't paying attention and got shot, and the realistic version of a mission screwed up do to a traitor (loose lips sink ships). There is another book in this storyline just waiting to be written (if not alread) as the wrong person died for ruining the mission - the traitor is still unknown to those who thought they handled the problem. If this was written already (since I'm just starting to read this author as I don't like the Splinter Cells) I wish somebody would tell me because it will proabably be a great read.
2 The book has a clever and interesting story. The problem I have is that when I read a novel I want to immerse myself in the story maybe even soak in it. In the Clancy novel there are several separate, but connected through the &#34;hero&#34;,  stories that are somewhat overlapping. The author shuffles back and forth in and out of the various story lines gradually bringing them all together at the end. I accept that some may well enjoy this up and down roller coaster technique but for me the warm inside soaking experience I&#8217;m wanting, is constantly being ripped apart. Thus for me 2 stars.
5 My fourth Clancy so far and I found it to be the most intriguing of them all.  Complex characters.  Really tense action sequences and unforgettable twists and turns.
5 Any Clancy reader knows all about John Clark and &#34;stone cold killer&#34;, describes him best.  Now we find out why he's like he is.  Great read, makes you want to get right in there with him.  Clancy at his best!
4 I have always like Mr. Clancy's style of writing which has a good balance between factual items and fictional actions.
5 I have read 21 fiction books in the last month, all written by New York Times best selling Authors. "Without Remorse", is one of the best books right up there with "Red October" and "Medusa's Child."The only negative, at least for me, is there are several places where the book goes the background of things that do not advance the story forward, so in those few cases I just speed read for two or three pages.Author of al-Qaeda Strikes Again
5 I've just finished reading "Without Remorse" and greatly enjoyed learning more about the character John Kelly, AKA John Clark.  The story is set in 1970 during the height of the Vietnam Conflict, and John Kelly is trying to re-establish a life outside of the armed services after several life shattering tragedies.  Despite finding some civilian friends, Kelly is largely angered and aloof from life and all it's unfairness.  He finds purpose in life by taking matters into his own hands to punish evil-doers both here stateside and once again is the jungles (or is it rain forests?) of southeast Asia.This book was published in 1993 and will remain a timeless Clancy masterpiece.
5 This is the cream of the crop, best of the best, of all the thriller/spy/fiction novels i've read. Just a gripping book you don't want to put down. Mr. Clark is an awesome character.
5 I will forever miss Tom Clancy and his great stories.  This is one of my favorites!  Couldn't put it down.  Action packed!
3 Okay, first of all, before you read this book, dont get your hopes up and await a book about constant military garble. This book is unlike any Tom Clancy book I've read-it is a moralistic thriller. If you are interested in  books about the salvation of prositutes, and a man destined to avenge the  death of his girlfriend, read this book. But, if your looking for a book  about Jack Ryan, espionage, huge military conflicts and other &quot;vintage  Clancy&quot; literature; I doubt this book is for you. I hope that Tom's  next book- &quot; The Bear and the Dragon&quot; is better than this...
2 This is not one of his best, but considering what manure or tree wasters he has written, this is almost good. I have stopped reading this author, he seems to get paid by the word and in later books puts in subplots that have nothing to do with the book so he can make political or religious statements.Buy this book second hand, and keep it handy for a camping trip. It will give you something to read on rainy days and will give you a nice supply of toilet paper.
4 An exciting story with maybe too much going on.  There is the action against a drug gang and the action against a Vietnamese prison camp to save American POWs.  Either one could be a book by itself. That said, the book was well written and held my interest to the end.  But where was Jack Ryan?  I look forward to reading more about Kelly (or will it be Clark).  Who knows...Richard Ruppel
4 The variety of characters, situations and environments were impressive. Brad Thor and Vince Flynn fans will really enjoy this. I'm sorry that, as with Mr. Flynn, there will be no future books. But I have the rest of the existing ones to read!
5 This could be Clancy's best. Finally, Jack Ryan takes a backseat to the real hero.
5 Good intentions do not always work out, even when you think they have.  Some people have no conscience and are so evil, that the normal avenue of justice is just not appropriate.  Sometimes you are not really out of your old life and sometime that old life creates new opportunities.  John Kelly, former Navy Seal has to leave his comfort zone and get back into the thick of things, and get a new identity.
5 I decided to read all the Jack Ryan books in chronological order instead of the order they were written in and even though this one is listed as a Jack Ryan, it's not. Great story though, very exciting. Can't wait to read the next one which will actually be a Jack Ryan story...
5 Not as technical as many of his books but a great story and one of the best reads.
5 The book is great reading, once finished, I searched for others by this author, found several. So far I've read about the book's star, John Kelly AKA John  Clark and the many varied adventures. Clancy's books, so far, are difficult to put down. Excellent reading.
4 &quot;Without Remorse&quot; is one of Tom Clancy's greatest novels.  Clancy readers were already familiar with the John Clark character from several books Clancy's Jack Ryan series.  &quot;Without Remorse&quot; explores Clark's past, following the transformation of Vietnam veteran/ex-Navy Seal John Kelly into CIA agent John Clark.  This is a fascinating book, and although Clancy has passed the torch in the Jack Ryan series to Jack Jr., I'd love to see some more books featuring John Clark.
1 There are two specific reasons I rate this novel so low on the scale. First it is very long, tedious and at times laughable as far as plot and story line go. The characters are often cliche and difficult to take seriously and the scenes tend to be forced and come off as phony at best. Not present is the pins and needels descriptive narrative Clancy is so well known for. There are dozens of mistakes and errors and at times the plot gets away only to come back with an anti-climatic closure or worse, a very predictable one.Secondly without going as far as accusing Mr. Clancy of plagiarism, I will go as far as saying this story virtually mirrors that of Mack Bolan, the Executioner, written by Don Pendleton nearly 30 years ago. This is the story of the mysterious Mr. Clark who has so often come to the aid of Clancy's favorite protagonist, Jack Ryan. This novel is a prequel of several others in the Ryan series and attempts to explain who and what Clark is. Not only does it fail to do so, it takes a bit too much from the original Executioner novel. Worse, it doesn't have the gritty edge of Don pendleton's work and it is obvious it was written many years after the Vietnam war and the etire era it is supposed to depict. There are errors of detail and just plain poor development of the times and characters and their interactions.Read this one at your own risk or read it first to be more impressed with previous and latter offerings. Don'tlet it sour you on Tom Clancy's work. He is a great author, but this particular book is a disservice to his loyal readers.
5 Although published out of sequence of the other Jack Ryan novels, this one answers many questions regarding &#34;Mr. Clark&#34; and why he is a major character.I highly recommend this novel to anyone collecting the Jack Ryan series!
5 My favorite Clancy novel.  John Clark is not someone to cross.  This book is hard to put down.  Great book.
2 The superman character goes from one locale to another, saving protitutes and Vietnam war prisoners, in a highly contrived plot that seems addressed to mid-level military people and low level boat people. Really not for the highly educated.
5 Without remorse:At last we are privy to thr beginning of the relationships of the Ryan family John Clark, the CIA and the military. Since John Clark is the &#34;go to&#34; guy in many of the Ryan stories this book explains a LOT,
4 I enjoyed this book.  Clancy contrasts very well the mood evoked by the Chesapeake Bay (for those of us who know it) with that of the mean streets of Baltimore.  I enjoyed the 2-level plot, wherein Kelly is dealing with  drug-dealing dirt-bags on the one hand, and his mission to Vietnam on the  other. The plot was realistic--the professional manner in which Kelly  carries out his dual missions was, I thought, very thoroughly thought out  and presented. I enjoyed also his portrayals of the American and Russian  spooks, and the Russian Air Force colonel.  My main complaint with Clancy's  writing occurs when he's trying to convey tender love thoughts towards the  women in Kelly's life--too much syrup (of the corn type). I don't think  that subject is Clancy's forte'. Otherwise, this would make a great movie,  as good as &quot;Clear and Present Danger&quot;.
5 'Without Remorse" is what I like best about Clancy's stories. Intense, a touch of danger, good characters, a real feel to the details. This one kept me reading past my 'bedtime'.
3 Without RemorseBy Tom ClancyReview by Roger D. NoriegaJohn Clark - Mister John Clark. CIA agent extradonaire. The man that the agency turns to when it wants the job done. He is the one that must go into hostile territory to bring someone out to safety. He blends in well, speaks several languages and is intelligent and smart - rare for the CIA. His only concern is to complete the mission, but he suffers the failings of real people, he makes mistakes and he does endure bouts of fear - fear of failure for the danger is always real and is what he lives for.John Terrance Kelly is an ex-seal recovering from the loss of his beloved wife and  unborn child, killed by by a mechanical failure on a semi-truck. On a get-away holiday Friday, John Kelly meets a hitchhiker and both become attached to each other right quick as both hide demons. He killed for a living and she was killing herself for her living.John discovers that she is a hooker and drug user and decides to clean her up and bring her back to the land of the living. She accepts him and all that he does for her, but she still fears those that kept her as a hooker: she knows that they can still hurt her as they hurt others - namely her fellow captive hookers. Kelly convinces her to speak to the police but before, Kelly decides to spend time in her old neighborhood while he was waiting for his secretive appointment with Baltimore's finest and they meet it with Billy, the pimp that kept Pam and the others doing their bidding. Kelly evades them with some slick maneuvering in the muddy lots of the abandoned neighborhood. Turns out that he didn't do enough as Billy and his buddies catch up with them and shot Kelly point-blank with a shotgun, take Pam and kill her.Kelly should have died, but he survived the wounds and he recovers with a simple mission on his mind: avenge the loss of Pam and maybe, just maybe, save others as well from their certain death at the hands of the drug-dealers.We learn what drives him and he realizes he made a mistake, a fatal mistake that cost Pam her life. He works out and gets into tip-top shape and he begins the hunt. He learns how the drug dealers operate and he begins to attack the drug dealers in different manners to through off the police of Baltimore. With each calculated kill, he moves deeper into the organization and he gains knowledge - all to avenge the loss of Pam. He has no other choice, live with her loss, a loss he caused, or avenge her so that she can rest as well as he.On the other side of the world, a super-secret remote-piloted drone snaps a picture of an American POW declared dead by the Vietcong being tortured. Operation Boxwood Green is born and the twenty "dead" POW's are being targeted for death or worse, being sent to Russia to live out their lives in Russia as traitors. John Kelly is called in to look over the information since he has gone in previously on similar missions and he is later recruited to lead the planning of this op to save the lives of those left behind.The operation to save the "written-off" P.O.W.'s is green lighted and Kelly is inserted to scout the location and to have "eyes" on the camp - obvious precautions. Turns out that a leak determines the fate of our P.O.W.'s before they can be saved . . .Kelly returns stateside and continues with his mission to avenge the loss of his beloved Pam. With one break, Baltimore's Finest, Detective Emmett Ryan is on to Kelly and they go looking for him. It now becomes a race against the authorities, time, and the evil that Pam was associated with . . . Kelly has decides to face his demons.******This is the story of John Clark. He is in almost every novel from here on out in one way or another, but he will never be the primary protagonist  again - Jack Ryan is the hero, but in this chapter, we learn who Clark is and why he is so good at what he does. The story is full of disappointments and tragedy - as in real life, but our heroes are the ones that don't lay down or quit when the rough waters hit. These are heroes and they are people just like ourselves. This story is a winner.Roger's rating: 3 1/2
5 Kelly makes some risky decisions that go bad and sink his life into a quagmire.  That he takes justice into his own hands, that justice is so desperately needed, that his actions put him in major danger--these are what drew me back for a second read.  --Roger Weston, author ofThe Recruiter
5 Tom Clancy is a favorite author of mine, and this is probably as good as any of the several of his thrillers that I have read.  This one has, for me, a more personal and intense feel to it, and I love the way several threads are weaved consistently throughout the whole book.  Admittedly, for me, things were a little confusing at times in the initial stages of the book, but that was only very temporary, as once the various characters and settings were fleshed out a bit, things became very clear.  The writing was lean and to the point, and the crispness of the action and dialogue kept this novel very appealing and it really kept my attention.  I finished it in a very few days, whereas a more 'average' novel sometimes will take me several weeks to finish.  That is how intense this one was.  Without giving anything away in the form of details, I thought that the main protagonist of the novel was very well written, and was a very complex character, one for whom you could feel intense sympathy, admiration and revulsion all at the same time.  A key in the timeline of things in the Clancy universe is that though this is a somewhat more recent novel, it is actually the prequel to, the background for the Jack Ryan novels that were written first.  Sort of like Star Wars 1,2 and 3 were prequels but were made after 4,5 and 6.  So if you haven't read any of the Jack Ryan centered novels like Red October, you might want to start with this one.  Highly recommended for Clancy aficionados.
5 I have read all of Tom Clancy's Books and have come to the conclusion that this is his best book.  I have enjoyed all of his books BUT this book grabbed a hold of you and does not let go until the last page.  This is a  change from his normal books. It ususally takes about the first 100-200  page to get into the story.
5 Another excellent installment into the Jack Ryan universe.  This time out Tom Clancy explores the background of one of the coolest sidekicks since Spenser met Hawke. John Clark who has appeared in some of Clancy's better works such as Clear and Present Danger, Sum of All Fears, and more finally has his story told.  From it's heart breaking beginnings in the aftermath of Hurricane Camille we meet a man who has the skills, the heart, and perseverance to do what needs to be done for the greater good.  John Clark has always been one of my favorite characters in Clancy's universe.  Jack is the idealist, Jim Greer is the wisdom, but John Clark has always been the man who holds the sword, errr.. gun.  An excellent book that tracks the birth of our dark hero from the US, to the humid jungles of Vietnam, and back again.  Along the way we will meet Sandy, Dr. Rosen, the tragic Pam, Emmett Ryan, Colonel Zachariahs and another one of my faves Yevgenievich Grishanov AKA Kolya. John is beset by tragedy and spends the remainder of the book trying to find resolution while helping out Jim Greer with a small problem over in The 'Nam.  The book reads as part spy novel, and part Death Wish homage.  It might not be for everyone but I've always enjoyed the spirit of the dark hero in books.  A great read for fans of clancy's work or of the genre.  A must read for all fans of John Clark!!
5 As with other Clancy novels the abominable attempt at creating dialogue is made tolerable by the superior plot. In this book Clancy has decided to end just about every sentence of dialogue with the word &#34;ok&#34; and followed with a question mark. I've never met anyone who ended that many sentences by saying &#34;ok?&#34;. I found it somewhat distracting, but after a while it becomes easier to ignore. Dialogue excluded, I'd give it 5/5.
5 Tom Clancy continues to be one of nations premier writers.  He give us good, believable characters as strong American military.  We can only hope the brave men and women who serve our country have the same support from current supervisors.  More stories please!!!!!!
5 How can you not like a book with a line such as :"Oh no, not in their wildest nightmares have they ever met anyone like me.The name they had given him in Vietnam boiled up from the past.Snake.  "corny, jingoistic, call it whatever elitist dribble you want, i think this book rocks!! Apart from this, the research he puts into the book should also be commended.I only hope, if at all they choose to make a movie out of this, they stay true to the concept of the book. As mechanical engineer, i appreciate Mr. Clancy's work even more because of his minute precision level attention to detail. John Clark's workshop,Hemingway meets John Rambo ...Great fun read, gets a bit gory in the beginning, then snake takes over!! :) Enjoy it.
5 Tom Clancy's Without Remorse is one of my favorites. Having recently re-read it, it deserves 5 Full Stars.Without Remorse is terrific story telling made even more interesting if you read Clancy's other books.Without Remorse is so different from Clancy's other thrillers because Jack Ryan has no part.Without Remorse tells the life story of mystery man John Kelly, and why Kelly eventually becomes trusted long before he knows Jack Ryan. John Kelly evokes the feeling of "who is this guy?"John is a retired and decorated Navy SEAL and expert diver wasting his life in sorrow on the Eastern shore of Maryland mourning the loss of his wife to a drunk driver. A chance encounter introduces him to a new young women, who is later brutally murdered by the drug trade in the Baltimore area. This is John's second tragic loss.The story is about a new love in his life, her untimely murder due to the nasty drug trade and the murder of many of her friends. It is also the parallel story of John being recruited to lead a rescue mission to recover prisoners in North Vietnam long given up for dead. They have been located and a rescue is contemplatedThe drug lords never met someone like John Kelly on a mission to dole out his justice and retribution without concern for consequences. That does not mean that John is careless as he tracks down everyone involved. He confuses the police at each step. John is unrelenting and sly as he tracks down the drug miscreants responsible. Firearms, used as an extensions of Kelly's body, are skillfully used.The story is classic Clancy:  doing the right thing and doling out expedient justice guides John Kelly at each step of the way. Justice is deeply personal with John Kelly. For Kelly, the slow process of legal justice and the compromising ways of politics is not really considered as an alternative. Crooked police and teasonist trusted political leaders eventually also meet their own special justiceAt the end of the mission to rescue US prisoner in Vietnamese prison, the CIA recognizes the special qualifies of John Kelly, and, despite knowing his principled but illegal past, gives him a new life. Would this be possible today? Under any circumstance?Without Remorse sets up John Kelly's dependable role in many other Clancy novels. He is re-invented, and renamed "Clark."
5 This was the first Tom Clancy book I ever read, and picked it up on someone elses recommendation.  I was hooked on this book from the first paragraph.While it is a bit trashy and &quot;best seller-ish&quot; at times, I found it impossible to put down.  It was the best read I had had in a long time, and really enjoyed the unexpected turns and twists of the plot,(relentlessly surprising), and the richness of the scene descriptions and humble brillience of the indomitable main character.Just be sure you have enough time to read it all, because it is hard to put down! What fun!
2 found parts tedious and skipped hundreds of pages, but read the beginning and though skipped many pages, read through to where Pam is murdered and the hero is released from hospital; then read abit after that, then skipped to the end. what I like about it is it tells the story of a young sex slave who temporarily escapes her slavers, finds refuge and hope, only to be murdered by them in the end. I like that the story tells a believable fictionalized account of what happens to so many young people forced into prostitution and describes the hell of their life, detailing how they are victimized and controlled. to me, the hero is dumb and his character inconsistently written. dumb because the young woman tells him what she's been through and where, but he drives to that part of town anyway, confident he can protect himself and her, not asking himself what could happen if he were unable to handle the situation, though he knows nothing about the drug world or how it operates. I found his over confidence annoying, especially considering the slave pays with her life. I thought his character inconsistently written because the author writes how careful and cautious a sailor he is, then has him cockily cruise a drug infested neighborhood, which leads to the heroine's torture and murder. 2 and 1/2 stars for the believable story of the slave.
3 The story does jump around quite alot in this book, more so than I am used to in a Clancy novel.  It is nice how it all comes together in the end but I think it could have done so with less pages.  If you are used to mainly/strictly military style writing then you might not want to consider this book as it has more of a romantic tone to it than other Clancy novels I've read, such as The Bear And The Dragon or Red Rabbit.
4 Good story helped answer a lot of JC beginnings and some of his motivation a little long at times but good
5 tho a rather old Tom Clancy, still so good, raw in some parts but gives one an insight into John Clark for other books that include him. Don't miss reading this book, well woth the price, exciting, entralling, terrifi read!
5 I enjoy Clancy's John Clark character, and this book is all about Clark.Book was delivered before the due date and in perfect new condition.
2 This was my second (and will probably be my last) Tom Clancy novel.About 25 years ago, I read PATRIOT GAMES, which I thought was one of the worst bestsellers I'd ever read.  It had a line in it that still makes me cringe after all these years.  Jack Ryan, the Teflon super hero, is chasing down IRA terrorists in a boat helmed by Prince Charles (yes, you read that right, Prince Charles) and after some expert move on the prince's part, Ryan tells him, "Way to go, Your Highness."That has become a catch-phrase for me.  When I finish an awful action novel, I say to myself, "Way to go, Your Highness."But, hey, Clancy is a very popular writer and maybe I should give him another chance.  I grew up on Ian Fleming's James Bond novels and loved Frederick Forsyth's classics like THE DAY OF THE JACKAL and THE ODESSA FILE.  So I read the 750-page book, WITHOUT REMORSE.There are actually two different stories here.  One is how a former Navy Seal goes after drug dealers in Baltimore.  The other is about the rescue of Vietnam POW's.  Each one would've been enough for a novel--a good one, anyway--but by cramming both into the same story, there is no real threat of danger to the main character.  To make my point, imagine if James Bond was on the heels of Harlem drug dealers and jetting off to pursue diamond smugglers in Las Vegas about halfway through the story.  You just know that nothing is going to hurt this guy.  And Clancy puts plenty of self-satisfied chest-thumping among the generals and soldiers to underscore it.This is probably the first book I've read where a time and place (America in the Vietnam-era 1970s) is so completely ignored.  I can't think of one historical or cultural reference to place this story in the past and I had to keep reminding myself, "This is supposed to be the 70's."The villains in Clancy's book are almost laughable.  No, they don't have to sound like GOODFELLAS (although they try here and there), but I noticed that almost all dialogue is clearly from one person.  When the hero takes a cracked-out hooker he's cleaned up by her old haunts, they spot a bad guy and she says, "That's so-and-so's lieutenant."  Would a crackhead hooker even know what a lieutenant is?I kept thinking that this was like porn for military minds.  How else would you explain two to three pages describing the breakdown of a handgun?  All the hierarchies and posturing and testosterone banter?But what do I know?  Clancy is so huge that there isn't an editor in the world who can touch his books (although the first 100 pages of this book could easily be cut out--unless you just love boating).  And there is clearly an audience for this.  But that doesn't make it any good."Way to go, Your Highness."
5 Tom Clancy has long been a hit and miss author for me. I should say that a lot of it has to do with his incredibly detailed and dense descriptions of everything military. He earns a lot of kudos for his intense knowledge of his subject matter and his ability to base his fiction in frighteningly realistic circumstances, but there are times when I just want to get on with the story and not learn about a firing pin and its historical significance to military maneuvers in the east pacific along the way.However, Without Remorse is a book so deeply drenched in character building that it swallowed me up with sympathy, empathy, and then a deep personal need to see Mr. Clark succeed in finding revenge and yes "justice" for the many wrongs that had been done to him and his. I, like many of us, had met Mr. Clark in other Clancy tales, where he was a cool and efficient military liaison to our government. But within the pages of Without Remorse, Tom Clancy brings him to life. Mr. Clark is soon revealed as a man with a history filled with flaws that maybe forgivable but are nonetheless frightening.Back when he was called Kelly, Mr. Clark endured the loss of a wife and then another woman who was very important to him. Unfortunately for the men responsible, he wasn't prepared to accept that second loss. A man with hard-earned military skills, Kelly/Clark moves, no sweeps, through this story and leaves us with a sense of nobility as he deals with some of the most revolting segments of our society.Is vigilante justice right? And can a man with the skills earned through U.S. military Special Forces actually beat law enforcement? The answers to those questions are sure to surprise you. But please don't assume this novel is about revenge, because it's not. It's really about how a man changes in the face of severe personal adversity, and about how even the most righteous of causes can somehow get all twisted up.All these big issues aside, rest assured Mr. Clark is a man worth meeting and spending time with. His story isn't an easy one, but I, for one, would be pleased to learn that men like him are standing watch all around our world today.
3 The overwhelming detail makes the book a ponderous read.  The plotting is excellent but the multiple story lines and characters require the reader to keep a cheat sheet of character identities.
5 If you have never read any of Clancy's books before, this is not a bad place to start.  I have not read many of his works myself, but it appears to me that this is chronologically the first to take place in the series on John Clark and Jack Ryan.  This book for me was one of those rare effortless reads where the pages turned on their own and I did not want to put it down.  I found the story to be completely plausible - if you have ever wondered what would have to happen in the life of a normal, non-psychopathic person that would turn them into a highly-skilled, cold-blooded killer, this is the answer.  I won't give away too many details of the plot, but it is basically  a revenge motif - a decent guy seeking justice against some pretty bad people and the inner struggles he endures while doing this and trying to remain one of the "good guys."  It kind of reminded me of Batman (without the cape and mask, and with Batman being an executioner).  This is definitely a guys book, and if that's what you are in the mood for, you will not waste any time or money with this one.  Truly satisfying.
5 Like I say about all the books in this series, wonderful, great read and very close to what really goes on in politics around the world.
5 Let me start by saying that I'm not a big Clancy fan.  I read some of his stuff, but I find that his books too often drown you in pages of technical details that have little or nothing to do with the actual plot.  I find that Clancy is one of the few authors I've read where I can honestly say the movies are often better than the books.  Without Remorse is free from most of these dry details though and that makes it a great book.  I think this is because there is simply so much going on that Clancy doesn't have time to fit those details anywhere.This book is pretty unique for Clancy in that it explores the history of his recurring CIA character, John Clark (aka John Kelly).  The action and suspense in this book are, in my opinion, second to none when matched against anything else Clancy has written (or at least that I've read).  Clancy paints a great picture of a man with problems who falls for a woman with much bigger problems, all while trying to do his job for the CIA.  A must read, not for only Clancy fans, but for anyone who enjoys edge of your seat suspense.
3 As a youngster, I read and enjoyed Red Storm Rising, Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games, Clear and Present Danger, and Cardinal of the Kremlin. (I thought that Sum of All Fears was pushing it.) But Without Remorse is quite another story. Here Clancy reveals himself to be a real facist. Certainly the victims of Kelly/Clark's rage are not innocents, but they are pointless executed, and the book doesn't even take the time to explore the effect that this has on Clark or really give him any kind of depth. In Lethal Weapon, we only know that Riggs's wife is dead, this alone is enough to make him suicidal and add considerable depth to his character. In Without Remorse, the love interest's death is only exploited to give Clark an excuse to kill everyone. I found Clancy's obvious animus towards liberals and women distasteful and his lack of respect for human life and even a sense of the impact that taking another person's life has on your own--well, it is truely baffling to consider how a man who is marginally an intellectual can be that primative. He falls short even of the mark that his other novels set. One is better off with any of his previous works, especially Clear and Present Danger or Cardinal of the Kremlin.
5 I have read this book so many times I have lost count. If you want backstory with real characterization this is the one Clancy you must read.
5 Great book.  Makes you want to know more and more about John Clark.  Hopefuly Clancy will fill in the gap between this and Rainbow.  Fast read.
4 This book answers the question of "Where did Mr. Clark come from". I always thought he was almost as interesting as Jack Ryan. He is.
1 This book was absolutely terrible.  I had seen some Clancy movies and thought I would enjoy one of his books.  Boy was I wrong.  I'll never read another again.  The characters were so one dimensional.  The &quot;hero&quot; was, in my opinion, a cold-blooded killer who was as bad as the &quot;psychopaths&quot; he was out to get.  He actually tortured one of the bad guys to death.  It was also apparent that he couldn't be without a woman.  During the six months between the time his beloved wife died and he met his new love, he &quot;visited&quot; hookers twice.  He then fell in love (in a matter of hours) with a hitchhiker he picked up.  Within a week after she was gone, he glommed on to the nurse who treated his wounds in the hospital.  Everyone in the book was either all black or all white.  I don't have one good thing to say about this book.  Hard to believe this author actually made money from this junk.
5 This was a good purchase, fast shipper and am glad that I purchased, but should not have to write so many words
1 I like Tom Clancy's books, but I thought the whole premise to this one was just silly.  There were too many contradictions in the story for it or the characters to be believable.  The hero is an ex special forces guy, trying to help a new girlfriend face her past demons and bring evil men (murderers) to justice.  Instead of heading straight for the cops he decides to joy ride in her old neighborhood where she is recognized and immediately becomes a target.  (I know when I am trying to protect someone I love from harm I always drive down to the projects.)  They are chased and shot at but manage to escape.  But instead of immediately heading to safety at the police station (still their destination), they park in a secluded area and decide to wait there until their cop buddy comes on duty, and then drive to see him.  Well the bad guys never quit looking, and sneak up on the parked couple. Mr Tough Guy gets caught by surprise and his girl dies. In the hospital, he vows revenge because he is such a tough guy (his nickname was even Snake, he's such a bad mother-f***).  Sure.  He's such a badass that he brought his love into a dangerous neighborhood, let them get ambushed and got her killed.  Watch out everybody!  Here comes the Homer Simpson of the vengeance league.
5 Taking place during the later stages of vietnam, this book has everything. Action, love, murder, revenge, personal agenda, hardships, success and failures from the every average day doctor to your admorals. An ex navy seal, who loses his wife and girlfriends, turns into a cold blooded killing machine that once stops, won't quit until his mission is a success. It helps to define Mr Clark and sets up his character for later in the Jack Ryan books. You also have other losses from killings to perosnal agenda for wanting the war to end peaccfully, to getting people out of enemy territory. So if you want action, drama, romance, it is all here in this book and then some. DOn't pass up on this book, you will reget it!
5 Wonderful Clancy favorite!  Action backed book that cannot be put down!  One of his best!  Nonstop action with many twists and turns!  Fantastic read!
5 I'd have to say that John Clark is perhaps the best character ever created.  Tom Clancy's character is going around Baltimore and DC taking out the worst of the criminal underworld leaves the police perplexed and in a quandry?It is a sad tale of woe for Clark, and it really helped to set the tone and aly the ground work for the rest of his booksCheck it out[...]
5 I bought this for my husband who is a Tom Clancy fan. He drive a truck over the road and has time to listen to audio books while on long drives. He said it was definitely a classic Tom Clancy novel.
2 Clancy's works are exemplars of this school of suspense novel, which is largely driven by endless boring descriptions of infernal devices, catalogs of weaponry and technical specifications of their capabilities rather than character, dialog or even a credible plot. This particular book wastes nearly a thousand words describing how to make a pistol silencer -- which I suppose would be useful if I needed one or had the marine machine shop the hero uses to manufacture it. The plot is ridiculous and the hero is a dipstick who manages to get a woman killed because he is so stupid he drives with her into the ghetto to look for a dope dealer. It's idiotic, but that's what Hollywood wants these days. . .
5 How can I review a book that I am trying to get to and start reading?! 4 more words (required)!
4 I bought this because it was one of the Ryan series that I had missed reading.  I especially like the character of John Clark, so reading how he became a C.I.A. agent was a hoot.
5 This story is a favorite among many Tom Clancy fans.  Chronilogically, this is the first story to take place in the &quot;Jack Ryan Universe&quot;, although it's only a two page scene where an 18 year old Jack discusses going into the Marines that we see the hero of the Clancy novels.The rest of the novel centers around CIA operative, instructor, and all around bad-ass John Clark.  We get to see what brought Clark into the CIA in the first place, as well as learn why is true past has been kept such a secret in the course of this story, which takes place during the '70s.Much of this novel is a story about revenge.  Picture a Navy Seal with a vendetta, and some of the outcome is obvious.  But what Clark is doing is highly illegal, and police investigators are closing in.  And Clark's expertise and military experience get him called in as an advisor, and later operative, in a daring mission to rescue POW's in Vietnam.Since he appears later, you obviously know John Clark survived.  But until you read this book, you don't know Clark.
4 I have to admit that when first reading WITHOUT REMORSE, I wasn't sure that I was going to like it. I thought there was way too much going on in the first chapter and I had a hard time following it. Eventually my perseverance paid off.  I found the book to be a roller-coaster ride full of twists and turns as the plot unfolded. Thus, I concluded that the first chapter was like the long chain beginning the climb on the roller-coaster - very necessary to the overall ride.I do plan on continuing reading more of Tom Clancy's work in addition to reading more Independent Authors.
2 This is a fantasy book for teens.  Yep!  There really are evil monsters that follow the biddings of satanic witches.  Our trucker hero, Josh, is caught up in a small, isolated Virginia town's nightmare when he accidentally runs over a newborn in a stroller.When he refuses to recant his story that an evil woman pushed the stroller purposefully into the truck's path, the bad guys have got to silence him.This was written in an average writing style with silly, unbelievable characters.  Gray, I'm sure, will have lots of followers--those who like books about witches, dragons, zombies, and anything else teenager-ish.  Please don't waste your time with this!
4 Halfway through reading Muriel Gray's novel "Furnace," I began to think of the 1973 movie "The Wicker Man."  In that movie, there's a community based on pagan sacrfice and it's the outsider who ends up as the victim (and if you haven't seen The Wicker Man, forget I said that).  While the differences between the two abound, Furnace and The Wicker Man share that strongest connecting tie; the idea of human sacrifice bringing fortuity to the worshippers.Josh Spiller is a truck driver who just found out his girlfriend Elizabeth is pregnant.  He's overjoyed, but she's not keeping it.  This sparks the argument that separates them for the rest of the book.  Elizabeth storms out, and Josh, to deal with this new stress, accepts a load of aluminum going to Alabama.  The time away may calm them both down.  On the way, he detours through the small town of Furnace, Virginia, initially looking for something to eat.  On a busy street, he's distracted and turns to look just in time to see a woman shoving a baby stroller into the street, and under the wheels of Josh's truck.At first he's terrified because he's been without sleep for longer than the law allows, but later he realizes it was a terrible accident.  The mother forgot to set the brake on the stroller and the wind carried the baby into the street.  But what about the woman he saw pushing the stroller into his path, Josh thinks?The sheriff dismisses this as shock because the woman Josh saw is the town councillwoman, a bible-toting Christian.  Her fliers are all over town.  Josh must have seen her picture and his tired mind played the incident in his head as seeing the woman, Nelly McFarlane, pushing the seven-day-old Amy Nevin into the street.The whole thing was an accident, and Josh is released.Outside Furnace, he picks up a hitchhiker, 21-year-old Griffin who's also leaving Furnace, saying she was always an outsider there.  And what IS going on in Furnace, Josh wonders.  For a small town with no visible means of support, the houses sure are nice.  The people there really live pretty high on the hog.The gist of Furnace is that, in his insistance there was a woman behind the baby, and his refusal to change his statement to the contrary, he's incurred the wrath of Furnace.". . . you must have pi**ed them off bad," Griffin tells him.Their punishment is meeted out in a seven-inch strip of dried flesh from the dead baby Amy's body.  On this strip are strange markings, along with a note: Three Days Alive Permitted.  In the alchemical rules of Furnace, that means Josh has three days to, not only figure out who slipped him the rune--the strip of flesh--but also to slip it back to them, willingly and unknowingly.As Griffin tells him, "It's not going to be easy.  You can't let the rune caster know what you're doing. Do you understand?  Whoever cast them won't let you within a mile of them.""Then what's the point?""The point is it's your only hope.  Even if it's a slim one."There's cheesy drama galore in this book, but it's pretty fun, too.And what happens if the three days pass and Josh isn't able to pass the runes back to the caster?"It's a hot elemental.""Talk sense.". . ."Okay.  If you want to use the language of Dark Age ignorance.  It's a fire demon."And if he happens to pass them to the wrong person?  It'l l be as if they'd been lost or destroyed and Josh would still face the evil of the demon.The thing that kept me reading was wondering how the hell Josh is going to, not only figure out who sipped him the runes, but how is he going to give them back, willingly and unknowingly?  That's a hell of a thing to have to do, but Josh Spiller is a hell of an heroic character, and he manages just fine.  Gray, who's a Glasgow woman, writes this Pittsburgh truck driver as if she's been one herself for the past fifteen years.This was, as I said, a fun book to read.  My dad's a truck driver and it was interesting to see the inner workings of the profession.  I'd like to get him to read it and see what he thinks.I did have a few problems.  Most of the chapters start with subplots for a few paragraphs or pages before returning to Josh's story, the one we're interested in, and some of them--the subplots--on finishing the book seem really unnecessary.  There's one that talks about something waiting to be born and at first we think it's Elizabeth's unborn child, but later learn differently and, in retrospect, it didn't need to be there.Also the ends (there were two, the climax of Josh's story, and a short wrap-up in Furnace) were predictable pages before they came.  And the end of Josh in the book wasn't what you'd expect.  Given that throughout most of the book all he wants is to get home to Elizabeth, you expect him to in the end.  He probably does, but it's not shown.Another complaint was that it took way too long for the action to start.  We meet Josh on his way home from delivering a load.  He stops at a truck stop, he phones Elizabeth, he goes home, he sleeps, he gets up, he gives Elizabeth the gift he bought for her at the truck stop, he finds out she's pregnant, they argue, she leaves, he leaves, he drives, he gets hungry, he stops in Furnace.  We're on page 35 before he ever sees the FURNACE sign.  And it's another 10 pages before he runs over baby Amy.  On page 83, Josh sees LEAVING FURNACE, and still by this point nothing much has happened.  In fact, he doesn't find the note THREE DAYS ALIVE PERMITTED until page 135.  That seemed like a whole lot of setup that could have been compressed to a whole lot less.I was hipped to the book when I asked on [...] if anyone could suggest a really good horror novel.  This one was named and our library happened to have it.  They're right, it's a pretty good book.  Unfortunately, it's nothing spectacular.  Or maybe I'm just jaded and too hard to please.  After some of the other horror novels I've reviewed, "Furnace" seems pretty tame.  But maybe that's why this one's released by Doubleday instead of one of the small presses.  The contrasts between them are very different levels of horror.  Furnace is a mainstream horror novel all the way and any random reader can pick it up and enjoy themselves.  But a true horror fan may be left wanting more.
5 To Lee from Denver - Yes, Murial Gray is a woman - she is a Glaswegian who used to present The Clothes Show on British terrestrial TV, but that really  doesn't matter: I agree with you that she has an incredible talent for  writing horror, creating mind-blowingly original concepts and conjuring up  all manner of creepy and disturbing situations involving sensitively drawn  characters with heartfelt emotional dilemmas. Just thought I'd clear that  up for you.And to another reviewer who said she can't believe a woman  wrote this book: why not? Do men and women have such different styles? Are  we still living in the days where women have to change their names to  things like George (Elliot) to be taken seriously? Obviously, if you're  expecting Anne Rice's sensual style of writing, you'll be disappointed by  this, but that's no reason to slate a book. Murial Gray is far closer to  Stephen King (but far FAR better) in style and deserves credit for  appealing to all sorts of people across the sexes. I don't think women, or  men for that matter, should be pigeon-holed as writing for a single-sex  audience. Check out Robin Hobb, a (wait for it) female fantasy author who  writes incredible stories that relate both the male and female viewpoints  with exceptional clarity and understanding.And to everyone else: this is  a great book. Regardless of Murial Gray's sex, she is a force to be  reckoned with in the horror genre, putting a vital human element into her  horror stories that many other authors fail to do. It works on a horror  level, but at the same time the characters are fully developed and thus it  works on an emotional level too: whether this is because she is a female  author, or merely because she is in tune with her own emotions and fear, is  a matter of conjecture. If you need more convincing, buy this novel, and if  you like it, take on the longer and more complex 'The Trickster', another  novel with Gray's acute, pinnacle style. Now I'll get off my soap-box and  retire...
4 Muirel Gray's Furnace grabbed my attention quickly and held it captive  through the first quarter of the book. Unfortunately,  I found my attention waning during the second and third quarters, as the story moved too slowly for my taste and introduced some sub-plots that were somewhat disjointed and/or uninteresting. Gray did  manage to recapture some of my attention and interest in the final quarter of the book but by this point I was as much interested in finishing it so I could move on to my next book as in finding out how the story ends.  Furnace could easily have been an  &quot;8&quot; or possibly a &quot;9&quot; with some necessary editing.
4 This book could be considered a sequel, of sorts, to Jacques Tourneur's famous horror film Curse of the Demon, which is based on M. R. James' classic story, "Casting the Runes."  The plot is pretty well identical to Tourneur's creepy masterpiece, only updated and relocated from England to the hills of West Virginia.Long-distance trucker Josh Spiller finds himself off the beaten track in an oddly affluent little mountain town called Furnace, where a woman cold-bloodedly pushes an infant in its stroller in front of his eighteen-wheeler.  The local constabulary are in no doubt it was an accident, but they don't believe his story about the woman pushing the baby  -  Spiller's description of her is that of their town benefactoress and councillor, Nelly McFarlane.Stymied, Spiller leaves town and picks up a teenaged girl hitchhiker named Griffin, who is anxious to leave Furnace because she considers it a bad place, though she won't say precisely why.  Soon, Spiller notices diabolical phenomena following him around  -  sulfurous smells, evil apparitions, claw marks in his truck  -  and the discovery of an unidentified parchment in his wallet is fingered by Griffin as the cause.  Seems Furnace's financial prosperity is attached to a little old-fashioned witchcraft, and the runic parchment in Spiller's possession is a supernatural tracking device for a demonic assassin due to dismember Spiller before daybreak  -  that is, unless he can figure out exactly who slipped it to him, and can slip it back to them before the appointed hour...This novel suffers badly from excess padding and a plot-point for plot-point lift from Tourneur  -  but it is quite well-written and enjoyable on its own merits, all the same.  Anyone who enjoys this book would be well advised to check out its inspirations  -  and the same goes vice-versa, for fans of Tourneur's movie and James' original story.
2 I beg to differ with some of the reviewers who call &quot;Furnace&quot; a great read and compare author Muriel Gray with the likes of King and Koontz.  Oh, the book starts out with enough action to set the tone and keep the reader involved, but unfortunately, starts to lose steam near the halfway point.Trucker Josh Spiller finds himself trying to decide if saving his relationship with his now-pregnant girl friend is worth the effort.  As he tries to sort out his thoughts while on the job, he makes a &quot;wrong turn&quot; into the town of Furnace, Virginia, where his life becomes changed forever.There's no denying that Josh is a solid enough character, but I can't really say that any of the other characters will extend too far beyond your short-term memory limits.  The writing is uneven enough to make the plot jumpy and somewhat hard to stay with.  And, the &quot;hold&quot; that local witch, Nelly McFarland, has over the locals is just a little too much to believe.As the plot finally decelerates to it's inevitable climax, you won't be either surprised or overjoyed by the conclusion;  maybe just relieved that it's over.  But, don't take my word for it, because a number of other reviewers obviously think differently.  Just don't say you haven't been warned!
5 The only gripe I have with Furnace is Muriel Gray's bad geography.  She seems to not understand that West Virginia and Virginia are two different places.  All that aside, this is a book to pick you up out of your reading  doldrums--engrossing, witty, but not particularly frightening.
5 Move over, King, Koontz and Saul!  Finally a female horror writer who's got what it takes!  As an avid horror reader, I picked up "Furnace" and, although I was far from being bored with the plot,  thought I had the story all figured out about halfway through the book.  WRONG!  This one will keep you guessing until the very last page. You'll  be amazed at all the unexpected twists and turns. What a fabulous read!  Muriel Grays is an asset to horror literature! Highly recommended to all  horror fans. If you haven't read her first novel "The Trickster", please do so as  well...you won't be disappointed.
4 This is an original piece of horror fiction using a tried and true premise; outsider goes to a small town, uncovers secrets and weird things going on, a race against the ticking clock, etc.Muriel gray does a great in-depth job about this trucker who is carrying an unknown cargo and just writes a great novel. She is a new writer and is one to watch; she has all the tools to scare and frighten.She writes at a break-neck speed and keeps the obstacles coming. The twists and turns are &quot;realistic&quot; and she does a credible job at shaping her characters.Definitely a writer to watch!!
2 Did not care for this book.  I don't know if I would classify it as more weird or just stupid.  The concept of alchemists and the curse associated with passing of dried human skin was pretty crazy.  I like a good horror book but this was just not my cup of tea.
3 Some of the other reviewers here (and the liner notes of the book itself) suggest Gray is on par with King. Well, if you haven't read a lot of King you might think so, but Gray lacks the one thing that Kings excels at:  building a sense of menace, fear and genuine &quot;creepiness&quot;. Much  of this book alludes to this great big otherworldy evil, yet the payoff is  disappointing. The basic idea is good - the passing of the runes to the  &quot;victim&quot; who becomes the conduit for...well, I won't give it  away, but believe me it's not really all that &quot;scary&quot; (if this  book kept you from sleeping, you must scare quite easily). I agree with  some of the other reviewers that the world of truckers seems an odd choice  for a setting. Also, Gray's British vocabulary can be a bit distracting for  the American reader (not that the book should be written to suit American  tastes, but every time I read &quot;colour&quot; or &quot;odour&quot; it  stops the narrative in its tracks) but spelling differences aren't as  problematic as is the choice of terminology that no American (particularly  a trucker) would use. There is a reference to a &quot;saloon car&quot;  which is British for &quot;sedan&quot; but over here sounds like something  out of a weird western. Same goes for &quot;Perspex&quot; which we Yanks  know as &quot;Plexiglass&quot;. The plot &quot;twists&quot; aren't too  believable either, particularly one character's complete mental turnabout  after the character's true agenda is revealed. In fact, character  development is lacking in general - for example, why is the elderly Asian  man even in there? And not to nitpick, but it really does say &quot;Five  Days Alive Permitted&quot; on the cover but the narrative (in more places  than one) refers to &quot;Three Days Alive Permitted&quot; - a careless  publishing error. To summarize - a good idea, but poorly executed.
2 I loved this book at the start. The story was so engaging and ominous. The baby being run over at the start and the evil, evil, evil looking bird following Josh everywhere had me hooked. The characterization was ace too and I felt for Josh a great deal in many of his dire circumstances.But then the plot just got bogged down in hokey black magic mumbo jumbo. It lost control and just went crazy. Perhaps I didn't read it right or had other expectation but I think that it all could have been told in a better and less stupidly from that point on. Too bad considering such a strong opening.
4 Furnace is an enjoyable read for those who are into the less gory and more creepy type of horror fiction.  While not quite achieving Stephen King-esque complete lack of style, Gray does use very straightforward storytelling, which is so effective in horror novels.  The story is generally engaging, despite being utterly predictable.  Predictability in itself is not a bad thing (it's what puts the suspense in an Hitchcock film) but it loses its luster when you are not supposed to have &quot;figured it out&quot;.On a couple of occasions Gray is a tad too aware of the fact that she is writing a horror novel and embarrassing phrases like &quot;It was Hell calling&quot; sneak in.  Characters are nearly three dimensional, but mostly boil down to walking stereotypes.  The reader does get a sense of the main character, Josh Spiller, having some depth to him; however he is about the only one who does and it's not particularly well-explored.Nevertheless, I did find Furnace to be an &quot;page-turner&quot; and would recommend it to others with the above caveats in mind.
4 A truck driver passing through a small town is passed along an item that will summon a demon to kill him in a few days and as time winds down he desparately tries to find a way to avoid this fate.Muriel Grey takes her time establishing her main character Josh but when the story kicks into a nightmarish race against time it's scary fun.Racing along highways trying to find a solution this has the riveting intensity that's been missing from Dean Koontz and Stephen King books in years.Keeping the mumbo jumbo to a minimum and the tension high with a likable main character this is one of the best horror novels of recent years.
4 After I read this book I checked to make sure I wasn't carrying any odd  looking pieces of paper!I loved how Gray described the creatures  various manifestations, never overboard, just enough to let YOUR  imagination run wild, like on moonless nights when you hear a muffled thump  outside your window.The bait and switch tactics employed by Josh  Spiller fooled me as well as Griffin and the mayor - &quot;YOU ASKED FOR  IT&quot; - describes my reaction upon witnessing the results.
4 I've never done serious over-the-road trucking, but I've driven hundreds of thousands of miles around the U.S., fairly often pulling the kind of marathons that Josh Spiller and his trucker buddies do.  The American road  is a world of its own, and I've read few books that capture it.  Muriel  Gray really nails it, which is surprising given that she's from Scotland.  She mentions in the acknowledgements that she took a cross-country trip  with a trucker as part of her research.  She was obviously paying  attention.As for the rest, the characters are believable, the plot moves  right along, and it's nice to read a good novel about America where the  characters are working class.  This is popular fiction, not serious  literature, but it's a darn good read.
4 I was so happy to stumble on Muriel Gray's TRICKSTER. She doesn't pull any punches when writing horror. After that, I didn't hesitate to pick up FURNACE, and I certainly wasn't disappointed.Josh Spiller (love that  name) is a trucker. With domestic problems on his mind, he pulls off in  Furnace, VA for a bite to eat and falls right into the middle of a  supernatural power struggle involving child sacrifice and ancient evil.  What he doesn't know at first is that the entire quaint little town is part  of the evil secret of Furnace, and that he has been picked to carry out  demonic purpose. Josh just wants to get home, but no matter how far he  drives, he can't escape that little town. Gray creates a wonderfully  horrifying tale; the events take on nightmare qualities as Josh struggles  desperately to save his soul and to keep the evil from his family.This is certainly a good read. It could have benefitted from better  editing--there were times I had to check to make sure the setting was  actually in America. But, overall, I enjoyed this one a great deal and  can't wait for Gray's next one to hit the stands.
5 Furnace is one of my favorte reads.  Ms. Gray captures a great hero in this book.  You understand him and what makes him tick.  She also captures the area that this book takes place in very well.  Even though she doesn't  name &quot;real&quot; places or people, I knew where she was, because I  grew up in that area off of Interstate 81.  Ms. Gray did a wonderful job of  making her people and places come alive.  She has a great understanding of  the &quot;back&quot; area of rural Virginia.  The plot was good.  Reminded  me of the old movie &quot;Curse of the Demon&quot;, but taken further in  plot.  She surprised me several times.  Her sub-plotting kept me on the  edge of my seat too.  Very good read.
5 This book is fast paced, full of suspense, horror and nice twists. This is a definite must-read for any horror fan. I never heard of this author before I read this book, but I would like to see more from her.One thing - another reviewer commented on the so-called spelling errors. Muriel Gray is from Scotland and she uses the English spellings of words. These are NOT spelling errors!
3 Nothing jerks me out of a story faster than a misspelled word.  &quot;Foul&quot; for &quot;fowl&quot;, and &quot;jewellery&quot; for &quot;jewelry&quot;?  Come on, folks!  Are there no proofreaders left alive?That said, Furnace is a good read.  Nice tension, believable characters.  She did her trucking research, and I don't understand other reviewers' problems with the dialogue.I'll read her next book, and would recommend this one.
5 I had never heard of Muriel Gray until I saw the sleek mass market paperback cover of Furnace shouting out at me from the shelves of a local bookstore.  The back seemed intriguing enough to buy and put in my WinterRead pile.  Well, I just finished this book (I started yesterday) and let me just say WOW!  Paced to beat lightning, this book didn't let up until the end!Josh Spiller is a long distance truck driver who happens to take a wrong turn into a very sinister Virginia town.  A town by the name of Furnace.  While attempting to find his way out of the town a strange looking woman pushes a baby filled stroller under Josh's big rig.  When Josh stops, dumbfounded and horrified by what has just happened the woman is nowhere to be seen, unfortunately the remains of the baby are.  Josh is quickly absolved form any wrongdoing and shaken, he's back on the road.  But this time, it's the road to Hell.This story has all the elements of a classic Horror tale.  The small town that keeps sinister secrets.  Monsters both human and some worse.  Dark rituals.  Rich characterization.  Action packed sequences that terrify and make you continue to read with white-knuckled tension.  Don't start reading this at night if you have to work in the morning, you might miss out on some sleep!  Muriel Gray earned herself a fan with this one.  Note:  the author is apparently from Scotland and you might note some British spellings of words, but don't worry, Mrs. Gray's knowledge of America never comes into question.  I sincerely hope the front cover of the book isn't lying and that we can expect Furnace to be coming to movie screens soon.  Definitely cinematic.  I'm also looking forward to reading Muriel Gray's first Horror novel, Trickster.A great, fun read for Horror fans and Action fans alike.  Three Days Alive Permitted.
5 This is a great horror novel, from beginning to end. A truck driver, unknown to him, gets marked and will be killed by a demon in three days unless he can find a way to reverse the curse placed upon him. Absolutely scary, especially the ending when the demon faces the main character. What a great talent from Muriel Gray.
3 Ho hum, ho hum, after the absolute power house that was The Sandman I find myself assured in my beliefs that no one but Neil himself should ever write for the series. Over all this was a very bland collection of stories hat at times had very little to do with any of The Endless that ranged from mediocre to down right painful for the most of the book. However there were a few good pieces in here that definitely made it worth while to drudge through the lesser parts.Masquerade & High Water, Ain't You Most Done Yet and the Witch's Heart were all middle ground for me, being entertaining but not particularly outstanding. The true stars for this collection for me were Each Damp Thing, Splatter, Valosay and Elet and Stopp't Clock Yard. The only story I found absolutely 100% appalling beyond belief in it's insipid story telling was The Birth Day which was so bad that I almost put down the book and decided to stop reading if it hadn't been for the fact that blissfully I decided to read one more story and came across Will Shetterly's absolutely brutal, if at times a bit obvious, Splatter.Over all this isn't the worst way to spend an evening, but it's by no mean's Gaiman's Sandman and anyone looking for the brilliant story telling we got in canon will be advised to look elsewhere.
5 I haven't experienced the total Sandman world so am commenting from the 'some but not all perspective' which many potential readers may have. First is the short story structure itself: the beauty of the changing voices & visions pays the price of admission alone, even if you've only the barest knowledge of the Sandman oeuvre. This collection is like the gates to faery: within and between these short & beautifully tantalizing bits of prose you may glimpse Something just beyond. Sometimes you see it; sometimes (for the non-initiate?) it passes you by but for me it was an altogether enjoyable experience. That Gaiman chose & introduces each piece is a small sweetness before each story-course.The Preface, by Frank McConnell, is a lovely and literate tale itself though I doubt the author would consider it so; nevertheless it is a true telling of who we are, and an excellently well written introduction to the Sandman world. It is exactly enough to know what to expect from these gifted authors whose words fill in and leave out what's needed.I bought this because I've been enchanted by the works of Barbara Hambly for decades and wanted to read her story "Each Damp Thing"; she spins an exquisitely crafted tale of Dreaming herein.  If you're a reader of Hambly's, or any author in the book, you won't be disappointed by their story in this collection & 'your' author's tale will take you by the hand through the others.
4 A collection of stories related to the Sandman saga, placed in and around these stories, but unrelated. The odd story here has an extremely tenuous connection to the aforementioned, and generally speaking, those with less do not work as well. Sandman fans should still enjoy this, however.Sandman Book of Dreams : 01 Masquerade and High Water - Colin GreenlandSandman Book of Dreams : 02 Chain Home, Low - John M. FordSandman Book of Dreams : 03 Stronger than Desire - Lisa GoldsteinSandman Book of Dreams : 04 Each Damp Thing - Barbara HamblySandman Book of Dreams : 05 The Birth Day - B. W. CloughSandman Book of Dreams : 06 Splatter - Will ShetterlySandman Book of Dreams : 07 Seven Nights in Slumberland - George Alec EffingerSandman Book of Dreams : 08 Escape Artist - Caitl&iacute;n R. KiernanSandman Book of Dreams : 09 An Extra Smidgen of Eternity - Robert RodiSandman Book of Dreams : 10 The Writer's Child - Tad WilliamsSandman Book of Dreams : 11 The Gate of Gold - Mark KreighbaumSandman Book of Dreams : 12 A Bone Dry Place - Karen HaberSandman Book of Dreams : 13 The Witch's Heart - Delia ShermanSandman Book of Dreams : 14 The Mender of Broken Dreams - Nancy A. CollinsSandman Book of Dreams : 15 Ain't You 'Most Done? - Gene WolfeSandman Book of Dreams : 16 Val&oacute;s&aacute;g and &Eacute;let - Steven BrustSandman Book of Dreams : 17 Stopp't-Clock Yard - Susanna ClarkeSolar hippie Desire.3 out of 5Right at the start of the Sandman story, with all the Sleepers there is the whole World War air war thing going on.3.5 out of 5Endless bet welcher, after a pretty young lord bets Desire she can't make anyone she wants shag, and wins.3.5 out of 5Cain unearths a mirror that Dream had hidden away for a bloody good reason. Bad things man, bad things.4 out of 5Herding happiness.3 out of 5A horror writer probably would have preferred to be guest of honour somewhere other than the Cereal Convention.4 out of 5Little Nemo prefers to not be awake.2.5 out of 5Bloke not a fan of dream denizens.2.5 out of 5Death interrupts the last story being told to a bloke in hospital.4 out of 5Little girl, no.2.5 out of 5Doll bravery.4 out of 5Prophecy pills.3.5 out of 5Witch makes a werewolf girl and becomes a bit torn.3.5 out of 5Autistic mental power.4 out of 5A folksinger gets one last go around after a heart attack, and before Death.3 out of 5Three boys get involved in a tricky folk tale, with dreaming.3.5 out of 5Morpheus sick of Paramore.3 out of 5
4 Between 1988 and 1996, over the course of seventy-five Sandman comic books (plus various specials and mini series), Neil Gaiman told the complex, moving story of Morpheus, the Lord of the Dreaming, and his family, the Endless. Taken as a whole, the series constitutes a tale about a single character (Dream, a.k.a. Morpheus) and, as Frank McConnell points out in his excellent introduction, "an intricate, funny and profound tale about tales, a story about why there are stories."Dream is the central figure of the story. Tall, thin, pale, always dressed in black (the image of his creator?), he is truly a flawed hero, a godlike figure subject to the emotions and weaknesses of mankind. Able to create and destroy worlds on a whim, he fails as father and husband. Seemingly invincible, he can be brought down by the righteous anger of a distraught mother.For eight years, Gaiman mined this rich vein, only to stop at the height of the series' popularity, at a point in time when he felt the story he had in mind from the beginning had reached its natural conclusion. Gaiman's creations live on however, in DC's new series The Dreaming, and in this anthology, written by several mainstream (i.e., non-comic book) writers.Given the brilliance of the original comic, and with Gaiman co-editor, Sandman aficionados and novices alike might approach this anthology with high hopes. Unfortunately, they are likely to be somewhat disappointed. Perhaps the writers had to operate under severe restrictions; perhaps they didn't feel comfortable working within someone else's universe-it's hard to say. Although the stories are uniformly well crafted, they fail to break any new ground or provide novel insights into the rich cast of familiar characters. This is not to say that the anthology is entirely a waste of time-many of the stories are excellent, and all are readable. Still, the writers might have done more with the material.Enough negativity. The best story in this collection is Susanna Clarke's "Stopp't Clock Yard," a tale that could easily have been part of the "World's End" story arc from the original series. (Gaiman himself comments "I wish I had written this story.") Clarke tells the amusing tale of magician Isaac Trismegistus and rogue John Paramore, a pair who invade Morpheus' realm to bring the deceased back to their loved ones. Morpheus is rendered perfectly, a distracted deity, swift to anger, but patient in the extreme. Dream waits out his tormentors, only to have his revenge stolen away by one of his siblings.Other strong entries are Will Shetterly's "Splatter" (set at the infamous Serial Killers Convention seen in The Doll's House), George Alec Effinger's "Seven Nights in Slumberland" (a delightful tribute to both The Sandman and Little Nemo), Barbara Hambly's "Each Damp Thing" (a scary, funny piece featuring Cain and Abel), and Brenda W. Clough's "The Birth Day" (wherein Dream visits a storyteller who may be too clever for her own good). Honorable mentions include Colin Greenland's "Masquerade and High Water," Tad Williams' "The Writer's Child," Delia Sherman's "The Witch's Heart," Nancy Collins' "The Mender of Broken Dreams," and Gene Wolfe's "Ain't You Most Done?".One need not be familiar with the series to enjoy this book, but it helps. Most of the writers here seem content pursuing themes Gaiman has already visited rather than developing their own. It's hard to recommend the hardcover to general audiences, but the trade paperback is an elegant solution-for twelve dollars, most will be able to spend a few pleasurable hours with Dream and his kin. Rabid fans of the series may be disappointed, but general readers should enjoy the time they spend in The Dreaming.
4 Neil Gaiman's "The Sandman" has established itself as a classic of modern literature. But how do Morpheus, the Endless, and the various supporting characters fare when written by others? The answer, unsurprisingly, appears to depend upon which author is doing the writing. It would be tedious for me to try to do the proper thing and review each story individually, so I will dwell only upon a few which stand out particularly strongly in my mind.First of all, I would say without reservation that the best story in the book is "Stopp't-Clock Yard" by the magnificent Susanna Clarke, who shows all of the whit and brilliance which she would later pour into her novel "Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell." She once again manages to cement her place as one of my favourite living authors.Other strong entries include the at times tragic and beautiful "Chain Home, Low," by John M. Ford, the disturbing "Splatter," by Will Shetterly, the grotesque "Each Damp Thing" (by Barbara Hambly) and "Ain't You Most Done" by Gene Wolf. George Allec Effinger's, "Seven Nights in Slumberland," presents the irresistable idea of a crossover between "The Sandman" and "Little Nemo in Slumberland," but the characterization of the Endless seemed a bit "off" to me somehow, so I wasn't able to enjoy it as much as I might have done. "An Extra Smidgeon of Eternity," by Robert Rodi, accomplished its aim nicely, in that I too was annoyed (in a good way) by the main character's abrupt death during a crucial part of Wanda's story. "The Mender of Broken Dreams," by nancy A. Collins, was also quite good, although Morpheus seemed a touch out of character (and though I don't want to let my own biases interfere with my review, I must say that, as an autistic person myself, I found the resolution to be extremely condescending).There were also a number of stories with interesting concepts, but imperfect executions. I found Caitlin R. Kiernan's "Escape Artist" to be interesting, although I could probably stand to read it again, as its disjointed nature confused me. That said, Wanda was one of my favourite characters, and any further development is more than welcome. "A Bone Dry Place," by Karen Haber, was also intriguing but muddled. Of the "twin" stories "The Writer's Child," by Tad Williams, and "The Gate of Gold" by Mark Kreigbaum, the former had by far the better execution, though it needed to be fleshed-out more. I am responsive to the idea of "The Birthday," but I don't feel that the story was all that it should have been, though I cannot quite lay my finger as to why.Of the other stories, I found most to be immemorable; the only one I truly disliked was "The Witch's Heart," by Delia Sherman, as it seemed a dry, plodding narrative populated by unsympathetic or underdeveloped characters.All told, a fine book, although it can't really compare to The Sandman written by Neil Gaiman himself.
3 Sandman, Neil Gaiman's wonderful creation, is the concept that this group of stories is based on. Like any story collection, this one has its hits and misses.Hits:"Chain Home, Low" What happened to those affected by Dream's disappearance?"Each Damp Thing" Barbara Hambly has a good grasp of Gaiman's cast of characters. Set in The Dreaming this one would have made a good comic."Seven Nights in Slumberland" Little Nemo?  Now Windsor McCay's work makes more sense. I think.Both Wanda stories. A character that certainly warranted more examination than the comic allowed."Endless Sestina" For the sheer nerve of it."The Gate of Gold" The flip side of "The Writer's Child," but much more fulfilling. There really are "good" dreams."A Bone Dry Place" Dream and Delirium together again."The Mender of Broken Dreams" The concept is not new, but it is so well written you won't care."Valosag and Elet" There are so few folktales being written anymore. At least good ones."Stopp't-Clock Yard" Captures the true essence of Gaiman's creation. This is another one that Gaiman could have written.Misses:Desire stories. This character is tedious as all stories end up being variations on the same theme. Especially "The Witch's Heart" it goes on and on...."The Birth Day" A clever idea but not fully developed."Splatter" A little obvious."The Writer's Child" Ditto."Ain't You `Most Done?" 32 pages long and I couldn't remember what it was about by the time I finished the book. And it's one of the last stories.Advertising Clive Barker's participation. It's a frontispiece and it's Death not Dream.Taking an existing character, whose popularity lies in a graphic medium and using him and his supporting cast as the basis of an anthology is a risky proposition. While this book is not entirely successful, it's definitely worth a read for the Sandman fan.
5 Neil Gaiman is an amazing writer and it is because of his stories about "The Sandman" that I became a comic book fan. If you can suspend belief and open your mind to the realm of imagination, you can step into the world that Mr. Gaiman created revolving around the King of Dreams. The entire series of the Sandman will leave you riveted and wanting more. Take the time to explore the realm of dreams and you will not be disappointed!
5 It is funny how one can initially misjudge a book. When I first picked this volume up it was because I saw Neil Gaiman and Clive Barker's names on the cover. Then, on first perusal, I saw that Gaiman had not even written the introduction. Moreover, Barker's only contribution was the frontispiece- a drawing of Death. Nor did I immediately recognize the names of any of the contributors to the collection. I felt cheated. I jumped to the conclusion that this was a hack written collection of short stories intended to exploit the popularity of the Sandman series. I threw the book down in disgust.Then, a little over a year later, I came back to it. Upon actually reading it, I discovered that Gaiman handpicked these stories. Indeed, he actually wrote the brief introductions for each writer and story. As for the stories themselves, there are some hauntingly, lovingly, skillfully, written tales here. What is more important, most of them genuinely capture the atmosphere of the Dreaming from the graphic novels. I could not have been more wrong about this fine collection- it was exactly what I was looking for.These stories are so faithful to the original that the reader might want to read the entire 10 volume Sandman Library before attempting it. There is much here that assumes a familiarity with the entire series.
4 An average-to-good collection of short Sandman stories.  My two favorites: &quot;Escape Artist&quot; by Caitlin Kiernan, while not technically perfect, is touching and memorable; &quot;Ain't You 'Most Done&quot; by  Gene Wolfe represents the Dreaming as it's really like -- no German  Expressionist tilting dark walls and Hollywood special effects, but real  life gone just a little bit... different.  Very well done.
2 Most of my beefs with this have been aired here.  This author was brilliant over the 1st four books - what happened?  How could he go from that to books 5 and 6?  Makes me thing he either has hired ghost writers or someone milli vanill-ied 1-4.  Anyone agree? The difference is that stark. Wish he'd go back to the mindset he was in back then.  I quit.
5 Fantastic, after a very long book 4 that set up so much, this book explodes with action and compelling story lines,Can't wait for book 6.
3 No one has been more adamant about the genius of George R.R. Martin than I have.  Sadly, I think he was a little off of his game on this one.  Maybe part of the problem was waiting so very long for this book.  I may have gotten too much anxiety and expectation built up over the years as I waited for this book to come.  Maybe another problem was that it seems this book was a transitional or "calm-before-the-storm" type of book.  The first three books in this series while having multiple characters and multiple storylines, usually always had at least one important story that came to at least some sort of conclusion at the end of the book.  This book was absent of any great climax.  I THOUGHT there was one coming that events seemed to be leading up to for most of the book, but that storyline abruptly dies and left me feeling cheated.Don't get me wrong, the book was great!  The characters are superb.  I've grown to love many of them over the last few books.  As always, Martin does a wonderful job of telling a story through the eyes of various characters each in a unique way.  Rather than a 3rd person story that gives the readers facts and some insights into a broad range of characters, we see the events unfold via a personal viewpoint of different people.  I think it does a better job of drawing the reader in as you experience events through each person's eyes, and feel their emotions as the drama unfolds.  Sometimes we get to experience a common event through two different characters' eyes which is quite interesting.  One complaint though is that the story is almost getting too big.  The author keeps adding more characters, and I'm starting to reach my maximum amount of people that I care to keep track of.  Also, some of the names in parts of the story such as Hizdahr Zo Loraq, Skahaz Mo Kandaq, and Reznak Mo Reznak start to run together after awhile.As usual with a Martin book, the world he creates is full of depth and detail.  Every kingdom, city, family, etc. has a unique feel.  It's so easy to become immersed in the story as if each place were a city that you visit all the time and every character is an old friend you've known all your life.It's surely a sign of good writing if my biggest problem is that I have grown to love the good guys so much and hate the bad guys so much that I'm getting a little impatient waiting for justice to finally come.  I find myself continually hoping with each event that THIS is where the tide finally starts to turn, only to have my hopes crushed. If I look at the book as this setting in motion a string of events that will come to climax in the next book, I can be much more forgiving.  However, if the storylines continue to veer off in ever-increasing paths with no end in sight, my patience is going to begin to wear thin.  I have danced with the dragons long enough.  It's time for this song to end and let the final battle begin!
4 This is not a typical fantasy story, it's a never ending series of well-described events involving perfectly profiled characters in a wonderful setting.It's hard to grasp, you usually forget half of what you read and to be honest it doesn't matter.  You could skip 100 pages and keep on reading as if nothing.It's like life.  Not everything happens for a reason, the sequence of events is unpredictable, follows no moralistic or predictable model and you can either hate it or get used to it.  I decided to be the latter.
4 I love these books but this... this was not my favorite. To be fair, this man keep SO many plots and characters in the air at any one time that there just had to be a point where he'd have to start wrapping things up. Logically, I know this to be true. My advice for the brave reader who is thinking about taking them on is to not worry about losing track of details. Martin does a great job of reminding the reader who everyone is as he goes... just keep plugging along and you'll be fine.
5 Just read it, you won't be able to put it down. One of the best in the series, hand down.
5 This was intended to be a companion book with FFC, explaining what happens in other parts of the realm during the same points in time. For those complaining that it doesn't move fast enough, there are two more books coming. This is classic Martin storytelling. I found it a great read!
3 Look, yes, the book was long. I actually re-read the first four books before reading this one, so it was a big chunk of reading. Yes, lots didn't happen during it; there were slow interludes. But some stuff does and so I was okay with the book until the ending.So as not to give away spoilers - it felt like Martin had no idea what to do next to get his characters moving forward, so he shook the snow globe up or if you prefer knocked over the game table. And he didn't do it cleverly. He just said "hmmm, no idea where to go so let's just abruptly do a bunch of things to disrupt stuff."Really wondering about the characters we've come to know and in many cases admire against our will. Will there be a whole new set next book?And by the way - very tired of the way Cersei is being portrayed. She's written as a dumb blond, prey to her emotions, sluttish, power grabbing, whatever. Yet somehow she keeps ending up winning, more or less. I think he should portray her as a lot more clever than he does and stop heaping so much scorn on her.Anyway, I really thought this was going to be the last book when I got it. But guess not. Will I read the next one? probably, assuming I'm not dead by the time it comes out or that I haven't totally forgotten about the series (it took seeing previews of the TV show to remind me of the book series and finally got me to check to see if there was a new one out).
3 A disclosure - I am a great fan of GRRM and a bigger fan of A Song of Ice and Fire series. I have read the first three books 3 times and the AFFC 2 times (could not stomach a third read).I doubt I will ever read the ADWD a second time.The book felt like a long march round and round (or a long sailing) and in the end reaching nowhere ...
5 One of the best books I've read. Cannot wait for the next one. Love the tempo of the battles. Highly recommend this book
4 Dance with Dragons is book 5 of the Song Of Ice & Fire series. I feel like I'm reading a soap opera. At the end of book 5 we are no closer to a conclusion to this story than we were when book 1 ended. I have to admit it's a page turner but I hate falling in love with characters and having to endure their death, sometimes more than once. Now we have to wait until God knows when, to read book 6. I'm watching the HBO series and in a way I like it better than the books. I'm happy that Tyrion still has his nose in the TV show. He's my favorite character so I hope George Martin doesn't &#34;OFF&#34; him. I might not read book 6 if that happens. So if you're a person who loves long novels, hates when they end and can put up with a bit of blood and guts, this is your book. But hey! Start with book 1, Game of Thrones.
3 Besides two major crescendos, this book follows A Feast for Crows in spirit as well as story.GRRM continues to keep you in suspense with each of your favorite characters, but to what end? Where there was always the ever-present &#34;Sword of Damocles&#34; for each character that is pivotal to the plot, but in this novel I feel more like I am being left in the dark rather than simply kept in suspense.I held off on reading this book ever since it was released simply because I have been reading GRRM's books for about 13 years and have grown tired of waiting years and years before getting back in touch with the characters I once felt so deeply for. Now that I have read it, I am glad I waited, and perhaps would have waited longer so that I would have less of a gap between stories.By the end of the novel, so much is left up in the air, and the pieces that have already fallen have done so to the detriment of the story as a whole. I love the setting, the cultures, the varied perspectives, and the inner and outer dialogue you get as the reader of this series, but I fear that I am beginning to slowly lose interest the further along the story progresses.If you want to read this book to just keep up with the series or because you appreciate GRRM's writing style, go for it. It is a decent read. If you are looking for a magnificent work of fantasy though, you may have to look elsewhere.
4 I started to feel "George RR Martin" fatigue while reading a "A Feast for Crows."  It seeemed like there was a lot of B-characters, and I felt the writing and plotting had gotten sloppier compared to the first three books.  Though I had still been excited about "A Dance", when I read all the negative reviews I put off reading it indefinately, until recently when I got to watching the TV series and decided I'd try it.  And I have to admit I enjoyed it.That's not to say it doesn't have its slow parts.  Reading a 1,000 page book which is part of a series of seven is truly a massive time investment, and things seem to go a lot quicker in Westeros than they do in Essos.  At times, I was really wondering why there is no raven system on that giant continent to speed things up, but I did enjoy nearly all the Westeros chapters and characters.I like the complexity of the world Martin creates and the mortality with which he imbues his characters.  Sure, he resurrects them sometimes, but I feel like this is never a random turn of the plotwheel.  Sometimes, the reason for the surprise is that we were caught up in rumor or deception (a common factor historically).  Other times, I feel the character has undergone a metamorphosis, and so it is like we are being introduced to a new character.Some readers have lamented Daenyrus indecisiveness, but it is important to remember she is a just teenage girl, handicapped by her good intentions, and in the corrupting influence of the decadent orient.  Who of us who becomes decisive remains that way without relapse?  Also, bemoaned is a certain new character who seems minor and random, but, I would say, he is important in that he is both a foil and bridge to Westeros.  It would be awkward if Daeny just jumped off her dragon when she got to Westeros and nobody knew her.Others dislike the unresolved plot points, but this is what the next two books are for.  Perhaps, a bit could have been cut from this book, but it is still not the infinite series of Robert Jordan and his succesors by any means.  If there are some warts on Martin's tomes, show me better.  Tolkien is long dead.  Marion Zimmer Bradley would have you drowning in a sea of estrogen; her mortality is of greying hairs, her world a subverted one, and most of her characters boring.  Let's face it: there is no one better than Martin.
3 While Martin is very creative, he can also be very wordy. This saga seems to go on endlessly with little closure and definitely not much success by the main characters. Many adult themes. Probably won't buy book six. Lost me on several of the more advanced conceptual descriptions such as the &#34;trees&#34; world with the black sky. Martin drops hundreds if not thousands of names which is extremely distracting. I have no idea what role some of those individuals play in the overall story or the history.
1 Bought this in paper...sorry I did. A five year wait for this? I was reminded of one of those half-azzed Star Trek movies they did just to keep the series going. Even soap operas kill off people and end storylines. This book could have been okay if he'd had the balls to complete some threads and not just worried about the next payday. We aren't all morons out here, George.
1 This book contains a Monty Python and the Holy Grail reference on page 325 of the hardcover. That's about all you need to know about the "quality" of this entry into the series.If you want just a bit more, know that an entire plotline contained in the book (4 chapters or so) could have been excised and reinserted at the end in a couple of paragraphs.Marginally better than AFFC, but only because there's no Samwell Tarly. As hard as the characters try to get stuff accomplished, nothing really happens.
4 Still reading this, but the story gets better and better as I go. The characters are more familiar in this one than the last.
4 This book (book 4 in the series) was slower than the other three, but still excellently written.  Many of the main characters spend the majority of the book moping (Dany & Jon Snow), or drifting fairly aimlessly (Tyrion & Mormont).  Stannis and his "queens men" finally leave the wall, but barely.  They encounter no Lannisters to advance that plot.I'm still re-reading it (read it as it came out, then reread the other 3, and then it again), and enjoying it, but I wish it had progressed the story a lot farther.
5 the greatest tragedy of this series is how long I have to wait for the next installment.  I swear my children will be grown and out of the house before I get to finish this series.
5 Do not open this book unless all prior entries in the saga are part of your past and fully relevant to your future.  Approach only after fully digesting the contents of preceding material, with the characters bonded like old friends, the noble families along with their gods and legends etched in memory, and  the plot twists charted as indelible lessons.  Do not read without sufficient leisure and forged determination to pursue an uninterupted course from page one trough the final words of the epilogue.  If you come expecting resolution you are misinformed; and yet, the worlds within deliver satiation in abundance.  Short of an end, this installment lacks for nothing; and if the exploits of these noble rivals, contentious armies, exotic faiths, local tribes, judicious folk and wandering fools goes on forever, eternity will surely come too soon.  A final word of warning about the dragons - man-eating, fire breathing creatures that consume flesh freshly roasted to a crisp.  Though the full force of their impact has yet to be felt on the tale, their power is much in evidence on pages with edges singed.
5 I devoured the first 4 books. Now, I am almost at the end of the 5th and I do not know if I find all the answers. I want to know if the  silver-haired queen is still alive after flying on the back of the dragon.... and much more.
1 Let me say I think GRRM has a great sense of character and can do a plot twist like nobody's business.That said, does he know how to wrap up ANY storyline without a death to the main character in that storyline?  We've invested hours and pages in characters and plotlines, only to have brand new characters introduced...AGAIN... and a character we are invested in killed off because GRRM doesn't know what else to do with them.I was hoping to find Dance With Dragons have more focus and development on Jon, Arya, Bran and their wolves, Tyrion, Cersie, Jamie, and Dany and Sam.  Was I disappointed?  In the end - yes, big time.  (possible spoiler ahead)I got a lot of back & forth with Dany and Meeren and almost no development of her relationship with the dragons or who else may ride them.I got bits of Arya's growth, but not much and only toward the end of the book.Bran - a few chapters of odd situations that seemed like filler and a way to put him aside.Jon got chapters about his dealings with Wildings and Stannis, but not the Others or Ghost.Cersie - chapters toward the end of the book ending in her being marginalized and set aside.Jamie - one chapter only!Sam - nothingTyrion - Hurray!  Some interesting bits of intrigue but not what I was hoping for.New people - lots and lots and I didn't care about any of them at all.I loved books 1 & 2 and they got me hooked on this series.  Book 3 was annoying at times, but I stuck with it.  Book 4 was a dissappointment because of the new characters, but I gave it a chance & held out hope for this book.  That said, I will not recomment this book or series to anyone and I doubt I'll read anything else in the series in the future.  GRRM is a good writer, too bad he cannot end a story.  Maybe a new editor would help, but I doubt it.
3 If words are wind then so are letters in much of this installment. The main stages here are the Wall and Slavers Bay with a secondary stage of Dorne, the Iron Isles and Kings Landing. Briefly mentioned are the Riverlands and Winterfell.There are as usual unexpected deaths at the end, Tyrion's interesting adventures and the sudden return of almost forgotten characters. I wasn't interested in Arya's adventures nor Bran's in this installment. Both of them seem to be no longer a part of the main narrative and are just added in for completeness and to fill up pages. Of course this is only going off of what we have so far. The main thing to remember about all this is that anyone can die and the only constant is the rat race for the Iron Throne.It is definitely true that there are just too many throw away characters in this one it can be hard to care much about them or their plotlines. The Wildlings/Crows and all the many characters of Slavers Bay etc. make it hard to follow. It seems that the characters of Slavers Bay and the Wildlings/Crows will be forgotten once the previously introduced main characters that are there move on in life or death. They are only in bulk to be thought of as one large character kind of like the Wights or the Dragons. I found myself feeling like the proverbial "are we there yet" kids.The whole split chronology is a detriment as well. It means that almost half the characters are not reacting or participating in any of the events of the other half, splendid isolation in time and place. Are the messenger crows not working here? This splitting is one reason why this novel is so unfocused it's almost as if Martin is just adding stuff to keep his page count up. The constant retelling of the near past is annoying. He could have written Parts 4 and 5 as one book and cut out a lot of unnecessary details and people that showed up in Part 5. This wouldn't have worked for the marketing dept. though: the release schedule and premier dates dictate too much. I think that's part of why he keeps changing the number of books. I wouldn't be surprised if he extended it to 10 books. We may have a new LOST on our hands here!I have to say that it's a definite liability that this and it's sequels are being fleshed out while a TV show is being produced of the series. This all smells too much of marketing to me, wasn't it around the start of Season 2 TV show that this novel debuted? Was the series even extended simply for cash and future TV seasons? I think this makes the rest of the books very reactive and subservient to the needs of HBO(the dragons largely disappear conveniently must be a TV/graphics budget issue) and weakens Martins credibility as a writer: but I guess once a TV writer always a TV writer. It's almost as if you should just skip the first 500-700 pages and just read the rest to get the gist of the novel. So, the next novel will be released in April 201X(near TV premiere time) or thereabouts I'm sure. There isn't even a preview of the next novel in this one at the end like the first four books, ominous sign that.In short it's worth a read but don't expect the tight focused story of the first four or the introduction of any new characters you'll care much about.
2 Unlike many who have reviewed this book, descriptions of barley porridge and bends sinister don't put me off. In fact, I think many fantasy writers neglect the basics of medieval life whilst they stroke their immense swords. I'm also not one of the readers who get all self-righteous because an author takes too long to write a book. It's his living, his book and I am a paying customer, not an investor.Having said that, I was still somewhat disappointed by this latest instalment for basically the same reason outlined by others who have reviewed it: lack of progress.The key POV character storylines advance very little throughout the novel. Indeed, what little advancement they do make seems somewhat negated by the end points of the threads at the close of the book. Meanwhile, other threads just seem to vaporise and some of the new ones that are introduced are rendered somewhat pointless by their climaxes.In other words, the book seems about 95% padding and 5% substance.The use of journeys, both physical and mental, for so many of the characters is part of the problem. The plot lines become like so many tedious car trips. You watch the scenery roll past to the point of boredom, hoping against hope that there will be something of interest in the next town you enter. Only to realise that the next landmark is fairly much the same as the last.Of course Martin does throw in some of his trademark surprises at the end, but they're starting to become contrived. Worse still, the reappearance of some characters we thought killed now makes anyone else's apparent demise less certain. Like when Indiana Jones goes over a cliff and you just know that he's not going to fall to his death because, well, he's the *hero*.All up I won't give the book one star because it's still a very richly written piece of work. But it's not worth the price I paid for it on pre-order. Perhaps the worst condemnation I can give it is that if you did not read this book, I imagine that you could pick up the next one in the series and not have any trouble following the story.
4 I waited and waited for this book to finally come! Thankfully I have it on Kindle, because toting these thick paperbacks around is not fun. Well this book was worth the wait! Jon is the Lord Commander, Dany is Queen of Meeren and Tyrion embarks on another adventure with a long lost Targaryen in disguise. At least Cersei gets her just punishment by the Faith of the Seven.Reader, please read this book very carefully. There are a lot of details that is important to the plot of the character's backstory and who will ultimately sit on the Iron Throne.  Martin tells a lot of riddles and it takes some time to figure them out.  I have started to reread all of the books and have picked up details missed in the first run.Martin is a truly gifted writer with an incredible imagination. I will be sad when this series comes to an end, but it's been an incredible journey!
5 Once again a wonderful read from Mr. Martin. I've heard people say this book was slow, but I love all his detail so slow or fast, it was still a great read. Now, about the next book, can't wait!
4 I'm hooked on the journey but it's sometimes like walking either through a swamp or through a field of butterflies trying to keep track of the new names of characters and overlong descriptions. Nevertheless I'm going to buy Book 6 when it appears!
4 I enjoyed this book, part 4b of the series, although I agree with many of the critics, too long, unnecessary new characters, little resolved.  But I love the series, first 3 books are 5 stars... I would really rate this a 3 1/2.My question however is this:  I have heard there are two more books before series ends....  George RR Martin is 64 years old and it took 6 years to release this tome.... Does he have it in him, especially with the other distraction of the GREAT HBO series, Game of Thrones, which I have heard he is also very involved, to finish 2 more 700-1000 page books....?Or is this another job for Brandon Sanderson, the person who is now finishing the late Robert Jordan's "Wheel of Time" series... Good Luck George...!!!
1 Language and imagery continue to get more illicit.The only characters that I still liked in the series keep getting killed.
2 Wish I had waited until I could check it out of the library. Pointless meanness to characters I had come to admire.
3 There is just too much book here for the story to go almost no where. It's still a good story but reading it is a chore.
2 The Game of Thrones peaked in book #3 for me.  These last 2 books have been dragging and not as exciting as the first three.
3 I was really disappointed in GRRM's latest effort. Dance with Dragons dragged on almost as bad as Feast for Crows. The plot of the Fire and Ice series makes little progress although many characters get fleshed out nicely. It is like buying a software upgrade that changes the menus to be clearer but does not advance the technology at all.I liked the character development but now GRRM will make us wait five more years and maybe he will figure out how to tie all these tales together to move the plot along. Tommen may die on the Iron Throne of old age before we find out who can unseat him.The series is almost like a soap in that you read about people dying and they pop back up alive in this book. Brandon Stark. Arya Stark, Theon Greyjoy, and a few others come back from the dead in this one.
3 George R.R. Martin, A Dance With DragonsThis book became annoyingly slow-paced compared to the first three books and even the fourth.I felt like several of the early POV characters were old friends that I was reunited with, especially since I hadn't ready book 3 in awhile and that's when we last saw them.I like Jon's tense negotiations with Stannis. Jon seemed to be trying to offer neutral advice like a maester might. Also, I wonder if he was trying to get Stannis out of the way by sending him elsewhere. I loved the setting feel of most of the Jon chapters.I'm honestly unsure what I feel about Daenerys' leadership.Theon's story was an amazing chilling description of torture.I identified with Tyrion's cover story strategy, basing it on personal experience he did have, which would help him stay in character and make it plausible.I loved it the way Davos talked trash when speaking the truth at Manderly's court. Heck, a lot of people in that hall were being brutally honest. Even as a Robb fan, Rhaegar Frey had a point with his rant about Robb's poor decisions.The theory that Bloodraven is Bran's guru is obvious when reading that Bran chapter.Obviously, the Ramsay/"Arya" wedding was a cruel farce, but I liked the detail about how weddings work for followers of the old gods.
2 This book is quite boring and provides little to no suspense. I would strongly recommend that readers avoid this novel.I skipped the fourth book in the series, "A Feast For Crows", because of horrific "word-of-mouth" feedback, and should not have invested time reading this novel either.The first book in this series was excellent, and the second one was quite good, but each successive novel is more tedious than the prior one. Needless to say, "A Dance with Dragons" is the most boring novel of the series thus far.The author continually drones on and on about inane, nonconsequential matters. He spends inordinate amounts of time describing scenery in the most minute detail, and also subjects the readers to numerous narratives that possess zero entertainment value. For example, readers should not read a single Daenerys narrative (they are the equivalent of "watching paint dry").At this point, Mr. Martin is solely writing for the sake of writing. My view is that he plans to extend the serious indefinitely in order to reap as large a monetary windfall as possible.  There is a colossal difference in "entertainment value" between this book and the first book in the series.I gave this book 2-stars, rather than 1-star, because it is the perfect book to read prior to retiring for the evening. I normally finish a novel every week or two, but spent 3-months reading this novel. The book will undoubtedly put any reader to sleep within 5-20 minutes.  This book is perfect for someone who is hoping to fall asleep quickly.
3 Six years in the making; over a thousand pages in length: while A Dance with Dragons has gone on to become an instant super bestseller (as well as the hardcover outselling the eBook edition), sadly the best thing about this book is really that fantastically mesmerizing cover.  This mighty tome falls more in line with its less well received and not so well reviewed predecessor, A Feast for Crows, than with the groundbreaking first three books of A Song of Ice and Fire.  It seems that time may not be the best thing for George R. R. Martin when it comes to writing his epic series, as he seems to enjoy spending more time describing scenery, and food, and anything gruesome or unpleasant than moving the story along.  He goes on tangents, taking trips with new characters that appear to have little bearing on the main plot; or spends literally hundreds of pages with characters readers have come to know so well and love . . . and nothing bloody happens!  Martin is becoming what can only really be truthfully described as Jordanian; no he's not immigrating to Jordan, but writing in the style of the man who became the true master of the "massive mass market," Robert Jordan.Warning: here be spoilers.In the North, around the Wall, King Stannis Baratheon seems to spend a lot of time trying to decide what to do with no real power or army to use, while listening to Lady Melisandre, who continues to spout enigmatic prophecies that make little sense; yet readers do get to enjoy a chapter from her viewpoint for the first time.  Meanwhile, Jon Snow is elected as the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, as he must deal with not just enemies beyond the Wall, but also amongst the very men he leads and is in charge of.  He works with the wildlings, bringing them south of the wall to bolster his forces in preparation for a possible attack from the Others; it seems to be an interesting act of diplomacy, but goes on for far too many pages, with little action or continuing story taking place.Much of the rest of the book takes place to the far east.  Martin has provided a couple of new maps, but nothing so clearly defined and comprehendible as the great continent of Westeros.  Tyrion flees to Pentos, drowning himself in wine.  He is forced to join with a group traveling to Meereen, along with the apparently not so dead prince Aegon Targaryen.  Tyrion - as he always does - manages to get involved in a whole variety of adventures, including the meeting of another dwarf, and a female no less!Daenerys is the character that seems most put through the ringer in this book; much like Cercei was in A Feast for Crows.  She is no longer the tough, proud, defiant woman that everyone feared, and not just because she has three growing dragons.  Having conquered Meereen, she should be the unstoppable, unquestionable queen that she is, and yet insurrection is afoot and Daenerys cannot seem to decide what to do; perhaps it is because she has become obsessed and besotted with one of her soldiers and seems to be able to think of little else when he is nearby, and yet he is of lower class and cannot possibly be her husband.  The black dragon, Drogon, meanwhile is running rampant through the countryside as growing "teenage" dragons do, and Daenerys has no idea how to control him.Finally there is Quentyn Martell, Prince of Dorne, whose story comes from nowhere as we follow his trek across the lands to Meereen, where he hopes to woo Daenerys by enslaving one of her dragons.  It does not end well for him.  Interspersed throughout the lengthy book are other POV chapters from the likes of Bran Stark, Davos Seaworth, Reek (who is in fact the very not dead Theon Greyjoy), Arya Stark, Victarion Greyjoy, as well as some surprise cameos from Jaime and Cercei Lannister.  These appearances may not have be so incomprehensible if their storylines were allowed to go somewhere, and yet many of them barely get one chapter, leaving the reader wondering why they were ever added to this book in the first place.  What was the point?  Especially when many hundreds of pages are spent on other main characters, with very little happening with them, other than plenty of description of what they're wearing, what they're eating, and what the scenery looks like.  Pure Jordanian!At a recent signing, George R. R. Martin briefly brought up one of his most tumultuous periods in the six-year writing saga of A Dance with Dragons, saying that in a year or two who would discuss it in greater detail once everyone had read the book, but confessing that he had sacrificed at least a year at what he refers to as his "Meereenese Knot," in trying to decide how events were to transpire and what characters and POVs were to be involved, featuring rewrite after rewrite after rewrite.  It seems Martin may have in fact written himself into a deep, dark pit of despair that he hasn't really been able to write himself out of.  Perhaps he should've scrapped everything and started again?  After sacrificing over a half a decade of his life and the reader's impatient waiting, he couldn't exactly do that.  Instead, the result is a book that is too long, has too little going on, and falls behind A Feast for Crows in that it is that much longer with less important story happening.There may be a number of readers under the same delusion suffered by those who professed the excellence and genius of the Star Wars prequels, starting with A Phantom Menace; but over time have come to realize the error of their ways and the true reality of the situation.  A Dance with Dragons just simply isn't that good of a book, but does serve to further the story somewhat, and fill in the details with many words and many pages and little action.  At the end readers will certainly be left unsatisfied, as they ponder on the possibilities of the penultimate book in the seven-book series (assuming it will stay at this number) with The Winds of Winter, where winter will supposedly have finally arrived.  The question remains: if winter is finally here, how long will it be before readers actually get to read about it?Originally written on August 9, 2011  Alex C. Telander.For more reviews, go to [...]
5 One of the best in series.  I think I understand the characters better due to the history offers in the book.  Long read.  I had it on audio and readable or I would still be reading.. don't start if you don't have time to spare
4 I have eagerly awaited this book since I finished the first four Of A Song of Ice and Fire in 2008.  The first three books of the series had superior plot AND characterization.  Each aspect didn't suffer or be neglected for the sake of the other one.  Then came the 4th installment, "A Feast for Crows".  Compared to other works of the Fantasy/Sci-Fi genre, AFFC would rank above most. It falls short compared to GRRM's other works.  It seemed that back story brought everything to a halt in this series.  I hoped that A Dance With Dragons would speed things up a bit.  I will give a qualified yes for plot advancement for this installment.****************************Spoiler Alert!**********************************************************Some of the problems of AFFC and this latest installment can be traced to the ending ofA Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3).  Two of the main characters Jon Snow and Daenyreus both had spectacular victories.  Jon Snow being named Lord Commander of The Wall and Princess Dany winning Meereen.  The problem being they were both stuck in a literary conundrum.  I was thinking at the end of that book, "So how will GRRM get Jon away from the Wall and  get Dany to Westoros?  In AFFC, despite good character back story and attention being given to the Iron Islands, the loose ends were still there.In ADWD some plot was advanced; but there more loose ends were created.  Dany did leave Meereen.  Jon Snow may have left The Wall and the story; like Ned and Robb.:-(  I say may because there have been some characters in this saga that have more lives than the luckiest cat.**************************END SPOILER ALERT*********************************************************Some plot loose ends have been tied up in a ADWD for Jon and Dany.  Many more loose ends, though, have been created in the overall story.I welcomed the addition of Ser Barristan Selmy in the story.  There was detail provided to the Eastern Lands and The North.  It provided more background and travelogue for GRRM's fantasy world.  I don't mind this at all.  Sometimes I thought Anthony Bourdain hijacked the novel with food descriptions.I questioned some other character additions; like Quentyn Martell.  Why?  When all was said and done with this character, I had wondered, why was he put in this story?  Whether you love, hate or are indifferent to GRRM's characters they've all contributed to the development of this epic in one way or another.  The character of Quentyn Martell did not meet any of these criteria.There was another intriguing addition that brings to mind the historical Perkin Warbeck.  I'm on the fence with this one.  I'm not sure if it's a useless red herring or something that will add believable complications; thereby adding interest to the story.Overall, this book is a good read for background.  BTW, this is not a stand alone novel.  If you have never read the ASOIAF series and want to read it, please, start with A Game of Thrones.
4 Definitely, the author has no qualms in killing characters.There are some that I would like to still have in the picture
2 It was a good story idea - don't know what happened.  Maybe author was trying to milk as much revenue as possible?  Don't know.  The whole first 5 books could have been 2 and I won't bother with the next when it comes out.
5 I just keep telling everyone, READ THE BOOKS. The show is great, but the books are BETTER. GET INTO IT
4 With A Dance with Dragons, the 5th novel of A Song of Ice and Fire, there is a sense that George R.R. Martin has instilled a few too many plotlines. As there are so many characters doing so many things, it makes me wonder if the story will ever be wrapped up in my lifetime. Despite this fact, I still finished A Dance with Dragons with more of a positive outlook than others might. I'd also like to point out that I was spoiled before I read this book, so whatever preconceptions or hopes I had were quickly washed away before I read even the first pages. As such, I feel like I was able to enjoy it for what it was.After killing his father in cold blood, Tyrion has left King's Landing to go east in search for Daenerys Targaryen. The talk is she is in Meereen preparing her army and growing her dragons in order to invade Westeros. As Tyrion makes his journey, he also goes through his own personal growth as he must cope with his killing of Tywin and Shae. Daenerys is having her own troubles controlling Meereen. Many different forces seem to be conspiring against her, and her rule is on the verge of being overturned. She is having to watch herself in everything she does. One wrong move, and she is done for. Meanwhile up north, Jon Snow is having a tough time getting the Night's Watch to accept the Wildings past the Wall, not to mention Stannis and Melisandre are both there as an added threat. Other plots emerge from Bran as he continues his journey north of the Wall, from Reek trying to find out what his name in his past life was, and from Arya who continues her own training to become an assassin. Of course there are several other point of view characters, as is GRRM's way.Tyrion, Daenerys, and Jon are the three that push this narrative forward. They each go through their own transformations. Tyrion never really seemed like himself this time around, but I can let that past as I didn't really expect him to be his jolly 'ol self after killing two people he knew quite well (or, at least, thought so). Dany and Jon both learn that ruling over a lot of people isn't quite what it seems, and everything they decide to do just wouldn't work. Both of them are really put through the ringer as they fail time and time again. Martin definately understands the concept of having your characters fail before they succeed. On another note, the couple of chapters from Bran were just downright beautifully written. Martin was at his best in writing these; I just wish there had been more of it.Despite all this, A Dance with Dragons is still really faulty. The first half of the novel was slow in building up its tension, and the second half seemed to have no narrative coherence. Chapters appear from characters like Jaime and Cersei without really accomplishing anything. And while there isn't an anti-climax in regards to the internal struggles, any fights or battles that might be expected never happened. There's a sense that Martin dug himself into a hole, and while I believe he has found his way out, there was no way that he was going to get out in just a novel's time. For a while I've been wondering if anything could have been done to the structure of A Dance with Dragons to give it a more satisfactory ending, but I really couldn't figure out anything that would work. The cliffhanger in Winterfell is well used, in my opinion, and wouldn't change that. It is the cliffhanger in Meereen, though, that I wish could have been better resolved. Unfortunately, I think it is quite obvious that Battle of Meereen would simply be too long. I can honestly see it taking up half of the next book.(Hopefully Martin decides to showcase the battle without pausing to go elsewhere. It would make for an exciting few hundred pages to see him go through the four or so point of view characters and no one else.)Through all its faults, I still liked the book. I thought it was entertaining, though not on the level of A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, or A Storm of Swords. I am remaining optimistic and feel confident that Martin has figured out the Meereenese knot and, as such, will get The Winds of Winter out in the next two years. He has a lot of work to do, though, with all these different characters. It's about time he kills off a few of them (and keeps them dead).I'm not sure people will enjoy A Dance with Dragons. It is a lot of build up but not much else. I enjoyed it for what it is -- another piece of a very long story. Very long.3.5/5
5 Great book, though I wish it were available in paper back, and in the same dimensions as the rest of the books so they looked nice sitting next to eachother. I previously purchased the box set. But its a lengthy read but definitely worth it!
3 Well... like many I finished this book very frustrated, after, like some have already said... stories drag and drag endlessly with no climax in any of them.  The abuse of anticlimax began to drive me nuts, I felt like reading Ann Rice's Queen Of The Damned all over again.  Still, I always enjoy his style, as all his books, you can find pretty pearls of writing worth of quoting here and there.  My first impression after finishing this book was that, with the imminent broadcast of HBO's GOT miniseries, the publishing house put pressure on Martin to wrap whatever he had, try to get something that would work as an end, and hand it over for it's quick publishing, and that is what happened.  I read he at least took out 4 already written chapters to save for The Winds Of Winter.  So this book should be seen as a bridge, where action just was build up to reach it's climax... only that... we'll probably will have to wait another 6 years!  Let us hope not!
5 ... a bit slowly for my hunger of this story xDIt's amazing how you end up rooting for all the characters (some more than others, obviously)Aren't all perspective right no matter how opposed they may stand?
5 So I've read a bunch of reviews where the comments are quite negative. Hummmm, I wholeheartedly disagree. I found this book riveting and amazing. The characters' development widens, and there is plenty of action. Many will say that the plot slowed down, but I found that the story base broadened out. Dragons were the main plot, even though they were seldom part of the action. All over the world, people were speaking about these dragons and plotting how to either use them or abuse them. It was like everyone was "dancing" with the idea of dragons. I found all five of the books great. The writing was excellent. I wish Martin would finish the series (and soon!). And I wish I could find more authors like Martin. Any suggestions???
4 Dance has all of the qualities you'd expect from the previous four novels. I deducted 1 star for two minor complaints:- I wanted overarching plots to be advanced further.- Some parts are slow and boring at times, especially the travel chapters in Essos. Inclusion of these throwaway character development scenes made lack of plot advancement more frustrating.Overall, it's a good continuation of the series, but I expected a little more.
5 I purchased it on the kindle because the softcover was not yet out. To be honest though I plan on buying the entire game of thrones collection on the kindle. While I normally perfer to hold a book the Ice and Fire series is extremely heavy and causes tears in my purse. On the kindle I recieved it for a much cheaper price then the hardcover and it didn't cause my bag to rip at all.
2 To put it nicely, this book is a mess.  It seems that the author spent all his time coming up with complicated names for minor characters and locations, and no time at all on where he taking the characters we grew care about in the earlier books.  There are very few interesting dramatic scenes, and many of those take place off-stage, we just hear about them later.  I often find myself flipping back to see if I've missed something, as some POV chapters begin by referencing things that have happened while our attention was focused elsewhere.  There are long, boring passages about various journeys, including mind-numbing lists of fleets of ships--which ones are missing, which ones are still with the fleet, which ships they commandeer along the way--no battles to speak of, they just "acquire" them.  I am only about 3/4 of the way through it and I am eagerly awaiting the end, not because I expect the end to make up for the total lack of story so far, just because it will be over and I can move on and read something else.
5 I've been reading the series for three months and this story was a great edition.  You never know what's next and the characters are all well developed and keep you on your toes!
1 I remember finishing "Storm of Swords" like some people remember the Kennedy assassination.I know exactly where I was and how loud I screamed, and I couldn't wait to read the next book. The wait felt agonizing, and I practically kicked down the door of my local bookstore when "A Feast for Crows" hit the shelves. Within four pages I was engrossed, but thought Martin's decision to split the narrative was a rotten one, and couldn't believe that no one was able to stop him. Perhaps his publishers were so eager to see the next book in print they didn't care that Martin was suddenly writing like a rambling old man tanked on tranquilizers. After years of waiting I kinda gave up on the prospect of the final book ever becoming my mind candy, but when I spotted it at the bookstore I couldn't resist. Sixty pages deep I was bored out of my mind, and started skimming and skipping chapters - which resulted in missing absolutely nothing. Instead of "A Dance with Dragons" this book should be called "A Wish for Washy" since page after page is dedicated to meandering conversations between suddenly flummoxed characters incapable of toddler-level decision making. I can't believe how bloated this book is with meaningless, empty interactions between characters Martin has clearly forgotten as much as I had. Instead of rooting for my favorite characters I found myself hoping one would stumble upon blueprints for the sort of advanced weaponry that would wipe out the entire cast in a single swoop, and spare the world any further sequels.
1 Only good point of this book , his writing skills are still sharp as ever.Now bad points, I dont pay money to read about nothing happening. Plot doesnt go anywhere.There is no character development or movement in the timeline.Coming to violence , he must really have a dark and dreary mind if he cannot write a single chapter of hope, of unsullied dreams. I am tired of reading about his endless sufferings that the good guys have to suffer. By trying to make his bad guys so bad he is making them look like fools. & he is forgotten about the main threat from behind the Wall. There is no appearance of them in the entire novel.I was compelled to write such a scathing review of him because he is a well-establised behaving like he can get away anything.One star is because of the beautiful writing.
5 Reread the whole series before getting DwD on my birthday. This book was long-awaited, and did not disappoint.  I'm going to go through and read it again soon.
4 This is book five in the A Song of Ice and Fire series by George R.R. Martin. This writer and series is similar in many respects to Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time Series if you like this kind of reading. This particular book in the series, I found to be much more pleasurable reading than the previous book.  The previous book got bogged down in names, places and unnecessary Machiavellian intrigue that tended to make it difficult to follow or did not add to the story at hand. The present book is more concise and keys upon issues of reader interest from previous books and the story. The work flows really well and maintains the reader's intrigue. I think that this particular book is a great read and captures the reader's imagination. I could not put it down.  In all the whole series was very well done and is probably a classic in this genre of fantasy work.
4 I wish books 4 and 5 hadn't been divided the way they had, but I still enjoy the story all the same. However, I hate getting all caught up on an ongoing series. How long will we have to wait for the next installment? And then how long after that for the final book? It says something good about a story when you are left wanting more and can't wait to see how it all turns out. Just don't leave us waiting too long, please.
5 I love this series.  This is one of the best books I have read I a long time. I devoured the pages, could not put it down
3 Had there been test-to-speech and had this been loan-able, I might have given this book 5 stars. At least when I first thought about buying it there was no TTS. Now it looks like it has TTS. Good! But still not loan-able. For the price that is ridiculous! No, it didn't have those amenities when I found a way to borrow it anyway; nor was it my kind of book. The whole series is man-heavy; war, blood, and an attitude that isn't of man's realm is less than. The females that were strong in their own right were never allowed to fly in their own way as they were still possessions of the male society. Dany and Arya were as close to being a unique beings as this world would allow.But in spite of my complaints, this was an excellent series. The author was amazing. The world he created was real, the characters so well developed that I feel I will miss many of them as friends. How he kept track of their voices and points of view amazes me.Even so, am I glad I am finished with this series? Yes! Um... except for the fact that I have to wait to find out what has happened to all of the people I did learn to care about.Is it worth reading? Yes. Is it worth the praise? I don't think so. If a book or series is to be a classic I think it should move the world to want to raise above war and self-centered machismo. This series has not done that. But you make up your own mind about it and we can agree to disagree about what makes a classic.
5 A GREAT BOOK SERIES IN DEPTH WHEN YOU START THE SERIES WITH GAME OF THRONES YOU REALISE HOW MASSIVE THIS SERIES IS WITH ALL OF THE CHARACTERS BUT BY PAGE 200 YOU ARE HOOKED AND IT IS EASY TO FOLLW
3 Mr. Martin prolongs the magic with another meaty tome that mostly page count and little action. Extraneous plot threads are summarily extinguished as not a whole lot happens to the protagonists of the story. I'm guessing the publisher and/or author thought the reading public (both of them) would gobble up anything written in the Westoros universe so long as it had Martin's name on it.
5 As always Mr. Martins eloquent writing stile has the reader at the edge of the chair. The book is so well written that ending it is like saying goodbye to dear friends. Hopefully, the next book won't take so long to be released.
5 Best book in the series. I can't wait for the next one. The show isn't enough to get my game of thrones fix
5 Have any of the readers noticed the use of as well.  Author uses as well a lot.  There is a description of something with an additional item added with as well attached.  It is like me saying I have a Toyota and a Chevrolet as well.  Not a problem...just noticed.  I am very pleased and engrossed with these books.  My complaint would be along the line of purchasing the 1st 4 as a set at a price higher than the similar set with the first five a set (5 books at a lower price than the subsequent set of 5).  Also book 6 is late.
4 I'm not sure why people said nothing happened in this book. A lot of stuff happened, it just ended before the things that happened could be resolved. But, it's like the middle of the series. I give it four stars because that was only mildly disappointing. Other than that, I enjoyed what the characters went through and the building tension of what is to come next.
5 What is amazing to me is how close the TV series is to what is in the books.  How they manage some of it is beyond me.  Excellent read!!  Definitely worth reading the whole series.  I could hardly wait to get to each of the books in succession. Very well written. The extensive detail about all the various families and how their interactions ebb and flow or should I say clash and slash sometimes!!
4 Enjoyed this book almost as much as the third in the series.  Looking forward to the next.  Great continuation of the saga
5 Excellent continuation of a great story!!!  Lots of surprises, action and suspense. A must read for any fan of the series!
4 I did not like the way the author separated the last 2 books. The timeline was off and confusing. However, it was still an excellent read and I cannot wait for the next book to come out.
4 I love these books, but they keep raising questions and not giving any answers.  I really just want to know how things are going to line up to end it all, but overall another win from George RR Martin.  A must read for fans of the series.
3 I waited and waited for the paperback to come out, so eager to read about my characters again, just to find out they did nothing. So many pages for George R.R. Martin to say so much and so little at the same time. Save yourself some time: Winter still hasn't come.
5 Just another great addition to the great series, I can't wait to read Winds of Winter, and see how everything pans out and who dies next.
3 (Still lolling @ Macaroni's review. Tres amusing, because a lot of it is true.)While i feel that there was some progress in the story, it did kind of crawl by. It seems all the interesting stuff gets skipped over and we pick up chapters wondering who its about and what happened and why we never get to read it except through some anticlimactic flashback.I blazed through the first 3 books but these last 2 were a bit of a struggle.  (Its getting a little overdone when every time someones bites the dust I'm not convinced they're actually dead. By design? Don't know but I'm ready for some new tricks.)I think DoD ended in an interesting place though. Looking forward to #6 and hoping for some satisfying engaging storylines versus after-the-fact character narratives.
5 What a wild ride this series has become. I read Books 1-4 in three months. I tried to pace myself, but this series is too amazing to put down. I also enjoy the television series. Most excellent!!!
5 Martin once again delivers a powerful ending.  I was angry at the end of the end of the book.  This is a good thing Martin gets you to form a connection with the characters and when you finish you simply must know what will happen in the next book.
5 Martin's tales of fantasy and fratricide are great fun. Love Danny and her dragons. Tyrion is the best dwarf character since Snow White's crew.
5 This is my 2nd time reading this book series. From th  first time to the 2nd and maybe a 3rd.out has always been an EPIC read.
4 I had to take a break between book 4 and 5. Five was so much better. But I am very confused about the point of some characters ( John snow) worried what happened to others and still waiting for the big battle-or any battle! Still loved it!
5 I'm only sad because of the wait for the next book, A Dance with Dragons kick it's predecessor arse. It's my favorite book out of the ASOFAI series, so far. It wasn't too long and there was always something to keep me turning pages.
5 Loved the story and the complexity of the character interplay - a must read - I couldn't put it down!!
5 Martin's fifth book in this series is more of the same. It builds upon characters you think you know. There is an amazing amount of depth in this series and book five begins to reveal some of my favorite characters, especially Arya. It's not like every other fantasy out there where the good guys always win and the bad guys are the epitome of evil. It's real life, winners and losers, shades of good and evil.You'll find yourself loving, hating, loathing and pitying, and that's all on one character.Enjoy!
5 As with the other books in this series, well written, immersive environment, only one complaint: waiting for the next one is a killer. I have already read the entire series through twic and expect to have read it a few more times before book 6 hits the shelf.
5 EXELLENT, BUT STILL TO PRICEY.WE HAVE MOVED TOWARDS THE END WHICH I FEEL WILL BE VERY PREDICTABLE BUT I WILL HAVE TO READ THE LAST BOOK TO FIND OUT
5 Fantastic. I cannot wait for the next book! This brings all the characters back. The story comes together wonderfully! I didn't want to out it down.
5 I can't wait for the next book. This is a series worthy of comparing to Lord of the rings. I wish I knew when the next one is coming out.
5 this was just as in gauging as before I read prior I just wonder how long this I got is going to go on themes how it's really a TV  show being written into a book.
4 But seriously, there's dragons, winter storms, political intrigues and Jaime Lannister being awesome (I know, right?). It's a pretty good read and has kept me involved and interested for weeks.Would recommend to friends, for sure!
5 Ooohhh....Arya!  Daenaris!  What is happening to you?  Where is the rest of the story?  Hurry!  Write the next installment.  Write the next installment.  Write it!  Hurry!  ;-)
4 I have read all 5 books in this series and am really looking forward to the release of the sixth book. I have thoroughly enjoyed them all. If the series was written at a &#34;PG13&#34; level instead of an &#34;R&#34; level, I would have given it five stars. I would not be comfortable sharing this with anyone under 17 or 18 years old, which is unfortunate because it is such an engrossing storyline.  It is easy to see why this is a best selling series. If you aren't concerned with the &#34;R&#34; level writing, you will probably consider this a 5-star book series.  Enjoy.
4 Knowing my interest in future fiction my daughter bought me the first four books and my wife Pamela the fifth one. For this I owe them big time. The debate may rage about how good a writer Gearge RR Martin is in the classic sense but I submit he is a world class storyteller. The series is a complex, superbly constructed tale spanning multiple generations and characters showcasing a vivid imagination and exceptional craft. Long may he continue. Peter.
5 it is fascinating once you read it you can't put it down and wish that it will be extended bravo
5 Just like the first four books before this one, the story just keeps getting better.  I am hoping to see a book six in the future, still a lot of unanswered questions!
4 This book did drag moreso than the previous four books and I did not care for the turns the story made in some parts. While I dont expect every story line to appease me after reading thousands of a story it is dissapointing for a quick and seemingly hurried ending hopefully the next book will be more pleasing.
3 Like many people, I've been waiting and watching the blogs to see when GRRM finally would announce that he finished this puppy.  Well, unfortunately, it's not been worth the wait.  The characters all seem extremely two dimensional (and it's not just because I'm reading it on a Kindle now,) and it seems to be that GRRM has been concentrating more on the food than on advancing the plotline.  Another helping of eel pie, please!  Perhaps that's why this book took so long - the author may have been eating around the world rather than writing.  Anyway, Daenerys simply wanders around saying "I'm only a girl" and does nothing - where's our bold Khaleesi who conquored the Free Cities?  "Jon Snow, you know nothing."  Well, yes, other than how to make a deal.  Have to admit, Jon Snow has actually become the most grownup character in this.  And my poor Tyrion!  For a man who ran Westeros, now doing dog and pig tricks is quite a step down, and his only ambitions appear to be find Tysha and killing his siblings.  But unlike before, now he just goes with the flow.  Actually, that describes this whole book - everybody goes with the flow, and nobody DOES anything.Ah, well, it could be worse.  He could spend the book writing about everybody's dresses and Nynaeve pulling her braid.
3 This is a good book and an enjoyable read.  If you enjoyed the first three and could at least tolerate number 4, I am heartily recommending it!  Obviously,as many have said--it could have been more satisfying.  I just re-read the series after watching the HBO series, in anticipation of the release of this book.  I did not particularly enjoy book 4 (often skimming through endless repetitive descriptions of what people were wearing or eating...)--this book was better and also focused on characters I care more about.  That being said, the time lag between book 4 and 5 is ridiculous (considering GRRM wrote in the end of the last book that he had already completed book 5 and that it would be out in a year or so!).  Will I really care about these characters and the series in another 5 or 6 years?  Admittedly, it will probably take HBO about 2 to 3 years to make all of the "seasons" of 8 episodes to somewhat tell the story to this point.  We could expect the next episode of "I am making lots of money" to come out shortly after one of the HBO "seasons".  The storyline seems to have degenerated into an "I am milking this for millions" epic, multi-POV, never-ending story a la' "The Wheel of Time" (which I have ceased to care about after reading the first 8 or 9 volumes--the story is stale and boring and I hope the same thing doesn't happen to this series).  The use of cliffhangers, killing off major characters, miraculous resurrections in the next book, slowly advancing major plot lines, etc. etc. all contribute to a sense that GRRM is just banking on laughing all the way to the bank and making this a long tortuous epic with no end in sight.  He could write an entire book about people sitting around and eating and what they were wearing and how they got there and people would buy it (for now)--oh wait, he did!  WHATEVER, for now-- this is a great story, I care about some of the characters, and I want to know what happens next.  I hope I still feel that way after the next installment...which hopefully won't be 6 years from now!
4 I should start by saying that I am a newcomer to the Fire and Ice Series. I started reading after enjoying the HBO series and was immediately hooked. I picked up the Kindle set of the first 4 books and read them all in quick succession. As soon as I finished I logged on to buy A Dance With Dragons and was surprised to see it had such a low overall rating and a glut of negative reviews from long-time fans of the books. Many reviews made it sound like the book was awful and a complete departure from the previous amazing works. Worrying I was was going to be disappointed and regret spending the $$ I planned to just get it from the library in the future. But I am glad I decided to judge for myself.PRAISE: I wish we could rate books by the half star. I couldn't give it 3 stars because it was more than just OK to me. But I am not sure Like It describes how I feel about this book either. What I can say is that I think this book's tone, pacing, and plot makes sense if you think of it as the middle of an epic telling of Martin's world instead of as an individual book. This book isn't as compelling as the first 3 in the series and doesn't have OMG moments like Ned's beheading or the Red Wedding. However I don't think it needs to have those to be successful book. We learn some new things we didn't know before and we see a different side of a few familiar characters. The story doesn't progress much and nothing much gets resolved, but I think that was intentional -- and not just to string the books out and make more money. I think Martin took a risk with DwD and achieved something very few authors do. His prose left his readers in the same place emotionally that his characters were throughout the book -- lost at sea, frustrated, unfulfilled, and feeling like what they long for is just within reach yet so far beyond their grasp. Somewhat manipulative and cruel = yes. But I don't think it was a result of poor storytelling. I think it was intentional to some degree and effective.CRITICISM: A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons should have been one book (as I believe was originally intended). The books could have been edited extensively and tightened so that Martin's achieved the same overall effect without making his readers feel strung along and manipulated by having to slog through two books where not much of the story progresses. And that is what I think the majority of the very low ratings are due to. If I had been made to wait multiple years for the publication of DwD I don't think I could look at it in a very positive light. A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons are the typical middle of a series books where pieces start to fall into place and not a great deal happens. Lots of series I have read have books like these and they always get lower ratings than the beginning and ending books. But where Martin erred big time was in taking so long to write this book and allowing excitement and anticipation to build yearly when he knew what this book was. That sort of build up would be great for the denouement but only breeds resentment when the book was always designed as just a sort of staging for what is to come.So I am giving Martin the benefit of the doubt because his first 3 books were so brilliant and the latter 2 were much better than anything else I have read recently even with their flaws. I think he would be wise to get Book 6 out within two years and to make sure it is fast-paced and ties up some of this one's overused loose ends. I will definitely read to the conclusion of the series no matter what and no matter when it comes. I think Book 6 will be the make it or break it one for me though. I would much prefer to read what is to come with anticipation and excitement and not out of a sense of duty to see the story to its conclusion. Guess we will have to wait and see.
5 As with the other titles in this series this book pulls you in and wont let you go. Superb writing, twisting plots,  wonderful  character development.
5 I will keep buying and reading. It would be nice if he wouldn't wait so long to publish the next book. Till then I'm going to be looking at some of his other books.
3 I don't really care about the majority of the characters introduced in this book, preferring the original 3 books characters, so I couldn't get into it
1 I started reading the series after watching the first year of Game of Thrones on HBO. The books were as exciting as the series. I had purchased the four book package and when I finished it, there were too many gaps left open with no path for the reader to follow. Mr. Martin explained that there is a book 5 coming that is actually a parallel to book 4, as there was too much information to be presented.I definitely agreed that there were way too many holes and characters that you care about left hanging at the end. So, I looked forward to book 5, A Dance with Dragons.I have to say it was one of the worst endings to anything I have ever read. It was like " I have to finish this, but don't know where to take it. Let's just kill off everyone and throw in more people!". Except all the new characters are so disgusting you can't wait for the book to end. Characters that were so important to this series are dead and others that book 4 indicated were killed, seem to walk off happily together in book 5.I did see in the HBO Series, some movement in the second season that deviated from book 2. If there is any hope left, the producers will save Game of Thrones. If they stay on the path of the books, I fear all is lost. Maybe that is what Mr. Martin is trying to convey.
2 I've loved every one of Martin's preceding books in this series.  Unfortunately, book five falls short of the excellence we've come to expect from the author.  Reading this book has been like talking to my mother-in-law on the phone.  That is to say, Martin goes on and on, in excruciating detail, about people and situations that have no apparent bearing on the real story.  This book is a long, tedious read.  I have yet to finish it, and I started it almost two months ago.  For an avid reader, that should speak volumes!I hope that he brings the story back around in book six and that it's not another disappointment.
3 This series is brilliant, but Mr. Martin appears to have an advanced case of &#34;flight of ideas&#34; introducing and killing off new characters almost every chapter. This series is brilliant but the author first said he was going to complete it in 5 books, then 6, now I read somewhere that he is going to need 7 BOOKS !!!! Please Sir, bring this to a close, I'd like to see a conclusion before I die !!!
4 Good book.  I can't wait to see where he will go with the next book. This book had more character development similar to the last book.  You definitely cannot get attached to any one character, that's the kiss of death.
1 With over 1400 other reviews, I don't see much point in being long-winded. If only Martin felt the same. Another 1000 pages and nothing really happens. Too many characters, too little movement, too little resolution, too little action, and I find that I've really stopped caring. I'm actually only 2/3 of the way through the book, and I'm not sure I'll bother finishing.That's sad. The first 3 were so good....
5 So you feel like the story has failed to advance?  Well I may be young and ignorant of the ways of reviews but what do you want?  Winter is coming and there is a lot of story going on!  Turns out that King's landing and the Iron Throne isn't the center of the universe after all.We started book 1 believing this was the story of the Starks and the north, nearly entirely a feint.  We moved along believing this is the story of Westero's only to find the rest of the world is far more interesting.  It turns out old Nan's stories are true and there are a lifetimes of novels ready to be written about them.  I'd love to see what there is even further east!The best part about a book is that it doesn't have to be all tied up by act 3 to neatly end on time in 2 hours.
2 The tale is getting ragged, the twists are overplayed, and the droning text (frequently mistaken for creative prose), makes caring for the characters and their causes more than a minor struggle. I might read the next book in the series, but only because I stumble across it in the bargain bin.
4 I wanted to find out what happened to the characters from the beginning, not try and figure out more new characters.  This has dragged on way too long and is a big disappointment at best.
3 I was only recently introduced to George R.R. Martin by a friend who invited me to sit down and watch the HBO television adaptation of Game of Thrones. After watching that first episode I observed two things. One: there is a lot of sex in this show. Two: the story was good enough to stand on its own without all the graphic sex.  Not that I'm complaining of course.  But when you've got a story that good... on television no less... you really start thinking, I should read the books.If you haven't read the first four novels of the Saga of A Song of Ice And Fire, stop right now and go do that.  But if you have read the first four novels, get ready for some disappointment. Not in the writing... but in the farce that is Westeros and Mereeen.A Dance With Dragons takes us right back to follow some of our favorite characters, and as Martin admits himself, the timeline of ADWD actually runs concurrently with A Feast For Crows.  As with any soap opera mixed with bloody violence, bad things keep happening to the good guys.  In fact, so MANY bad things happen that I'm beginning to suspect Martin of channeling some inner Charles Dickens.  Every fricken time you turn around and think "finally! The good guys are going to start winning!" you turn around and some other awful thing happens to them.  There are plots within plots, aspects of the story that don't seem to real contribute to the overall plot arc, and then... Martin again kills off one of my favorite "good" characters.That just pisses me off.That said, A Dance With Dragons is still a good book, but it isn't the best in the series.  It moves the plot forward, but Arya's list of a-holes who need killing hasn't gotten much shorter and frankly, there are some other people who need to be added to it.  I'm still waiting for the Frey's to get their comeuppance, as well as for Ramsay the Bastard to have some one gut him, skin him, and feed his worthless, cruel, and villainous carcass to his own dogs.  Yes. I have some anger management issues.Now, I won't say who got killed, but I will say this: House Stark better come back with a fricken vengeance when this is all over.
5 Book 5 in a song of ice and fire...utterly amazing...I cannot wait for 6..then i won't be able to wait for book 7...the battle between light and dark...fire and ice...is well underway.  I haven't enjoyed reading so much since the lord of the rings was new to me...keep at it George!
4 The book was a continuation of the story, and it read well, but I would like some closure for the characters other than violent death, and it would be nice to see some conclusions before Mr. Martin stops writing so we as readers can see his vision for this series. I liked it as I liked the other books!
2 It must be very difficult to write 1000 pages where nothing important happens. Possibly this is why it took 5 years for MARTIN to write the book. Aside from the obvious lack of plot,internal inconsistances are everywhere One of the most obvious is Daenerys'once invincible army is now for no reason, powerless. New characters are intoduced by the dozens for no apparent purpose other then filling pages. Old characters you do care about are ignored or killed off,again for no apparent reason other then filling up pages.Every book even those in a series should stand on its own, this book does not rise to that level. It is filler plain and simple, often well written but filler nonetheles.All and all a disservice to his many readers
3 At this point I cannot stop reading this series because of the connection Martin is able to create between the reader and his characters but if he continues to dilute the story with new characters and plotlines I may have no choice.
4 I if I had to wait six years for this book to come out I probably would have hated it too. I have read all these books together in the past month or so and this was the first book that I actually skimmed through a few chapters. I know Feast for Crows got really mixed reviews but I still highly enjoyed it anyway. But this book actually has a chapter that we've already read from Crows in here but it's Jon's point of view not Sam's. I thought that was a real waste of space. And I don't care for Vitarion and I thought there was useless time spent on the Dornish men here. I've read that Crows and Dragons was originally one book but GRRM broke it up into two planing that Dragons would come out within the year of Crows and it never happened that way because GRRM decided to rewrite Dragons. My feeling is he probably shouldn't have done that. Oh well. There is usually a dud in every batch. Hopefully the next book does not take any where near as long to come out. I still can't wait to read it.
1 If you are new to this series, a word of advice, read the first three and stop. That is where the story really ends, after that the genius dies, the author is hopelessly lot in the morass, and the readers and characters all get sucked down with him.After the first three books,everyone gradually develops a collective amnesia. They forget their own characters along with just about everything else that ever made them real or interesting. At some point in their past, they may have been motivated to seek a goal, but what it was, why they wanted it, how they were going to attain it, that has all long been lost. Instead they now wander around forever in their own little circles, bogging further and further down with each step. Probably their weariness came from having to endure hearing the entire life story and food preferences of every bit player they encounter in the story. No wait, that was me!I feel so sad writing this, because I absolutely loved George Martin's writing when i first discovered him, the "Aces" series, Fevre Dream, the first three books in the "Thrones", i devoured them and counted the days when there would be more. When "Feast" turned out to be rubbish, I thought it an aberration, I was more than ready to forgive. I believed his explanation, he had so much to say that it was hard to move it all forward. Now that I have read "Dance", I see it is actually the opposite, he has so little to say that he is compelled to add story after story and worthless detail after worthless detail in a vain attempt to find him way back. But with "Dance" I have to conclude, he is lost, the characters are lost and reading more is just trampling on their corpses.I wanted to settle in for a good long read, to savour each line and lose myself in his world, but 1000 pages of nothing was not worth the time lost out of my life. There was one momentary flash of the old storyteller, the section describing the greenseers brought hope back for a moment, but it was not to be, maybe someone else wrote that part for him. Quickly following were jarring contemporary references and constant resorts to laughably vulgar writing. This book is nowhere near Tolkien's league,  Harold Robbins and Sidney Sheldon, though, now that is the right company.
1 At the pace he is going he will be dead before winds of whatever comes out.  Shame, it is a decent story even if he does keep killing off major characters.  I am trusting in hbo writers to bring the story home because obviously this guy can't
2 Bought, read, and promptly returned.  I know, it was bad.  But, in my defense, I couldn't help it!  The first three books were just so good.  Sure, Feast of Crows was disappointing, but (again) the first three books were just so good!  So, I had to know what happened.  I mean, GRRM might have turned it all around in this book.  Plus, it's well past the mid-point of the series, and we should finally be getting some answers (or so I thought).Well, we didn't.  In fact, other than some WTF moments, the book plods.  So, I've decided to give up this series altogether.  Don't get me wrong, the actual writing isn't bad (if overly repetitive and food-based) but the plot... GRRM's attempts to keep it compelling smack of desperation rather than inspiration.  And, that's a huge problem, because authors who try to consistently write "twists" into their books... well, it only works if they're truly inspired and the twists flow from the characters and the story itself.  The problem with Dragons is that GRRM seems to be trying to create "twist" plot points by throwing together new plots or characters, at the expense of the old and beloved ones.In fact, it almost feels as if GRRM got sick of writing the story/characters he wrote during the first three books, and decided to change it up and make it a little unpredictable.  Or, found something about the original situation didn't work, and couldn't quite figure out a way to paint himself out of that corner.  Unfortunately, in trying to solve his problem (to put it in tv parlance) he jumped the shark.Moreover, the way this book developed, and the lack of any kind of closure (or even move toward closure) makes me seriously suspect that he doesn't really know how to end this series.Oh well.  No hard feelings George.  It happens.  I get it.  I'm moving on.  Maybe IF the series is ever finished, and I hear enough glowing reviews from those who had the patience to stick with it, I may give it another go.  Until then though, this whole series gets chucked to the bookcase of shame in my garage.
4 Fans have been looking forward to this one for a LONG time. A Dance with Dragons completes the story begun six years ago, when A Feast for Crows was published in October, 2005. In Feast, fans were given the full story, but only for half the characters. Fan favorites like Tyrion Lannister, Jon Snow and Daenarys Targaryen were noticeably missing from the chapters of the book. Martin's now-infamous claim that Dance would be finished within a year ended up haunting him relentlessly until the day that A Dance with Dragons fell into everyone's eager hands. A Dance with Dragons not only completes the story of that missing half, but also continues the story forward. In fact, Dance is the largest book in the series, weighing in at 1,040 pages.So how does this fifth entry in the Song of Ice and Fire series match up to the rest? Read on to find out.Note: It's presumed you've read the series up to the ending of A Feast for Crows, so if you haven't, don't read on.The Prologue certainly draws comparisons to that in A Game of Thrones, taking place far north of the Wall, and giving us glimpses of the White Walkers. This serves to continue the inexorable march of the undead towards the rest of Westeros. Martin is most certainly taking his time drawing out the inevitable confrontation with the Others, however, and some readers may wonder if he'll ever be able to complete this saga, much less in the two books he claims remain. Nevertheless, it's a promising start to the novel.TYRION LANNISTERFinally, after ten long years, fans get new Tyrion material. His story begins perfectly in Dance and we see the Imp wallowing in self-pity and taking careless chances, his life no longer important to him. It doesn't take long for that attitude to change, with the help of some unlikely allies, and rather unexpected revelations.Tyrion sees his ups and downs in this novel, and his luck continues to hold, especially near the end. He's matched up with another dwarf, but where this pairing is going is hard to say. Tyrion's line that he has a heart for "cripples, bastards and broken things," is never so apt as in this novel. His story does wander a bit, and he's not as endearing as in his previous forays, but he's still very much Tyrion Lannister, and he entertains us nonetheless.DAENARYS TARGARYENUnfortunately, Daenarys Targaryen's return after a decade-long hiatus does not go as well as the dwarf's. She is certainly a willful young woman, but she borders on annoying and insolent throughout the novel. She seems to disregard every piece of advice her advisers give her, always questioning herself, but then stubbornly refusing to reconsider. Though she's the mother of dragons, we unfortunately see very little of them until the latter parts of the book, which is frustrating, considering how integral they seem they must be to the series.There are some truly exciting portions of the novel in this book, however; One scene in particular seems to be what fans have been waiting for since the moment the dragons were brought to life in the burning embers of Khal Drogo's funeral pyre. It should bring a chill to readers' spines, and was perfectly written-leaving the reader wondering about the fate of the character, of course.JON SNOWJon arguably has the best plot line in the novel, both fleshing out his character further, as well as one of the most surprising final chapters of the book. Strange how the Starks all seem to have the best stories.There's also an early scene where Jon dispenses justice Eddard-style. It's an unexpectedly welcome scene, not only makes for good reading, but also draws the reader back into the story, which until then founders a little bit.DAVOS SEAWORTHIn A Feast for Crows we learn that Davos is dead. Since Dance takes place during the same timeframe, we get to see his actual situation play out. Without spoiling things, let's just say that Davos' parts are rather boring, most of the time, though Martin leaves things sufficiently appropriate for Davos Seaworth.THEON GREYJOYIt's been 13 years since we last got into the head of Theon Greyjoy, all the way back in the second book of the series, A Clash of Kings, published in 1998. Martin seemingly killed off the young kraken, but readers have heard bits and pieces about him throughout the series. In A Dance with Dragons, fans finally learn the fate of Theon. Theon's storyline is one of the most interesting of the book, second only to that of Jon Snow.BRAN STARKBran has a very interesting story in the novel, but one that seems to end much too quickly. His almost feels like a dropped story thread, and fans will wonder what's happening with him later in the book without ever finding out. This is presumably one of the characters who will see more time in the next entry in the saga.QUENTIN MARTELLQuentin Martell is the son of the Prince of Dorne, and fans are given quite a bit of time with this character. Ultimately, his part doesn't feel that important to the story, and one is left wondering why he is even a part of it. The importance of Dorne's storyline is becoming more apparent throughout Dance, but it still feels like it's late to the party.ARYA STARKStill very much in Braavos, Arya was left blind in her last outing. Hers is one of the most involved stories in all of the Ice and Fire saga, and it continues to be no less enveloping in this latest entry. It's still unclear exactly where her thread is leading her, but fans shouldn't be disappointed by her brief appearances in Dance.VICTARION GREYJOYIt's not very clear how Victarion will ultimately play into the saga, but his parts are not at all dull.JAMIE LANNISTERWhen the book finally catches up to the end of A Feast for Crows readers are reunited with Jamie, and his quest to unite the riverlands. He only appears in one chapter in Dance, but it's a fantastic one, with a very suitable cliffhanger ending.CERSEI LANNISTERFans will be very pleased with Cersei's chapters in A Dance with Dragons. The queen has already been brought low, and will sink even further before things are through. Fans may even begin to feel sympathy for her in this round, though they'd be hard-pressed to ever forgive her. Cersei has been the character that fans love to hate, so Dance is all the more shocking for making her seem more human.BRIENNE OF TARTHAnother character that only appears once, and not as a viewpoint character. Fans won't get a lot of information about what's been happening with her, or what her ultimate fate is, but her presence is crucial to the chapter, feels unexpected, and is perfect.THE RED PRIESTESS MELISANDREReaders are welcomed into the mind of Melisandre for the first time in A Dance with Dragons and given a look at what her plans might be. It's revealed that she's not infallible, and can doubt herself after all. There are some reasonably surprising events revolving around Melisandre in this novel as well.STANNIS BARATHEONReaders have still not seen events from the viewpoint of the truly legitimate King, and after A Dance with Dragons, it's uncertain if it will ever happen. Indeed, Stannis has a lot to do in this book, with very little to show for it. He appears a few times early in the book, then mostly those that surround him allude to him for the remainder. It's fitting that readers should spend more time with his subjects than with the King himself, however.SER BARRISTAN SELMYSelmy is still with Daenarys and serves as the sole member of her Queensguard. Throughout the saga, he's been a bit of a secondary character, but with A Dance with Dragons, he leapfrogs right into major character status. His parts are interesting, treacherous, and fitting for the aged knight. Fans will have much more respect for Ser Barristan before the Dance is through.VARYS THE EUNUCHAppears only once, and very briefly, but is the most shocking and enjoyable chapter in the book.MISSING CHARACTERSUltimately, there are a few characters that do not appear in the novel, their fate uncertain.- Catelyn Stark- Rickon Stark- Sansa Stark- Samwell Tarly- Peter Baelish (Littlefinger)SUMMARYA Dance with Dragons does indeed feel much like A Feast for Crows did, though is certainly a better novel; it feels dark and gritty. Winter is most certainly coming, as evidenced by Martin's use of the weather throughout the book. Once it snows in King's Landing, it's quite clear how winter is going to affect events in the series.Once Dance catches up to the ending of Feast, things move along a little faster, but this book still doesn't live up to the greatness of A Clash of Kings and the chaos that was A Storm of Swords. There are moments that drag along, and there are characters included that feel unnecessary or confusing. Fortunately, Martin moves the story along nicely in this book, and it truly feels like there's an end-game coming, though it's still unclear what exactly that is.The author has stated that there are at least two more books left in the saga, currently titled The Winds of Winter and A Dream of Spring. Though those titles are intriguing, A Dream of Spring doesn't sound like the title of a book that would wrap up this amazing series. It seems like in a song of Ice and Fire, things should end in a blazing inferno, and fire should be a part of the title. Mayhaps there will be another entry in the series. Time will tell, of course, but with the delay between these books growing longer, let's hope not too much time is necessary.
2 i was ticked when the 4th book didn't finish the series, as promised.  I became truly pissed after I read ADWD and found an amazing lack of progress in the story.  After coming to Amazon to check on progress, hoping against despair that the series might conclude, I find that a total of 12 books are expected. I'm finished with GRRM, who cannot keep his promises.
4 I truely enjoyed this book, and I am very much hooked into the story now and cannot wait to read the next book. I can understand the frustration some readers feel about this book, as it does go back in time from the end of the 4th book.  In the version I have been reading, the first chapter is a repeat of a chapter in the 4th book. I did groan internally when I started the book and realized we went back in time, but decided to give it a try.  I'm glad I did because the chapters in the book helped move the story forward, and were intersesting to read. After reading them, I think they were important to the story's development.  The only thing I'm sad about is that I do not have the 6th book yet to read.
5 A Song of Fire and Ice is one of the few fantasy series which becomes more enjoyable with each novel released.  A Dance with Dragons was a long time coming but the wait was worth it.About half of the main characters were missing from A Feast for Crows, so I thought that Dance would show the same period of time from different viewpoints instead of advancing the story. This is not the case.About 1/4th of Dance overlaps with the previous novel.  After that the overall plot advances and takes some interesting turns. Characters absent from Feast such as Jon Snow and Tyrion tell the majority of Dance, but Jaime, Arya, and others also have a few chapters.Martin has not dropped the ball. A Dance with Dragons is just as good as Game of Thrones, and even more fun to read.
3 I think George is taking his audience for granted. He isn't focused on creating fantastic new books in the series anymore and I think it shows.
3 Well, there is one first thing to say about this book: it is good, but not worth all the expectation.It just seems that Mr. Martin spent years writing about all these eventualities of life of the characters. Somehow, he lost more time describing interesting situations (but less important) than the details relevant to the plot.Much of the book is used to describe the world in its details, whether with people or places. He lacked, however, go further in the plot. The drama that takes place in Meereen is a metaphor for all the big process in the writing of this book. As Daenerys has difficulty leaving the place and can never create anything new, Martin is lost in the fifth book.Not that Dance with Dragons is bad. It is very good, but simply does not meet all the expectations and falls far short of the first three books.
2 Title says it all. It took years for this book to come into our hands, and it falls short. I guess between his other books he was able to write and his HBO series even George has forgotten his story line. I for one will not wait another 6 years for book Six. Its a shame because this series could grip readers by the throat! But I can't justify the wait or tolerate the authors indifference to his readers.
2 After getting hooked on this fantasy series just looking for some closure, I  was sorely disappointed in this book and the series as a whole. There are few characters for whom we feel some sympathy and I got very tired of the endless torture and gore, with no resolution. My ending: Dany ends the wars and Jon becomes her husband. The dragons are tamed or banished and the Stark sisters are reunited happily. I will not buy any further episodes.
1 It's amazing how much was written without actually progressing anything to a satisfactory plot point.I'll admit that at first the series was intriguing and novel in approach, but it's now gone to a point of bloated ridiculous.  Too many characters, too much focus on things I couldn't give two sneezes about, all the while seeming to completely blitz over the characters (and plots) I liked accepting of course that the author didn't kill them first.In truth I've spent more time thinking about how I'd have liked the series to this point to be written than finding merit in how it was actually written and prayed for the first time in my known life that the Television adaptation of this now monstrosity severely edits it into something manageable and far more enjoyable for it.I honestly don't think I'll buy the next book, as much as on a point of principle for how annoyed I am with how this book was written.
3 This is the saga that never ends...It just goes on and on my friends.Someone started writing it, not knowing what it was,And he'll go right on writing it forever just becauseThis is the saga that never ends...
2 I am amazed by Martins' abililty to develope characters that you route for and some of the most dispicable characters ever created in literature. The problem is the use of these characters. The saga continues and more story lines are added to the already over inundated story. Nothing is concluded. I did not feel any closer to resolution after this book than when I began. As I have from the beginning, I feel almost beaten up at points. In conclusion, with the extraordinary length of this novel, I am very disappointed with the result. Unfortunately, It is impossible for me to give up on a series one I start. If you don't have this issue, I don't recommend this book.
2 Seriously? For an author who (I thought) usurps Tolkien, this is a really poor work. Lots of moving pieces around and not much action. The thing that really attracted me about Martin's first books was the sense of danger, the overwhelming fear, the classic "people are too stupid/blind to know when things are about to implode," etc. This book was just tiring. Do I recommend you read it? Yes - it's too important and good (still) a series to disregard but wow, this is really making us work. The last one or two better rock or it's going to be an incredible disappointment. Little hint, George - needs to be a little more bloodshed, a little more violence, a little more revenge, a little more tension (I can't believe I'm saying this to Tolkien, er, Martin).
2 He has really lost a few steps, and I am thinking he really doesn't know where he's going with these characters.  That, or he just doesn't know how to get there.  Make us wait five more years for a book, and you may as well read it yourself; to wait this long for a book I have to force myself to finish is not encouraging at all.
3 To be honest, it's more of a 2.5 star book.  I honestly think the publisher told Martin - look, give us SOMETHING! We've got the HBO now, perfect tie-in yada yada.  Not his best effort.  Clunky and about 300 pages too long.  Please, don't just give us a bunch of pages edited into a "book".  I swear, if I hear, or read, the phrase "much, and more" or one of its permutations one more time, I will scream.  That phrase appears in the book approximately 8,999 times.  I am not sure when the next installment will come out.  Certainly I won't wait another 10 years.  At this point, I am not even sure I want to read it.
5 Not so much a sequel to Storm of Swords.  Provides narratives not found in the Storm of Swords in the same time period.  ex: Tyrion,  Arya, Daenerys  Actually...in hind sight, it was a great idea putting these in a book after the fourth as I seriously could have cared less about many of the characters featured in book 4.  Sansa?  Pfft.  Cercei? &#34;hey, i'm queen incestuous bitch.&#34;  Sam was mildly entertaining if it wasn't for his 24/7 bitching and moaning.  But Jon Snow, Arya, Tyrion, and Daenerys?  Hell yeah!
5 Love the on-going saga, the rich drama and character development.  I hated the tragic ending.  I am hoping for a book 6 to see happens to Arya and Dani.
3 And the story continues. George manages to once again steal my breath as I read through this book. I won't lie, one characters fall from grace was the most thrilling bit to read. I enjoyed every single moment of this particular characters misfortune.The only thing I deeply disliked in this book is the fillers. An entire paragraph about nothing of real importance (more than once) became tiresome.
2 1/3 of the way into the book I realized that the story was going nowhere, and Martin just keeps throwing one-dimensional characters into the mix to flesh out pages.  A MAJOR disappointment, I wouldn't bother buying it.
2 No spoilers hereThe books go downhill all the way, so don't expect much of this one. I became a fan with the first and I'm trying to still be a fan, but it's really hard.Expect each chapter to go into details of superfulous things, to be repeatable, and, worst of all, boring. In this last book the author has started to spend a lot of words in useless drama and finishing the chapter when something really happens. Then he skips all the things that happened so you go forward in time to when someone is remembering what happened. Boring and tedious.Another important thing is that the author also goes to the next level in sexual references. And the repetitive use of phrases and words also is tiresome.If you find a book that summirizes this one, get it. This book can be made to two pages per chapter easily. The rest is useless... and boring boring boring.
1 I had never heard of this author, and was amazed at the sample, so purchased the first 4.  I didn't know at that point that the series didn't end with 4.  I was so caught up in it, I couldn't stop (not much else got done).  The non-end irritated me severely, but bought book 5, thinking all things would come together.  My first thought at the end was WTF??  Not only did it not end, it didn't get anywhere.  Now, I'm p*ssed at having spent my money on an endless rollercoaster ride, and even worse, I'm bored with it.  I'd like to know how it ends, but by the time the next book comes out, I'm going to have forgotten half the characters and won't care.  I'll save my money & get it from the library.  Maybe.
5 What can one say? The work of George R.R. Martin is intriguing, engrossing, absorbing, overwhelming, captivating, as always. The sheer scope of plot lines, geographies, characters, scopes, and ideas is astounding.
5 Great book.  Have already read it twice.  The second time I read it in conjunction with the previous one, e.g. read halfway thru &#34;Feast for Crows&#34;, then halfway thru &#34;A Dance with Dragon&#34;, then completed &#34;Crows&#34;, then &#34;Dragons&#34;.  Found out stuff that I missed and enjoyed the whole process - so much so that I've already been thru the series waiting for the next book to be published.
5 If you love fantasy and adventure, but can handle graphic descriptions of violence, gore and sex, then you most likely will enjoy this series.
5 To preface this review, I wanted to inform you that this is a review of the unabridged audio-book version of A Dance With Dragons (ADWD). Every word of the book is read to the listener in an unabridged reading with the actor changing his voice slightly for different characters and using a neutral voice for narration. I have listened to all of a A Song Of Ice And Fire (ASOIF) in audio-book format as I simply don't have time to sit down and read such lengthy novels. I highly recommend this type of "reading" for people who have to commute a lot or spend lots of time working with their hands on mindless tasks (for me this entails renovating my 1850 home and landscaping the backyard).Not wanting to write a spoiler review, let me just say "wow, I did not see that coming!" I think you will be shocked toward the end of the book - I was both saddened and very curious to know more. I can't say more than that without spoiling it. A Dance With Dragons is better than night soil!In regards to how long it took for Martin to write this book, I agree with Brent Weeks' opinion post that George's readers probably shouldn't have to wait almost 6 years for the release of a book, but on the other-hand I can understand why it would take so long to write a book like ADWD. It seems to me the average author takes one to two years to write a book. ADWD is fully twice the length of the average novel that comes out - it is truly epic in both scope and words. In addition, George was working on other books in that time-frame as well as dealing with the HBO adaptation of A Game Of Thrones. With these considerations, I see how it could take between three and six years to write the sequel (or in this case parallel) to A Feast For Crows (AFFC). Still, I just wish it didn't have to take that long. Now that the initial push with HBO is done, with all the publicity and now Hollywood behind him, and a horde of new fans bugging him, I think we can expect to see the next book in the Song coming along within two years - but really, who am I to say?All that out of the way, now onto the meat of the review. ADWD is an exquisitely written gritty tale, peppered throughout with colorful terms such as "night soil" pulling its readers a little deeper into George's imagination with every page turned. Simply stated, Martin is just an excellent writer and his huge world is highly organized. The scope is vast with so many plot-lines, sub plot-lines, and side plot-lines keeping the reader entertained and always guessing. His story contains many players - both main and side characters - and you never really know which ones are going to die next. George revisits some of the characters that we didn't see in AFFC just enough to keep us up to date on what is going on in their lives, while he focuses more on other characters and developing their stories more fully. You will find yourself falling in love with characters you hated in previous books, and you will despise some characters even more! George does a great job with getting us to know his characters, understand what is in their minds and hearts, what motivates them and gets them to do the things they do and even why they repent. It is a joy to watch martin break his characters both mentally and physically as he does it so fantastically. George really knows how to tell a tale and ADWD will leave every epic fantasy reader satisfied that they got their money's worth.This tale stretches across two continents and really beings to bring the whole story we've been reading thus far together. And the dragons, wow! These are some ferocious beasts. These creatures are not the little dragonlings that were crawling on Daenerys' shoulder on the HBO version of A Game Of Thrones. These creatures are huge behemoths that can spout large gouts of flame effortlessly and endlessly to consume their prey and foes. These dragons are nasty, nasty creatures - there is not much controlling them as they are truly wild beasts.As with the other stories in the Song, ADWD does move along rather slowly compared to many other authors out there. You are however rewarded with richer detail, but not so much as some authors I've read who make you want to skip five pages just to find out what is going on. George balances description with plot very well - perhaps balanced more on the description side, but not too much that he keeps you from wanting to read further. It is a page turner and you won't want to put it down.The only true downfall I can put on this book is that it is actually only half of a story. A Feast For Crows and A Dance With Dragons are mostly written parallel to one another as the scope of the series has become so vast, Martin simply can't capture a section of a timeline in one book. While I knew this before I even started ADWD, I ended up missing my favorite characters like Samwell, Brienne, and of course Jaime. We do catch snippets of them, but I miss reading them especially after we've been waiting more than 5 years. ADWD and AFFC being the whole of a single book also begs the question, will ASOIAF be eight books long now (previously the series was estimated to be 7)?George seems to be holding true to his philospohy that evil always triumphs over good, chaos over order, falsehood over truth, and darkness over light. But as always he leaves the door open just a crack so that at the end of this series (however long it may be) the good guys could still possibly win out and may indeed triumph. But time is running out. Winter is here. It is a fact that can now be seen even on the Dothraki Sea. Are the dragons going to be the power that defeats the mysterious god of ice we've barely heard mention of? Who is Varys actually working for? Lots of questions arise from reading ADWD and hopefully they will begin to be answered in the next book.Recently ADWD was voted on goodreads.com to be the best fantasy novel of the year by readers like you and I. This is definitely deserved. I voted for Patrick Rothfuss' The Wise Man's Fear and even after having finished ADWD I would not change my vote. It was a tough year for Pat going against George. I am sure Wise Man would have won had there not been the media hog (deservedly so) that ADWD has become because of HBO. I'd bet 80% of the votes for ADWD would have gone to Rothfuss had ADWD not been in the running, putting it probably on the top, closely contested with Erin Morgenstern's breakout novel (which is definitely now in my to-read list). But those are the breaks - they WERE released the same year and even if both ADWD and TWMF are excellent stories deserving of the number one spot, "there can be only one"! I am very happy to give A Dance With Dragons 5 out of 5 stars!
3 My dear departed brother told me of reading Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series. He stated that the series started out with great promise but eventually the later books did nothing to advance the plotline and seemed to be written with the sole purpose of extending the story ad infinitum. Unfortunately, the same thing appears to be happening with George Martin's series. I greatly enjoyed the first couple of books and thankfully did not have to wait six years for volume 5, having been enticed to read the series after watching HBO's adaptation of the first book. It now seems that Martin has realized that this series is a cash cow and he has no intention of ending it any time soon, hence we have a one thousand page book with barely any plot movement. The Others, so ominously hovering in the beginning, have become almost an afterthought. Were it not for the constant and neverending descriptions of food and clothing everpresent in all the books, the length of these thousand page behemoths could have been cut in half. I am slogging my way through Dance With Dragons and the wonder of the early story has significantly worn off. Apparently Martin has decided that this will be the work of his remaining years and intends to squeeze every last dollar from it along with whatever waning interest we readers can still muster. A well written but extreme disappointment.
5 You need to finish this before they write a different ending to the book. It will only work if you come up with something.
3 There's a hilarious scene in Michael Chabon'sWonder Boys: A Novel, in which pothead author Grady Tripp is confronted by his student Hannah Green about his monstrously overdue and overlong manuscript, which she is the first person to have read. Tentatively, she explains that while the first few hundred pages were amazing, he seems to have lost control of the narrative, especially when he gets into lengthy side narratives about the histories of ancient ruins and the genealogies of minor characters' horses."'Grady,' she said, sounding more than a little horror-struck. 'You have whole chapters that go for thirty and forty pages _with no characters at all_!'"Now, I don't know if George R.R. Martin shares Grady Tripps fondness for the good herb, but he definitely shares the core symptom of not being able to make his story smaller, even when that would make it better. And like Tripp, he has an overwhelming fondness for lengthy asides and genealogies of sometimes terrifying detail - though none yet for horses, thank the Seven.Certainly he remains a productive and very gifted writer. I actually enjoyed A Dance with Dragons more than most reviewers so far. Hence the four stars, which I know I'm going to get reprimanded for despite writing a pretty critical review. But I did enjoy the book! It's mostly quite well-written, and despite the frequent complaint that "nothing happens," is actually packed with events. There are plenty of exciting scenes, some clever plot twists, and a few revelations about ancient mysteries and the motivations of certain key players. The chapters set in the North are particularly good, and I also liked the Tyrion chapters a lot (though I know many other readers did not).The problem is that by the end of the book, the reader feels that the series is no closer to a finale than it was at the beginning. This world Martin's created just seems to get bigger and bigger and bigger, and is now firmly in danger of getting too vast for its own good. And Martin over-indulges in too many of his own equivalents of the genealogies of horses - histories of minor houses, squabbles over tracts of land, and other details that just don't command enough of the reader's emotions.Moreover, many of the newer additions to the population of Essos and Westeros are less interesting than the old ones. I speak of course of the teeming host of Meereenese characters, who all seem have names like Grover zo Snuffleupagus, but whose personalities do not shine through nearly as brightly as their ridiculously colored beards. Martin has an impressive ability to make even his side characters come across as fully-formed people, but with this last book it's pretty clear that he's hit his limit.The first three books of the A Song of Ice and Fire series are about as good as popular fiction gets - whatever the genre. And unlike some, I still hold out hope that Martin can turn the tide and give this series the climax and ending it deserves. But to do that, he's going to have to start making his story smaller rather than bigger, and that's going to require some difficult decisions. But, to quote Hannah Green in the movie of Wonder Boys, that's what writers do. They make decisions.UPDATE: After pondering the book some more, and reading some other reviews by people I respect, I've decided to downgrade this one to three stars. I did enjoy the book in its own right, and continue to think that the frequent complain that "nothing happens" is rather ridiculous. But the key problem remains that Martin is not making the difficult decisions needed to bring this series to the lively climax it deserves. And more people are watching now than ever before. He needs to fire his editor and kill or compress about half of his POV characters in order to right the ship, and to do those things he's going to need some friendly but unmerciful feedback.
3 I was under the impression I was getting a larger Library version than a hardcover paperback.  So that is just an okay rating.  It is still readable but does not go with the rest of my larger books.
2 Don't waste your time.  Stay away.  You will never get back the time you spent reading this book and life is too short.
5 This was the best book of the whole series.  I cannot wait until the next installment.  Winter is coming, and so are the dragons!
5 Great series - wonderfully entertaining - even better than the HBO series.  You can't go wrong with this book - clear your schedule and start reading!
5 I waited months for this to come out in soft cover & it was so worth the wait!  It just keeps getting better!!
4 My anger with RR Martin will not allow me to give it a 5. If he doesn't hurry up and write I'm going to lose my mind. Realistically he is becoming somewhat scattered. I was a &#34;Tales of Malazan&#34; fan, the author began telling so many stories that you couldn't follow them all and at the end he didn't really answer the questions he developed. I feel like the same is happening here. I hope he narrows his narratives and fleshes out the characters we have now. Still by this book you already know. You also know you aren't going to stop now.
3 I've been a passionate fan of the Song of Ice and Fire series,  just loved,  loved,  loved the first 3 books.  When book 4 came out,  I reread the first three and then dived into the fourth,  but it didn't quite work for me. I thought that this 5th book,  the putative second half of the original 4th book,  might work better. But I didn't reread the entire series and found that I had forgotten too many intricacies and felt like I was a at a party where I had to be reintroduced to all the guests who were all starting to blur and look alike.SPOILERS AHEADIt took me 600 pages till I actually got into the book. That's just ridiculous,  I know, but there were too many threads I just didn't care about (I'm looking at you Onion Knight) I have to say,  when I found out that Davos would not be killed but instead sent on a mysterious mission,  I was ready to throw the book away.  I was angry that I was continuously set up to expect the worst and then it not happen.  No important characters had any natural repercussions to their actions.And it was a square dance,  I felt like we were just doing same steps again and again.  I started skimming through the Tyrion chapters. Tyrion!  My previously favorite character!  I hated the part where he met the dwarfette and performed with her.  Just hated the character he was becoming.I liked the last 300 pages,  but for no other book would I have stuck it out till then.  But for all its shortcomings,  I am hopeful that book 6,  if, when it arrives,  will get the plot moving forward again.
4 Since English is my second language reading this book was tough, but I loved reading it. What made it tough wasn't the quality of the writing -which is impeccable- but the plethora of unnecessary characters that I don't see advancing the story. The characters that we love aren't in control of their destiny but seem mostly reactive. The miracle is that things seem to be coming together despite of that, and the revelations (and cliffhangers) in this book promise a storm of events that will bring this series to a conclusion. Overall a depressing cynical book that I think could've rivaled " A Storm of Swords" if it was combined as originally planned with " A Feast for Crows" and the(iron born+ Quentyn + Briene ...etc) were just removed
5 Finally this book pulls together the previous books! There are so many separate story lines and so many characters that it can be difficult to remember all the back story for each character. However I would say that finally we are starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel with a cohesive plot versus random storylines that you can't remember. I am looking forward to the next installment.
3 This is a series for the patient reader. With books appearing once every five years or so, with each book weighing in at over a thousand pages, and with the later books in the series trading in plot development for world building, only the serious fan will have the strength to keep the faith.Fortunately for me, this book did very well in comparison to AFFC. Unfortunately, the service manual for my dishwasher would have done very well in comparison to AFFC.Nevertheless, the 900+ pages in this book were very easy to read. I actually didn't begin to get annoyed until I was in the last quarter, and all of the plot lines were still showing no signs of life. I skimmed the last 100 pages, getting more frustrated than ever, and almost missed a couple of season-finale cliff hangers (which unfortunately are losing their impact).As others have said, this book suffers from a lack of tighter editing. All the major characters are reduced to meandering through their lives. Daenerys and Jon suffer the most from this treatment, but even the Greyjoys and Starks don't fare much better. The major plot-advancing incidents could be summarized in less than 6 bullet points.It's a tragedy that this series has devolved from its breathless pacing in the first few books, into a walk through waist deep mud. It almost makes me wish I wasn't so invested in what's happening in Westeros.Of course, it's far easier for me to criticize this book than to write something this epic.So, I'll keep the faith, and wait for the next installment. Hopefully, I'll even remember enough of the story to enjoy this ride to its conclusion.Happy Reading!
5 Further adventures of the clans vying for the various kingdoms of the world of George R. R. Martin. Twists turns and shocking events keep you guessing. I can't wait for the next book. Hurry up, George!
4 What the negative (and often hilarious) reviews of this book failed to capture for me is the fact that I found this much, much better than A Feast for Crows.  I suppose it's mainly that Crows was so unrelentingly dark. Plus you had to listen to @#$@# Cersei.  Ick. This is less dark, with little bits of hope, and even the detestable character (Reek) becomes moderately likable.(Spoiler, but trying to be vague:) There are two plot twists mid-book where characters who ended Crows badly suddenly get a better deal. Doing the two in sequential chapters was unconvincing.  It left me annoyed wondering, "Is anything else you led us to believe totally wrong, George?"Now how many years do we have to wait for the next one?
5 Holy cow! If George Martin had written the Wizard of oz Scarecrow would have been burned, the lion butchered, the tin man melted down for scrap and when Dorothy finally got home, Auntie Em would be dead on the floor.  BUT I love the story -certainly not predictable - intricate interwoven plot lines, fantastic and real characters --none perfect --some far too real --so real their deaths in the story left me grieving-- and rushing to download the next in the series---surely at least one of my Stark family will survive---Winter is here!
4 Of course you have to read it.  You read the other ones.  OF COURSE you have to read it.My favorite characters may be dead, missing or enslaved, but of course I had to read it.  I waited a bloody long time (years) to sink my teeth in.  The only book that took longer was the newest Jean M. Auel book (and don't read that.)Was it great literature??  Eh.  The first book, second book, and third book rip you to shreds and sew you back up.  Even BETTER than Tolkien, dare I say it?  The 4th book just hurt me like a punch in the gut, and then I had to wait.  I had a baby when I started reading these, and now she's nearly 6.This read is a little confusing, and as he says it goes back in time, but you get serious deja vu.  When you finally catch up to Arya and Cersei and a few others again, they have small sections (maybe 2 chapters each in a book of over 900 pages) This would be okay if the other sections were written to be MORE interesting.But mein gott.  I cannot believe how many horses were eaten because of how many people are stuck in the snow.I like the emergence of some of the wildlings, I love Jon Snow and the watch, want Tyrion to be king, I adore Danaerys (but I'm not a fan of the story as it goes into the slave cities and she sort of pitches her tent and waits for war and disease.)  I'm not too interested in Dorne, could care less about the Iron Islands, and don't really understand what is going on with Bran and the froggy kids (I was really hoping for elves or something, and what happens is actually weirder.)  There are some new characters you might like if you miss Ned Stark, like the lord of Griffin's Roost.  And you'll actually feel sorry for Theon a little.It's worth a read if you are a hardcore fan.  It's not that enlightening or riveting a book unless you are addicted, so if you're not actually in pain from not reading it?  You can wait to borrow instead of buying it outright.  The library wait will be about 2 years, so no whining, we waited for 5.I really like the maps.  I find myself flipping to the map pages to help me visualize where people are.  The non-westeros maps confuse me though, I have the hardcover and looking at the valyria page and moving to the slaver bay page, it's hard for me to tell whether you just keep going east. I need a better legend.
4 Dear George R. R. MartinI've recently finished "A Dance with Dragons" and, like the previous books in the series, I loved it - gritty, devious, heroic, fantastical, compelling, page-turning, crude, sexy... you get the gist. No one does fantasy quite like you, that's for sure. It was also nice to have Tyrion back in the story, as well as Jon, Daenerys and the little updates on Bran (who I'm most curious about), as well as a host of other great characters. A sign of a truly great fantasy is missing the characters after you finish the book and I miss them dearly. This is why I wanted to write to you.WHEN is the next book coming out?When you finished "A Feast for Crows" in 2005, you promised we'd get our fix of the rest of the characters next year - which I took to be 2006. Well here we are in 2012 and I've just read it. Now I appreciate it was published in 2011, but I actually waited until the soft copy came out, because I'd waited so long already, why rush out to purchase the hard cover version, which is physically painful to read? When I read hard cover books, it hurts my wrists holding the big tomes open, as well as my body as the sharp corners poke into my skin if reading in bed. Now you are an author of a calibre that I always buy in hard cover - pain and all - but not for this one... maybe for the next? Depends on when you publish it I suppose.Understand I am not being critical, because I appreciate you have been a very busy man creating HBO's "Game of Thrones" and well done on that. Not only have you given me an interpretation of the story different to my own imagination - and luckily I like your interpretation - but you have made fantasy appealing to a much broader demographic than before. This is a wonderful thing for readers of fantasy, and I'm hoping it will create new fantasy writing talent for all of us to enjoy.I am a huge fan of your work and you are definitely one of my favourite fantasy writers. But please, all I ask is don't take too long to publish the next book? I don't want to forget the story by the time it comes out - as I did with the last one. I actually re-read "A Feast for Crows" to remind myself of the story, but I forgot the story before that too... One day I'll have to read them all again.In closing off, I felt compelled to ask you, on behalf of your adoring fans who have been with you since the beginning, please get that next bloody book out ASAP OK? Have we got a deal?Keep up the amazing work.PS: I get why some of the reviews have been less than satisfied. However I think we're at a critical point in the story, where all of the characters stories need to come together, and that is what makes me excited about the next book. I can't wait!
2 In my opinion, the writing of DwD almost seemed to say, "These people will take whatever crumbs I toss at them and love it; I am GRRM!"  To which *I* say, "Look, you ingrate, for YEARS I practically shoved your dang books down the throats of friends, family, and complete strangers.  I defended you whenever anyone complained about the ridiculous length of time between books.  I lauded your Seven Kingdoms in all the different kingdoms to which we traveled.  I started a SoIaF group, that we might discuss this series that we loved.  I spent oodles of cash on your books for myself and as gifts for others.  I supported your website and listened to your interviews.  I convinced people who couldn't stand the fantasy genre to read your words.  I did all of this, and THIS is how you repay me?By writing a book from which you seemed too far away?  By worshiping at the altar of HBO, as your books took a back burner to the series?  By complaining that we who don't LOVE every word written by your royal hand are sock puppets?  By making it seem like your own importance now outweighs the love of your earliest fans?"  Remember us?  We are your earliest fans... the people who read your first book, then your second, etc, and it is we who ultimately helped you to this throne on which you currently sit.Like many other reviewers, I have read the first four books of the ASoIaF series many times over (starting in the late '90's) as I waited for the next book to come out, then the next book, etc.  I happily reread those first three books (again!) as I awaited FfC, re-living each profound event of the series as if I were discovering it for the first time, which speaks to the phenomenal writing of those First Three.When FfC was finally published, I was there first thing in the morning, waiting impatiently to grab the goods, rush home, and then to devour the book with glee!  Then, when I was finished reading...It was okay...  But that was acceptable to me; the next book was BOUND to be better.  It was BOUND to recapture the magic and continue the legacy that GRRM had created.  So, as MORE YEARS went by, I waited impatiently yet again, checking his web page for updates like a maniac, asking everyone at my local bookstore if they'd heard anything yet, participating in online forums to help pass the time.  Until, finally, finally, DwD was released.  Once again I was first in line to get the next book of my beloved series.  I carted it home and immediately began to read.Two months later I was finished.  To be clear: I am a very fast reader, depending on how much I'm enjoying the book that I'm holding.  In other words, I was so disappointed in DwD that it was almost painful to force myself to finish reading it.  I barely recognized many of the characters that I loved, and I kept waiting for the story to progress enough to recapture my attention, but it was as though GRRM was writing from a far off tower constructed from his overabundance of hubris.  I promised myself that I would only write my review after reading it a second time, but my bookmark sits idle somewhere around page 400.  I just can't finish it this time.So, sadly, I not only can't recommend A Dance with Dragons, I also can no longer defend my once-favorite author.  I can only hope that he hears us, and goes on a legitimate quest for the magic of the First Three.
4 One of the main reasons people will note is that this book took over 7 years to finally put togehter.  Whether it was  b/c GRRM is has the ending created and is trying to see how to create this book and ensure he ends this series in two more....is only a question the man himself can answer.  I will say this....overall this book was well worth the wait.Like many of his other novels, many characters die (or may be dead, GRRM is good at making you wonder til the next book comes out) that you want to keep around while others stay alive when death is at their doorstep.  As many other reeviews have stated, the mind of GRRM is a baffling and confusing one, but his one saving grace is his ability to capture you in the world of A Song of Ice and Fire and keep you wanting more.  I wouldn't be surprised if after the end if GRRM decides to created prolouges like many other authors to depict what the world was like with dragons or how the other's were pushed back the first time.If you enjoy Tolkein, Dennis L. McKeirnan, R.A. Salvatore........you are doing yourself an injustice by not picking up this series and reading it.  I have only heard about the HBO remake of the first novel but the accolades that have followed it thus far only prtray what many of us already know.....that this is a series that will stand throughout the annals of time as memorable on par with the great Tolkein.For the record, this was one of the better books, but other characters that wer ehinted as still alive or bounding around in Westeros have not been mentioned for sometime but leave us wondering.....what is their role in noting that they still live.....will the other come.......will the Stormborn ever leash her dragons or will they consume her.....and will GRRM simply extinguish the growing flame of victory for the Targereyans or simply allow the Starks/Snow to be consumed in an endless winter?George R.R. MArtin, like every other fan of yours is hoping, please finish while you still have that spark and imagination in you.  Robert Jordan is no longer with us so his Wheel of Time will never be truly finished by its creator.  Don't leave your current and future fans out.  I hope you enjoy this book and the overall series as much as I have.
4 It satisfys my lust for fantacy.  Well written and great story line.  Characters are large and real.  Home like it should be.
3 Here is my advice for enjoying this book: skip all the Daenerys chapters in the first half of the book. You won't miss much because nothing much happens except (not really a spoiler) she is indecisive about her reign as queen for chapter after chapter after chapter. Once the Tyrion storyline gets to Mereen, start reading the Daenerys chapters, because they pick up a bit. The sections about Jon Snow and the Wall suffer from some of the same lack of forward movement. If you are a fan of the Arya storyline, as I am, you'll be disappointed; there's not much here, though what is here is good. The best storyline is probably Tyrion's (he never disappoints) and the chapters about the Greyjoy siblings and the fate of Winterfell are a pleasant surprise; I found them boring in past books but they are far more interesting this time around.
3 There's a lot here to savor and enjoy. I liked seeing things pick up from AFFC, for example. The Cersei scenes remain my favorite part of this and AFFC, so sweet is the comeuppance. And I found myself remembering that Martin is a fine prose stylist, whose descriptions resonate and whose dialogue snaps.But we are in the doldrums, plotwise, as the various threads become too long to spin together. Tyrion seems to go everywhere and arrive nowhere. Daenerys's thread ends just as she finally does what we've been waiting for her to do for five books. Bran's story remains infinitely less interesting than Martin seems to think. And Jon Snow's thread is massively frustrating.But the biggest problem is the feeling that We Aren't Getting Anywhere. Hopefully Winds of Winter (publication date: August of 20??) will get this thing moving again.
5 I enjoyed this book.  It was good to see karma come back on some of the characters.  I liked where Bran ended up.  Good for him!  Interesting ending.  How will book seven conclude?  Will the winter come and darkness fall?  What is up with Stannis?  Lightbringer is bright, but without warmth.  Is Dany some sort of savior, making Stannis the tricksy, oblivious antichrist?  He means well.  Is his red preistess lady aware, or are her fires decieving her?  Will the unending summer come?  Will all the starks be reunited, living and dead?  The saga is so bleak and unpredictable.  Will we have the traditional happy fantasy ending, or will the game continue, generation after generation, as the gods, old and new, watch with indifference, only half-ass intervening(if they intervene at all)  Alas, I do not know..As usual it was somewhat tedious and the characters were hard to keep track of, but oh, well.
5 If you like scheming, justice, complete DISREGARD for justice, rooting for and against different characters at different times, brutality, and the possibility of anyone being able to die at any given time then you'll love this series. Good luck trying to read this book to fall asleep at night. If you've already watched the HBO series just remember that NO television depiction has ever come close to fully capturing the books they came from. After you finish this series (whenever it ends) you'll be googling &#34;books like Game of Thrones&#34; to find your next read.
5 This was another thrilling and exciting continuation in the &#34;Game of Thrones&#34; story. I can't wait until George R. R. Martin finishes book 6.
2 I love the GoT series but I'm not happy about waiting for the next book. This book went round and round with no real closure. I trudged through it simply to see if I would get some resolution. I did not...
5 This book was a great read. It kept me enthralled to the very last page  and can't wait for the next one
5 A Dance with Dragons is the fifth book in George R. R. Martin&#8217;s A Song of Ice and Fire saga&#8230;otherwise known as the Game of Thrones series. Unlike most series novels, this one did not come after the fourth book as logic might dictate, rather it ran in conjunction with it filling out the story of all those characters who were absent in the fourth installment. At least to a certain point that is. The last three hundred pages give or take a few, pulled both novels together picking up the individuals from the fourth and throwing them into the mix.I truly enjoy Martin&#8217;s world and all the twisted, greedy and scheming inhabitants in it. While this book follows region to region as the characters continue to plot their way towards the iron throne, it leaves the reader with not just one cliffhanger, but with many. And numerous unanswered questions that are quite frustrating. Still I must admit there was some satisfaction in witnessing the downfall of certain people and the anguish of losing others.Overall, I loved this book and cannot wait for the next installment. I am dying to know who will ultimately win the game of thrones. Does anyone know when the sixth book is to be released?
4 Hated this book. Hated this book!! But that was only the first time I read it.  I thought the editing was heinous where it was present, but mostly absent.  The plot was s-t-r-e-t-c-h-e-d over a thousand pages of cheesy travelogue & I hated what had transpired (mostly nothing) to all my favorite characters. I hated the steps backwards in maturity that many of my favorites seemed to have taken, & was straight-out bored by others that had kept me intrigued in the series up to now. I frequently wanted to slap GRRM (in the same way Joffrey is sometimes--but not often enough--slapped silly in the HBO series) for his over-use of the ludicrous term "morrow", as in "on the morrow", "good morrow", etc... I detested the late introduction of Aegon & Connington, as well.But THEN I re-read the book.  Line for line and paragraph by paragraph, skipping nothing and taking me days and days longer....& I found not only much to appreciate but much to celebrate that I had either skimmed thru, overlooked or even ignored the first time through. Jewels like these: (MANY SPOILERS!)1) Janos Slynt's deserved beheading--I think I actually cheered out loud!2) Ser Selmy's hand-to-hand combat in Hizdahr's chambers with Hizdahr's guard...who knew the old dude had it in him? Again, found myself huzzah-ing out loud!3) Tormund's easy banter with Jon Snow & his shining native intelligence, virtually unmatched by most of the pretentious "lords" south of the Wall4) Cersei's "Jane Shore"-type Walk of Shame, especially when paralleled with her grandfather's mistress's "Madame Du Barry"-type Stripping of Worldly Goods Bestowed & Proper Booting off the Lannister Property, once the old man died---2 events straight from the history books & borrowed to great effect here5) Moquorro's fortuitous rescue from the mast of the sinking ship (a great visual there), and his healing by fire of Victarion's arm, potentially foreshadowing yet another way Jon could be "healed", as opposed to dying/warging/wighting/pulling a Dondarion?6) The "Ugly Little Girl's" poisoned coin assasination...in addition to the novel, excruciatingly descriptive way a selected face "adheres" to one's own.  Enthralling!7) The Freys/Manderlys/Boltons getting cabin fever in the Great Hall at Winterfell & constantly at one another's throats, especially when the off-stage murders start in thick & nasty8) "Pork Pie" served Ser Manderly-style....might have put me off pot pies forever!9) Missandei hearing, when no one else does, the dragon Viserion scratching himself a cave out of the pyramid wall10) Bran "possibly" calling to Theon in the Godswood?11) Val walking out of the north wood, her task for Jon complete, Ghost by her side, regal & glorious as hell!12) Pycelle finally biting the dust, after 5 long books wherein he was a constant cringing worm---even excusing his age13) The vivid battle in the Deepmotte woods between the Ironborn & Stannis's hill tribes...for a few minutes, I wasn't sure whose side I was actually on, & I'm still sure it was Asha's!14) Davos Seaworth off in search of Rickon, on his way to a very bad placeAnd much, much more!  I almost forgot Dany's annoying regressive characterization (THIS was the woman who fired life into the dragons?), Tyrion's mostly pointless adventures which went nowhere (the female dwarf is eye-rolling in the extreme!), Jon's constant wrongness when he is trying to make "noble" decisions (& his tasteless "demise"---how can someone rewrite the "Jane Shore" history so elegantly and yet fail so miserably at the "Ides of March" retelling?), the hugely-missed near-absent Jaime, the abysmal drama & death of Quentyn Martell, & most of all, I nearly forgot the too-convenient plot device of Aegon the Actually-Alive-&-Breathing!I give this book 4 stars for being HUGELY entertaining & original regarding almost all the side characters, but must skip a 5th star for the lack of forward progression (& unnecessary regression) of the main characters. I am NOT one of you who waited so ungodsly long for this book. however, so I understand where you may be particularly disappointed in plot movement...particularly after Book 4 also went nowhere fast.  That may be worth a star's difference right there.Still, GRRM can write, decidedly well, & for the above shining moments & others, especially when thinking of the fantasy genre as a whole, I come away favorably inclined---after my 2nd reading!
2 I don't really know what to say about this. I rated it 2 stars because I guess I enjoyed parts of it? I actually did enjoy Bran's chapters, but there was precious little of that. And I enjoyed Barristan Selmy, because it was such a relief to be in his head after so many bleak, cruel, depraved, or hopeless perspectives.The overall feeling is bad, though, and I feel really bothered and annoyed with the direction of the storyline in almost every specific case. I put it down, completely fed up, after one of the Asha chapters, read a couple of other books, and then picked it up again. The author is supposedly "realistic" in that, you know, sometimes bad stuff happens and the good guys don't always win. But this is beyond unrealistic. This is gratuitously dark. And rapey, wtf. I don't even understand, at this point, how any of these characters managed to be born, or any of these long family lines survived long enough for these characters to exist, with all the bad things that constantly happen and how evil and rotten 90% of the people in the world seem to be. I felt really uncomfortable reading a lot of this. Even right from the very prologue, I was just sickened. But it really set the tone of the book. So, if you start it up and find the prologue off-putting, keep that in mind. I'm annoyed with this story, annoyed that I've invested so much in these characters to only watch pointless, horrible things happen to everybody.
2 I stopped reading Robert Jordan after the sixth book, and I really don't want to do the same with this series.  I'm still planning on reading the next books (how many will there be, George?) but Martin is falling into the Jordan-esque trap of writing longer and longer books in which less and less happens.Despite huge armies amassing, this book contains no battles.  A few plans are thwarted, no goals are truly accomplished, and we don't get detectably closer to the anticipated big showdowns (Dany's dragons returning to conquer Westeros and the fight with the Others at the Wall).  There are lots of feasts and descriptions of food.  Lots of grisly death.  Lots of petty posturing, sellswords changing sides, Tyrion bumbling and plotting and playing cyvasse.Bran finally reaches his three-eyed crow and learns to see the world through the network of weirwoods with faces, but just when that gets interesting, about halfway through the book, there are no more Bran chapters.  We don't learn anything more about the mysteries of the Wall, the Others, or the Red God and his priests' ability to see the future.Cersei is shamed but accomplishes nothing important.  Jaime travels a few miles.  Arya has some entertaining adventures that fail to reinsert her into any of the major plotlines.  Nothing interesting happens in Dorne.  The events in the epilogue are not at all unexpected and fail to inspire me to pick up the next book.Martin is often compared to Tolkien, and indeed they are both talented writers who have created epic stories set in large, diverse, and believable worlds.  However, I enjoyed Tolkien much more, and here's why.1.  Tolkien offers a grand historical perspective and a believable basis for the magic in his books.  Martin provides empty history and (so far at least) fails to explain any of the magic or mysteries in his books.2.  Tolkien provides a clear distinction between good and evil, to the point that some consider it a fault.  Martin's world has more shades of gray.  That could be a good thing, but he needs to stop killing all of the honorable characters and letting all the bad ones live.3.  Tolkien sets a clear final goal (destroying the ring) and continues to progress toward that goal throughout the three books while telling interesting and entertaining stories along the way.  He splits plotlines and rejoins them, returning to just two by the end.  With Martin's books, progress toward the final battles has stagnated to the point where there is no detectable forward motion, and we are at five books already.George is a great writer with a knack for keeping the reader engaged with humor, unpredictable turns of events, and cliffhanger chapter endings.  However, in the interest of keeping the story going and eventually reaching a conclusion, he needs to move things along, draw plotlines back together, and refrain from introducing new plotlines for a while.  It may be that he has these things planned out already, but if the pace doesn't accelerate a bit in the next book he may well lose me as a reader.
5 Yes ... I know this is a cheap way to do it ... but it's better than cutting and pasting, right?  :)If you read the first four, you HAVE to read this one. And you'll be in line for number six. I promise.  :D
3 This is a hard one to write about.We all wanted it so much. Those of us who read A STORM OF SWORDS in 2000 doubted we'd ever see A FEAST FOR CROWS, and when it finally appeared in 2005 it wasn't nearly the banquet everyone wanted. Now, nearly six years after that, A DANCE WITH DRAGONS arrives. To be honest, it wouldn't be humanly possible for any writer to give Song of Ice and Fire fans all that they crave, or even enough to sate them for what could be, realistically, another five-year wait. Any book will fail that task. As does this one, even while in some ways it succeeds. Partway through a re-read I'm finding more to enjoy, more gems and clues, but ultimately it falls short of what I'd like it to be, or would have expected.Unfortunately, Mr. Martin set his own bar impossibly high eleven years ago. STORM was, and remains, riveting, moving, exhilarating, utterly engrossing. I still believe that the second half of its massive text is one of the best reads anywhere, anytime. The sweep of characters across continents, through court, and within themselves never stops moving. It is a masterpiece of huge players on a stage of immense richness and depth.Then came FEAST. So much smaller, both in size and character. It had to be: the momentum couldn't possibly be maintained. While much-maligned, I feel FEAST is better and more purposeful than its detractors would believe. Its smallness paints a picture of what Westeros has become: the aftermath of STORM's turmoil. It felt like a stepping stone, a prologue to the next chapter. The calm before the next STORM.DANCE is not that storm. It is, however, the companion to FEAST, which is what it was meant to be. After so many years it is difficult to remember that DANCE is the other half of FEAST, the half that couldn't/didn't come out at the time. It's not going to be as immersive as STORM was because it was never intended so. DANCE matches FEAST's smallness by introducing (or re-introducing) smaller characters and smaller gains. There is no way the Ironborn or various Dornish can hold their own against Tywin Lannister, The Hound, Varys, Beric Dondarrion, Lysa Arryn, the Band of Brothers, the Queen of Thorns, Oberyn Martell, The Mountain, or the Others. The book will feel smaller because its people are smaller. It is a flagstone in a path, a setup for the next book. To judge it in this manner is to judge it fairly.So let's do that. Just because DANCE's (apparent) goal is to set things in motion doesn't meant it can't do so deftly. Two major plotlines emerge in DANCE: one in the north, and one in the east. While writing the book, Mr. Martin spoke frequently of untying the "Meereenese knot." Unfortunately, he never successfully does so. Admittedly, I have never enjoyed Danerys as a character, but at least I found her actions to be logical from her standpoint. Meaning, that while I may not have agreed with her decisions, I understood how she might have made them. Not so in DANCE. As expected, DANCE follows several petitioners/rivals/suitors as they close in on Meereen. Yet Dany's actions and attitudes towards them are often confusing, and frequently seem to run counter to her supposed ideals and goals. The courses of these suitors are often confusing themselves as they move towards or away from Meereen and Dany without strong reason. The result is a muddle of explanation and motive that never becomes clear and ends with a move that looks promising, but also as if the last year may be erased when WINDS appears; about as satisfying as "This was all a dream" resolutions can be. The storyline in the north fares better. At and around the Wall, Stannis, the Watch, and the wildlings dance around Jon Snow, new Lord Commander and beset by all. Mr. Martin details Jon's difficulties well, but his forays south to Winterfell and White Harbour are on the skimpy side, as is his attention to Bran in the far north.I said this was a difficult one to write about, and it is. I find myself asking "What DID happen in all those pages?", and it's not an easy question to answer. Of course, there are a few shocking moments and twists, a couple extremely so. Yet the bogged-down feeling of the Meereenese knot extends even to characters and places that traditionally have worked well, or better than well. Tyrion, perhaps the most deeply-drawn of Martin's characters, feels at short shrift in DANCE; he doesn't have enough to do, and what he does do feels half-hearted. Occasionally we get a glimpse of his wit, bitterness, or tenderness, but not for long, and not enough. Stannis, Arya, Melisandre, Roose Bolton, Jaime, and Davos are touched on briefly but never given a chance to truly speak in the way we're used to hearing them. Cersei has one moving POV that does advance her story and display her character well. Perhaps the best-rendered POV is one of an old character, now returned: Mr. Martin demonstrates the changes wrought upon the character with the insight and rawness we have come to expect and love. In no other POV are we brought so well into a character's heart. A hallmark of Mr. Martin's writing is his ability to create initial shock and lingering sorrow. There is some of that in DANCE, but not enough. This is likely its main flaw: it holds us at such arm's length. After STORM's embrace, we can't help but feel a little colder.When I saw the first season of The Wire, I enjoyed it. But it wasn't until the second season that I was blown away. The brilliance of the second season made the skill used in the first season appear as mastery in the way it carefully constructed plot and character. It was as if the first season was only truly there to launch the real story, and not be the story itself. My belief, or hope, is that DANCE and FEAST are similar stones in the path; they are the boat and the crew, but not the WINDS that move them. Moving them will be a formidable task: the crew is enormous and the boat ungainly. Watching their assembly was enjoyable at times, but I'm waiting for the real voyage to start.
5 I got hooked on this saga AFTER I started watching the HOBO series - amazingly intrigueing - can't wait for the next installment!
2 That's a scary title, isn't it? But the similarity to Jordan's endless, meandering story telling is hard to avoid when one reads this book. Like many of the reviewers, I was deeply disappointed in A Dance with Dragons -- it just goes on and on,  little happens to really move the story forward, a number of favorite characters are missing (but after a point, who cares?) and, yes, it was a lo-o-ng wait for this book, which makes everything worse. Poor George Martin, I wonder how he feels after reading these fan reviews, after being heaped with encomia for so many years by just about everyone.  Martin has mentioned recently, in a blog posting, that he was a friend of Jordan -- but he must have been aware of how Jordan totally lost control of his material, he's just too good a writer when he's on his game.  Yet he has fallen into the same trap -- 70% of the material in Dance could have been edited down or out (ok, maybe 50%)-- my main feeling after slogging thru Dance was "is this it"? A fellow reader, very smart, well-read and well-informed about fantasy/sf, told me he liked it, so, though it didn't change my opinion, made me think I might have a minority view -- uh, no, seems like most readers feel the way I do -- and started writing about it sooner.  These negative Amazon postings were quite an eye-opener when I read them months after Dance was published. So, sigh, what more is there to say?  No doubt it will be years before Martin has a chance to "redeem" himself with the publication of a fast-moving, plot-advancing novel -- if only he can. He seems like a nice guy, wish him well, don't think this was a deliberate, make-more-money ploy, but, oi-vey, what a misfire this book was.
4 I am so excited by this series, this book, like the previous books in the series, was captivating  reading, the adventure continues with many unexpected events and characters. I so look forward to the next book, which I hope is not too far away.
5 I will give it 5 stars, because the rating system on Amazon was not devised with this kind of experiment in mind. Rating Dance with Dragons would be like rating only one chapter from The Three Musketeers and saying how flawed the novel is because the passage is weaker than the rest. I think Mr. Martin deserves a whole galaxy of stars, and I, for one, will thank him for his labors and wait patiently for the next installment. This said, I would give minus 5 stars to Mr. Martin's publishers. Those people have been getting not fat, but obese on royalties from ASOIAF, and you'd think they might use a tiny amount of those profits to pay someone to read and edit Mr. Martin's text. This is what editors do, it's their job. I have a score of things in mind, but I will take only one example : in AFFC, Sam escorts Maester Aemon and Gilly south. On the way, it is borne on him that Gilly's misery is not the result of seasickness or homesickness, but of having had to give up her baby. This was a beautiful use of POV. Things were happening, the plot was moving forward (slowly admittedly), and Mr. Martin saved us a piece of melodramatic narrative by having the truth pieced together retrospectively by a naive, unsuspecting narrator. Beautiful. Then comes Dance with Dragon with a Jon chapter plodding over the episode at length, telling us nothing we do not know in a much less effective and dramatic way, obliterating the sheer elegance of the previous Sam POV. And why ? Because Mr. Martin probably jotted down a storyline in the first place, then had the various events told by different narrators, played about with the POVs, then juggled with chapters and possibly forgot to edit the passage from the Jon POV. But that, to my mind, was not Mr. Martin's job. That was the job of an editor, one who was not so close to his stuff that he had difficulty stepping back and viewing the architecture of the series from a distance. Editing out the Jon POV was the job of his publishers. Dear Mr. Martin, you are my hero, I'm reading A Dance with Dragons and savoring every minute of it,  but frankly, your publishers suck.
4 Honestly....not a lot happened in this book. I know it sounds like it but really there were no epic battle scenes....no crazy weddings....no giant feasts. Just a lot of background info and plot building but a lot of it I found very interesting.This book made me want to know more and more about the background of many of the lesser known characters. For instance...I really want to know more about Lyanna Stark now. What was the true nature of the relationship between her and Rhaegar Targaryen? I also want to know more about Melisandre and her religion....how does it all work? Where do her powers come from? I want to know more about the House of Black and White and the Many-Faced God. With this book I read a lot more on the Ice and Fire Wiki that I have with other books...mostly trying to learn more about some of the other characters and the religions.I was really intrigued by what's happening with Jon Snow and the visions that Melisandre is having about him in the fires. Could he be Azor Ahai and not Stannis? Could Melisandre's visions have been read wrong? There are so many questions surrounding the prophecy, Jon parentage, and Melisandre's visions and I for one am DYING to know more about this storyline.I loved the direction that Bran's character is heading. I think his greenseeing is going to play a huge role in the future of the series. I think through this, a lot of questions will be answered and explained....especially since he can see things that happened in the past.While this book might not have been as action packed as some of the others, it was still the `necessary book'. Since AFFC and ADWD were supposed to be one long book, it makes sense that not a lot is happening yet. I really think the next book  is going to be epicSee my full review here: [...]
5 Gets a little long but you are used to that by now:). I have loved reading all the books! Enjoy.
3 I have completed all 5 books.  I enjoyed reading them a lot.  The stories were interesting.  There was lots of action and drama, some unsavory, some honorable characters, but it's all just too much in my opinion.  It's like getting a history of the U.S. with all details from 1650, when all you REALLY want to know about is the civil war and who won.  I will read books 6 & 7 if they ever come out.  I don't know if I'll ever RE-read them.  (Tolkien I re-read once every couple of years)
5 I read slowly,to keep the book from ending. The good thing is, it didn't! I'm so glad the dragons are free, even if they are reptiles and therefore no respectors of good or people.
5 I've never much of a fantasy fan beyond Tolkein and the The Once and Future King. But one episode of the series had me hooked and I couldn't wait to immerse myself in the books. I raced through the first four, then had to wait a good while for this one. But oh, my, it was certainly worth it.I've never seen an author who could juggle such a mega-cast of characters and narrative threads and keep the whole thing comprehensible in drop dead exciting. Not only are the existing characters sent off in some very different directions;  there a host of new characters and places -- including one young man (who shall remain nameless in this review) who has attracted the loyalty of some surprising people and whose plans could be devastating to this entire world from Westeros to the Slave cities to the Wall -- that is if he can just stay alive that long.I hope I won't be a spoiler by saying that this book, according to the author, is not the last to come in this magnificent series. Part of me was looking forward to closure (and the chance to get some long-delayed work done), but I must confess to being glad that there will be at least one more chance to immerse myself in this wonderful, horribly bloody and richly realized world.
4 I love the Game of Thrones series, and I only gave this book a 4 because it didn't end like I wanted! I am not usually a fan of fantasy, but this series hooked me in. I hope book 6 comes out soon.
3 The man whose voice it is isn't very good. He slurs, inflects where he shouldn't, is choppy, inconsistent. There are better voice-actors out there. I wish the publisher would have branched out and gotten other narrators--at least have a different narrator per book. I think this one man narrated the entire Game of Thrones series. I'll slog through because I like Thrones so much, but it's been partially ruined for me by the reader. Where are female narrators?Oh, yeh. Audible broke up the book weirdly. Finding any Game of Thrones chapter is a challenge ANYWAY, but Audible contributes to the confusion. For example, the chapter I am in is Chapter 34 (Bran 3), p 521 UK Paperback [...]. In this Audible book, it is Part 3, Chapter 11. I read alternately the paper book, Kindle book, and Audible book, trying to keep them in sync. Thank you, awoiaf.westeros.org, for your index.Giving this Audible book only three stars. Underwhelmed.
3 This book totally left the reader hanging. I hope another follows and that it is better. The first four books were so engrossing, this one was quite disappointing!
1 How could Martin's editors have let this go into print?  Was he to be paid no matter what drivel he put out.  Warning to anyone who hasn't read this yet - Go back and read the end of Feast and consider that the 'cliff hanger' end of Martin's career.  Martin put absolutely no thought into this story line (if you can even call it that).  There simply is no story.  I expected more from a person with such a loyal fan base.  It just goes to show you that some people simply don't care about their customers - so our only recourse is to give up on his future writings.  We have all been had...
4 This entire series kept my attention...and I was sorry it finished.But...the author left an opening for the seriesto continue...and I hope it does. Well written and interesting.
5 George RR Martin does it again. Great book with a fast moving plot. Characters all had significant growth. As with all Martin books some more central characters died. Great read, highly recommended.
5 If you are like me and love the Song of Ice and Fire series you just have to get this and keep reading. The 4th novel  ( A Feast for Crows) was probably my least favorite in the series, mostly because the majority of my favorite characters were not in it and because so much happened in the 3rd book that the 4th just seemed slightly boring. George R. R. Martin delivers with A dance with Dragons though. So much happens in this book and some questions are starting to be answered. This is a must read for fantasy lovers and fans of the series. Please feel free to comment with any questions or theories about the series.
2 After making it to the end of book 5, I refuse to waste another dollar or minute of my time on this meandering miasma of meaninglessness.Book 1 was of course a pretty good read. By books 2 and 3, I started reading just one sentence per page in some chapters to get through the endless and excessive descriptions. By books 4 and 5, in many chapters I was reading perhaps one sentence every five or ten pages because the story literally moves that slowly.I really don't know what GRRM hoped to accomplish with the awful books 4 and 5. As countless other reviewers have pointed out, despite their 1,700 pages of text, pretty much nothing happens except that a character or two that might have been developed in some meaningful way was killed off.There is so much that could have been done but wasn't. Sansa and Tyrion could actually have learned something from each other, and their marriage might have developed with a little time. Arya was on a roll for the first three books then hit the tar pits of books 4 and 5. And Jon ... what a waste.My biggest gripe is GRRM's proclivity for doing lengthy character developments, then abruptly killing the character. I found almost as bad his undeviating use of cliffhanger chapter endings. Obviously, it is a pretty standard practice in popular entertainment novels, but he manages to make the trite device excruciatingly painful time after time by waiting five or ten chapters, or even an entire book, to again pick up the story for that character.In short, GRRM has squandered in countless ways what could have been an exciting three or four books.  Instead, he supersized it, filled it with bloat, and destroyed nearly all forward momentum with hundreds and hundreds of pages of meaningless writing.So I'm done. I refuse to read any more.
1 I say that because this book is just Feast of Crows the Second. It's very clear that this author has no interest in writing this series any longer; the plot fumbles for about 100 pages and then I gave up altogether. I do not know if this was ghost written, but it certainly shows that the author will just keep reusing plots for money. Shame on me for buying it without having first read the sample.
2 Before this book, I really loved Game of Thrones.... Why are we still adding more characters????  GRRM seems like he's losing momentum, killing off characters we love and adding ones that don't add to the story line.  Is he writing for the readers or for HBO.
4 The latest installment of the Ice and Fire series is as good as the rest.Running in the same time frame as the third book(s) it tells of the rest of the characters (Tyrion, Jon, Bran etc)Can't wait for the next episode of the series.
3 This book was too long. Books 4 and 5 share the same timeline, and are a poor way to follow the amazing book 3.... but if you're into the series, you might as well skim through it.
3 I love this series, but at book 5 I am thinking:  get on with it, already.  Seems the MAIN plot should move along by now.  The dragon lady seems to be taking her time getting to the castle, don't you think?
3 I read the first 4 books, but have been listening to this audiobook. I love this series by George RR Martin, but the reader of the audiobooks leaves much to be desired. Especially annoying is the high nasal voice he gives to all the female characters, so that they all sound like illiterate crones. And why did he choose such an odd accent for Tyrion? In places the reader slurs the names of people and places, leaving the listener confused as to who or what is being referred to. Very disappointing.
1 I've spent 5 months reading these books. Each book after the first becomes slow and tedious then bursts into fireworks. The big show in the last two books have not been worth it. We are introduced to too many minor characters and the characters we've come to know simply disappear, Sam for example. These books have become very unsatisfying. I don't think Martin has a clue as to how he's going to end this so he's endlessly dragging it out.
3 For starters, I wasn't one of the fans who waited six years for this book. I got into A Song of Ice and Fire (aSoIaF) in 2009 and read every book that year. I would say I didn't let the hype and anticipation get to me especially when A Feast For Crow (AFFC), in my opinion, was the weakest entry into the series. It was still good but the limited focus on the Lannister Twins and a slew of unimportant characters shrunk the world of aSoIaF and made the story feel more like a campy soap opera set in the middle ages. The cast of characters got too big and too spread out so it would seem Martin choose a divide and conquer style by devoting many chapters on a few characters as oppose to before when he would advance the plots of many characters all at once because they were clustered to gather in a handful of settings. I expect this trend to continue in the next book until all or most of the players are consolidated on Westeros. I don't have a qualm with this approach as long the characters are doing things that advances the story and that's just one of the problems with A Dance with Dragons (aDwD)The stars in aDwD are Jon Snow, Daenerys Targaryen (Dany), Tyrion Lannister and a few others I won't spoil. Martin knows readers were curious about them  were more than upset when such character favorites didn't make it in AFFC--read the post script by the author. Martin delivers on the sheer amount of devoted on Jon, Dany, and Tyrion at 14,10, and 12 chapters respectively. Fans rejoice, right? Not quite so. Let's consider Jon and Dany first then Tyrion.While Jon's chapter is not as thrilling as it was when wildings and wrights were crashing down on the Night Watch, it is still entertaining nonetheless as Jon tries his best to adjust to the leadership role thrust upon as Lord Commander. Jon's chapter are supposed to parallel Dany's chapter as they are two young people from great virtually extinct houses trying to lead a people. Comparisons end there for where Jon stumbles Dany flounders.To put it bluntly Dany's chapters are boring. It's almost like reading the same chapter 3 or 4 times. The Yunkish slavers test Dany, her council quarrel with each other on the best way to handle the Sons of the Harpy and the wise masters. Some advise brute force, other advise compromise if not outright submission. Dany chooses the less confrontational approach like taking hostages and hope for the best. The plan fails and we start again. She is provided with an "out" twice, that is leave Meereen for good and head to Westeros, she turns down both offers opting for the honorable route and fix the mess she's caused except she doesn't fix anything and her final recourse was a giant step backward in terms of her beliefs and efforts. Oddly enough, it is not until she is forcibly remove from Meereen that her subplot actually goes somewhere but that's towards the end of the book.Last we have Tyrion. While Jon and Dany have always been uncertain about things, Tyrion as always been a man of action, save a few incidents done in the heat of passion, Tyrion is a man of good sense too. Tyrion's chapter are somewhat of a chore to read. In other books he may pine after Tysha from time to time and have fits of self pity and self loathing, in aDwD it's all the time. He too gets sweep up in the plot restore House Targaryen and finds his way to Meereen to meet the Dragon Queen (Dany). His subplot gets derailed as soon as he gets within Meereen's borders. He looses a sense of himself and becomes complacent with being slave entertainment. He returns to his old schemes when he plans and exit strategy out Meereen. Meereen or what some fans call the Meereenese knot is just terrible for it seems to suck the life out of every character and bring plot advancement to a standstill. ADWD would have been a whole deal better if the chapters about the slave cities were shorter.Despite some of the misgivings I have about the main characters aDwD is a good read.Structurally it could do with some clean up with the syntax and horrid repetition in some parts. Some characters with lesser chapters were goog--the character arc for one of them was phenomenal. There is a point of view (or maybe two depending on taste) that book could have easily did without. In the world of aSoIaF there are two phases: buildup and execution. To the dismay of many fans out there aDwD is a buildup book. It starts more new threads than resolves issues brought forth from the previous book. However, words are wind. Pick up a copy and judge for yourself.
3 After waiting 5 years for this book, I really expected better. It's 1000 pages long but spends much of its page count adrift on a sea of stories that could have been scrapped in favor delivering the book earlier (and shorter). The Meereen story is one I would have preferred to see resolved in 50 pages. So too the Stannis story.Instead, we got hundreds of pages of Mereen and Stannis, and only a few brief drives on the key stories: Bran, Arya, and Dany + dragons. Painful. What's worse, the Jon Snow story foundered, making us wait painfully through more hundreds of pages that could easily have been summarized in much less, without sacrificing any story integrity.All in all, I am disheartened. This book feels rushed (kinda weird, five years later) and I fear GRRM has lost the handle on the story.Here's hoping The Winds of Winter turns out better -- and quicker.
3 Characters come and go, and the only characters I still care about are the Starks, of many of whom there seems to be almost no word in the last two books. I thought the third book was starting to slow down, the fourth one was just a lot of padding, and the fifth one is trying to get started again. Better than the previous one, too many words that get nowhere, still an interesting read. Let's hope the next installment will come faster than the five years it took to get this one done.
4 It was so slow at the beginning and took a lot to push through but in the second half of the book it picks up and  the plot thickens . So stick with it, the ending is crazy .
5 of course this is yet another great book by a great author , this is book 5 of the series and if you have gotten this far you have to read this book.great read !
4 I've just started to read this and find it as good a read, so far as the previous 4 books.More great characters, locations and adventures.Looking forward to more about Arya, Brienne and Tyrion.
4 Much better written than Feast for Crows, and provides very interesting storylines for the events transpiring in the North and Essos.  Perhaps the greatest detractor was that the Daenerys seemed nearly impotent in her role, but we get a couple interesting point-of-views, including Victarion, Barristan Selmy, and Qynten Martel.
1 Everyone else has already said it and much better than I could ever write.  I've never been so disappointed in a book/series as George RR Martin's. So many strong characters have been lost along with their stories.  What a mess.  I hope HBO can improve upon these books and give us a successful and satisfactory conclusion.
5 From reading the reviews, I would guess that some people here would hate Ipad3 just as much no matter how good it is. I love it just as much as the rest of the books. Stop with the bitterness!
1 It reads like one of the weakest books in the WoT series.  So much useless detail that does not move the plot forward.  Remember when you had a paper that was due in two weeks and you tried and tried to write something and couldn't come up with anything.  But you put in enough filler that if changed the spacing to 1.5 and picked a different font you would get your minimum 10 pages, 8 of which was just restating the question ?  Yeah that paper is pretty much this book.
2 I have read each installment of this series as it has come out.  This is the first one I have refused to finish.Aside from being unnecessarily verbose, the story is told from no less than a dozen points of view.  There is only enough time to start to get the rhythm of one character's narrative before the text abruptly jumps tracks to another character.  As a result the myriad perspective changes read as nearly frenetic, and the flow of the story is quite disjointed.  This is more a collection of vignettes than a novel.  It almost gives the feeling that Mr. Martin has begun writing specifically for the purpose of an easy conversion to screenplay.
3 After a long delay, I expected much and more, to steal one of Martin's favorite phrases, than I got from the first A Song of Fire and Ice book in over five years. But what I got was like mother's milk, (another favorite,) for those of us who longed for a return to a world we loved and characters that we missed.Longsuffering fans of the series (and I count myself among them,) have been reading this series since the first book A Game of Thrones was published in 1996. The most recent book prior to this one, A Feast for Crows, was published in 2005 and that novel is actually only half of A Dance with Dragons. But not the normal half, where the first portion chronologically is separated into part one and then the second half, or what happens next, is put into part two. A Dance with Dragons is actually like Martin took a loaf of bread and sliced it long-ways, making the whole story only coherent when you shuffle A Dance with Dragons together with A Feast for Crows like a deck of cards. The last full book, meaning all the characters working through a continuous timeline, was published in 2000. That means that for the last 11 years, fans of this series have been waiting for updates on some of these characters. It was not worth the wait.For the last 11 years we've wondered what happened to Daenerys Targaryen, Jon Snow, and others and the answers given in this book were less than satisfactory. In fact, it had been so long, that I had to be reminded who some of these characters were for the story to make sense (and in fact, the excellent HBO production of A Game of Thrones was instrumental in helping me remember.) I see no way that this series can possibly conclude in only two more books because almost nothing happens! How can we read nearly 1000 pages and there be so little movement?Martin has been called the American version of J.R.R. Tolkein. That is most certainly not true! Not just because of the timeliness issues, but rather the fact that there is nearly complete moral ambiguity in these novels. At no time are readers clear about who is right or wrong, who is evil or good, and there is no one to cheer for that actually survives any given book. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings had no such issue. Tolkien made it very clear who were on the side of good and who weren't. He also made clear that individual choices had consequences and actions like courage, loyalty and truth were to be encouraged and greed, lust and dishonesty were to be discouraged. Martin conveys no clear moral compass. And this is a looming failure for this series: will we even care who wins the Iron Throne in the end?The books may seem more like a very, very short ride after a long, long line at an amusement park, but those of us who made the mistake of reading the incredible first three books have no choice but to continue to wait for the series conclusion, frustrated, but hopeful.Roy Dotrice, was a complete failure in the unabridged audiobook version, which is what this review is based upon. From the first chapter I wondered whether I would be able to stomach the gruff, growling voices that made nearly every character - male or female - sound like they were angry Irish dwarves. He was great for the narration, but the voices were a huge distraction. And it may be because the book was 959 pages long, but there were a multitude of uncorrected errors by Dotrice as he would read and realize a moment later that he was doing the wrong voice and switch. Most audiobooks get edited to fix these, so I assume the non-corrections are due to length. Finally, on the audiobook, Martin may not be a good candidate for audio regardless of reader because of his reliance on characters and inner-thought in his narrative, which makes it tough to tell when listening to a reader when the character is thinking and when they are actually speaking.For those of us who have been hooked for years, we had no choice but to devour hungrily - like men starved - this book. But for those of you have not yet started this ride, hold off until or even if Martin finishes this series. Instead look to authors like Brandon Sanderson for excellent fantasy books that actually progress and series that actually end.Review originally published at BookGateway. This book was provided by the publisher as a review copy.
3 I started reading the books last summer, and was quickly hooked.  Im glad I didn't have to wait six years for this one like some people did. Now that I read it, I understand why many were disappointed.  Its rather a bloated book. For one thing there is way too much description of family shields, clothing worn, and Westeros history - descriptions that if you read the previous four books, you already know for the most part. Way too much time was spent describing the various difficulties in traveling; yes, we get it, people get seasick a lot. Is it necessary to describe it each time it happens? The sections that take place off Westeros included way too many characters to keep track of. I found myself bored often and skimmed most of these sections (tho the part where Dany finally gets to fly was breathtaking). I also had trouble with the timeline - just how much time has passed here, and just how old are some of these leaders? Are Dany and Jon really only 15 or so? No wonder things are so screwed up.  I did enjoy reading about Bran and Arya, but then they were sort of dropped and never heard of again. I loved that Cersei finally gets whats been coming to her for a long time, and loved Tyrion, as always. But he sorely needed an editor in this book, more so than any of his other books in the series. If it had been tighter narrative, this easily could have been a 4 star.That all being said - this was another page turner.  I was hooked from the beginning, and while there were some sections I skimmed through, the story certainly kept my attention.  As usual, he is a genius in characer development, and in showing the different facets of each character.  I also appreciated  of the new maps, but I wished he had made a character list in abc order, instead of by families, for easy reference.  Hoping the next book happens soon, with tying up
5 Absolutely love this series! Can't wait for the author to finish the rest and have a resolution to this awesome story. Will be sad once it finally does end tho
4 Not as bracing as the previous 4. I enjoyed it enormously but the edge was just off. There is I hope another book. No5 does not appear to be the end.
5 Love the series of the book, have read them all, a little long in some spots, but otherwise a really good read
5 I LOVE this series. I wish I wouldn't have read it so fast! The TV show is great too, but the books are so much better!
3 If you've enjoyed the first four books you'll likely enjoy this one. I agree with some folks that there seemed to be a lot of stuff simply not happening. I really didn't like the way things ended up with Jon. I think it took far too long to develop Dany. And I'm still scratching my head wondering what the hell purpose does Stannis serve? Seriously, either have him do something or don't waste so many chapters on him.It's not all bad though and the book is entertaining. It's not unusual for the books in the middle of a series to become a little stale as the author tries to tie everything together and setup the ending. All the same I'm looking forward to the next book.
4 By far the darkest in the series... but like everyone else I am living for book 6. Martin makes images that live in your mind for a long time.... this book is no exception.
5 i have read all fo the got books thanks to this product. the dictionary is fabulous. i recomm to all
5 Same GRRM while things are stretching out a bit the story is still the same great story that you have come to expect.
3 I wanted to love this book, I really did.  I've waited 6 years, and I reread all four previous books (even AFFC) in preparation.  I need not have bothered.  This book was disjointed and disappointing. It started as early as the prologue, which has absolutely no link to the rest of the book, right down to the epilogue, which for some reason introduced a new point of view, if not a new character.  The rest, with the exception of a few very interesting developments, felt like filler.Daenerys, who has always been one of my favourite characters, has no development whatsoever.Jon has great development, until he does something so totally against everything else he's done in the rest of the book that it boggles the mind.Bran is as dull as ever.Cersei and Jaime both have chapters that should, IMHO, have been left on the editing floor.And on, and on, and...At this point, I can't see where the story is going and I'm not sure GRRM does either.  I hope he's not writing for the TV series as many have suggested, but frankly the gratuitous swearing and sex, in a series that has never resorted to that in the past, kind of feels like he is.I only hope the next installment is the last, and that it does not take another 6 years to complete.
3 This book had enough bad reviews so what could one more hurt.  It was so messed up. It was mostly a rehash of the last book!!! What a rip off.  Time had no flow to it at all so how are we suppose to keep caring about any of the characters? REALLY!!!!!
4 I just finished A Dance With Dragons, and I just finished reading some of the scathing reviews.  Did these people read the same book I did?  Sure, it isn't as incredible as the first three books in the series, but it was better than A Feast For Crows (which actually gets better after a second read), and head and shoulders above any other fantasy novel produced in the last few years.  I don't understand the critics who say the book doesn't go anywhere.  It goes everywhere!  The action and storylines move along at a nice pace, and there are plenty of cliffhangers to keep readers wanting more.  The only parts of the novel that I got a bit tired of were the Daenerys chapters, set in Meereen.  It's time to start herding all the main characters towards Westeros.  And that's exactly what I think will be happening in The Winds of Winter.  Let's just hope we don't have to wait another 6 years.
5 I had the luck to be able to read all 5 books in a row. When the author establishes that any of his major characters can be killed at any time makes for thrilling reading. The story is so good you find yourself immersed.
3 Too many threads to follow. And I did not like what happened to several key players. But I did finish the book, could not walk away from it.
5 A Dance with Dragons is the fifth novel in the Song of Ice and Fire series and probably the most eagerly-awaited epic fantasy novels in the recent history of the genre. It may be six years since A Feast for Crows was published, but it's eleven since A Storm of Swords came out and the last time we saw new material from Jon Snow, Daenerys Targaryen or Tyrion Lannister, the arguable central triptych of characters around whom the whole series rotates. The risk is high that Martin would deliver a novel that fails to meet expectations.Fortunately, he succeeds in giving ASoIaF fans a book that is almost everything its predecessor wasn't. Whilst Crows was tightly-focused and constrained in geographic setting, Dragons is huge, epic and sprawling. The novel covers events happening almost five thousand miles apart from one another, with a huge cast of characters, old and new. Where there are new characters, they are there to serve specific plot points and get the storyline really moving along, whilst some major existing characters are simply not featured where they have nothing to contribute to the storyline. Martin employs a fairly strict POV structure this time around: Dany, Jon and Tyrion (and, to a lesser extent, another character) get a significant number of chapters each but everyone else only gets a few. Once their work for the novel is done, they're outta there, and other POVs only show up when needed. This gives the novel a busy, revolving-door feeling at times as characters come in, do what needs to be done, and then get out, and gives some individual storylines and chapters a rather concise, focused feel, despite this being a huge, long book. Certainly with these 'lesser' POVs, there's little to no time for filler, though with some of the bigger POVs there are moments when Martin dwells on a story point a bit too long or delivers bit of background information which, whilst intriguing, doesn't really contribute much to the storyline at hand.It's a busy book with lots happening, possibly more than any other book in the series bar only A Storm of Swords. It's also the most disparate, and the geographic sprawl would make it easy for Martin to lose control of either the timeline or the plot focus. He doesn't do either, and by the end of the novel the timelines have been pretty much re-synched (with plenty of AFFC characters reappearing in the final few chapters to keep everything moving). Thematically, the book is much concerned with the notion of deeds, not words (the term "Words are wind," is oft-repeated, probably a little bit too much) and the notion that you can only know people by what they do, not what they say. Disease and pestilence also play a role, whilst for the military engagements Martin expands his influences to include Napoleon's ill-fated march into Russia. These scenes are vivid enough to make you feel chilly even if you're reading the book on the beach.This series is known for its plot twists, sudden shocks and major character deaths, and Martin doesn't stint here. Some twists are genuinely shocking (though a couple have some carefully-built-in get-out clauses), on the level of the Red Wedding or higher, though others are a bit more predictable, with the author having taken care to lay some groundwork in earlier novels. Other elements come out of nowhere: the resolution of a key, major backstory mystery from the very first novel (probably not the one you're thinking of) is unexpected in both happening with two books still to go, and also in the amount of detail it gives. Another twist is bravely pulled off with almost solely the use of new characters and actually works, throwing almost all of the carefully-constructed fan theories out there for a loop.Characterisation is particularly strong, and Martin seems to relish some descriptive passages. A detailed account of the Doom of Valyria - quite a few books overdue - is spine-crawling and disturbing, whilst another one of Martin's trademark huge feasts may feel over-familiar right up until you realise what's really going on, at which point a belly laugh is the only possible response.A Dance with Dragons is a bleak book. Winter has fallen in all its fury and it really doesn't seem possible for the war-ravaged Seven Kingdoms to survive, with no harvest taken in and little to no supplies put to one side. Some characters are trapped in nightmarish situations whilst others have to be careful with every decision they make lest they trigger chaos and bloodshed. But there are moments of lightness, and the feeling that in the darkness there is still hope for these people and their world.Towards the end, A Dance with Dragons picks up an irresistible momentum which brings us towards what looks like the biggest convergence in the series to date. But, in a misstep that could have been fatal if not handled better, we never quite get to that climax, which seems to have been mostly delayed to the start of The Winds of Winter. Instead Martin breaks off the book on a series of cliffhangers that dwarf anything seen previously, and only a few story threads find any sense of resolution. But we then get a couple of concluding chapters featuring some of the most pivotal and startling moments in the series to date, and the real sense that whatever readers think A Song of Ice and Fire is about, or how it will end, Martin is not necessarily interested in doing the same thing. The ending is impressive, despite the cliffhangers, but brings in a little note of bitter sweetness: waiting a year for The Winds of Winter would be hard enough, but the fact that we know we'll probably have a lot longer is frustrating.A Dance with Dragons (****) solves a lot of the problems experienced in the previous book in the series and brings renewed energy and focus to getting this story towards the endgame. A series of cliffhangers, some over-used terms (though "Nuncle," only gets one airing, thankfully) and a feeling that Martin might be revisiting some plot elements a little too freely dent the book's achievements, but a series of emotionally intense and surprising final chapters restore the faith that Martin has regained control of the story.I am a moderator on the Westeros.org website, the creator and chief admin of the Game of Thrones Wiki and someone who is mentioned in the acknowledgements of the book. Whilst I have tried to have been as honest as possible in my review, you may want to bear those factors in mind.
4 Lots of action after the moderate pace & action of Feast For Crows. I was tempted to read both books simultaneously, but opted for the original order. Now I join the hordes of readers playing the waiting game for the next book.
2 The first three books were page turners and I enjoyed most of the fourth installment.  Unfortunately, ADWD is somewhat of a bore.  The details and numerous characters are fine, but the story is told from too many perspectives which waters down the storytelling.  Early in the series, the original characters were so well-crafted, so real that they really became alive and got under my skin.  By this fifth book, it seems more like an accounting of everything rather than a story.  Nothing really happens.  I can honestly say, it wouldn't have taken away much to simply read a synopsis and skip this book altogether.  Martin needs to consider how frustrating this is to those who've read and enjoyed the first books since who else would buy the fifth?
3 I began to get a little weary by book four.  But the twists and cliff hangers in this revived me!
5 It is a very good book. I can't wait for the next book. It will be interesting to see where Martin goes with the sixth and seventh book.
5 This is the greatest series I have ever read. And the show is just as amazing. I cannot wait until he releases the next book! Fantastic, gripping, couldn't put any of them down.
5 While I am enjoying the story  that GRRM has come up with, I just have to ask, does this story ever end?
2 "Words are wind" is a phrase from all of the series books so far, and one Mr. Martin should take to heart. I thought Dickens was prolix, but at least he was paid by the word.  This book and the last are bloated to the point of absurdity, and there are now so many characters (or perhaps I should say place holders, since damn few of them have any character)that it is hard to keep everybody straight.I do think it's possible to sell a series of this type without the misogyny, sadism, homophobia, and various names for genitalia that would make a 12 year old snicker at their over use.  Their absence, along with the loss of most of the "pithy sayings," would also shorten these tomes by about a fourth.  There has been almost no discernable forward movement of the story in these last two books, and a lack of focus on the principles who are the only 3 dimensional characters.  A Prince shows up and dies, but we feel nothing because we neither know nor care about him.  I suspect Tyrion will supply Peter Dinkledge with a rich character for several seasons to come, but he, and the other characters I really care about, for the most part, I got invested in in the first book, and I see too damn little of them here.  I want to know more about Ned's surviving family, Jaime, the missing direwolf, Robert's bastard, Brienne, etc., without these bloody ciphers getting in the way.George Lucas should make the big screen version--he doesn't know how to write three dimensional characters either.
3 As Brad Pitt might exclaim, "Is this what you've been waiting for?" Well, is it? No, not really. I have thoroughly come to enjoy the Song of Ice and Fire series, but this book follows the trend of the last novel in its inclusion of superfluous narratives and wandering plot lines. I really love some of this book, but I don't love enough of it to justify the parts I feel are wholly unnecessary. When I pick up a book this size and commit many hours of personal time to turn its pages, I want the parts to add up to a cohesive whole. This book, alas, is not as cohesive as the first three novels that got me here. We have two more shots, let's hope two years from now when the next book comes out we will have something to really talk about. And by the way, Winter has been coming for a hell of a long time, when will it finally get here?
5 After book 4 I thought about not continuing to read this series. Glad I did. Good continuation of the series. Hope it wins the Hugo award for best 2011 novel.
3 I read the five books in this series because family members were raving about it. Book Five is much better than Book Four, but overall the amount of killing, maiming, deceiving, etc. is too much and, frankly, it is becoming boring. The Enders series is much better, if you're looking for good fantasy. And, of course, the Harry Potter series is the best!
5 This is a great read. The book is as exciting as the earlier books in the series. Once opening it, you will never be able to put it down.
5 How much longer must we anguish until #6 is out :(Phenomenal reading! As soon as you finish the fifth book, you want to start the first again.Such dense, very wow.
4 love this series and can't wait for the next installment. The only issue I take with this one (and Feast Of Crows) is how open ended it is. I would have liked some closure, some climax that hinted at direction, but I will wait without satisfaction until the next volume.
4 So of the 5 books currently in the Song of Ice and Fire series, this one was my least favorite. This book takes place at the same time as book 4 (A Feast For Crows). While Feast for Crows focused mainly on events in Westeros, this book was supposed to focus on Daenerys in Essos and those north of the wall. Yet Bran only gets 3 chapters? Bran hasn't had a very interesting storyline (at least compared to some of the other POVs) but the 3rd Bran chapter here gets interesting and leaves you with many questions that won't get answered until Winds of Winter (which George RR Martin prob won't release until 2015).The Daenerys chapters seemed stagnant to me once she stopped traveling around and it drove me nuts trying to keep track of characters with crazy names like Hizdahr zo Loraq, Reznak mo Reznak, and Skahaz mo Kandaq. The most interesting chapters taking place in Essos weren't even Daenerys chapters, but chapters of those converging on Mereen.I don't want to sound too critical because this is still a very good book. And the worst of ASOIAF is still better than most fantasy books out there. I'm just a harsh judge and I have to rate this book in relation to the other 4 books of the series. That being said I loved the events that went down in Winterfell and the Erie. I liked finally seeing dragons in action. You can see the growth in characters like Sansa and Arya, and the decline of characters like Cersei. And with all the major gut wrenching or crazy events of the previous books (Beheading of Ned, Red Wedding, Joffreys Wedding, etc) I was floored with the &#34;gut wrenching event&#34; in this book. This one hit me harder than all the others. No spoilers though, gotta read it to find out!
5 I have to tell on myself.  I didn't realize that George R.R. Martin had planned a longer series that 5 books.  When I started A Song of Ice and Fire, I was looking forward to a conclusion and all the various story lines finally coming together and answering my questions.  About half-way through I started thinking, there is no way there can be a satisfactory conclusion in the number of pages left.  Then, I went to Google and found out there was more to come!Martin has woven together many strands of color into an entertaining tapestry of an epic tale.  I truly do not understand how he does this so successfully.I have enjoyed this entire series.  It really helped that I had seen most of the HBO shows.  Gave me good mental images of the major players.  Doesn't mean I didn't sometimes get confused but the Family Lines/Information at the end of each book really help.
1 This series will never end. The first book was was a good read but I think a monkey wrote the last couple. You don't even need to read every chapter - he'll repeat it all in some other chapter anyway.
3 This was a gift to my son.  He is reading the series and needed this book.  He like the book.  Delivery was quick.
4 Well, I am well and truly caught up with the story arc so far, and that is satisfying. There is much and more to like here. But on the little and less side, I have some quibbles. I have been willing to put up with the lists of names, shield devices, and sigils I will never remember and the detailing of even the smallest of small clothes in the service of "being there." But I can't help but be disappointed in the failure to give previously detailed characters the smallest of progression, relegating them to the chronic cliche of their theme song (I'm looking at you, Princess Shireen and Patches, oh, oh, oh). People with interesting back story and condition who should have had at least one further part to play to justify their existence. And one newish character with whom we spend a lot of time and learn to care about to some extent, only to have that time seem pointless in the end. But oh, yeah, if I am still above the grass when volume 6 comes out, I'll be right there in line.Kudos on the other reviews that point out other unsatisfying aspects.
2 5 Years for this pile of c%$p? - Come on George, we expect so much more from youWhere do I start?The book is too LongThere are too many new characters that quite frankly, you simply don't care about (Seriously, if I liked Steven Erikson.....I would read Steven Erickson)All of the Houses and Lineage - I can't keep track of all that.......The story hardly progressesJon Snow - WTF!The only chapters worth reading are for Reek/Theon(Sigh)
5 Read all of the books in a few weeks. Right before the third season started our friend loaned us the first two seasons on DVD. I was hooked. Can't wait for the next book to come out.
4 If you've read the 4th book, you know the first half of this one.  Because of the way he wrote the 4th and 5th books it becomes a recap of events that have already happened to the half of the people in the 4th book.  However, being a fan of the Dragon Queen, you do get much more in depth with her tale. Which makes all worth while
2 Non spoiler general review:I was taught in writing classes that there are 3 elements to any story; the character(s), the plot, and the place. In a short story, you can get away with sacrificing one of the 3, as you don't have time to flesh them all out. That's fine for a short story, but doesn't work in a 900+ page novel, let alone a series. But that's exactly what this book feels like, a criticism I see echoed in other reviews here. This is just a collection of short stories without a binding theme to hold them all together.Song of Ice and Fire has great characters, a lovely world, good writing....and no plot. There isn't even a main character. (Ask three people and you'll get three answers as to who the book is about) The writer's forward states this book is supposed to be taking place simultaneously with the events in A Feast for Crows, but that's just a poor excuse for re-hashing the same crap with no direction. He fills in the gaps with tedious descriptions of women's breasts (the last book it was women's genitals, so I suppose that's an improvement), and casual but pointless violence. 1000 pages, and I think it covered about 24 hours worth of time. At the rate he's going, the HBO series (which is FAR better than the books) will have caught up to him and be delayed while he screws around inventing more minor characters while leaving the main players to hand out in limbo.Spoilers below:Sansa and Littlefinger do not appear anywhere. Bran has two chapters, and now he's a tree. Scratch another Stark off the list. Rickon is awol from the last book and this one. Who knows, are we even caring any longer? Cersei gets two lame chapters, and has been completely destroyed as a believable antagonist. Come to think of it, all the women suffer about 50 points of lost IQ, but at least I know what all their cup sizes and the colors of their nipples are. Jon, previously a candidate for main character, gets stabbed 4 times at the end of the book - IRL or a decent book he'd be a goner, but since Martin magically brought another Targaryen back to life as well as inventing a new subplot involving Varys, I'm not counting him out yet. Arya gets a measly 2-3 chapters. The rest of the book? New minor characters. Like 15 new characters.Do NOT waste your money on this garbage. Check it out from a library like I did.
3 Bought for a gift. Have no idea what it is all about. Don't think it would be my cup of tea as reading material but others must really enjoy it, as I was asked for Book 5 in the series.
1 I don't believe the story will ever be finished and I don't believe any additional books will recapture what made the series so addictive in Books 1 - 3.I sincerely hope that HBO cuts ties with the book after season 3 the way they did with the Sookie Stackhouse books OR that Martin gives up all together and lets talented ghost writers take the wheel.I'm kind of glad that the next book probably won't be out for six years because it will probably take that long for me to get over my bitterness over the weeks I wasted reading Books 4 and 5.
4 Loved the series overall but this book seem to be different. It was dark and brutal almost all the way through unlike the others books which had more lighter everyday parts.
5 I'm a HUGE fan of this series and have loved racing through all the intrigue and excitement of life in Martin's worlds.  This book seemed much shorter than some others; so I was disappointed to be finished so quickly!  I love the story line with all its upsets and victories, its characters and their foibles and strengths, and the way villains sometimes become my heroes! I am eagerly, if a bit impatiently, awaiting the next installment!
2 Were this book written by anyone but GRRM, it would be laughed out of the publisher's office. It has no real plot development. There is no build up of story. No climax. Characters and story arcs are still being introduced in the final chapters... It's just a "whole lot of nothing" interrupted by main characters dying every now and then for no discernible reason other than GRRM doesn't know what to do with them anymore.
5 Dreaded the end of the book...since it will be like forever for the next one to come out....but awesome, just like the ones before. The man has an incredible imagination. One of my all time favorite.
2 . . . with everyone who expressed frustration with too many characters and plotlines.  While I have enjoyed the overall plotline/paradigm/tableau/whatever you want to call it, the buffet of storylines started really getting out of control in the fourth book.  Ironically Martin somewhat addresses this at the end by assuring all will be made clear in DWD.  It didn't take 100 pages to decide that wasn't the case. Hopelessly lost and frustrated, I just "went with it", no doubt missing a whole lot because constantly combing through the "glossary" at the end of the book every three pages was tedious in the extreme.  Bigger is not always better.
5 I love all of these books that I have read so far!  I was borrowing the paperbacks from my friend, but I got this on my kindle for less than $3!  Amazing deal!
5 Mr. Martin, we need another book!!
5 This book series is great and GRRM is a fantastic author.  I really enjoyed this read as long as all his other books.  I just hope that the next book doesn't take 5 years to come out.
2 There's not a whole lot that can be added to Macaroni's excellent review here:http://www.amazon.com/review/RQMHSVDEC80QEIn sum (without the spoilers): a whole lot of wordiness happens, but not a lot of actual *happening* happens.  There are also several instances where a character has one or two POV chapters, ending in a cliffhanger - and then never reappears for the rest of the book.  And like all books in the series, it ends at a more or less random point, without anything being resolved or even any particular cliffhangers for the overall plot.  Tremendously unsatisfying.
5 If you are looking to read this, you've already read the first four.  So just get on with it!  And as usual, do not get too attached to characters.
1 Tyrion escapes across the sea, crosses an entire continent, discovers a long lost secret...and nothing happens.  Daenerys rules over Meereen, fends off eager suitors, discovers a deep-seated desire for sofa cushions...and nothing happens.  Jon commands the Nights Watch, defends the Seven Kingdoms from the cold, worries about groceries...and nothing happens.  Words ARE Wind and GRR Martin is full of it.
1 Spoiler alert....and descriptions of graphic bodily functions etc. I give it one star, as a grace...compared to his other books in this series. But as a stand alone book...it doesn't deserve one star at all. ZERO for me.We purchased this book because both my hubby and I enjoyed the series so far.  I personally did not like Book 4, however.It has taken me almost 4 months to finish this volume.  Why?  Because it is so God awfully MORBID!  GAD...one would need psychiatric counseling or antidepressants at least to enjoy this book. So I trudged along at about 20 pgs a night...put it aside...tried again and again. Hubby kept saying...stick with it... it gets "better". Well it doesn't.  Some chapters, actually seem like the older volumes. Then the slag begins again. Boring, endless new dead end characters, pus, gore, stink, monkeys throwing feces, vomiting, blood, burning, eyeballs exuding liquids (poor Prince Martell). Poor Dany... she is vomiting like the rest of them!I have reached my maximum ability to tolerate "realism" where Martin is concerned.  Does every page, every chapter have to have gruesome, endlessly detailed morbid descriptions of body functions, injuries, behaviors, murders?We purchased this book on Amazon...and sent it to our vacation destination. What a huge mistake. Don't read this book if you are looking to relax, or have a good time. It will drag you down, and poison your days and possibly your dreams.I can't see any of this book on movie or TV media.  How would it translate?  Good Grief!I do think RR Martin is a talented writer (from his earlier books). But this stuff?  NOPE....it is just sensationalism and depressing.
3 I absolutely love these books!  I have not come across anything like it!  It has everything you could want in a book with only a bit a dramatic emphasis lacking.  At times the author gets too caught up in details that do not matter, at least to me, and he starts to lose me for a bit.  However he usually grabs me back in quickly.  The last two have been riddled with way too much unnecessary info and not enough meat.  SPOILERS BELOW so DO NOT READ if you have NOT read or finished this book.....SPOILERS:POV/Characters - I love the story and the characters as a whole.  Character you just adore and ones you love to hate and then those you just aren't so sure of.  I enjoy how the author writes the chapters from different character's points of view but I don't care for the time in between them or the volume of characters .  Too many to keep track of and I start to forget where he last left off with them and this is with me reading the books back to back.  I can only imagine how it has been for those that have been on track with the releases.Plot - WOW!  I love the suspense of not really knowing what is coming next but the author should tread carefully with this or he will become too unpredictable by half.  He adds too much of stuff that does not matter and too little sometimes of stuff that does, at least to me.  I feel at times the drama is lacking with that "Moment" nowhere to be found - death of Ned Stark and how his family reacted, death of Robb & Catelyn and how each family member found out & reacted,  "death of Bran & Rickon....... I can't quite put my finger on it but for lack of better description I find the author lacking in emotions which I feel you need in order to keep attached to the story.  I don't really need all the detail of guts & gore.  Having watched the TV show somewhat helps in the dramatic emphasis department.  For example, the Red Wedding was more dramatic on screen than how he wrote it.  This author is NOT lacking in the imagination department though and I love the mystical magical part of it!Deaths-ok as I stated, I love the unpredictability of this author and how you never know what is coming...HOWEVER, if Jon Snow is really dead then I believe he will have become predictable at that point.  Can someone other than the honorable Starks die off?!  Yes a few retched characters have met their demise but not enough in comparison to the "good guys".  Jon's death would be the worst thing the author could have happen.  Jon is such a wonderful character and he seems way too important to the storyline as a whole that it would be senseless to kill him off.  He is by far the best character in the entire series to date.  Longclaw would be useless?  The importance of the direwolves would really start to go away.  The mystery of who his mother/parents are would seem pointless.  The Author would lose a lot of credibility with me if he is actually dead.  To draw you into a character for so long, make him seem so important and then just kill him like that without finishing his story would be a big waste of the story.  But alas, I do not actually think he is dead.  He will remain one of the most important characters to the end.  I believe the title of the series, A Song of ICE and FIRE, is telling.Length of & between the books - Length of books-GREAT!  Keep the story coming! Length between releases-horrible!  I have just found this story and am now all caught up realizing that I might have to wait a few more years for the next book to come out... really?  This will be torture!BTW-for those of you theorizing that Jon Snow is the son of Lyanna Stark & Rhaegar -- I love it!  Jon Snow is KEY in this story!  And I LOVE the shows choice of actor to portray him! :)Ending - DID NOT LIKE the Jon part - especially since we have to wait so long to find out his true fate.  In general the ending with Danaerys, et all was anticlimactic.
4 I cant wait to read next book. You will want the next book as soon as your done with this one, this book is good tooThe Last Of The Rings.
5 First things first, there are no spoilers for the fifth book in this review, only spoilers from past books.I do understand why some are frustrated by this book; it took forever to reach the shelves, and once it did, it kind of dragged a bit and added a bunch of characters while slowly guiding us towards the finish in this series.Full disclosure, I didn't have to wait very long for this book. In fact, I didn't wait at all...I only picked up reading the series after seeing the show, so I had all five books at my disposal right from the start. Perhaps that's why I'm not at all disappointed in this book, I honestly think it's the second best one yet (Storm of Swords is almost universally considered to be the best, and it's hard to argue it).The cons: It does drag on at times, and I was always frustrated seeing new characters have chapters when I was only concerned with the main story lines, but...The pros: Far outweigh the cons, those new characters all play pivotal roles and only serve to make things more interesting. After all, you've got to do something to make up for all those characters who were killed off in previous books. Eventually, what we're left with towards the end is the convergence of a handful of different storylines all gaining steam to meet as one in the final two books.These books are all long, and you need to be willing to stick through the story. Most people who have read through the whole series twice realize they missed so many interesting things the first time. I don't have the energy to read through the whole series again any time soon, but I loved GRRM's style of writing, the plot and honestly, who doesn't love reading a book knowing ANYTHING can happen going forward?Simply put: If you're reading through the series for the first time, and you enjoyed the first four books, you're going to love this book.
3 SpoilersI agree with most of the complaints about the various storylines not moving forward, but the one that bugs me the most was around Stannis/Reek and Winterfell.  Stannis' army spends literally hundreds of pages trapped in the snow trying to get to Winterfell to battle Bolton (one of the nastiest characters in fantasy fiction).  Does Stannis ever get there, do they ever have it out?  Who knows, all we get is a cryptic letter from Bolton to Jon Snow to give us a clue which is almost certainly a head fake.  This is the big change in the series.  The earlier books all took their own sweet time but before the end, we had the big climatic battle and we actually got to see it.Still, Martin builds a fascinating world and his characters good and bad are almost all interesting.  (Though I was sad to see Martell fail as he was one of the few characters who was actually proceeding with some kind of specific plan and goal.)So, I'll probably keep reading the series (assuming I'm alive when the next book comes out) but it'll be more just to get to the end rather than out of high anticipation.
4 Not as good as SOS but much better than Clash of Kings. If I could I would rate this at 3.5 but only 4 is available. After the big letdown of a COK this is a bit of a return to old form. There is way too much time with Dany - who is sadly becoming a shadow of her former self - gone is the ascertive leader; she as been replaced by a moppy mothering indecisive lovestruck bore. But I was happy to see some movement in the Wall storyline and Arya storyline.
3 All the momentum that Ice & Fire had at the end of A Clash of Kings has now been sapped from the story. The characters are getting spread so far and thin that I am starting to lose interest. The plot has likewise become too large and thin. I was looking forward to this book moving the serious forward, but few questions are addressed, almost none are resolved, and more are given. Everything is pretty much the same as it was at the end of A Clash of Kings, with few major plot developments. When you figure that A Feast for Crows and A Dance With Dragons are essentially one book, its hard to believe that so little could get accomplished in over 1500 pages. The characters are already developed, and they development little more. No one is moving anywhere, to fight or do anything. Out of three thousand pages, there are perhaps a half dozen major developments, and even those are somewhat minor in the big picture. Basically GRRM's last 1500 pages in this series equate to approximately half a novel worth of plot and character development. The other 1100 pages or so is just the characters acting in their continually cliche manners(cliche mostly in that we have read hundreds of pages about them, and they are already plenty well-developed)while going from point A to point B.
4 Just when I thought that everything had been settled, the world has gone back to chaos again. I wonder how it will all end.
3 If you are an avid Game of Thrones fan and, having finished the last available book, are eagerly awaiting the next in the series, don't expect this book to be as satisfying in the interim.  Most of the short stories are good but there is simply too much unnecessary autobiographical fluff from the author about his childhood and his growth in the genre. George R.R. Martin's writing has grown much richer and deeper than any of these stories, although the sparks of creativity and genius are bright even in these earlier works.
5 exciting, enthralling, glorious, twists and turns.  Wonderful read I couldn't put it down.  I didn't want it to end. Love
3 ADWD was merely OK.  In my opinion, this book lacked focus.  There was plenty of ICE and very little fire and a lot of smoke.  There are nuggets in this volume that had me thinking Okay now we move forward...but alas more smoke.  The first half of this atrociously long book mirrored the last book...oh Martin actually explains that in "A Cavil on Chronology" about the dual nature of this tome.  Geography is the culprit...not haphazard plotting.That said, I still could not say that this book is awful...it provided some interesting meat to several questions about certain characters and total disassembles several others. Martin, destabilizes Dany.  She moves from strength (walked through fire) to meekness (the walls will protect Meereen).  He totally punks Jon Snow.  He moves from capable (Commander of the Wall) to discounting his own advice to himself repeatedly.  I did like how Martin delved into "Reeks" character--from a brash young hothead to a meek shell of a Ramsey fan boy who had occasional thoughts that would have required backbone.  The rest was, in my opinion, smoke and cliffhangers.  Cliffhangers only serve if we get to see who goes over the cliff in short order.  If WOW is as long and bloated as ADWD with page after page of...this is what we ate, and this is how the sea looked, or with more insipid phrases like "where do whores go?" or "you know nothing, Jon.." or "words are wind" I will not scream but skim most judiciously.I'm still interested enough to read the next installation (a copy from the library will do);  if it doesn't take 5 years to be published. Even three years in modern times is way too long for any author to complete a work in a series.In short...don't recommend this book to NASCAR fans...it's way to slooooooooooow and has no rhythm and is short on the music of great story telling--character or action driven plot.
5 When I first started reading the Game of Thrones series, I wasn't sure if I was going to set the book aside and go on to something more readable, but somehow I just couldn't put it aside. I have read the whole series and despite the struggle with the names and plots, I do find the series compelling. Guess I just have to stretch myself a little.
4 This is a great book as all the prior books have been. Love the story but it's getting a little blury with all the additional characters that are being added not to mention that this is still not the end of the saga. Just hope we don't have to wait 5 years for the next book and that it wil tie up all the ends and finish the story of all the original characters. I had to reread the first 4 books since I coudn't remember all the story.
4 This is a continuation of the &#34;Thrones saga&#34; and is a rich in detail as the rest. The number of characters is getting a bit daunting and hard to follow so I hope the future plots combine som of them
5 This is yet another wonderful book in the series. I was sad that this was the last one available at the moment. Awaiting the next thrilling adventure.
3 Just hoping that this picks up a little in the next book - the tricks are getting a bit old. Still, entertaining, which is the point. A little more graphic and violent than needed - bring back the politics!
4 Finally we're back to reading about characters that I care about.  The first couple books were great, but in a "Feast for Crows" nothing happened, and worst, nothing happened to characters I didn't like.  Now we're back to finding out about Bran; some more stuff about Arya (yay!); and best of all lots about Daenarys, Tyrion, and Jon. Thankfully there was nothing about Sansa nor Brienne (both of whom are nice, but both of whom are honestly kind of boring); and thankfully little about Cersei!!! Cersei is interestingly warped, but I can't read 300+ pages about her, and by the end of the previous book I wanted to scream.  Jaime isn't even interestingly warped (his back-story is complicated, but in practice he's just some dude who f***ed his sister), and I really wasn't interested in reading 300+ pages of HIM.The book is pretty slow, but that's fine.  Some of it I skimmed, especially when there were 20 odd page chunks of digressions about the family life, philosophy and genealogy of some character I'd never heard of and was unlikely to hear of again.  Let's be honest, about 25% of the the series is the plain and simple wankery of some guy geeking out on building the arcane details of some imaginary world that any sane editor would red-pen.  But the rest of it is great, and enjoyable.  This was a welcome addition to the series.  Finally.
3 The book is good, but its not as good as the others.  I think the book lacks a couple of things as compared with the first three books:1.  The book is more predictable than the others2.  There is not much suspense in the book to keep you turning the pages3.  The main story-lines do not progress as much as I figured they wouldHopefully GRRM will return to form with #6, and it won't take 5 years.  However, this book is still good but not great (like the others)
1 This book was an epic fail, a fantasy "Days of Our Lives" where the plot moves at a snail's pace and old familiar characters die off while new ones are introduced exponentially.I wonder if GRRRRM even knows where he is going with this book. This series has become akin to a movie that I heard was good, and started off good, but turned out to be bad, but I just keep watching either because I expect it to get better, or I have already invested so much time in it.I cannot understand why this would merit 5 stars from anyone other than those making money off of it. To me 5 stars makes it one of the all time best books I have ever read, one that I will reread again and again because it is so entertaining, one that I think fondly of, or causes me to think in new ways, or inspires me to change my life. How can this book be any of those things to anyone, even to the author?At most I would think it should get 3 stars, but that would only be due to it being part of a larger series. By itself it should get one star, if that.The only redeeming feature of the book is the cliffhanger at the end, but if that situation turns out bad (character dies) then my interest in this series as a whole will die along with him.
1 I hate you, George RR Martin. You are an evil, sadistic little man, aren't you?First I had to go through Feast for Crows without my favorite characters. I actually thought they were going to be right around the corner up until the last page when - surprise! I find out they were moved to the next book. Okay. "No problem," I said. "I'll wait, Georgey Porgey. But it better be good."But it wasn't. Oh, how it wasn't. (He made this girl cry.)There seems to be a huge misconception that this is actually reading material, judging by how the average rating isn't 1 star.How does someone start a series so magnificently and then deteriorate so magnificently quickly?The problem here is that NOT ENOUGH HAPPENS. Phrases are repeated until you want to smash your book or reading device with a hammer. Tyrion keeps "taking a piss."SPOILER ALERT? DOES IT MATTER? Tyrion spends the entire book just /traveling/ to where Daenerys is. At first you think, cool! Daenerys gets to meet Tyrion! But then you just forget that that was ever his destination. And Cersei? I think she got her comeuppance in this book, but really all I remember is where do whores go? You know nothing, Jon Snow. I'mma take a piss off the boat now.
5 Awesome! Happy to have finished this series or maybe not? Good series however and the way the book ends there will be more and soon I hope!
5 Have read the entire series....my only complaint is that I may have to read them all again before the final book comes out because it's taking so long!  As the sequels progress, more fantasy and characters are woven in.  Great characters, maybe a little too much detail on distant family lines sometimes, but still keeps me turning pages!
4 [No spoilers]Part 1: Half-way ThroughBefore purchasing this book, I'd read a lot of reviews that [among other things, see below, Part 2] stated how agonizingly s-l-o-w "A Dance with Dragons" (ADWD) was, and how folks felt cheated out of the thrills they were anticipating due to the deliberate pacing. Well, I'd really enjoyed the previous four books, so - following minimal internal debate - decided to give this one a chance.Scattered among the negative reviews are those wherein folks describe abandoning the book after a few score pages - some more, some less. About 100 pages in, I thought it'd be appropriate to post an "in progress" review, but am just now getting around to it. At this point, I'm 516 pages in, and am enjoying this book just fine. We'll see how the second half goes.It would be accurate to state that ADWD does not appear to be paced like a graphic novel or anything like one - if you want that kind of thing, you should pursue a graphic novel. It would also be accurate to say that the amount of detail GRRM layers his writing with creates a richer, more immersive reading experience (for me, anyway). He's obviously building up to something, and I'm still interested in seeing what that is. For me, though, the pleasure is in the journey as much as it is in what may be waiting at the end of it.There definitely are a lot of separate threads to keep track of, and I'm not sure how far any single plot-line can be advanced until the author starts weaving them together, as he's sure to do, eventually. In the meantime, I'm enjoying the trip. Also, if it's been a while since you read the previous books, you might want to read through them again (or at least the one immediately preceding ADWD) before embarking on No. 5.Bottom line is, half-way through and it's a reasonably satisfying read. Have I experienced any hair-yanking plot twists or cliffhangers that make me want to scratch out my own eyes? Not yet, and if there aren't any, so be it. It is what it is.Will update as appropriate. Enjoy.Part 2:  Completed (11/26/11)I finished ADWD last night, and thinking about it this morning, I feel comfortable with a four-star assessment (according to Amazon, 4 stars = "I like it," mid-way between "It's OK" and "I love it").  That is a totally subjective opinion, and has no bearing on those who loved the book or those that couldn't stand it.  I enjoyed it - it's as simple as that. Having read many reviews before purchasing this book, I'd like to respond to some of the more common critical themes I observed on the boards.I agree with many of the reviewers that, particularly compared with the first three books, there are not a whole lot of "Whoa!" moments in the first half of ADWD, though there are some significant developments in the second half.  Many have stated that they perceive the book to be slow, and I can understand why some would feel that way given the number of different character points-of-view in ADWD and the manner in which they shift, chapter by chapter.  Would I have enjoyed more focus on certain characters and less on others?  Absolutely - but please don't take that to mean that I was ever bored with what I was reading.  This book had the feel of a lengthy middle passage, sure enough, but one sailed under kindly skies.Another item that seems to be frequently mentioned is that the author spends an inordinate amount of time discussing food, clothing, and other mundane details.  GRRM does spend a few sentences here and there describing what people may be having for breakfast, or what they may be dining on at a feast, or what they may be wearing.  I don't recall any necessarily superfluous discussions of food or clothing, however - certainly nothing out of line with what's been described in the previous four books or in virtually every other book I've ever read, and occasionally just as interesting to read about.  If memory serves, more time was spent on "food" in Caleb Carr's Lazlo Kreitzer books (the private dinners at Delmonico's and the like), or in Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series (see "drowned baby," or "lobscouse").  There was one paragraph wherein GRRM described the heraldic devices on display at Castle Black, but it didn't seem to be an excessively long paragraph, by any measure - certainly in the context of a book nearly a thousand pages long.  Plus appendices.  Like anything else, though, these things are interpreted subjectively.The author has also been criticized for bringing no resolution to the tale as a whole and for ending ADWD itself with too many cliffhangers.  Given the number of years between books and GRRM's widely varied foci, reader anxiety is totally understandable, and I'd likely feel much more strongly about this issue if I'd started reading the series during the 90s instead of starting in 2009 - I've been able to go from books 1-5 (intermittently) w/out having to endlessly wait for the next installment.  In terms of ADWD, I did find that there was appreciable  development among most of the primary storylines in this installment.  Without giving anything away, it's safe to say that Tyrion, Jon, Theon, and Daenerys are in places very different from where they started ADDWD, though it's true that we have no way of knowing how, when, or if these storylines will resume.  Arya, Bran, Jaime, and Cersei also make appearances, though not as frequently as some might wish (frankly, I'd be thrilled with a whole book focused exclusively on Patchface, oh, oh, oh).  Quite a few readers have suggested that they won't continue with the series (or that those who have not yet started the series shouldn't do so) until it's definitively concluded, and that's a decision each reader will have to make.  I think everyone hopes it won't be too long of a wait until book six comes out.[A side note on "comments" about reader reviews:  I have noticed that there seems to be a LOT of disdain out there toward positive reviews (and reviewers) of this book - not simple disagreement - bitter disdain.  People are almost militant about why you MUST NOT enjoy this book.  I can't understand why people would choose to argue with someone about their totally subjective opinion of a book, and I've not observed this level of disparagement toward differing opinions outside the realm of political discourse.  I'd be interested in knowing what makes ADWD so different from other books in that regard.]I'll wrap-up by saying that I'd recommend ADWD to those who have enjoyed the previous books in the series, but they should read the reviews (with a critical eye) in order to know what one might expect out of the experience.  After all is said and done, though: it's a book, not a way of life.
3 I have long been a fan of the series, and Martin is a tremendous writer.  But MAN why does he inflict this dizzying cast of characters on us and himself.  By having so many characters you can only move each one forward a tiny bit per chapter, and the net result is a novel of parts too small that move too slow.  I would have much rather seen fewer characters achieve more.It seems like this series is stuck.
5 I have loved every book in this series, but I have to say that A Dance with Dragons is so much better than the previous book! Fantasy, action, adventure. It has it all! Villains getting their comeuppance, surprises, etc. I would recommend A Dance with Dragons to anyone who has been reading this series. For those of you who haven't been reading these books, what are you waiting for??
3 I'm about halfway through this book and I still have no idea where it's going. It seems to be a series of seemingly unrelated storylines that are moving inexorably (and painfully slowly) toward some grand conclusion but page after page of somewhat nebulous meandering and backstory can be exhausting.
1 ... I... Why GRRM? Why? I officially hate this series. Book one was fantastic. It was suspenseful, had good characters, great plot twists, a good (Though extremely flawed) world, and a good storyline. I didn't like book 2, I thought it was boring and drawn out, but it wasn't a bad book, I just didn't like it. Book three is amazing. It's one of the best fantasy books ever, and surpassed by few (Particularly Tolkien). Book four was a piece of garbage. I hate to admit it exists. But could book five be the next A Storm Of Swords? Well, it could've been, but it sure as hell isn't. I can't decide whether or not I hate A Feast For Crows, or A Dance With Dragons more. They are both awful books. I hate to see A Song Of Ice And Fire come to this. Books 1-3 are amazing. But now it's a drawn out, poorly written, piece of crap.
5 Book 5 continues the twists & turns & surprises of this series--keeping me enthralled & looking forward to the next (final?) one!
5 My only question is when is R.R. Martin going to put out his next book. A song of Fire and Ice (book 5) tied the series together for me.
1 I give up. I can't even finish reading this because it's just too painful to experience the disconnect from the previous books in the series. Nothing much seems to happen, characters argue and talk and eat and travel. When things do happen they don't really seem to make sense. Most chapters involving characters from the first three books just don't ring true in some way.I'm not completely convinced that GRRM actually wrote the majority of this book. It simply doesn't build on what has come before. Old characters spin their wheels while unnecessary new characters pop into existence. The only explanation I can think of is that this book was constructed and edited with future seasons of the TV series in mind.Dance With Dragons feels like it was ghost written by somebody who has no real emotional connection to the old characters. Classic TV plot devices like cliffhangers and reversed deaths are used with abandon. Shocking dramatic events often had a huge emotional impact in the earlier books. But here they just feel like manipulative plot devices for ending a TV episode.It's really quite shocking just how bad this huge, meandering mess of a book is. It's hard for me to imagine anybody giving it a five star review. But, then again, I always underestimate the degree to which people become emotionally invested in works of fiction.My advice is to avoid this book. In fact, don't even start the book series if you haven't already. Just enjoy the HBO TV series. The producers on HBO are likely to keep the plot moving along nicely. Also you are guaranteed to get one new season per year for as long as it runs. In contrast the book series has jumped the rails, hurtled down the ravine and crashed into a great steaming mass of debris.
4 George had what sounded like a great idea:  Divide a story that had run too long in half with some characters in the fourth book and another half in the 5th book.  The Fourth book was one of the hardest to read.  I love this saga and HBO has done a very good job of not rewriting Mr. Martin's work.  The fifth book is uneven but I still give it four stars.  I look forward to seeing how the Game of Thrones plays out.  I think Mr. Martin may end up being our century's Tolkien.
1 I love This series so much. George R.R. martin is just an amazing writer and I have a great deal of respect for his obvious passion for detail and creation of substantive charterers.That said I was somewhat disappoint by A dance with dragons. After several years of waiting after having left off on several cliff hangers I was hoping that this volume would make the wait so worth it and I was so thrilled to get my copy.Sadly that wasn't the case.without giving away any spoilers, not that there were many to be honest. the book was a slow ambling drag that teased at upcoming moments of excitement and revelation but never actually got to any.It may as well have been a travelogue since all the characters mainly did was tour the scenery and wait around a lot.It's sad cause the others in the series I would have to force myself to put the book down and go to bed. This one actually put me to sleep and I had to force myself to keep plodding through it to the end.around page 500 I stopped expecting the story lines to progress and began to accept this book was not going anywhere. It was like someone took a movies b-roll and used it as filler to make a faux sequel to cash in on a franchise.I'm so disappointed.I don't know if Mr. Martin is just tired of the series and gave up or if he just isn't sure what to do next so he kept typing words until he reached the word count cut off point.I honestly don't know if I have another 5 year wait in me so I think from now on I'll just watch the HBO show and leave off on the books.Anyone know of any good series I can replace this one with? I'm open to suggestions.
5 After reading all the current Fire and Ice books, I think that A Dance with Dragons was the most exciting of the series. I am waiting for the next book in the series
5 This is another great book from George R Martin. I simply cannot wait for winds of winter!! The show will have to hold me over for now
1 Game of Thrones is one of the rare instances where the movie/TV show is MUCH better than the book.  The HBO series trims out all the bloated, boring, aimless overly detailed fat from book.  The show is awesome.  Skip the books - especially this 5th one.  Dance with Dragons is so painful and boring, it is just not worth it when you will be able to watch the show instead.
5 Received this book when expected, as always, from Amazon. Pretty much what you expect from George Martin, except he,s still killing off characters at an alarming rate. Kept my interest all the way thru, and this is a very long story. I can,t wait for the next one. Hopefully, in the near future. He is an extremely slow writer.
4 Full of surprises, per usual, but still a transition book as 'Crows' had been. Gets a little muddled with the addition of so many characters, and the main and beloved ones get jumbled in there, unfortunately. Great set up, as the last had been, still waiting for a climax and resolution though!
5 5 *'s for this whole series! BUT--George, where the hell is Winds Of Winter? And, how could you do it George? How could you let HBO utterly ruin this unmatched grand epic? Stop/Intervene now...before they bring you past that monitarily-blurring &#34;point of no return.&#34; Don't look back through all the $$'s they used to cause you to take your eye off the ball!
3 About halfway thru this thing and story focuses on Tyrion Lannister. Not much else. The whole series is losing steam for me, and has become more of guilty pleasure with all of the  plotting, scheming and TALKING! Toooooo much like a midevil soap opera. Very little action and plot progression with a final conclusion/confrontation in site. Hopefully HBO won't make the same mistake with their interpretation. Still like the premise and characters, but my interest is waning. I'm just along for the ride now on autopilot. No longer salivating for the next chapter. I think this book could have been summarized into four to six chapters. But like I said earlier: halfway thru. Mr. Martin sometimes has that trick with making his endings shocking, but satisfying cliff hangers.
4 A lot of the reviews that have been negative so far for Dance talk about how "the wait wasn't worth it".  But the thing is, for the most part these reviews only harp on the fact that "oh, I've waited six years for Martin to finally finish it, but there's no epic battles/resolution/revelations" etcetera and "I waited so long for THIS?  Oh man I'm done with the series" blah blah blah.  They don't actually talk about the story itself.  And while I'm as critical of Martin for how absurdly long he makes his loyal readers wait between installments--especially since the argument could be made that a part of that wait is spent by him not spending as much time on writing as fans think he should--this isn't the place for those arguments.  A book should be judged by its contents, not how long a reader waited for it.These people, while not completely unjustified in a lot of the criticisms they're raising--especially in the abundance of cliff hangers and open-ended storylines-- are missing the point of what, in my mind, makes A Song of Ice and Fire great--the characters, the unpredictable nature of where the plot's going to go, the wonderful world of Westeros and its environs, but again, most of all, the characters!  Dance is much more about character development than other books in Martin's series, especially compared to Storm of Swords, in which almost every chapter involved some great action scene, or development, or advancement of the plot in some way.The pace here is more like that of Clash of Kings--and much better, not just barely better than Feast, which I think most will agree is the most slow-paced novel in the series.  While it lacked epic scenes equivalent to the Battle of Blackwater, the wildlings' attack on the wall, or the Red Wedding, there's still plenty of solid content that should satiate most fans of the series, particularly the introduction of a storyline/group of characters that pretty much changes everything, and one cliffhanger for a certain character that I had to reread again, it was so exciting and unexpected.Again, its the characterization and not the war or overarching storyline that's the star of the show here.  The POVs are essentially divided into three groups: those in the North and around the Wall reacting to the events of Mance Rayder's failed attack on the wall and Roose Bolton's rise to Warden of the North; Dany as she attempts to establish her role as Meereen's monarch and the various suitors and others attempting to reach her and her dragons; and a smattering of returning POVs from Feast for Crows which, while not completely resolving loose ends from the previous novel, do just enough to tie up those loose ends but leave the reader intrigued as to what happens next.The three main POVs are easily the most slowly paced, but they also have, in my mind, some of the best character development in the series.  Jon is struggling to remain neutral in Stannis' efforts to win the north, while at the same time asserting himself as a strong commander.  Tyrion has decided to embrace the image of the evil imp everyone else had wrongly made him out to be while trying to decide what to do with his life.  And Dany makes decisions in her ruling of Meereen that may or not go against the destiny meant for her.I enjoyed the other POVs more than I did the main ones, but really, all of them, set the stage for what will hopefully be a brilliant next installment...whenever that may be.  The new POVs (there are four--two are brand new characters and two are former periphery characters)are more or less welcome additions to the story, especially one of the new ones. Finally, Dance easily has the best one-shot POV (meaning prologue or epilogue) of the series so far.And the book isn't just nothing happening until the end as some are making it out to be--there is a HUGE revelation early on(not to mention another towards the end careless readers will miss), and one of the main POVs comes out of the gate really strong in a moment that had me cheering when I read it.No, it isn't perfect.  But Martin can't make every installment of the series Storm of Swords or of its same exact caliber.Complaints for me include, that while cliffhangers aren't necessarily a bad thing, and some of them are excellent in this, others just left me going "really?  That's all we get?"  Martin definitely overuses his techniques of repeating phrases and describing food and fauna in a ton of detail. And while I enjoyed most of the POVs, I had a problem with two of the new ones--one only got one chapter, and the other, who was foreshadowed in the previous novel, just never became fully realized for me.But hey, at the end of the day, I got to be reunited with Jon, Dany, Tyrion, Bran, Davos, and other characters we haven't seen in years.  And while there may not be a slambang, epic beheading, battle, or wedding people may have wanted as a reward for their long wait, there is still plenty of developments, and plenty of foreshadowing at things to come, that should leave most fans at least somewhat happy, or at the very least talking about and debating the events of Dance.
1 There is a reason that 40% of reviews of ADWD are 1 or 2 stars.  As good as A Game of Thrones is wonderful this book is so uninteresting that I couldn't wait to stop reading it: picking it up now and then, like any addict, hoping for a fix that never comes or satisfies.  The trajectory of this series is much like that of free falling object. If the first couple of books hadn't sucked me in I'd have stopped reading this one in the middle, much like I was quick to jettison Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time which at least kept my interest for 5 books. This much I know: If Martin ( who is as far from being an American Tolkien as the nearest blackhole is from earth) doest wrap this abomination up in book six I won't even bother to finish.  I can't imagine that Martin in his heart of hearts truly believes this work comes within light years of approaching A Game of Thrones.  Maybe we are expecting too much and Martin is just another one hit wonder.  You can't help but wonder if he is dragging this out for the money.
5 I have read all the books, but wanted to have them all in my Kindle library. I will read all five again before reading the 6th book when it arrives. These books have so many subplots, it's hard to keep track of them all with only one reading.
4 No spoiler, that's all I'll say about the ending.  Very annoyed that I couldn't diver right into the next one, as it's killing me to know what happen(ed)(s).  I like this series a lot and I'm very much looking forward to continuing to explore and discover this story.
5 Don't subscribe to your reviews, people can't help but show their ass on the internet.I loved this book. You didn't? Too bad, so sad. Go troll somewhere else.
1 I hunkered down and read Dance with Dragons having read the previous four in the series.  Ended up skimming the whole thing and even that was a waste of my time.  All the really good characters are left unresolved for the most part.  Dumbest thing ever.  Really, really, really frustrating and disappointing. I can't recall being so completely disgusted with a book and an author.
5 I have gone through five looong books and I am left with anticipation and anxiety while RR is pumping out other books. Take me back to Westeros and let me live among the Wildings!
5 Mr. Martin continues to keep us guessing as to who will survive and who will perish.  The characters are imbued with humanity as well as cruelty yet we are constantly cheering them on.  The backdrop is visceral and entirely real.  It makes the television &#34;Survivor&#34; episodes seem like a cookie bake for the Girl Scouts.  As an avid follower, I am very much looking forward to the next book.  I'm sure that it will be much and more.
3 A long book that really didn't take me anywhere the 4th book did.  It's about time to end some of the storylines and put this series to bed.
4 I discovered this series a little more than a year ago and therefore was able to read them in order with barely a break in between.Book four and five was not quite as much to my liking as the prior 3.  Primarily because of the format he chose of going back and forth and back and forth between characters, with book 5 taking place at the same time as book 4.  This I found a bit off putting though not exactly sure why.  Still, as always, a great tale and should be read vs viewed.
3 Remember when you were a kid in school and were forced to read some incredibly boring book because it was a 'classic'? And remember how you ploughed your way through it wishing that something, anything would happen to relieve the tedium of reading long winded exposition, description and dialogue?Well I'm sorry to say that at times I found myself thinking the same thing about A Dance With Dragons as I did about Silas Marner. Not all the time and certainly not enough to make me want to throw the book to the floor screaming enough!.... but sometimes.Don't get me wrong, Mr Martin can write and there were occasions when I was genuinely astonished and surprised by events, but, not nearly often enough in a book of this length.It almost seems as if the author wasn't quite sure where he was heading with his story or as if he got lost and meandered around for several thousand words before he got himself back on track.All of my favourite characters were there but some of the people just seemed to disappear completely, and some only made brief and very frustrating cameo appearances.I'm enjoying the Arya arc and looking forward to seeing what the next book has in store for her, but judging from how some characters are treated in this book, there is a possibility that she may completely disappear, never to be heard from again.Tyrian has been placed on a stationary bicycle, throughout the book he's pedaling, very slowly, and  getting nowhere. Dany has changed from the mother of dragons who won the heart of Khal Drogo to a lovesick girl, ruled by her hormones and damn the consequences. And poor Jon Snow, well, he's spent so much time on the Wall waiting for winter that he must be freezing to death.And Cliffhangers?? they may be acceptable plot devices in TV shows or even films, but must we wait another 6 years to find out if '------- ' is really dead ? Unbelievable.Note to Mr Martin ; I'm no spring chicken and at this rate I may not live long enough to read the end of the story so please, write faster and cut down a little on the length, my husband grew tired of letting me prop the book up against his back.
5 I loved it! This book tied up many loose ends from the last book! But, the only thing that I can tell you that you will be shocked towards the end! That's all!
5 Personally, I'm okay with soaking up GRRM's world-building and enjoying the journey. The quality of GRRM's writing was as good in books 4 & 5 as it was in 1-3; the only difference was that a lot of the scenes seemed to create more questions than answers. A Dance with Dragons was filled with character development, and assuming GRRM is going to tie up all loose ends in books 6 & 7, this is a 5-star book.
4 I know that Book 4  k in this series was a bridge book but I was sort of discouraged and hesitated to start reading 5.  It is as exciting as book 3 in the series.  I know when I hit the end of this I will be on pins and needles waiting for Book 6 to be published. There is just one surprise after the other and I am not giving out any spoiler hints.  It was way too much fun reading something and going WHAT!
1 Ugh: long sections of landscape details with no point, lots of really really minor characters tediously described. Virtually nothing in the way of advancing the plot. Tiresome descriptions of pus, blood, and wounds ad nauseum. Only there for shock value. I loved the first 3 books. 4 and 5 are just plain boring. Won't be buying anymore of this series.
4 I had almost decided to give up on this series because it has been so long since Feast for Crows came out, but then HBO did Game of Thrones and I remembered why I loved them so much.The book has some predictable flaws, the foremost of which was created by dividing the book into Feast for Crows and Dance with Dragons. If they had come out more swiftly, Martin might have gotten away with writing such an unwieldy set of books. But it is just too hard to remember who many of the characters are. You spend quite a bit of time going, who the hell is this guy?To my surprise, however, I found myself missing some of the people who I had thought I wouldn't (Brianna). And most of the time I didn't much mind if it took me a while to place characters or if I had to go look them up online.I was enjoying the journey. So Martin painted himself into some big writerly corners. Big deal. It's a complicated world he has created and I'm going to stick around until I find out the ultimate fate of Tyrion Lannister, unless I meet my own first. Which is entirely possible given how long it takes Martin to write these things.
1 As much as I loved A Game of Thrones, liked A Clash of Kings and A Storm of Swords, I disliked this book  Also hated A Feast for Crows.  Self-indulgent, wandering purple prose going nowhere, a total waste of time.  If you're hoping for some resolution for the characters you've grown to love and hate, forget it.  They are all just left in limbo.  Martin should have stopped while he was ahead because this definitely left a bad taste, a feeling he just spewed it out to make some more money.
5 It is not that all of the criticisms in the posted reviews are erroneous, it is just that this installment and the over arching story of the series are utterly amazing notwithstanding the validity of some of those criticisms.  Yes, the storyline is highly complex and has innumerable characters.  Yes, I am concerned that I might die or, more likely, that Martin might die before the whole series is completed.  Yes, the wait for the next installment is likely to be insufferable.  And yes, to a whole host of similar criticims.  SPOILER ALERT But at the end of the day, none of that seems to matter when Daenerys -- after almost 5 full volumes of anticipation -- mounts Drogon and rides him out of the fighting pits.  That scene, and probably another 20 stunning scenes in the book, make me not care an iota about all of the other issues.  This is grand saga storytelling of the highest order.  If Homer were alive, he'd be impressed.
5 I'm one of those people who can often see what's coming in books, TV shows or movies - but not here! Even in the 5th book, Martin's series still manages to shock me. I love it.
5 Much has been made about the nearly six-year void since George R.R. Martin dropped A FEAST FOR CROWS into our laps. Impatient readers were up in arms as other books hit the shelves with Martin's name splashed across the cover, and yet the eagerly awaited fifth installment of the immensely intriguing A Song of Ice and Fire seemed no closer to completion. At one point, Martin refused to discuss the book anymore, and more recently, fellow authors Neil Gaiman and John Scalzi jumped to defend Martin against the ire of fans --- the former bluntly intimating that Martin doesn't owe anyone anything, and the latter logically laying out the facts that, given the size of the book, it was just necessarily going to take as long as it did. Weighing in at 1,016 pages, A DANCE WITH DRAGONS seriously could not have been written any faster. Now that the results of all those long agonizing years of waiting are finally revealed, it goes without saying that cover to cover, page for page, it was absolutely worth it.A DANCE WITH DRAGONS is not a direct sequel to A FEAST FOR CROWS. Originally the two books were one, but it was decided that the most logical way to split the book would be along character lines. Instead of telling half the story for all the characters, the full story was told for half the characters in each book. Approximately 2/3 of the way through DANCE, however, the storylines converge once more and the combined storyline resumes.Martin spins his story like a spider spins a web. Each chapter is from one character's point of view, comprising the rings of the web. But moments exist when a strand, a main arc, runs across all the rings, connecting the storylines to the larger core plot. So as one reads, they will essentially be jumping from ring to ring, back and forth, experiencing an advance in the smaller personal stories until they collide into the story proper. It works brilliantly, but it does require a reader to pay attention. This is not a book one can skim through. This should come as no surprise in a book where there are 18 viewpoint characters. It covers activity in three major areas of interest: the lands beyond the Narrow Sea, the Wall and the world north of the Wall, and a few specific locations in Westeros, such as King's Landing and Winterfell.Across the sea, Daenerys Stormborn, the Mother of Dragons, is trying to hold together her rule in Meereen, seemingly reluctant to continue on to reclaim her throne in Westeros. She is burned by betrayals of the past but also seeks a marriage that will bring peace in the city. Two of her three dragons have been confined to a hold, while the third, Drogon, roams free and is reported to have been killing children as well as livestock. In her company is Ser Barristan Selmy, the former commander of the Kingsguard of King's Landing until newly-crowned Joffrey had dismissed him. Tyrion Lannister, the Imp, continues his flight from Westeros after poisoning his nephew, King Joffrey, and murdering his own father, Lord Tywin. Tyrion's goal is to find Daenerys and offer his services to her, but through a series of misfortunes, he finds himself enslaved just shy of the gates of Meereen. Along the way he has also encountered Aegon Targaryen, son of Prince Rhaegar, long thought to have been killed when Robert Baratheon captured the Iron Throne. Aegon has set his sights on the Iron Throne for himself once he learned that his Aunt Daenerys seems content to stay in Meereen.In the North, Ramsay Bolton is prepared to marry Arya Stark in the ruins of Winterfell, which had previously been sacked by Theon Greyjoy. Bolton and his disgusting slave/servant, Reek, lead a full contingent of men to Winterfell for the wedding and also to rightfully lay claim to the castle as a provocation against Stannis, the proclaimed King in the North. Stannis has been desperately seeking former Stark bannermen to join his forces and reclaim the Iron Throne since he is the only rightful heir to his late brother Robert's crown. Stannis has sought assistance at the Wall, though Jon Snow, the bastard son of the late Eddard Stark and the new Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, refuses to betray the vows of the order and take sides in the conflict. Stannis wants the castles and lands on the Wall, but Jon refuses to yield them. At the same time, the Others are massing on the opposite side of the Wall. Jon has stirred the frustration of the King and the dislike of his wife, not to mention his own brothers on the Wall, by reaching out his hand in an effort to unite with the Wildlings, the age-old enemies of the men of Westeros. And as winter begins to unleash its fury, King Stannis and his men march on Winterfell in an effort to rescue Arya Stark and bring Ramsay Bolton to his knees.And that gives you the bare bones of about half of it. You can see why this is not a quick, breezy read.While the novel is engrossing and encourages late nights and much page turning in earnest, the moments spent with Jon Snow on the Wall are the most intriguing and intense. Seeing him surrounded on all sides, struggling to do his duty to the realm and finding that his former enemies seem to be his only friends, is nerve-wracking. His story seems all the more intense because, as the noose tightens on all sides, he is, as an ever-loyal member of the Night's Watch, confined to the Wall. This inability to leave his surroundings serves to heighten all of the tensions.Of course, across the Narrow Sea, talk of Jon and the mysteries of his parentage are again brought up, and readers are left with another possibility of just who Jon is born of. The other characters and their tales are freer, more liberated. It does not make their stories any less interesting, mind you, for there are intrigues upon intrigues and conniving machinations aplenty. It is also interesting to see the ruin previously known as Theon Greyjoy. The Turncloak, who betrayed the Starks and brought down Winterfell, Theon has been tortured mentally and physically by Ramsay Bolton and, quite literally, is missing a few firing connections in his synapses. That he can cause a reader to feel sorrow for him and his present station in light of the anger he also invokes, given his past treachery, is a wonderful example of Martin's mastery.Martin is an amazing storyteller. Although he writes in the epic fantasy world, it is obvious when you start reading that he just simply does not write the way others do. His work is steeped more in history than fantasy, but it does nothing to remove the majesty and magic from his work. Readers of fantasy live in a gifted time, as there are many tremendous authors working in the genre. Along with Martin, they serve to elevate the world of fantasy beyond the sneered-upon marginal work into true literary marvels that deserve the attention they are getting.A DANCE WITH DRAGONS is wholly remarkable writing from a wholly genius storyteller. If you have not yet become ensnared by the web that is the game of thrones, now would be the perfect time to begin your adventure. If you've come this far, this new installment will serve to whet your appetite until THE WINDS OF WINTER lands on shelves. However many years that may take, do not grow angry or frustrated, or complain too loudly about the time that elapses. Martin will take every minute he needs and pay back your patience with gold.
3 War drags on in the Seven Kingdoms. The earlier major players are now largely dead, but their children and heirs battle on. In the north, Jon Snow is now commander of the black watch along the wall. In the trading cities of the south, Daenerys rules over theformer slave city of Meereen--and the natives are restive. Although she speaks of seizing her native kingdom, Daenerys knows that the slavers would return if she leaves, and cannot abandon her adoptive children. So, the world beats a path to Daenerys as every second son, exile, and wanna-be power on the outs makes the voyage to the woman who mothered dragons, and who has a claim to be rightful ruler of the seven kingdoms.George R. R. Martin's epic series A SONG OF ICE AND FIRE was eye-opening and genre-stretching. I remember reading A GAME OF THRONES practically breathless. Every plot twist (and boy did the plot twist) caught me by surprise. Every character I grew to love seemed set up to fail. Martin's strong writing continues, and he has the knack of writing characters complex enough that we care about them, seeing each one as hero of his (or her) own story. Even Queen Cersei--an adulterer, incest participant, and murderer, becomes sympathetic. Here, though, in the fifth book in the series, the characters seem smaller and more focussed on every-day details.Again, I think Martin does fantasy a favor by adding not only the blood and dirt, but also the reality of war and occupation. Victory is not a matter of marching armies through town in a parade, it's sullen opposition, sneak attacks, and worrying whether your allies have betrayed you (or if your dragons have been eating your peoples' children). Managing a rag-tag force on the distant border isn't all about battling giants, it's watching larders empty and worrying about starvation. That being said, we get a LOT of that kind of detail in a book that stretches for 959 pages (not including the lists of characters).One of the key dangers in writing series is that authors find the need to move characters from point to point. That, to a large extent, is what is happening in A DANCE WITH DRAGONS. Tyrion is traveling to meet Daenerys--but doesn't quite get there. Stannis Baratheon is traveling toward Winterfell--but doesn't quite get there. Several suitors are trying to get to Daenerys--but mostly don't get there. Arya is learning to be invisible and to be an assassin--and actually makes progress. Ultimately, I appreciate what Martin is doing and I think he's adding key elements to a genre that has, to a large extent, offered its readers easy blacks and whites, simple solutions to complex problems. But I wanted to see more happen. Fans of this series could, I fear, skip the entire 959 pages and pick up the next volume without having to scratch their heads and wonder what has changed. The answer, to a large extent, is not much.Okay, I'm a fan of Martin's. Martin continues to be an effective wordsmith, continues to create a wonderfully complex world, continues to frustrate (and reward) his readers by refusing to let his characters find simplistic solutions to the problems they face. Overall, fans of this series (like me) will want to read A DANCE WITH DRAGONS. There's enough here to entertain and fascinate--but I do think it could have moved a bit faster.
5 Loved the series. I'm hoping there's a Book Six. I also want to see the HBO series. I'll probably buy the DVD set.
3 I just got the book from the library and it is a doorstopper; however I noticed that all the prepress and editorial reviews were all glowing while the true readers from Amazon less than glowing. I give the Amazon reviewers more credence and I'll post after I've finished reading, if I can finish! I give it 3 stars for the cover art improvement.
3 and that is why I have not rated a Feast For Crows.A Dance with Dragons is considerably better than A Feast For Crows ONLY because the characters on which POV's are based are considerably more interesting ones.Beyond that, nothing much happens. People who are hooked to this story ( and regrettably so, because at the current pace I will be retired - or worse - when the thing reaches a conclusion ) are left clueless as to what it is all about. It feels allmost as if George R R Martin himself is lost within the vastness of the "monster" he created.Of one thing I am sure: The "addictive " effect of the first 3 books is gone. I am no longer hooked and eagerly waiting for the next installment.
5 Once again Martin has taken the reader on a journey full of murder, mayhem, war, and dragons. We are introduced to new and old characters that further explain where this saga may or may not end. His writing continues to astound me as the story unfolds, and why am I not surprised at his need to further kill off characters we readers have grown fond of. I cannot wait to see how this all ends up. Please hurry Mr. Martin and show us the next installment of Game of Thrones. Who will win the Game?
5 Book 5 of the series.  There is not a cliffhanger ending but there are a lot of unanswered questions.  It has been a long time since A Dance with Dragons was published.  Book 6 is needed, HBO will be catching up id he does not get on it.
5 It's a long read, but not long enough. Once again just really really good stuff. I have no qualms for spending my money on this one and believe I received good value.
5 What a story! It had none of the twists and turns of A Clash Of Kings (I didn't cry halfway through or leap for joy at the end), but was excellent in its own right for the way the story advanced and kept me involved. Simply fantastic.
4 This was another great addition to an amazing series, but its biggest fault is that it really just set up the next two books. While I loved the adventuring featured in this book, in the end, nothing really happened, there were no changes. My other problem with this book and all of his books is how he switches the point of view every chapter among multiple different characters. Each one is written very well, but the tone shifts with each character, and I end up reading the book chapter by chapter. I couldn't put the book down until I finished reading the chapter, but once it was over I had no desire to read what came next right away, unless it was one of my favorite characters. I also didn't like Jon Snows role in this book, he used to be one of my favorite characters, but in this one he was really bogged down by running the wall. Once again, in this book there were multiple main character deaths, which I find frustrating. Along with cliffhanger probably deaths, which if the people are actually dead I would be very upset and annoyed. It's nice to know that the characters are vulnerable, their victory isn't guaranteed, but I would still like for my favorite characters to win some of the time.My biggest fear with this series is that Martin might die before he finishes it. I don't mean any offense, but he doesn't look too healthy, and I doubt you could get someone to finish the series successfully. The fantasy world was lucky when Brandon Sanderson took over for Robert Jordan, I don't know if they'd be that lucky a second time. I hope that it won't take another 5 years to write each book, because he would then be 73, which is pushing it even for a healthy man. Still, I enjoyed this book and look forward to the end of the series.
5 The chapters change characters so abruptly sometimes you feel like you missed something. Story will jump into the middle of a situation, then explain backwards, and back to the present. Seems written in a different style than the previous books, takes a little longer to read, but definitely worth it!
3 Feel like I have to read this as I've read the others in the series.  Pretty boring though.  Not much action, just furthers the story line of 3 of the main characters.  Yawn.
2 I found myself flipping through numerous pages, because the dialogue was repeated many times, and it was slow and uninteresting.
5 Although it took Mr. Martin a very long time to bring us this story, it was worth the wait.  Excellent.
5 George R R Martin never disapoints. Each book keeps you tied to your chair.
5 [I received one of the copies of A Dance with Dragons that were accidentally released early.  I've written two reviews.  The first is an informal, completely spoiler-free commentary for fans of the series who want a quick judgment of the book.  The second is a longer, more wide-ranging review, which includes some mild spoilers about various characters' arcs and the structure of the book, as well as comments on theme and tone that may imply larger spoilers.  There will also be spoilers for earlier books.]So.  Is it better than A Feast for Crows?The question is a leading one; it assumes that Feast was a bad or a weak book.  I actually liked Feast quite a lot, both on first reading lo these many years ago, and on rereading it in recent weeks.  Considering what the evolution of the story had made it, I thought it was the best book it could possibly be, and that the author's atmospheric world-building and vivid characters were supplemented by a sense of encroaching doom, the imminence of magic and of winter.But of course I'll concede that for many the book's relaxed pace and style was a disappointment after the ridiculously-eventful A Storm of Swords.  A Dance with Dragons has more surprises and revelations than Feast, but those who absolutely despised that novel will very possibly be frustrated by this one as well, unless what they disliked was the particular characters involved rather than the structure.  The beginning is strong, with a number of developments and answered questions people may not have been expecting, but after that the middle of the book returns to the significant but very gradual plot evolution that characterized Feast.  There are some atmospheric world-building and set pieces that are very effective, but perhaps not worth inclusion in a book that's very long, and focuses on only half the characters to boot. (Some of what seems irrelevant may turn out to be important later, of course.)  The climax, though, ups the ante again, with more sudden and shocking developments, capped by what I think is the best final chapter in the series to date.  The Winds of Winter looks set to return to the constant action and rapid development of A Clash of Kings and A Storm of Swords, and while some may wish that could have happened at the beginning of Dance rather than near the end, I think there's enough going on in this book to satisfy all but the most disaffected readers.-------------------------------------------------------------------[Mildly spoilerish review begins here.]Here it is.  Nearly six years after the last installment of A Song of Ice and Fire, George R. R. Martin's gritty epic fantasy, the new book, A Dance with Dragons, has arrived.  But in some ways the wait for this book has been even longer, as 2005's A Feast for Crows only featured half of the series' major characters, because the novel grew so much during the writing process that it couldn't be published in its original form.  The author originally hoped to published this companion volume within a year of that book, but the story grew more and other problems intervened.  As a result, A Dance with Dragons marks the first appearance of some of the series' most popular characters in over a decade.Tyrion Lannister, the brilliant but increasingly bitter dwarf son of one of the realm's great houses (Richard III is an obvious general model for the character), has fled the royal seat at King's Landing after murdering his father.  Aimless at first, he is soon set on a new path by an ally of the eunuch spymaster Varys, who had been vital in his escape.  But the journey he faces is long, uncertain, and dangerous, and several dark developments along the way threaten to further his decline into cruelty.Jon Snow is now Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, the organization sworn to guard the massive Wall against incursions from the frozen north.  Jon is determined to make the changes he believes necessary to meet the Watch's purpose in changing times, but he must contend with doubtful subordinates and the presence at the Wall of the rebel king Stannis, who seems determined to test the Watch's commitment to staying out of the politics of the realm.  Caught between the king and the Watch, Jon must walk a narrow path where a single misstep could bring disaster.Daenerys Targaryen, last survivor of the realm's former royal house, is half a world away, trying to rule the city she has conquered.  She has three dragons and a large, well-trained army on her side, but Meereen's customs are alien to her, its people difficult to rule without draconian measures she cannot accept, and the price she must pay for control may prove more than she can bear.  Even the blood of the dragon is not guaranteed easy allegiance.These are the three most prominent characters of A Dance with Dragons, taking up about half its length, but there are many others, including a few returning faces from A Feast for Crows.  The presence of those characters and their storylines gives the novel's climax an added energy it sorely needs, for the middle of the book is, by structural necessity, slow-moving, as various situations gradually approach the breaking point.  This pace may be familiar to certain frustrated readers of A Feast for Crows, who had expected something closer to the relentless action of A Storm of Swords, the third book in the series.  But A Dance with Dragons is undeniably more eventful than A Feast for Crows, and certain character arcs are structured to end in the middle of the book, which means that their resolutions come early and offer a jolt of action to counterpoint those arcs that are still developing.Questions of plot aside, the author's characterization and world-building are as fascinating as ever.  Jon and Daenerys are very young, and unlike many youthful heroes in the fantasy genre, who rule nations or command armies when little more than children and do it perfectly, they have their flaws and failures as well as virtues and successes.  There are no unambiguously good or bad leaders in Martin's world, only characters with different personalities and worldviews who are all determined to manipulate the current chaos to their own benefit.  As rich as the milieu has been in the first four volumes, A Dance with Dragons gives us awe-inspiring new locations, as well as old ones seen in new ways.  The Winds of Winter may be the title of the next volume, but this one gives us a haunting foretaste of what that chill will be like.The world of A Song of Ice and Fire has always been harsher than that of many fantasies, inspired by real history, less romanticized and putting as much emphasis on the cruelties and desolation of medieval warfare as on noble heroism and elegant courtly intrigue.  A Dance with Dragons is no exception, and the evolution of the story in this book is along dark lines, dominated by failures that sow seeds of chaos the next volume seems likely to reap in abundance.  The final chapters mark a return to the unexpected and fast-moving action to which fans have become accustomed, and confirm what many readers have hoped: that a beloved but delay-plagued series is, after a long middle period, finally entering its endgame.
5 Like a lot of others, I was fed up waiting for this book. When it finally arrived, my concern was would it be worthwhile? Yes and yes and yes yet again. The pace may not be to everyones liking but for me it was akin to the tangled webs of John Le Carre's spy novels. The various plots are carefully and slowly developed, sometimes colliding oft times proceeding in unpredictable directions. Like the preceeding volumes, it is the development of the characters that makes this book so good. There are no 'black' or 'white' personalities here - the sadistic, the fanatical, the insane, the devout, the bloodthirsty all get their say.And then.............he leaves us teetering on the edge.Alright George.....enjoy the plaudits, take a well earned break and, then please get started again!
5 A Song of Ice and Fire is every bit as good as you've heard, and then some. ADoD drags on a big slow in the middle parts as much of the story feels already known after AFfC, but Martin includes enough new developments and plot twists to keep you engaged long enough to reach the real fun part - the last 1/4 or so of the book when all the storylines begin really progressing and the table is set for the final two books. The Winds of Winter can't come soon enough!
3 I read the first Ice and Fire books years ago, a couple of years before Feast for Crows even came out.  So its safe to say Ive been waiting a 'while' for this book.  I did the whole, check the website, mark my calender, hooray the book is coming out... only to see its not again and again.So the book was scheduled for release same day my wife was scheduled to have a baby!  I went to the store the night before and haggled the lady at the counter "please let me buy it tonight, I promise I wont tell anyone".  She wouldnt relent, and lucky me I managed to stop at the bookstore on the way to the hospital.The next several days I had lots of time to do nothing but wait at times.  I simply couldnt get interested in the book.  It started slow.  I can live with that.  So over the next couple of weeks I continued reading a little here and a little there.  Certainly not the 3am page turner that the first books were.What it really comes down to is this.  Martin spent a lot of pages writing about characters who are very interesting, yet doing nothing.  Presidents are probably interesting guys when doing their job.  Presidents eating breakfast not so much.  Yet I feel this is the direction Martin has taken.  Writing lots of pages about interesting characters doing very uninteresting things.I cant say I did not like the book.  I liked it, but I liked it a lot less than I thought I would and after a what... 6 year wait I was hoping for a lot more.One can only hope that Feast For Crows and Dance With Dragons is the calm before some giant storm that is to be the next in the series.  Im really hoping Martin doesnt take a detour down Robert Jordan street and write 10 more books about nothing.
5 The action in "A Dance With Dragons," following on "A Feast for Crows," sets the stage for a joining of Westeros's north and south, all contenders in both aiming, as ever, to bring the continent into some kind of unity after years of vicious civil war. It's an amazing read that you just can't put down I'll say that for sure. Another astounding read you will have too wrap your eyes around isNekhet (Dreamline)simply wonderful, a real page turner. Just don't take my word for it get your copy here on amazon.
5 I am a huge fan of Martin since the first time I read him back in the nineties.  Just like everyone else I was disappointed with book 4.  It was written well but didn't seem to go anywhere and Cersei and Jamie chapters aren't near as interesting as the chapters of the characters in Dance.  So I was excited to read Dance and yet anxious because I wasn't too sure what I was going to get: the writing of the first 3 or the writing of Feast.  Gladly, almost right from the very beginning, the Martin of old has returned to us.The characters are gritty and real.  Some are good, some are bad, and like Martin of old good things happen to bad people and bad things happen to good people.  We get to watch Jon as he struggles to control the Night's Watch and come to terms with what he is struggling with beyond the wall.  I loved his chapters probably the most of the main characters.  Tyrion's grew on me, although I didn't care for them as much in the beginning.  Daenerys also grew on me, although I wish her chapters would have had more resolution and moved the plot forward more.In the end you can tell Dance is setting up the greater climax in the coming final 2 books, but it at least had my interest from chapter one so I didn't mind that the plot didn't move as much as in the first three books.  I was entertained for all 950 pages and left wanting to read book 6 even more so.  If only Martin would hurry up.  I mean the HBO series is going to be producing a series a year, so Martin must have some idea of where his final two books stand in relation to the HBO series.  A definite recommend.5 stars.PS As a side note, I am amazed at the number of 1 and 2 star reviews.  I think it is a direct relation to how long it took Martin to come out with Dance and the fact that Feast left something to be desired.  Readers went in to Dance jaded and completely ruined their perspective of where Martin was and where he is now.  And what's with the 1,000 word reviews?  Honestly, I've never seen a book with so many people, from 5 star to 1 star, writing novellas about it.  Does anyone honestly ever read a review when you have to scroll down the page?
4 Martin did an excellent job of advancing his plot(s).  He chose to focus on each character/storyline consecutively, instead of advancing each thread more or less simultaneously as is often done.  I admit, it doesn't really work as well as the simultaneous method, but I've often wondered how his method would work, so I don't hold it against him.
2 I tried to start this book three times and each time I could not finish it.  Finally I sat down and forced myself to read it.  GRRM has famously said this book was a b****h to write.  Well it was a b****h to read too.  There was some plot movement in the book but not nearly enough for a book this size.  Most of the characters I cared about are not the same as they were in the first 3 books and the changes are inexplicable to me.  The story is weighed down by endless subplots and a parade of new characters that are growing impossible for me to keep straight.  GRRM has shown himself to rely on strange gimmicks whether it was the endless and annoying use of "nuncle" in Feast to opening up his bag of tricks as a 80's TV hack and relying on multiple cliff hangers in Dance that would make the producers of Dallas or Dynasty blush with embarrassment.  From where I am sitting GRRM has lost all discipline and interest in this project, so whether he publishes again is a question in my mind.  I find myself no longer caring, which is a shame.  ASOIAF was something special once.
3 When I bought the first book I understood that there were five books in the series, but I assumed that would be the end of it. You know what that say about when you assume something. I'm sixty percent through this last book of the series, and I doubt that this is the end of the story.I feel like I was strung along so that I would buy more books. I wouldn't call it false pretense, but if I had known this from the beginning, I would have stopped reading this series a long while ago.If you want a never ending story, have at it.
5 I was totally impressed with this one...MUCH better than Book 4.  Cannot wait for book 6 to come out soon!
5 I was one of the rare few who waited a year and a half for the paperback edition of Book 5. Though some of the plot points were spoiled for me, GRR Martin continues to surprise and frustrate his fans.
5 \\ Review originally posted on The Book Addict's Guide //A DANCE WITH DRAGONS was my very last read in 2013, closing out the year epically! I&#8217;m so glad I got to finish this in 2013 to totally finish the read along for A Song of Ice and Fire all in 2013! PHEW!!!! And now that I&#8217;m finished&#8230; Can you say series hangover?So A DANCE WITH DRAGONS. It&#8217;s a toss up between that and A STORM OF SWORDS to name a favorite of the series so far because both were pretty epic in their own rites (although for the love of Pete, these are all flipping epic) but A DANCE WITH DRAGONS felt a bit more anticipated simply because of the full-length novel set-up that was A FEAST FOR CROWS. As stated in my review for AFFC, this was more the &#8220;part two&#8221;, focusing back on the main characters that dominated the first three books and boy, was I happy to see them again!First things first: THE DRAGONS. WOOOOO!! Loved seeing their prominence in this book and consequently, how badass (yes, even more so) that Dany became because of her dedication to them. She&#8217;s also pretty badass on her own and she&#8217;s still one of my favorite characters! I loved how much the dragons affected the characters themselves as well as the overall plot of the book.One thing I notice looking back from when I first picked up A GAME OF THRONES is really how different these characters are from when the series first started. The villains have shown their softer side and they&#8217;ve suffered their own plights as well. Many people that started off the series as antagonists had me feeling quite a bit of sympathy for them! Also, of course, spending so much time with all of the characters has really instilled a place in my heart for them. We&#8217;ve been reading these massive books for ten months now and when I finished&#8230;. I honestly didn&#8217;t know what to do. Sometimes I still feel weird that I&#8217;m NOT reading them because I hadn&#8217;t taken a break for ten months!As usual, GRRM throws in a few insane twists that you did not see coming. And I love it. At times, sure, I still want to throttle him (as I&#8217;m sure most of his readers do), but I also appreciate that the heroes of these books are never fully safe. I find something realistic about that because hey, bad things happen to the good guys too.The way this plot has grown from the first book is incredible too. There are so many different layers of the story &#8212; from one character to the next and multiple characters being involved in many different big events. Even the smallest things they do can turn out to have a big effect on the entire story. It&#8217;s quite fascinating how detailed this world is and yet how well GRRM keeps it all together and constantly moving.
5 My mother and husband talked me into reading these series.  I absolutely loved them.  And, book 5 was one of my favorites.  I can not wait until he finishes and releases the next one!
4 *** WARNING: SPOILERS ***As much as I love this series, there are a few things that I have realised too late. Nothing ever happens. George will lead you through thousands of words and build up on an event, and after investing all this time in reading about it, he then proceeds to have that said event made redundant. For example, in previous books; you will read about the "King-Beyond-the-Wall" and how kick-arse he is, and about his efforts to build an immense unstoppable army, and about the various clans (in pain-staking detail) and the politics within those clans, and about his efforts to obtain a magical horn to knock down the wall, and his life previous and hopes and dreams of the wildlings, and about his unborn child - and you will read about the intensely detailed ranger missions to gather intelligence on the wildings and you will read about what is seen - the creatures, the clans, the weather, the terrain etc etc etc etc etc... This goes on forever, so, the reader is expecting some big event and huge climax (as one would expect), but, no... What we get is the wildings finally attacking and then in about five sentences it is destroyed by another king who was on the other side of Westeros. The way this whole thread was just cut off and disbanded was infuriating. This is what I mean by NOTHING EVER HAPPENS. This happens ALL the time.I mean, we read about Snow and his painful climb to the head of the Night Watch. This carries on forever and the reader is guessing that George is setting up some awesome reason that Jon Snow has become the leader of the Night Watch and we are excited because we believe he will lead the army of the Night Watch to save his sister etc etc, but, no... After investing a million hours reading about this, the Night Watch stab Jon Snow a billion times at the end of the book. The end. You know nothing Jon Snow.The whole thing with the Red Wedding really pissed me off. I mean, I read books worth about this fool gallivanting about dodging armies, fighting armies; capturing people etc etc and then WHAM! - He's dead. Again there was nothing achieved and nothing really happened. Nothing ever happens in this series.Even in this latest book, nothing has happened.Also, in this current book I am supposed to be talking about, why did I need to read a small book's worth about the Imp riding down a river on an old boat?Why has Cersi now had her wings clipped? I need someone to hate.Another thing that is kinda creeping me out is George's great detail on various character's penises, or "c*nts". Now, I really don't think this is nesessary in a fantasy novel, or, really any novel. George seems to be trying to make his books ultra-realistic, but, most of us would read fantasies to get away from real life - no?That said, for some reason, I really do love reading these books and that is why I am giving this book 4-stars. It may be the beautiful language used to describe the world, or, the intriguing character build up and their many layers of grey. It might just be the journey of the various characters. I am not sure, but, I if you can stomach a massive read, I would still recommend this over most other fantasy series.
5 This book is a lot better than book 4 which was clearly disappointing. Dialogues are excellent. This book is comparable to the 3 first ones. It is a must read for the genre lovers.
1 I have nothing more to add to what other disappointed readers have already pointed out. This does not seem to be the work of the same genius who penned the first three booksAn absolute waste of timeHave no further expectations out of this authorLeft a bitter taste in the mouth
5 Wonderful, I want the next book yesterday. So much and more has happened. Let the other wipe out all the southern kingdoms. If these be men,who wants them.
4 I'm not a &#34;Game of Thrones&#34; groupie by any means.  But I have enjoyed Mr. Martin;s books and the HBO series as well.  I will definately see season #3 and buy the next book.  What an amazing imagination.
5 I can't remember when I read and read and  fell asleep at night with my Tablet in my hand.  I also don't remember shouting at the characters, while I was reading, like, Dany, use the dragons, let them out of the pit and toast the slavers and sellswords.  Arya never disappoints and more than any other character continues to grow and develop her potential.  I can't wait until she realizes that she is a skinchanger and reunites with Nymeria.  I also found myself shouting at George Martin, when I realized that there were only 200 pages left and there are more things up in the air  than could be concluded in 500 pages.  I called the two people who got me into the series and said, &#34; I thought this was the end.  Now tell me when the next book will be published.&#34;  George, please stay healthy and keep writing.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It was worth the long wait. Hopefully it won't be another 5 years to wait for book 6.The story is still just as good as when I first started so long ago. The characters are still just as interesting & flawed as they were when the story began. The new characters introduced add much to the overall story.If you haven't been reading this story, what are you waiting on.
4 Really excited to read this after the first 4 books, but yet now it seems to drag on.  Just personal opinion on this.  Still I am waiting for book 6 so I can finally find out what happens to some of the characters (others I could care less about).  Lets just hope he finishes it before everyone loses interest in the series.
3 I think book 5 was too long and drawn out.  Especially when giving the lineage of some of the minor players.  More action towards the end but felt unfulfilled with so many loose ends still hanging.
5 Some folks out there are saying that the latest books in this series are losing their magic...not so. I admit that Feast of Crows was a little slow at times, but this makes up for it and we see a lot more of our favorite, the dragon queen and the Imp.You will not be disappointed!
3 Edit: finished the book a week ago.  I stand by everything I said.  I was really hoping for the second half to pick up, and it didn't, except for the one moment where the author went "OMG look!  Aren't you shocked?!!". But honestly by then, all of that character's chapters were so tedious and repetitious (an unfortunately common problem for this book), that I wanted to join in on what the bad guys did, just to make him stop boring me.[original review]:And after 15 years, GRRM is still the best writer I've come across for descriptive and character-development writing.  Mostly due to the prologue, I'm finally finding the whole warg thing less boring and seeing it less as pure new-agey mumble-jumble.  But my concern is I've read in places that the book really picks up momentum after the half-way mark?  So I still have another 20% of menu- and trip-planning to plod through before that happens?  Still, I really hope it does pick up, because so far I don't see anything happening other than "they had X stewed in Y for [insert meal here]" and "he [sailed/walked/went on horseback]" for yet another day.  It's like AFFC all over again, like I'm reading a travel book except the author only talks about sitting on the plane and brushing his teeth in airport hotels (or should I say pissing, because there really is an awful lot of urination in this book) rather than the destinations themselves...I'm squeezing time out of bar review to read this book, and I really hope there's going to be something more worthwhile.One little thing I'm absurdly happy about is that GRRM has really cut back on Lord Mormont's crow.  Man how I hated that stupid echoing crow.  Glad it doesn't say "corn corn corn corn corn corn corn corn" after every sentence anyone says anymore.
2 First let me state that I am a big fan of the series but am very disappointed in the direction the last 2 books have taken. I'm 3/4 through this book and have completely lost interest and lost track of half the characters. Most of the new characters are shallow and could easily have been left out. So far, most of the original characters are barely mentioned or not even mentioned at all. Mr Martin, get back to the basics of your original book, please.
5 A Song of Ice and Fire stands at the pinnacle of real-world fantasy.When you read, look for no happy endings, no faeries to guide the heroine, no flowered words and gallant princes to save the day.Blood, Death and Fire: They are all you'll find.These are the most captivating stories I've ever read, and they leave you hungering for more as you cheer the death of a villain, and mourn silently the fall of your personal hero. Mr. Martin is a genius, pure and simple. He writes with an exceptional whit and humour that tailors itself flawlessly to the dark and dire nature of the plot.The greatest fantasy novels I have ever read.
3 A really good read but I was hoping for more movement in the story and character experiences after waiting five years for this next chapter. I hear Martin plans on another 3-5 books in this series, I'll be near death at this rate. Don't read this until you finish the previous 4 books in the series, you'll be lost and never finish it. Drags along in places and I forced myself to finish it in hopes the next one will be better.
2 Long descriptions of characters and places never before heard of.  I assume that somewhere down the line these places and characters will be brought back into the story, but the characters we were following were no where to be seen for a good portion of the beginning of the book.  The ending, of course, ends with us wondering what happens to the characters we know and love.  Now I wonder just how many books there are coming and if it's worth continuing to follow the series.
5 Getting real tired of your shit Dany. Stop whining and regrow the pair you had in the earlier books. R+L=J!!!
1 Disgusted by the trend started by Jordan all those years ago to create the unending series. And now Martin continues the process. How can you really have a voice or a point of view if you just keep babbling on and on?? Finish it even if you give it a lame ending, stop thinking about dollars and more about your craft.  And 4 to 5 years between books, how is that not about money?
2 I am done.  Sad to say, this book has finished the ASOIAF journey for me.  Nothing happens except around 500 pages of filler. The storyline has grown way too unweildy and uninteresting.  Even a Feast for Crows wasn't this bad.  A thousand pages of Tyrion getting captured again and again with little of his usual quick wit to keep amusement sustained.  Throw in Dany's struggle in Mereen which has tons of descriptive detail that is really not necessary and adds nothing to the story. No action whatsoever. Even the chapters with Jon Snow didn't have the spark they did in the first three books.  I'm actually two hundred pages from finishing the book and I don't think I'm going to make it.  I had to stop and read other books out of pure boredom.  I hate that this has happened to this series.  The first three books were the best fantasy that had come out in years.  I did give this book two stars for the Bran and Theon storyline which was at least semi-interesting.I also think this series which has been drawn out supposedly into 7 books now has stopped my propensity from buying series that haven't been finished.  It is happening too often for my taste in this genre and I refuse to keep spending money on the premise of a series that will either take my lifetime to finish or never come out.  I am also sick and tired of funding the watching of Jets games, movie deals, monthly vacations, etc for an author who really can't take criticism and doesn't seem to have any respect for the fans who don't agree with his every thought. Enough!
5 So the first time I read this, I agreed with a lot of the other reviewers.  Too much skipping around, not enough of my favorite characters, no resolution of anything . . . Second time around I can't remember why I thought those things.  I loved it, I don't want to give anything away, but going back a second time and really reading all the chapters instead of skimming the ones I wasn't as interested in really added a whole new dimension and level of appreciation.
2 .. to keep reading this book.  I am not even a 1/3 of the way in and feel like I'm walking in quicksand and the further I go the more I sink and all I can feel is the terror of drowning so slowly and boringly that people will just stand and laugh at me.  I may be able to pick this back up later .. maybe.  I realy feel that this book (even more so than one of the others, which I can't remember at this point as my mind is filled with sludge minutae) was drawn out purposely.  Don't keep dragging things out, man.  Give the story some peace and end if it you need to and move onto another project.  That slow, agonizing, dying death sound is me suffering through the pages.
5 Never quite delving into the world that is fantasy literature, a few years ago I stumbled upon George R. R. Martin's epic series A Song of Ice and Fire...and it was love at the first turn of the page.  Now, 6 years after the last installment, A Feast for Crows, was released, Martin has delivered another masterpiece.  A Dance with Dragons, the fifth and latest book in the series, has proved to be more than well worth the wait that had fans crying foul.  The first 600 of nearly 1,000 pages of the book pick up with many of the beloved characters that had been missing since the end of the third installment.  But Dance goes further, reuniting some of the characters from the previous story as the narrative moves ever onward.  While other reviewers seemed to think there was not enough plot resolution, I think this tale does nothing but build up the excitement and suspense for the next book.Without sending out any spoilers, Dance is the ultimate quest novel.  From suitors racing to the east to win the hand of the Dragon Queen Daenerys Targaryen, to the frozen lands north of the Wall where Jon Snow must keep an ancient evil at bay, Martin's characters must struggle to find order in the chaos that threatens to overwhelm them.  As battles and treachery continue to divide the land of Westeros in the final stages of the wars for the Iron Throne, in the East, mounting threats to Daenerys' rule continue to grow.  Meanwhile, moving ever eastward, Tyrion Lannister flees for his life with a motley band who may turn out to be the most dangerous threat to the Dragon Queen.Poignant, physical, haunting, and even frustrating at times, Martin's A Dance with Dragons delivers all and more than promised.  A page-turning story for people who love fantasy, and even those who don't, you can't miss the latest tale in what promises to be one of the most epic series the genre has ever seen.Caitlin Warnock
4 The only thing I hate about the series is the killing of soooo many good characters, but even that does not stop me wanting more... NOW!I am hoping mr. Martin has the good sense to let Jon Snow live!!!
4 It was a pulling together of many threads running through &#34;The Game of Thrones&#34;. Some were clipped short, others hinted at games yet to come.  The tension between Ice and Fire takes no prisoners. You will either be grateful you live a life of comfort and ease or dream of joining the fray.
5 Long book that goes into depth but still awaiting to see if something good happens to the Starks !!! Can't wait till next book.
5 Now I can hardly wait for HBO to start the second season. I was disappointed that the fifth book ended the series. This was a story that could have gone on and on.
1 Wouldn't you think that after reading the boring book four I'd have had the brains enough not to buy book 5? In my own defense I have to say that somewhere or other I got the notion that book 5 would end the series, and so I bought it, just to see how it ended. Imagine my surprise when I discovered that this waste of time and money still has two more books to go before the series mercifully ends.I have managed to wade through 300 pages of A Dance with Dragons and cannot bring myself to finish this seemingly endless mess of going nowhere. I almost said "going nowhere fast," but in fact, A Dance with Dragons goes nowhere painfully sloooowly.What happened to the forward momentum that drove the first three books? What happened to characters we care about? What happened to--oh, never mind, if I keep this up it'll end up as long-winded as the book.
4 Thank you George R.R. Martin for giving me hours of pleasure and imaginative writing.  Please don't take to long to write Number Six.
5 5 stars for this book.  I am a fan since day 1, read all the books twice (except the last one, I do have some life!!)I felt compelled to review this because i feel that anything less than 4-5 stars is not fair.  This is a great story, and it DOES advance the plot.  In my opinion, Martin is still at the top of his game, and this continues his series with detailed and moving characters and plots.
2 I'm a huge fan of ASOIAF (and the HBO series), to the extent that I've had to buy multiple copies of the earlier books because I've worn them out from re-reading. Luckily (I think!) for me, I picked up the series between ASOS and AFFC, so I haven't been left with *as* unbearable a wait as some others.With ADWD, many of the problems that spawned out of splitting the planned fourth book into AFFC and ADWD (some of which were already present in the last book) have become hard to ignore and detract greatly from the overall reading experience. Not every novel needs to have the breathless pace and constant action of A Storm of Swords, but both AFFC and - especially - ADWD suffer from a languid pace that leaves you wondering "when is something going to happen?" more than "what will happen next?".It was nice to see some of the characters left out of AFFC again, although I can't say I was all that pleased with what we did get. Tyrion's travelogue through Essos could have been interesting had it (1) not been so drawn out and (2) not felt quite so contrived with running into a certain character in Volantis to continue his story. It's nice to get some world-building (unlike many people I see post, I'm actually very interested in knowing more about Essos), but it just doesn't work when you spread Tyrion's journey across an entire, huge, book to do so (especially compard to the more reasonable way travel was dealt with in, say, AGOT, when Catelyn can get around Westeros without needing the entire book to do so).Dany reappears but, well, her character and storyline are both rather stagnant until her last couple of chapters where...well...it's not that significant things happen so much as it seems like they're *about* to happen. Small victories, I guess. Theon returns (he lives!), and probably is the most compelling PoV character in the book. He's not really on a redemption arc, but his psychological sufferings are quite vivid and the goings-on in the North are probably the book's strong point on top of it. I wish I could say the same for the Wall, but while it was good to see Jon suffer some consequences for his decisions, many of his chapters felt rather repetitive (someone comes in to tell him some advice, Jon ignores it, Jon deals with wildlings, repeat). Brienne, though figuring significantly in AFFC, is present but her appearance feels extremely tacked on and without any real purpose other than to set up a cliffhanger.What else? Well, there's the multiple cliffhangers that, while dramatic at first, are now tiresome (Brienne returns from one cliffhanger to exit in another, ugh), the excessive description of traveling, food, urination, sex, etc. that - while providing a lot of detail of the world the story takes place in, does little to actually move the story forward. Repetitive phrases (where do whores go?, etc.) are introduced, descriptions we've heard ten thousand times are back (did any of you know the Sand Snakes are deadly? that they might hide poison or knives in their clothes?), and the book as a whole feels more like it's about putting people in place than anything else. As an aside, it's fitting Areo Hotah appears as a PoV character again in ADWD because he's the same; just there so we can see Doran but offering basically nothing aside from it.Now, if you've actually read some/most/all of this mini-rant, you may be wondering what I liked about the book. Frankly, I'm feeling a bit tired of my own ponderous writing at this point, so I'll use bullets.(1) Theon, Davos, the political situation in the North in general(2) Aegon Targaryen(?), though I admit he should have been introduced earlier probably and I also liked his chapters because they provided much needed action.(3) Wyman Manderly(4) The Melisandre PoV was a good example of how to give a PoV to a character to flesh them out and not simply to relay plot details (plus Melisandre's role is interesting)Despite my complaints above, I feel like we've finally trudged through AFFC and ADWD and the series is in a position where a sense of 'normalcy' can return - the characters in Essos are all more or less positioned where they need to be to meet Dany, in particular. I just wish the journey to get there had been more engaging and worthwhile.
3 A bit rambling with the introduction of new characters.  As other reviewers have noted, it has grown more difficult to separate the story lines in these later books.  Overall the book maintains the richness and attraction of the previous books, it is just not as well put together and has too many characters.  It is hard to read and maintain focus over more than an hour or two.
3 Well, I was so impressed with the first 3 books in the series. Book four was mostly a big setup for what I had hoped would be an Epic Book Five. I am just so disappointed by how weak and pitiful all of my favorite heroes and villains have become... I feel cheated... I was bored and found myself skimming.
1 I can't say it any better than some of the other reviewers already have said it. The author has lost his way, developed too many characters that we don't care about, and spent too many words saying nothing.I wish I had not spent the money and much more importantly the time on this book. This author is too busy writing cookbooks and blogging about football, he should turn the franchise over to someone else so they can at least finish the stories. We read books to escape not to be tortured.Also - the american tolkein? Really? The way these last 2 books have been, they really are just rated M or NC17 soap operas.SPOILER ALERT:Cliffhangers that simply do not get resolved (e.g. Brienne, how did she get out of being hung? - thought it would be resolved in this book? WRONG).Seige by Stannis, and then it's over with NO DETAILS. Wow. Big twist with the onion knight. He's dead, he's not dead - in the end who cares nothing happens. Just a huge waste of time.
5 I love how these books flow and keep right on moving along.  These books never disappoint.  Now the very long wait until the next book comes out.  Loved this book!
5 I am glad I did not become thoroughly convinced this book was a stinker by all the negative and so-so reviews here. As it was, I put off reading it for awhile, because I somehow knew I would not like it. But surprisingly, I really liked it. Much better than the usual clap-trap that is produced as fantastic fiction these days. DWD was well written, thought provoking, and intense at times. The only problem I usually have with these books is the orgy of cruelty and brutality lavished upon the reader. Martin could use to stand back a bit from the excruciating detail involving this, but that is a minor flaw to me. As for waiting another six years to find out what happens to the characters, no big deal. There are plenty of other great books to read while waiting.
4 Follows the nicely organized previous four books in which each character's and its environment at every stage of the whole story is neatly presented. Can't wait for the next book.
4 I love these books!  Book 5 was a significant improvement over Book 4 - Feast of Crows - and picks up the story where Book 3 left off.
5 A great continuation of the series. I don't know why all the bad reviews, I thoroughly enjoyed this book and would recommend it and the whole series to any reader. Now just to wait for the next book to be written.
2 Clearly Martin has lost the passion for this story.  Actually found myself skimming pages to get to the next part, and I'm a patient reader ....  What a shame.  I don't think one can be the "American Tolkien" without actually finishing the tale, and with this book I'm feeling like the tale may never be finished ... this installment seems to have been sheer drudgery for Martin to write.  The earlier books let you feel like you were there ... the scenes in this one seem more like sketches with shorthand references thrown in.
5 Much better than book 4  I can't wait for book six. Hurry up mr Martin you take too long and I want to know what happens to my favorite characters. Such twists and turns. Excellent.
5 George R.R. Martin is a very good writer!  I just wish he would stop killing off all the &#34;good guys&#34; in each book and Book Five is no exception!  So don't like a character too much--he may not make to the end of the book!
5 This is great series.  I am glad I bought it.  I had a great deal of time to read as I am recovering from surgery and the books are very entertaining.
5 My husband has really loved this series and I have heard the same comments from many others who have also read this series.
5 I have waited years for this latest book in the Fire and Ice Series. It was well worth the wait. I think it was his best work to date. Looking forward to George R.R. Martin's next book in the series
2 It's like the author got tired of the whole saga and left everything up in the air; nothing was resolved at the end. He kills off some and the others? who knows, because he obviously didn't either.
5 Love the story, love the unique characters.  Felt like I really got to know them. There is a total of 5 books, however, it felt as though it was not finished and there should be one more book to finish the story.  Also caught some of the characters on the tv show Game of Thrones.  So glad I read the book first, it really put all in place.  BUT believe me these are long long long books.
5 Loved, loved, loved all 5, so hooked. I hope there is more and will definately read any thing else he has written.
3 I waited for years and years and years for this book. It was not worth it.I want to start off by saying that George RR Martin is a master author. He does a classically solid job of putting together a tangled web of insanity that is Westeros/the world. I have no objection in that regard; that's why I read his books.However, the problem is that it's nto even as good as his first book in this series. My favorite part was definitely Arya, because I want her to come back and take over Westeros. I hope that GRRM doesn't kill her, because he has a habit of killing the nice characters with whom you sympathize.My second favorite bit, behind Arya, was the way that Kevan Lannister ALMOST saved the kingdom. It was very much in line with what GRR Martin said about a good man not being a good King and how Jimmy Carter was the best man but possibly the worst president in his lifetime (look up GRRM on the Youtube channel Authors@Google).The book wasn't worth the time that I spent reading about all the other characters, though. If it had been worth 6 years of waiting, it would have been mindblowingly phenomenal. Instead, it was just ok and a simple continuation of the story. Disappointing.
4 This is a continuation of the other. Books. Love it. This was a little slow but worth the pace. Good!!!!
2 Gods be good.  Has George R.R. Martin descended into some Sisyphean hell where he is forever condemned to pen a saga he has come to detest?  Apparently wearied of Westeros, he appears to pine instead for persianesque climes.  But, unlike the One Thousand and One Nights, these 1016 pages are unlikely to beguile either king or commoner.Even before this volume, Martin evidences a slipping of the literary leash.  Not only does his continued killing off of important characters often feel arbitrary and capricious, but the methodical physical and psychological maiming of the remaining protagonists cripples the story itself.  Deaths and devastating injuries should be significant in fiction.  They should propel a plot in an importantly different direction.  So far, this has not happened in A Song of Ice and Fire.  There have been numerous opportunities for such an occurrence, but then a central figure is dispatched, and the particular narrative falters.By A Dance With Dragons, some of the original POV/subplots should be merging.  Instead, they are wafting farther apart and are being weakened in entanglements with dozens of new personages and precipitous plot swings.  At times, by fits and starts, the story seems to be morphing into a decidedly different tale.  But, then, such digressions prove to be mere dalliances as Martin purges his yarn of one more character with whom he has apparently become bored.  It makes a reader want to bite her lip in despair.  For Martin's writing style is just as bold and true as ever.  His descriptions are finely drawn and deliberate and his dialogue as crisp and engaging as in A Game of Thrones.Hardcore fans are bound to engage this book, even if they have to endure legions of new characters, whether nameless wildlings or non-Westerosi with non-memorable monikers.  Such fans will do so simply to revel in the further (mis)adventures of Tyrion, Jon, Cersei, Dany, et alia.After all, Winds of Winter is coming.
4 At my age and considering how slow Martin is, I may not see the end of this series because he's older then I am.I'm reading the whole series. This whole series is great, but Martin needs to write faster. There are so many characters and the plot is so complex its hard to keep track of everyone.At the third book I had to go back and reread one and two because of the time that had gone by. At that time I thought there was only to be three books.
4 A Dance with Dragons was markedly better than A Feast For Crows. I felt that Book 4 was all over the place and I was a bit worried about where the series was going after finishing Book 4. There is still a lot of bouncing around in Book 5, but Martin did a good job of keeping his story lines fairly clear. This was something that I found lacking in Book 4. I feel that he is falling into the same trappings that Robert Jordan fell into with his Wheel of Time series. There are too many characters and there's almost too much going on to keep track of, but to me, that spells out a great series and it means that there will be many more books in this series to enjoy.The plot lines that I am most looking forward to in the next book are: Arya, Tyrion, Cersei, Daenarys, and Jamie and Brienne.Martin is great at delivering shocking twists in his plot lines, and Book 5 proves to be no exception. Those twists all happened at the end of the book, but I suppose that is the point. I'm definitely more than ready to the next book in the series.
5 dont ever get attached to a character from this series!!  you'll have your heart ripped out, stomped on, and mailed back to you in pieces if you do!  cant wait for the next installment!
4 The book is engrossing, even if (by this time) the reader sees some things coming.  Martin is the consummate craftsman.
3 So much has been written in reviews that I won't belabor much of what has already been said.  I have read all 5 books on Kindle in the past 6 months, so I am new to the series.  I had been interested in reading them, but reviews were mixed and given the length of the books, I was not sure I wanted to jump in.  I'm glad I did.Book 5 is far reaching and introduces a number of new characters.  Thankfully, Martin gives us a list of them that is pages and pages long, and an ever expanding map so we can visualize where the action is happening.Martin, in this series, has essentially created a new and complex world full in intriguing characters.  Unfortunately, it seems that, as with these characters, he has gotten lost and just muddles through their world.  The time spent Meereen is particularly tedious.  I was introduced to characters I really wasn't interested in, doing things I didn't care about.As many previous reviewers have said, Martin needs a good editor.  REALLY!  The story, characters, action and descriptions need to be tightened up.  I really read the second half of the book because I wanted to get to the end and found myself skimming and skipping over many paragraphs.Unlike other books in the series, I really didn't mind waiting to go on to the next chapter.  I think that is because the worlds of the North and East or so very different and only vaguely connected to what had became the core location of the book, Westeros.  Sure some of our favorite characters helped to bridge that gap.  But mostly my attention was forcefully and unwillingly jerked from one place to the other.  Someone in another review mentioned that Martin displayed attention deficit disorder in this book, and I agree.Thankfully the book picks up again toward the end with plenty of surprises, cliffhangers and loose ends that beg to be tied up.What I liked:  The development of Cercie and a deeper understanding of her personality.  Tyrion, always.  Although his story did get a little bogged down in Meereen.  The introduction of Penny who begins to help Tyrion develop a different side to himself.  Also the introduction of another new character who may have an important role in the outcome of the book.  More on Bran and his search for his powers.  Theon's character arc.  The ever present, coniving Varys.  Dany finally getting to ride her dragon.Also Martin has done a good job, for a man, in writing compelling female characters.  Since the time period is similar to the Middle Ages in our time, even highborn, strong women had a difficult time.  Men ruled their world and would use physical force to control them.  It's no wonder they had to manipulate to survive.If you like this series, you might also like Sharon Kay Penman's historical fiction set the real life power struggles in England and France during our own middle ages.  The books are much better written, with strong character development, great story arcs, and tighter editing.  And, truly, the truth (human history) is often better than fiction.  The first book in that series is "When Christ and the Saints Slept".All that said, I liked this book enough to look forward to the next one.  I only hope that I and GRRM live long enough to see that day.
4 3.5 starsI don't know how to feel about this book. I don't know that I like it any better or any worse than A Feast for Crows, which was my least-favourite book of the series thus far. And I was, if not expecting, at least hoping to like this one a lot better, because I so many more of my favourite characters were in this one. And there were certainly parts I enjoyed a lot. But there were a lot of parts that frustrated me, a lot of parts that bored me, and a lot of parts that felt completely extraneous. It's definitely in need of judicious editing. I sort of get the feeling that his editors, so happy to have him finally declare it finished, didn't actually spend much time editing before sending it to print. Apart from a lot of unnecessary repetition and a lot of extraneous material, I also found five typos.So, overall -- I'm giving this 3.5 because I just sort of don't know what to do with it. There were quite a few moments that genuinely excited me. But there were a lot of things that frustrated me, that needed editing, or that should've been held off till the next book. And there are so many things left unanswered, so many arcs that began in this book or in Feast that have yet to see any kind of fulfillment whatsoever... Well, I guess we're in for another five or six frustrating years until The Winds of Winter comes out.Full, spoiler-heavy review at: [...]
5 Excellent story. The sex and language is in line with the story and not overdone at all. Can't wait for next book just hope it is not another 6 yrs.
5 I couldn't wait for the paperback version to come out.  I'm three quarters the way through the book and loving it.  I want to finish it, but I'm afraid to see the end.  I hope there will be more books in this series.
5 Loved immersing myself in the world of The Song of Ice and Fire.  A spectacular and huge novel, it presents minute details of events occurring simultaneously from the perspective of many main characters in the story. Hated to see it end.  Dying for novel Six.
2 There is a somewhat humorous analogy hidden somewhere in the sea of black letters about a constipated fat man trying to take a sh!t.  That pretty much sums up this book.  Actually, Martin's sea of letters is much like the Dothraki sea....it is a huge expanse of repetitive scenery in which nothing much of significance happens.As a caveat, I loved the 1st 3 books.  I also love the world Martin has created and do not mind his verbosity in describing characters and settings in detail.  I also do not mind the violence, sex, or fickleness of the world he has created.  However, Martin's fundamental problem with AFFC and ADOD is that he does not move the plot forward.  He introduces so many new characters that I have an easier time keeping track of the elves names in the Similarion.  I understand he is expanding the universe and building up the "eastern/southern" culture.  But so many of his characters are pointless.  And by pointless, I mean that they are introduced only to die or disappear after having contributed nothing to the plot or storyline.  Also, Martin feels the need to create an intricate backstory for every character--which would be fine if they did something important.  Why do I, as a reader, need to slog through 5 pages of filler backstory for a charter who makes only minor appearances?Additionally, why oh why does he insist upon giving us a morass of characters with similar sounding unpronounceable names?  There is another scene in the book where one of the characters complains that all of the names sound alike and he cannot distinguish one from the next.....that would be pretty funny except for the fact that it is the very same experience I had reading the book.  Martin has an infatuation with arkks zzzts dizarss razakss that all blend together.  If you are going to give a character a wierd name, at least make the character interesting.  I had to constantly look up people's names because the names were so unpronounceable and characters so forgettable!  And then in the middle of the arkks zzzts dizarss razakss, there is a shavepate.  When i read that I said WTF is a shavepate? and again needed to turn to the internet.Another example of Martin's inability to move along the plot is the storyline of Tyrion in this book.  I completely understand what Martin is doing with Tyrion's character, but he just takes so long to do it.  I mean, the whole river story plot-line was utterly pointless.  Martin could have just had Tyrion get kidnapped on his way to Pentos and wind up in Merreen with half the pages.  Don't get me wrong, I LIKED the river storyline.....but it didn't get us anywhere. To make another LOTR comparison, it would be like following Sam and Frodo all the way to Mount Doom only to have Frodo decide that the whole ring-quest thing is rather silly, and he'd rather throw in with the elves leaving Middle-Earth.Also, Martin's knack for bringing dead characters back to life hurts the story and diminishes the world he has created.  I liked the fact that no main character was safe.  But if they are all going to come back to life anyways....what's the point in them dying to begin with?  Then, to make matters worse, he doesn't even use the potential of these undead characters.  Catlin Stark as an angry p!ssed off ghost hell-bent on killing all the Freys would have made for interesting reading.  Unfortunately, there is none of that in this book.  There is another character whom we presumed was dead that makes an appearance, but all he does is float down a river.Then, there is Martin's equal knack for sucking the life out of characters that we loved.  Tyrion becomes little more than a drunken  court jester who constantly asks where whores go.  No cunning; no real witticisms; no plotting.  Tyrion just does as he's told and makes an a$$ out of himself.  Dany goes from a powerful intriguing character to a whinny teenager obsessed with screwing bad boys.  The Dragons go from being the ultimate chess piece, to little more than pets locked in a cage...that escape.  Bran turns into a tree....literally.  Jon turns down the opportunity to reclaim his rightful place as a Stark and instead decides to count sausages and wildings and does everything possible to pi$$ people off around him.  So much wasted potential.  Barristan the Bold is now Barristan the Old.  Within 2 books, Martin has managed to suck all the life out of all my favorite characters.  I did enjoy the Arya story/assassin training, but it was done in such a way that it had nothing to do with the plot of the main story.  Stannis does nothing but stand in snow and grit his teeth.  The Red Woman stares into fires and prays a lot.  Cercie gets her comeuppance, but in a fashion that is entirely bereft of poetic justice.  And then SURPRISE!  Someone else we thought was dead is back again!  Someone gie me an Arrrrgggkra!At this point, I don't know if I even care how this thing comes out.  And now, I read it that he intends to write EIGHT--not seven books to finish this story.The most frustrating part of it all is that he has done such a good job of setting up the finale, it should not take so long to get there.  In order to finish this off, he needs the following to occur: 1) The Others need to attack; 2) Dany needs to invade Westeros; 3) Ayra needs to finish her assassin training and return to Westeros on a mission that tears her soul up (i.e., she needs to be sent to kill Sansa or someone she cares about); 4) Samwell needs to get back to the wall and finish his transformation from coward to unlikely hero; 5) Cercie needs to die a painful horrible death; 6) The dragons/Bran/Samwell kill all the Others; 7) Tyrion marries his dwarf girl; and 8) I don't even care who gets the iron throne at this point.Despite all this, yes, I will pony up the dough to read the next offering in this adrift series with the small hope it gets back on course.
5 Loved reading all 5 in the series. The story is exciting and humorous. I can't wait to get home each night and start reading.
1 You will probably come to books 4 and 5 of A Song Of Fire And Ice expecting the books as good as Books 1 and 3. Or at least Book 2 (nobody expects much from "bridge" books so I don't think many were offended by #2). Won't you be disappointed.Frank Zappa had a fun term in the 60's and 70's for albums that were obviously inferior to the band's previous work, cranked out just to get the record company off the artist's back; he called it a "contractual obligation" album. Books 4 and 5 are almost the opposite and Book 5 should never have been written. The whole thing should have been wrapped up in Book 4. I gave this book one less star than Book 4 because of the way it tortured me.But the author succumbed to the lure of HBO money and so he strung out the series while lacking interesting material or story line, subjecting his readers to the worst sort of affliction any author can: boredom. Seriously, I felt like I was being punished by the end of the first third of Book 5. I had a heck of a time getting through the entire series (to date). Could 1800 or so pages (I have a Kindle so it's difficult to tell exactly) feel more like slow death? MY slow death?I guess Martin decided that replacing interesting story with sex was an acceptable strategy to fill the pages. This ramps up in each book after Book 1 as he runs lower on ideas. Let me tell you, it works as well in book form as it does in poorly written movies; sex and swearing takes the place of good plot and character development perfectly, doesn't it? That must be why movie attendance is continually dropping, the strategy DOESN'T work. At all. I'll bet a lot of viewers drop out during Season 4 and the series may be cancelled by Season 5.If you've read Books 1-3 just wait and go straight to Book 6. I guarantee you won't have missed much.
4 After reading this book, the only downside is that now you have to wait for the next book in the series. Martins writing is such a high quality that he has spoiled me. I have been trying in vain to get into some other book/series but I find other writers just aren't as advanced. This guy is a real master of his craft.Some of the criticisms are that not enough happens, and that he drags it along and doesn't acknowledge some of the cliff hangers left in the last series. That is all true, but somehow you cant stop reading. I also think he is beginning to introduce too many characters and it becomes a bit hard to follow at points. Its not the best book in the series, but still a very good book and it will draw you in deep.
1 Why does the Kindle edition cost more than TWICE as much as the paperback and almost the same as the hardcover?Greedy!
5 Awesome cant say enough about this series if your a fan this is a must read so many twists now the wait for six
5 cannot wait for the next in the series to come out, and I am so glad that I read these before the show aired.  Can't wait to see what is to come!
5 I like this book as much as the other four of this series of novels.  George Martin has a way of writing in circles, with the later books hanging around to meet up with his previous book chronologies, which take a certain talent in a writer to pull off well.  Ice and fire will go on for a while yet, as George is still formulating this tale in his head as he goes on with it.  Not that he is likely to be stressed much, to be able to come up with more intrigueing tales to spin, as he completes the work he has begun here, but rather more like data input into a computer program that combines like proofs to complete a theorm or postulation to lay down his own evolution of his imagination.  He does it so well that those of us reading his works anxiously await his outcomes with anticipation that I am sure followed JRR Tolkien's first works of the last century, as the turmoil of Europe gripped the readers he nurtured along after his Triology.  Patience and wait for the next one to come out.
2 Others have done a much better job of describing the story line than I could ever do.  I was a huge fan of books 1, 2, and 3.  Book 4 seemed to drag, and now we hit book 5, A Dance with Dragons.I found this book to be ponderously slow, even tedious.  There was way too much extraneous BS that had to be slogged through.  I don't see the point in mentioning hundreds of names and battles if those aren't mentioned anywhere else in the book...it just seemed like fluff or filler.  It often seemed that Martin was getting paid by the page rather than to produce an excellent book like the first three.  There was "little and less" to like about this book.I kept getting this image of a school boy, assigned a 1,000 word essay, saying all he really needed to say in 250 words, and then "fluffing it out" to reach the required 1,000 words.  I finished this book, but only because I had so much invested in the first 3.  As another reviewer noted "...its time to tie the loose ends and finish this tale".
3 It is an excellent book, imaginative and well written. The literary technique of story telling through each of the characters is great to convey the view, perspectives and feelings individual by individual. This book, like the whole series, is great piece of popular literature but the large amount of places and characters make it hard to follow.
5 Continued saga. However, just wish they would have combined the 2 threads and made two books out of it...having trouble keeping up.
5 Awesome... can't wait for the next book in this great story. I hope it takes many more to complete the tale..
3 Something is rotten in the state of Westeros: 5 chapters into the book and suddenly the writing changes dramatically. Who wrote this and what did you do with GRRM? What happened to the deliciously brutal content, the sharp and crystal clear intent that kept me enthralled for days? This text is full of rambling inconsequential details, floppy prose, sophomoric college level fantasy-101 dialogue, then inexplicably interspersed with phrases displaying flashes of the GRRM ferocity. The master seems to be struggling, graceless, exhausted, desperate. I'm not ready for yet another fantasy god to fall ill.
3 I enjoyed The first three books in the series of A Song of Ice and Fire thoroughly. The characters are incredible and George has really brought them to life, securing Ned Stark as the noblest hero, Arya as the girl we all want to rise...But in A Dance with Dragons, I can see no end. Each chapter jumps to another character, and half the book has gone before we return again.I can understand the need or want to include every detail, but unfortunately, personally, I found it tiresome.However I would definitely recommend the book, and all in the series. I look forward to the next book, and be sorry to say goodbye to the characters when it is &#34;The End&#34;
3 Not bad if you are into this kind of story.  Impossible to keep the 4,121 characters straight though.  I give him 5 stars for always taking the story in a direction i didn't expect. Only one star for how long and confusing the ride is to get there.
2 I only stumbled onto this series because of the HBO series.  And I devoured the first four books in about a week and a half, at the same time re-reading the Black Company series from the beginning even as I was in the middle of She is the Darkness. To say I like this particular genre would be an understatement.I fell in love with the series.  And that's been rare and rarer occurrence in recent years.  Truth be told, in fantasy genre, there are a lot of trash out there.  But when you love the genre, you wade through them in hopes of finding something like this series.  Even with the good books, after so many of them in so many years, they don't touch you as the early ones once did.  But this one certainly did.  I cannot even remember being as horrified and actually ANGRY at the villains as I was when I was reading through the Red Wedding.  When you're as jaded as I conceit myself to be, that's a treat indeed.So this book was a huge disappointment.  In fact, this seems another Wheel of Time in the making.  At the risk of sounding snobbish, that's not a compliment.  Maybe the author doesn't mind.  Churning books is lucrative, and as people invest in characters, they forgive much and dutifully buy the next installment.  but if you can't tell a story in about three books (the LotR standard), maybe you shouldn't write. (I know, the Black Company is like 7 books long but the change of POV narrator keeps the books pretty fresh)This book goes nowhere in particular, stews like the thin broth the starving masses (and there are many in this book) huddle around, and dissolves into a cliffhanger that actually gives no suspense.Bear with me for a sec.  Parents who prep the young ones for daycare in the morning may be familiar with an educational PBS program called Between the Lions.  One of the skits is a crudely animated short called "Cliffhanger" where a mountaineer perpetually hangs from a stunted tree limp on a cliff.  Each episode, he contrives a way to be rescued and in the end, he still ends up hanging from the cliff.  The music concludes, "Cliiiif hanger, hanging from the cliff.  That's why he's named... Cliff Hanger!"That's this book.However, I will grant the maps in the beginning of the book are drawn much nicer.I'll finish this series, no doubt.  And it can be redeemed with the resolution in the next book.  But I finish all my series, even the foul, unreadable ones. (see my Ed Greenwood book review)
5 This book was great, it really does leave you hanging though and I know the author was saying that it will be a year or so before he even has time to write the next book. That sucks, but overall this book and the four before it were really great. I love this series, the characters are with me where-ever I go, I can't stop thinking about them...how many other books do that!?I was upset by some of the things that happened in this book but he's been doing that to us since Eddard Stark died, so it's a little less painful after that...and what the fuzz is Arya doing?!I would highly recommend this series to anyone and everyone, in fact, despite looking like a mega-nerd I promote the series to everyone I know. If you get the chance, read this series, I highly doubt you will regret it.
4 I hate myself for buying this book after suffering through Book 4, but I was pleasantly surprised. Flow was much better and less disjointed. It was easier to read because the main subjects are Tyrion, Danyerys and Ayra.
3 It's nigh impossible for George R. R. Martin to write a terrible book. So, despite the shortcomings of this book, it is still better than many others on the market.A Feast for Crows and A Dance of Dragons should have been ONE book. Had they been edited properly, removing the constant description of nobles and their arms/crests, etc., there would have been an, almost, excellent book.My biggest complaint is the repetitious descriptions and the cliff hangers. Books 1 - 3 were amazing books! They wrapped up some plots while furthering the overarching plot. This book, unfortunately, runs around in circles trying desperately to avoid anything that might have been "predicted" by fans. So, where does that leave things? Outrageous, ridiculous occurrences. That's where.If you are a fan of this series, borrow the book from a friend or a library. There are some fantastic parts in it and we can only hope and pray that the next book will come in a timely manner and make a heckuva lot more sense than parts of this one did.As for the treatment of 'main' characters... I am really disappointed with the arbitrary murder, etc. of characters just for shock value. Can we get back to the fantastic, meaty books of 1 - 3? Please?
5 Just when you think you have things figured out Martin throws in surprising turn after surprising turn. Sometimes the plot twists make me gasp out loud, much to the annoyance of my coworkers. I don't know what I will do while I wait on book six to be released.
1 I'm emotionally invested in the characters, but nothing seems to happen. When some plot lines starts to get interesting the book shifts to a new character. Disappointing, I hope they do a better job of the 4th season on HBO.
3 Gets crazy long, slow and convoluted. Hope he can bring the series back, maybe he should work towards shorter books.
5 Can't wait for the next book. Love your stories Mr Martin keep writing please. I'll be watching for the next book.Thanks for your excellent characters.
2 This book is a real drag. The Slave Bay faux-exoticism was tolerable when it came in small doses, but a book dominated by it makes for a grueling read. It takes the first half of this book to catch all of the less interesting characters up with the storyline from the previous book. Very little goes on during this time, however. Just angst and indecision - 500 pages worth of it. The second half of the book is about ten times better, and the last quarter has some genuinely exciting moments. It would take a lot more to make up for the slog that is the first half, though. It doesn't help that Martin has become extremely predictable. Setups are dangled before the reader and then dashed to the ground (does anyone fall for the prospect of the good guys winning even a small battle anymore?), characters are wantonly killed and then resurrected so often that all of the deaths in the book lose their impact. Introducing a character and then killing them before they can do anything worthwhile has become tiresome, as well. I'm sure that I'll still pick up the next book when it comes out, but I won't have much in the way of expectations.
4 I waited to read this volume because I was disappointed by the previous (Feast for Crows).I shouldn't have waited. Dance with Dragons was a great read and has me back in the saddle with this series. Hurry up Winds of Winter.
4 It's hard not to feel a little bit cheated by one-for-two trick that Martin has pulled with his last two books. &#34;A Feast for Crows&#34; and &#34;A Dance with Dragons&#34; feel like a great book masquerading as two lesser ones. And while &#34;Dance&#34; is certainly more satisfying and certainly less meandering than &#34;Feast,&#34; it's impossible to deny that the series' pace has slowed dramatically.With &#34;Dance,&#34; Martin returns to the triumvirate of his &#34;Song of Ice and Fire&#34; saga - Jon Snow on the Wall, Daenerys in the East, and Tyrion Lannister more or less wandering all over the place. While we get the occasional glimpse of other characters (Jaime appears only briefly, while Davos' storyline is unceremoniously dropped halfway through the book), it's these three that drive the plot and spurn the gears in motion towards the series' endgame.The number of plot threads here are stifling, and the weight of Martin's story becomes heavier with each volume; at this rate, the last two books will be 2,000 pages apiece with print so small you need a microscope to read it. Game-changing twists are introduced, adding more complexity to plots that were convoluted to begin with. More than ever, this series feels like a chess game - you can practically see Martin moving the pieces across the board, positioning every pawn and pony in just the right place in time for the inevitable final clash.While it's definitely not the best of the series, &#34;A Dance with Dragons&#34; is yet another trophy on Martin's increasingly wobbly shelf. The world-building going on here is phenomenal, and it's easy to forget the immensity of Martin's creation - there are plots within plots within more plots, a wealth fascinating side characters, and enough mythology to make Tolkien balk in disbelief. The board may be crowded, but the game is as thrilling as ever.
4 Of all of the ASOIAF books, this was the one I most looked forward to. The title suggested something fabulous was going to happen with Danerys and her dragons, and after A Feast For Crows, I was eager to learn everything GRRM admitted had been left out of that book.Unfortunately, very little actually happens in this book. Admittedly, that's because most of the book is taken up with retelling AFFC from other characters' points of view, but even after all that has been done, very little happens. Certainly nothing happens that answers any of the questions and cliffhangers from AFFC.I feel like characters are safe again. At the beginning of ASOIAF, any characters, no matter how central or important they were, could lose their heads. Now, GRRM seems to have lost his teeth, and is reluctant to kill off any characters, even minor ones, even when it seems to me at least, that thye should have died a dozen times by now (Davos, any one?)Part of GRRM's appeal to me was the fact that nobody was safe from him, but that's been lost now. At one point, a MAJOR character is missing, presumed dead, and I never once feared for their safety. In earlier books, I would have assumed the worst.This book has the same unfinished feel to it that AFFC did. Important characters are referred to only fleetingly, and some not at all (there's no Sansa or Petyr or Samwell, those chapters were written but will appear in The Winds of Winter).AFFC is very tightly focues and constrained, wheras ADWD is sprawling and wide-ranging. I think, having gone straight from AFFC to ADWD, the contrast in the two styles threw me, and as a result I didn't enjoy ADWD as much as I did the previous books.The cliffhangers come a little freely in this book. I've often called GRRM the king of cliffhangers, but that's because I think he is a master at timing them, and resolving them timely as well. There were too few resolutions in this book, and when they came, they were incomplete. YI was left thinking "Ok, so that character who in AFFC seemed ansolutely certain to die, is alive. BUT HOW? WHY?" The resolutions to some cliffhangers were only given a fleeting mention- some only a few words, which was frustrating.The evolution of some characters is disappointing. Jon Snow being made Lord Commander of the Night's Watch would obviously change him, but I think he's changed too much, and he's very annoying. He spends most of the book seeking advice off all around him, then ignoring it and doing his own thing.Other characters' progressions are overly drawn out. I, for one, wish Arya would hurry up and finih her damn training. I spent most of the book waiting for Tyrion to come into his own, and be the conniving devious git he was in the earlier books.Don't get me wrong, this book is brilliant. The characters are all believable and deep and three-dimensional, the plots are intricately woven and the setting is incredible. By the standards of other writers, this book is breathtaking. By the standards GRRM set in his earlier books, it's a little disappointing, especially after such a long wait.If I had read the books as they were released, I would have been waiting 5 or 6 years between A Feast For Crows and this book, and I would have been sorely disappointed.
4 I love the HBO series, so I read the first 4 books, and got this as soon as I could.I noticed this one did drag a bit, as did the 4th one, but I am still going to stick with it to see who ends upSitting on the throne.This one also has some added twists that were unexpected.Over all, a good read.
5 this book is one I couldn't drop, number five is a book about rustling up some feathers for more to begin to the next book. loved it! can't wait for 6!
5 I literally tried not to finish the book because I can't wait to read the next! So many twists and turns it is great!
4 There is a bit more of the fantasy and magic in this book. However, the plot develops the fates of the characters that remain after the first four books in a compelling way, especially that of Tyrion Lannister.
1 1000 pages of endless dithering.  Dany has three dragons but can't bring herself to work with them.  Too many different characters doing different things with little story cohesion.  Just when a chapter actually gets going it ends and you are back to food descriptions, sailing, marching, back story...There is little development of Bran and Arya, both were fascinating possibilities but he just teased us with them.And not an Other in sightAnd the end?  Was the worst part. Made me angry. No more of my money  will I spend Mr Martin has lst his way. Good stories have a beginning a middle and an end.  He is just milking us now like Terry Brooks and Robert Jordan.
5 By the time I got to this book i the series I was caught hook, line & sinker. I thought the first couple of books were slow and really only started reading them because I saw the first show of Game of Thornes on tv and was compelled to read these only because Sean Bean  played Edard Stark. Sure wish Mr. Martin would hurry up and finish this series. It's killing me.
3 Not as good as the first few but I will hope the next will be better..I have hope the series will be entertaining.
5 Come on George, get the next one out!  Really ended on cliffhanger, but then this series seems to do that.
5 If you like ANY of the characters introduced in the previous books, just stop after the first one. Here's a clue: everyone that you like dies. You thought you were upset about the Starks? If you were disappointed after reading the first one, but were captivated and had to continue to the next book, then the next, and you are finally here, then I'm sorry. This fine masterpiece kills off any other character that you fell in love with, and introduces a lot of other &#34;players&#34; (aka B-Listers) into the series. It follows along with them, only giving you hints of what is going on with the main characters that aren't dead yet. This also makes you continue to fall in love with Jamie. Yes, you heard me right. If you've only read the first book and you are reading this, then go away. Others will understand. A man who was banging his own sister, a baby-killer and traitor, becomes even more noble. I hate it, but I can't stop reading. Screw you, George R. R. Martin, for sucking me into this series.
2 Honestly, I couldn't believe that the book was over. I got it on Kindle, so I wasn't really aware of how far along in the book I was. I happened to glance down at the percentage line at the bottom, and I was 94% of the way through the book! I was shocked. I heard the book was over 1,000 pages, so how had I got through it so quickly? And how was the book ending when nothing actually happened?? Then it dawned on me-- all those pages that I had clicked my way through, because nothing was happening (or because Martin was going into painstaking detail describing someone being burned, raped, or mutilated). I had unwittingly skipped my way through the book.I was crushed. I had been looking forward to curling up with my favorite character: Daenerys and her dragons (as the title led me to believe), hopefully heading to Westoros to give the evil Cersei her due. (though Jaime I had started to grow fond of after that last book) But the dragons are chained up (except for an exciting scene in the fighting pits), and Daenerys has lost the fire she had when she double-crossed the slavers and burned them all in book three.Tyrion, my second favorite character (at least since Martin killed off/exiled/changed all the Starks), doesn't do a darn thing the whole book.Jon Snow proves himself totally unfit to command the Wall, and gets killed for it. But what else is he supposed to do when apparently there isn't a decent man of the Nights Watch left anyway??There are a whole bunch of new perspectives that I didn't care at all about. The problem with killing off all your main characters is that your readers are no longer emotionally involved in the story. So we (readers) don't feel bad about leaving all these newcomers to whatever fate Martin may have in store for them.I never thought I would say this about a thousand page book, but it ended too fast. It could have ended even sooner, but I kept expecting something to happen, so I kept reading. A good editor would have cut this down to 200 pages, tops. Frankly, I could have done without the whole book, except the scene where Daenerys first rides the dragon.
5 The entire series is wonderful. You get total &#34;surround sound&#34; with these books! The descriptions are so vivid it places you right in the action. Only down side is having to wait till next year for the follow up book!
4 I just finished reading the fifth book in the Song of Ice and Fire series A DANCE WITH DRAGONS. I'm actually reading the Kindle version of the book -George R. R. Martin's A Game of Thrones 5-Book Boxed Set (Song of Ice and Fire Series): A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Swords, A Feast for Crows, and A Dance with Dragons- much easier to hold my Kindle Fire HDX than these 1,000+ page books.This offering was better than book four - A FEAST FOR CROWS - but still left a lot to be desired. My favorite characters (at least most of them) were back in this book but the story stalled. This book is OVER a thousand pages long and I felt that at least half of that was filler.Lots of attention to detail but very little character development in this book. I read the whole thing. All five door stopper books. After all, I loved the first three books in the series. But books four and five have soured me on the Song of Ice and Fire experience. I'm more than a bit leery about reading books six and seven when they come out. I know that I will - I have to find out what happens to my favorite characters (at least the ones that don't get killed off right away). GRRM is quite the hatchet man author. I just hope we don't have to wait too long for the final books in the series. And I hope the spark that was there in books one through three will be back.
4 I thought alot about whether to give this three stars or four.  I finally decided to give it four because despite the over long details with names and characters, I still find myself drawn to the book and enjoying it very much.  What keeps me reading it is I care about the characters and want to know what eventually happens with them.  They are colourful and entertaining, just don't take the book too seriously.  I do, however, find some of the situations too violent and have to skim through them.  All in all, though, I am really enjoying it.
2 There is no resolution to this series!!!! I read all 5 and this author does not ever wrap it up!!!He goes on and on and never gives the reader ANY satisfaction. I am furious! This guy has violated every rule of novel writing,but he is successful in getting us Fools to buy 5 of his books.Maybe he has a 6th book but at this point I dont trust him and I'm DONE!!!
5 Well, the long wait for A DANCE WITH DRAGONS is over, and we finally get to hear from some of our favorite characters from A Song of Ice and Fire.  Jon, Daenerys, Bran, and Tyrion take center stage here in the 'companion' volume to A FEAST FOR CROWS.  And while the story hasn't picked up the pace to the level of A STORM OF SWORDS, there are definite areas of acceleration and the story is quite obviously being guided towards a specific goal by the masterful hand of GRRM.  I know this review will probably earn 10 unhelpful votes within an hour of its being posted simply from being positive, but I wanted to present the plus side of what is still in my opinion the strongest epic fantasy currently running (the negatives have been adequately covered I would say).First of all, so much of what made the first three books in this series so powerful is still present here.  The quality of writing and character development, the realistic grittiness and coldness of the setting, the brutal and painful experiences of the characters that make the reader squirm, and the constant foreshadowing of the horrors of the approaching Winter, are the tried and true formula for this series, and that hasn't changed here.  One of the most well-developed fantasy settings ever imagined only continues to grow, with more maps, more fleshed-out legends and history, and more well-defined geography and landscape.  The arcane has become more prominent, with magic influencing A DANCE WITH DRAGONS more than the previous books, but still the gods and their magic remain mysterious forces, mostly in the background.  If you have loved this series for the well-imagined world and characters, you'll love this book too.Also, Martin is finally starting to rein in the expansion of story-lines here.  It is plain to see the effort to draw many of the disparate stories into a few cohesive groups, with an apparent focus on actually getting this mega-epic to a point where an inclusive conclusion is possible.  Two books ago I couldn't imagine how Martin might possibly bring all of these stories to an end, but now I can just glimpse a speck of light at the end of the tunnel.  Not that I even try any more to predict where this is going.  I think you're fooling yourself if you think you know where this journey ends, as major plot twists are still the rule, rather than the exception in this series.  Who saw Daenerys marrying a Meereneese? or Theon regaining the hero's seat?  And for those that say this book doesn't progress the story, I just don't see how that argument can be made.  Every chapter here serves a purpose to march these characters towards some definite conclusion.  Not every chapter serves up battle, death, or assassination, but every chapter gets us to where we're going.  Despite being over 1000 pages, there isn't wasted space here.While it is plain to see that this book left a bitter taste in many fans' mouths, What did people expect here?  We knew this was going to take place in the same timeline as A Feast for Crows, and we knew it was going to be mostly set up for the final books of the series, but people somehow expected world-altering events and conclusive endings for major story-lines?  This series is a perfect example of enjoying the ride for its own sake and letting the end arrive in its own time.  While I hope that the rest of the series is completed in a much more timely manner than these last two books, in the end, those books will be judged based on their own merits, not on the amount of time it took them to reach me.In some ways, all of the attention and seeming outrage over this fifth installment of the series speaks to the strength the previous books have had.  I'm not sure where the insane expectations for this book came from, but just the fact that they exist is a testament to the quality and power of these books.  Call me a fan-boy, but to me, this series remains one of the best of all time, and A DANCE WITH DRAGONS simply represents one more step along an amazing journey.Martin's epic saga is able to draw you in, mesmerize you, beat you up, and spit you out as nothing else in literature.  Very Highly Recommended!!
5 What can I say, I love this series. Wish the books came out faster! Did not want to put it down.
5 great series, even better than the show.  more detailed than show.  i picked up on things in the book i didn't in the tv show.
5 Wife loves the books and I love watching the series. She's been trying to get me to read the books but I never have time. One day I will read them though!
5 Great book, came in mint condition. Cool edition. Hopefully they will give us a hardcover box set soon. I love this book and cant wait for the next one.
5 Love all of the books. Read them all back to back. Can not wait for the final two books. Such good story lines.
5 If you've already plowed thru the 4,000 pages of books 1-4, you know you're gonna read 5, and 6, and 7, and however many it takes to the end. The story continues. Indefinitely.About the only thing that will make me give up is if the delay between books just drags on. The maybe I'll wait 20 years and re-read the whole thing from the library.
5 Although I read some bad reviews for this 5th book , I had looked forward to reading it and wasn't put off by said reviews . I am so happy that I ignored them.  A Dance with Dragons didn't disappoint . Now I can't wait for the 6th book . Another book you won't want to put down . So many twists and turns , Mr. Martin keeps you on the edge constantly .
4 I don't think his writing is &#34;wow&#34; but it is a fun read and a good yarn.  It goes great with the HBO series and it is interesting to see the differences.
5 After the somewhat slow pace of the 4th installment, this book takes off and doesn't slow down. All across the narrow sea, plots are laid and destroyed as quickly as you can turn the page. Martin returns to his original style, where no one is safe from the sword (or dagger) and favorites are no safer than common villains.  There are also many new characters introduced that will leave you wondering where Martin is going with this epic tale.
5 I was just dying to read this book. Lord knows I waited long enough. It is AMAZING and just makes you crave for the author to FINISH THE STORY!!!
4 Not Jon Snow. Martin kills all I care about. I honk I skipped every other word to try to see what was going to happen!
3 So... when's this frickin series going to get some closure Mr. Martin?? He better write another one because it's driving me nuts not knowing what's going to happen next.I also wanted to say that this book is a lot slower than book 4. In book 4 it seemed like something crazy happened at the end of each chapter. In this one there was a huge lead up and then nothing happened...wtf? That being said, if you read and liked the first four like I did, you pretty much have to read this.
5 BEING VAGUE SO THERE ARE NO SPOILERS IN HERE: I can't get enough of these books!!! I tried not to read so fast because who knows when the 6th one will be released. This book, in particularly, had me reading all the time! I would go extra subway stops so i didnt have to put it down. The stories are just so captivating and I can't wait for the next one to come out!!!
5 Hope the next book comes out SOON!
5 great book.  I am looking forward to reading the next book. I want to see what people think about the dragons.
5 These books are a real treat.  I have read them over and over again.  It's amazing how much you pick up re-reading these books.  There is so much detail in every one.  I really hope he continues this series
4 I thought this was a pretty good fifth addition to the Ice and Fire series. Aside from some of the other posts, I thought, even though it left alot-I mean alot-of open ended stories, it also cleared some things up. I am just afraid Martin will never finish the series. I keep hearing Book 6, Winds of Winter, is suppose to come out next year, and then its the next year. This guys going to pull a Robert Jordan and die before he finishes.If you are into classic fantasy adventures with a twist that are character driven and have a believable, exciting plot, check out this new fantasy adventureA Chance Beginning: Book One of the Shadow's Fire Trilogy
2 I loved the first 3 books.  Literally could not put them down.  The 4th started getting way too detailed and draggin on.  No closure and GRRM keeps introducing even more characters and "losing" some.  This 5th book actually became boring and I lost interest.  The story line skips back in time and retelling story lines that have already been covered.  I'll probably read the next one, but if there isn't closure, that will be it for me.
5 Great series of books!!!  Can't wait till the next book comes out.  Surprises in this one.  Each chapter has you on edge wanting more.
5 Book #5 carries on with a few new characters, and does flash-back to some of the important characters in earlier books
4 I love getting books online.  The price is comparable to what I can get at the local store and I didn't have to get out. The book itself was okay, not up to the first 3 though.  Anxious for the 6th to come out just to see how in the world R.R Martin can bring this story to an end.
5 I must respectfully disagree heartily with those, whose reviews state that Books Four and Five move too slowly and don't move the story forward.  As a writer myself, I can tell you that sometimes, with a work of this scope and breadth, the story must move laterally before it can move forward or the quality will suffer.  Obviously, the author does not intend his work with this series to be a succession of quick, shallow, A-to-B-to-C-to-D-to-E, slam-dunk-you're-done novels.  Any writer can do that.  But with a work of this scope, it's important (and I think very fascinating) to know how the characters each got from C to---let's call the final book F, which I am assuming will be the grand finale.  This series is epic and so well done that each time I put a book down, I have a hard time returning to reality for a few moments.  If you aren't, you're missing the whole point of a work like this.The excellent quality of the author's writing, alone, makes Books Four and Five WELL worth reading.  And they are quite necessary to the work as a whole.
5 Brilliant!  A tour-de-force of story-telling in the fantasy genre!Daenerys Targaryen, the silver-haired dragon princess, finds herself ruling the savage lands known as "Slaver's Bay".  Jon Snow, the bastard Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, unwittingly creates discension among the ranks of the ancient brotherhood.  And the kinslayer Tyrion Lannister, on the run from bounty hunters, makes his way across Essos, hoping to find and to serve the Targaryen princess.  Through the trials and the hardships of these three main characters, the story unfolds.  And what a story it is!  Plots are resolved, while new ones develop.  Characters die, new ones are introduced.  Chaos and unrest are on the rise in both East and West.  Slaves dream of freedom.  Magical abilities increase.  The three dragons (Drogon, Rhaegal, and Viserion) continue to grow stronger, and wilder.  The supernatural threat from the far North makes itself more prominent as the long winter approaches.  And the freedom-loving savages known as the Wildlings have come down from the far North to settle below the Wall.  While the eunuch, Varys, continues to create his own brand of disorder within the capital city, King's Landing.  Cersei, daughter of the great house of Lannister, continue in her inept rulership of the Seven Kingdoms.  Meanwhile, players big and small continue to play the game of thrones.As in the previous volumes, the story is told through character point of views.  While this gives you intimacy with those particular characters, non-major characters tend to remain an enigma. Not every reader will appreciate this type of narrative, I'm afraid.  But if you can deal with it, I think you are in for a long love affair with A Song of Ice and Fire.I don't think this humble reviewer will need to work very hard to sell you on this book.  The previous volumes and the new HBO television series speak for the novel.  It goes without saying that anyone wishing to read this novel should only do so after reading the previous four that preceded it.  If you are already a reader and would like to join a community of others to share your thoughts, theories, and ideas with, be assured that there are plenty of online communities out there dedicated to the series.  Towerofthehand.com is one of the more popular sites, along with Westeros.org.
4 i really like this series, but the battles are a bit tedious.  Many characters to keep track of too. But a great story
4 A Dance with Dragons continues the story begun in A Game of Thrones.  I am completely enamored of the massive story. The many story lines and characters are a challenge to keep straight but it is worth the effort.  I began reading the series after I watched the first season of the t.v. show and though I enjoyed the story I felt I was missing part of it. As to be expected the books are far better and have the back stories I was missing.  Waiting for the next installment is torture.
2 It very well may be that I am not the right demographic for these novels--my 30ish sons turned me on to them originally--however, I am a voracious reader & can whip through these puppies in pretty short order.Not this one.Couldn't BEGIN to make sense of the geography (even with maps), constantly felt obliged to refer to the appendix in the back (which is not easy with a heavy hardback), finally gave up worrying about exactly which character whose name begins with 'A' was in reference...Here's what I *did* like (in general terms, no spoilers): the colorful disparities between the various peoples--Westeros, Ghiscari, Unsullied, etc., the Wall as a character in itself, the underpinnings of religious bigotry evidenced throughout.Problem is, there is nothing in DwD that advances these qualities past the previous books; in fact, DwD seems to take particular delight in an absurd level of...what? I just *don't know*! Wading through page after page with no pay-off. Why and wherefore? Boy, it *sure* is COLD!! Um, yeah.So, I cannot in good faith recommend it. But I do think the TV version will cure 99% of these ills. It's just not a great read.
2 The whole middle section of the book (about 400 pages) could have been edited out, which would have left room for more exciting final chapters. Martin seems to favor a flurry of plot twists at every book's finale, which is fine--but this time even these felt half-completed. Hopefully he'll listen to reviews and get a new editor for the next book.
4 I don't as yet have anything to say about this book since I have not read it yet, I have seen the series and it's  good.
4 After the publication of five massive tomes and two seasons of an HBO series based on his books, I think it's tough for anyone who is a fan of fantasy fiction to be unaware of George R. R. Martin's series, A Song of Ice and Fire. A Dance with Dragons is the long-awaited fifth installment in the book series, and finally brings back those favorite characters missing in the previous volume.If you haven't read through A Storm of Swords (book three), then just beware that this review may contain spoilers for you. Anyone who has only watched the television series will be lost. In A Feast for Crows (book four), Martin continued his technique of rotating through different point-of-view characters on a chapter-by-chapter basis. However, some notable characters had been left out. Whether you agreed with this decision (as explained in an afterward to book four) or not, the absence of Daenerys, Tyrion, and Jon Snow rankled with many fans. Although this new volume returns to those characters, the events overlap with the timeline from book four, creating some d&eacute;j&agrave; vu as news spreads across Westeros and beyond.Tyrion Lannister's whereabouts have been a mystery, as he is one of the most wanted and recognizable men in Westeros. Accused of murdering Joffrey at his wedding, the Imp has also slain his father and vanished from King's Landing. In the opening of book five, he turns up in the free city of Pentos with Magister Illyrio Mopatis, who had helped sell Daenerys to the Dothraki in book one. Illyrio's motives are mysterious, but he convinces Tyrion that drowning himself in alcohol is not a worthwhile profession for someone as intelligent as the black sheep of the Lannisters. Tyrion heads toward Volantis with a group of mysterious companions, presumably to team up with Daenerys and her cadre of dragons.Daenerys Targaryen sits ensconced as queen of the slaver city of Meereen. Her dragons have grown and cannot be trusted to roam free. She is threatened by armies from neighboring cities, as well as murderous rebels within Meereen's own population. Despite her original intent to return to Westeros to claim the Iron Throne as the Targaryen heir, she becomes bogged down by the machinations of numerous councilors, shady politics, and her own uncertainties.In the north, Jon Snow guards the wall against the dark threat of wights and beasts of legend. He is also swamped by his newfound responsibilities, but deals with them more decisively than Daenerys. Surrounded by wilding prisoners, insubordination among his own men, and demands from Stannis Baratheon, Jon Snow makes his decisions and stands by them.Like the previous books, there are so many major characters that if I try to count them I know I'll leave someone out. Bran travels with Jojen and Meera Reed, looking for more information about his dreams. Quentyn Martell, heir to Dorne, has a secret proposal for Daenerys. The Iron Fleet is on the move, but Asha Greyjoy has fled after her failed bid for the Seastone Chair. Davos Seaworth smuggles himself again. Jaime Lannister travels around a bit, flashing his golden hand and forging peace in the Riverlands. Arya Stark appears briefly, moving on to the next stage of her training, and Cersei Lannister must finally face some consequences for her actions.Despite the length of this volume, you won't see Samwell Tarly, Rickon or Osha, Sansa Stark, Littlefinger, or Brienne in this one.One of the most interesting perspectives in this book comes from Theon Greyjoy. No, he's not dead. But after we learn what he has been through, it would have been kinder if he had been slain. As disturbing as some of his scenes are, I was fascinated to read his interactions with his captor. I have also found someone to hate more than I did Joffrey, and that's a feat.I thought that the pacing of book four dragged, so A Dance With Dragons is exciting in comparison. However, the dragons play only a minor role and nothing that happens in this book can top the events in the second half of A Storm of Swords. Still, the world is as richly drawn as all of Martin's writing, and the story expands to cover a larger geographical area as well as pulling in more characters.The most intricate plot twists and shocking events occur in the north of Westeros. Unfortunately most of the characters in the rest of the world spend the entire time traveling with little resolution to their story arcs. I was also disappointed in Daenerys because I just can't make myself care about the plight of the slaver cities and all of her entourage. It's time for her to ride a dragon to Westeros, already!For fear of sounding too critical, I just need to say that this is still a great book. The characters are phenomenal and the writing is better than almost anything else out there. If you loved A Storm of Swords and felt let down by A Feast for Crows, A Dance with Dragons takes the series and reinvigorates it with newfound direction and hints at the fire and darkness to come.
3 I have liked few books as the first 2 or 3 in the ice and fire sage from George RR Martin: what a giant among writers he was in those first books. The last however and in particular this very last one, the impression is the GRRM is getting paid by the page or word: huge shame.
3 I sense the author is getting tired of the story and I'm frustrated that the book concludes while leaving so many stories untold and incomplete.
5 I really am enjoying the series, wish I had hours to just sit and read! Can't wait for the others to come out.
5 I cannot attest to the quality of this book, but I can confidently state that this book series has allowed me to watch the worst reality TV known to man since my husband is tied up reading these and not whining about what channel I'm watching. Score one for the Real Housewives.
3 Yikes! It feels like the author has lost control of the story. By book 5, one would think some of the parts would begin to come together, but instead the parts are INCREASING with no sign of ever being united again...
2 After finishing ADWD, my only response was, "That's it?".  I love Martin's writing.  The book was an easy read, but it felt like one long bridge section building up to something that never happened.I hate to say it, but this is reminding me very much so of the last FIVE books by the late Robert Jordan.  He too could write a thousand pages of nothing and make you enjoy it.  You spend your time on what appears to be a hearty meal only to find that you've eaten nothing but filler.ADWD should have been a full meal.  It was barely a snack.
4 A thrilling climax to this series of science fiction.  Fun for sci-fi adult lovers of this kind of fiction.  Read the whole series.  You won't be disappointed!
4 I thought that the first three books of George R. R. Martin's &#34;A Song of Ice and Fire&#34; series were absolutely wonderful, each one better than the one before.  Book four in the series &#34;A Feast for Crows,&#34; was a pretty big disappointment.  &#34;Crows&#34; lacked many of the major characters that fans had come to know and love, and Martin promised that, as book four and five were meant to take place simultaneously, those missing characters would inhabit the pages of book five.  Starting book five I was looking forward, then to seeing (spoiler alert) the return of Jon, Tyrion, and Daenerys, among others.&#34;A Dance with Dragons&#34; is a good book in the series, much better than &#34;Crows,&#34; and yet it doesn't quite measure up to those amazing first three books.  The story is growing, and that is both a good and a bad thing.  It is good because it is increasing the epic feel of the series, and it is introducing us to some interesting new characters and scenarios, which is important because George has a tendency to kill off so many of his characters.  The story, however, is also becoming unwieldy, and seems in danger of losing focus.  I realize that's probably not the case from the author's point of view, who can see much further than the reader can, and yet it is what it is.  When a story becomes so big that you can't keep up with it, you the reader will lose interest.  You look at the &#34;Star Wars&#34; films which had this amazingly epic scope- a fight for the galaxy- and yet managed to keep the story focused on five-six main characters throughout.&#34;A Dance with Dragons&#34; offers some great twists and, as noted above, some fun new characters.  Jon has some major challenges to overcome, and Tyrion's journey may be a highlight of the book (though of course Tyrion is perhaps the best character of the entire series).  The Daenerys storyline, while occasionally interesting, left me cold for the most part.  The bottom line is if you like the series, and like me was disappointed with &#34;Crows,&#34; you will  generally enjoy this entry.  Here's hoping book six will return to some of the magic from the series' beginning.
5 this one- book 5 is so...fast paced! we are traveling quickly to so many places- like a locomotive nearing it's final destination- you can feel the electricity in the air of everything 'coming to a head' ... an exciting read!
5 I don't understand why anyone would give this book less than five stars.  Obviously I have read the four preceding novels and loved all of them as well.  Kudos to George for writing another awesome episode in the epic that is A Song of Ice and Fire.
5 I have just recently read all 5 books from the Game of Thrones  and loved them all.  I read them back to back so when I was finished experienced real withdrawal symptoms.  Can't wait for # 6 to come out.  But at the end of #5 I was very upset because someone that I really liked dies.  I will not say who, hoping that somehow he gets back. .
4 I'm hooked on this series, however book 5 cannot compare to the first.  Still I can't put it down.  Martin spends too much time however, in describing scenes,some of which are pretty disgusting as you would imagine in places decimated by war.
5 Sure, it's frustrating to wait six years for a book to come out, especially if during those six years one builds it up in one's mind to be the greatest book ever.  But let's face it.  Martin is as good as it gets.  Most of the perceived flaws of this book were things we all liked in the early volumes:  complicated setups and fully realized minor (as well as major) characters, unexpected plot twists, favorite characters being killed off, large chunks of real-medieval setting (and traveling).  (Remember, Arya spent much of "A Storm of Swords" wandering up and down the riverlands.)  Those who give this book one star are comparing it not to other epic fantasy (as should be done) but rather to the book they wish Martin had written, which raced the whole story to a tumultuous conclusion.  But aren't we all going to be bitterly disappointed after the last volume appears that there won't be any more?  Let's enjoy it while it lasts.
3 I have no other explanation for Mr Martin's absurd padding of this narrative than he is paid by the word  In what I thought was the final book (of five so far at 800+ pages each) he starts additional story lines for secondary new characters. But perhaps he needs to introduce new characters since he's kills off the vast majority of major or sympathetic characters by the time you make it to book four. He goes into unnecessary depth for the heraldry of minor characters, and repeats full prayers (instead of just saying they recited the evening prayer or morning prayer)over and over again. Once or twice is enough, I get it the idea.I doubt I'll be willing to plop down another $20 or so five years from now to pick up book six and find out he's still dragging it out.Wrap it up already!
4 Hoping for the conclusion in book five but I guess I will hav to wait until book six comes out
5 Deep, deep breath. I have been among the legion of fans who have had to sit the entire wait of YEARS for this book. I got A Feast for Crows on day one, and on day one many years later came A Dance With Dragons. I really, really didn't want to read it. Bare with me, a review is coming, but to understand the hate and vitriol in the other interviews this explanation is necessary. Before AFfC, Martin's brilliant novels were running on fewer, tighter plotlines, and a major revelation awaited in each one. Often more than one major revelation actually. Then AFfC came out, and despite being warned, we all cried foul to see that many of our favorite characters simply weren't involved. So there we were, having finished a book that seemed to have shorted us a bit, with a promise of the next book to be delivered after a short wait. Six years later we get what is essentially AFfC part 2, with an addendum containing the beginning of the next book.We started this leg of the journey very angry with AFfC, and over the years, and delays, we became more angry. We began to lose hope that the series would finish at all. And if nothing else, that sort of passion and hopelessness should let you know just how amazing this series is at connecting directly into you. Expectations were high. Just four months shy of six years after AFfC it's here: A Dance with Dragons. And that six years is the problem...A Dance with Dragons brings back the missing characters from AFfC, and as it begins there is nothing to complain about. Taken as a whole the book is clearly the middle of the road between acts two and three of the story entire. Having that in mind I think you'll enjoy it very much. Especially if you are a true fan of the series. So those of you who are, and who may be thinking about not buying (you know you will eventually), go ahead and buy it. It's Martin. It's his writing, it's his characters, and it's the same world you fell in love with over the rest of the four books. Stories as long as this have parts that may not seem to do much, but that's because the major consequences of the things that happen in A Dance wont be fully known until the start of the NEXT book. Dance is the literary equivalent of the story slowing down to stretch it's legs for the sprint. But it being written by Martin, as long as you keep that in mind, you can take a longer view and realize exactly what it is he's setting up. And what he's setting up is a MASSIVE shake-up in nearly every political, religious, and even supernatural facet of the world he's made. He's laying the path for events that will change things to such an extent that I think it may turn out to be unprecedented in fantasy literature.Let that sink in for a bit.A Dance With Dragons features less epic style action, and more personal, small conflicts. It takes the characters away from what they know, and it puts them in the thick of places they might not even belong. It's a growing experience for each and every character in the book. The problem is that these new paths are not the end of old paths.You see we as fans have wanted conclusions to some very major story points, we collectively assumed that Martin wouldn't be expanding his story any further, only staying with what he'd begun and starting to wrap it up. He didn't do that. So all of us who were reading with baited breath to find out, for instance, about Jon's parents were left in the dark. We end a Jon chapter and find that a new character is being introduced, and it seemingly has nothing at all to do with what was hinted at before. This makes us angry.But take a deep breath. The reason we were all here in the first place is precisely because of Martin's writing. This man, undoubtedly, knows what he's doing. He's 5 of 7 into what I think is going to be recognized as possibly THE fantasy series for mature audiences. We should not be angry that he didn't write what WE would have written. It's not our story to finish. It's his. And you can even take it a bit further. Re-read the first books and you'll notice how many small hints are dropped about Valyria, then come back to Dance to find that there is now a journey TO Valyria. I believe he's trying to tie up more than just the stories of the great houses we've been following. I think he's trying to tie up the bulk of his entire mythos by the end. And read more. Notice that until Dance with Dragons we had no idea that there would be a SINGLE commander of the white walkers and the things beyond the wall (and that it may be the very one who is training Bran). We didn't know the people of the forests were alive.No, I think Martin is right on track. I think he's doing brilliantly. I think I'm more than happy to give my patience and trust in him not leaving us in a lurch.A Song of Ice and Fire will have an ending. Please just take a deep breath and realize how stupid it would have been of him to start tying off all those incredible loose ends with two more books to go. Westeros just took a deep breath (and I took one with it), the next book will be the beginning of the plunge, and the last will be the plunge itself.But this book. This one stands as a worthy addition to the story. It didn't go precisely where all of us wanted, in fact it spent a lot of time in a place that was as unpleasant for us as it was for a few of the characters in it. But there is a real sense of the slow beginnings of inertia near the end. When even more characters start popping in and when the dual storylines running parallel in AFfC and ADwD finally do end... you can feel it start to move. By the end I was left feeling that all of that spreading out of story and plotlines and character arcs was about to start converging. Dance, along with Feast, are very singular events in publishing. They only came about because we, the fans, demanded Martin not skip forward several years. We wanted to know what happened. And he gave it to us. The last two books were those written precisely so that we wouldn't feel cheated. Martin cared so much about fan outcry that he wrote two extra books. I for one am greatful. The more I read from him about this world the better.For five books now we've said it along with all the Starks: "Winter is Coming." By the end of this book... winter is here. And NOW the fun begins. Just don't take another decade to finish this George. Please.
5 I love a Song of Ice and Fire but this book was a little slow and it did not seem like much happened compared to other books in the series. The wait time between books is also a killer because who knows when he will finish them.
5 Another great book in this series. Setting, pace, character development all wonderfully done. I hope we aren't kept waiting long for the next one
4 Now, like most other Song of Ice and Fire fans, I am willing to admit that the last entry in the series,A Feast for Crows (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 4), was not my favorite and that it got me worried that Mr. Martin had gotten a little too ambitious in his storytelling.  This latest entry has restored my faith that he knows what he is doing.  Taking us back to just after the end ofA Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)and continuing the stories of characters who were left out of the last entry (Jon Snow, Daenerys Targaryen, Bran Stark, etc.),A Dance with Dragons (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 5)comes back to the most interesting characters and storyline in the entire series, i.e. the Wall and Daenerys' rise to power.  Like all of the previous novels, all of the characters are well fleshed out and engaging and Mr. Martin's patented cliffhanger chapter endings always leave you wanting more.  And knowing what happened in the last entry helps make this one all the more enjoyable (not knowing what was going on elsewhere was one of "A Feasts" biggest problem, I felt).  The wait for this fifth entry was well worth it.  I will say that I still fear that Mr. Martin has become too ambitious in his storytelling and I fear that he won't be able to finish the whole tale in two novels after this.  But, however many novels it takes, I will enjoy them just as much as I have enjoyed this one.
1 I realized they are just reselling the same bloated mess that was WoT in a different format, hyperextended for maximum cash. This isn't art folks. If you think it is I am here to tell you that you have been duped. Yeah, Robert Jordan could have been the new Tolkien. Instead he died with people thinking he was a shill. The same is going to be said here like it or not.Martin has lost the ability to write a decent story over the two decades I guess it takes to complete what, more than likely in the author's original plans, was a proper 3 or 4 book series in total. DoD is nothing more than a plodding mid-tier adventure that leaves more loose ends than it solves. Sound familiar?I bet WoT could have made a 10 book series if Jordan was an actual artist with conviction. I'm tempted to say WoT had the best original plans, a midway point between Tolkien and Martin, but RJ really flew the coop. Martin hasn't quite arrived in nutterville but he might as well be a couple minutes from town at this point.This is what happens, folks: your original, and more than probably excellent, plan for the trilogy (LOL) is force fed a bunch of 'corporate corn' for weeks. Hell, years even.... and then the trilogy simply can't cover the world building and character killing. Well, oh well right? OH NO. Now we are writing seriously and seriousness demands thousands of pages that don't have any connection to the original story but to prolong it. And then the side stories become part of the main story. And then.... barf.The printers start printing money....My advice is: don't ever get into these 'novels'. Ever. They are just another crack addiction that goes awry. I honestly don't even care that I have never finished this or the Wheel of Time. I probably will not ever pick them up again. That is exactly how much these authors have erased my memory of the good times I used to have with them. Horrible.I am also here to tell exactly how these writers function. They are not great writers, for they fear the ending of their 'baby'. Great writers continue on through their best work and keep doing other things, they keep innovating on their own style or they stop writing. Well, he may have stopped writing for a bit I don't really know, but what I do know is that Martin is now in full on 'Soap Opera' mode just like Jordan turned to around book 6 of WoT. This means he is simply wanking away whatever comes to mind at this point while following a loose structure. And while Jordan's work got him through book 6, some say to book 9, before people started to question what was going on, Martin has the detractors firmly in tow after Book 4. That isn't a good sign.And I HIGHLY doubt Martin keeps as much information about storylines as Jordan did.... meaning this will be an even bigger mess than WoT unless they can get a really good editor in here. For those that do enjoy this stuff great. No problem have a good time. But after being burned by WoT MAJORLY, I don't step into these time sinks lightly. And this one has way too many parallels to WoT. Not only that, he is running out of decent characters to kill and his world building is still second tier behind Jordan and Tolkien. I like his dialogue more often than not but I cannot support these guys who just don't have the vision required to complete their sagas in a proper timeframe WITHOUT all the egregious fat and gristle.
4 Great book!  I wish I had bought in hard back instead of electronically, but the electronic version works well.  It is just harder to find my place if I lose it for some reason.
5 Another amazing book by George RR Martin in the Song of Ice and Fire series. This book definately continues the story at the same pace and standard as Martin's earlier books. I can't wait for another one!
3 The first three books of the Song of Ice and Fire are three of the best fantasy books you will ever read, hands down they are brilliant.  Book four to me was the equal of say Godfather III, took years to get and was a major let down.  Years later we finally get book 5, much better than book 4, has some really cool moments, but ultimately does not move the series forward or any closer to a finale.  There is a point as a reader where you can only read so many 1,000 page "transition" novels, think of Robert Jordan.  Is it fair to put a loyal reader through that?  Jordan wrote how many "transition" novels and never finished his series, unfortunately I think starting with book 4 George RR is going that route.  I will not give anything away here or spoil anything: the bottom line is the book is a big improvement over book 4, but ultimately is frustrating in that new characters are introduced, our old favorites do not really move forward for most of the book.
5 Three star average review?  For one of the best-selling fantasy books of all time? At the end of the day, it's important to the casual reader of these reviews to realize what's really going on here.This series is extraordinarily important in the fantasy cannon, it breaks new ground, and is well written and very entertaining.  It is also somewhat protracted, and to be fair books 4 & 5 stall a bit.  The fan base is incredibly invested in this series, and many feel betrayed by the slow pace of book releases, leading to a backlash of sorts by a vocal minority (nevertheless this minority all buy the books).  People love these books, they live for these books, and if they're even slightly disappointed in any aspect of a book, they feel betrayed.The comparisons of George RR Martin and Robert Jordan, and his shameless protraction of the Wheel of Time books is grossly unfair, Jordan's books were a rambling mess, Martin's books are detailed, but well designed and coherent.  Could the series have been finished in 3-4 volumes instead of the planned 7 - probably, but the protraction never feels wanton or obvious.At the end of the day, the success of these books in regard to the sales numbers speak for themselves.  This is one of the best "Epic Fantasy" series of all time, and will be ranked along with Tolkien, Donaldson, and McCaffrey.
1 Don't bother to even read this book. Wait two more and u will still find everything in the same place. I must agree with the other reviews, I too am invested in the series but I have fallen "out of love" with this whole dragged out mess
3 Was this the best book Martin has written to date?  No, definitely not.  Was it worth a read?  I think so.  Was it as bad as a lot of people say?  I don't think it was all that bad.  I figured that the first books that Martin wrote were all setting the stage, so that this book would be more action packed - I was very disappointed in that aspect.  There were a few shocking things that happened in this book (although you had to wait quite some time for them).  Some people did think that the shocking things that did happen were kind of pulled out of thin air - flashes in the pan that had no set up prior to them.  I can also see where they're coming from when they say that the POVs of Daenerys and Tyrion were a bit of a let down - Daenerys, who has thus far been a strong character is indecisive and Tyrion who has been charming and clever is crying, drunk mess.  It's true this book has a lot of let downs, but I think it also has a few redeeming qualities.  Well, I'm glad I read the book.  I think it's worth the read as long as you aren't expecting a masterpiece.
4 After waiting six years for this book, I found that I didn't dive in and devour it like previous releases. I think after waiting so long, I felt like it could stand to wait a few days more without killing me.The Kindle edition starts right at the Prologue, which I found really annoying because George RR Martin gives a little foreword about the chronology of this book. If I'd read that first I might not have been so confused about the first few chapters I read. You have to realize that the first half of this novel is the other half of A Feast for Crows, so you end up reading a lot of overlap. In fact, one Jon chapter reviews *exactly* the same scenes as a Samwell chapter in Feast, which really annoyed me because I'd just re-read the first few Feast chapters so it was like reading something twice.That being said, it was great to finally learn more about what happens to Tyrion after his escape from King's Landing and more about Bran in the north. I think I've figured out who Coldhands is!The book delivers several shockers, revealing new characters and bringing back several old ones. In direct contrast to his murderfest in Storm of Swords, he goes on in Dance to prove that you shouldn't believe someone is dead until their body is being packed up by the Silent Sisters or they stop having chapters. Martin has become really good at a very slow ascent of a character's chapter culminating in a serious cliffhanger, then moving right on to someone else, driving you completely mad. The cliffhanger ending works well for linear perspectives, but when you're switching off to someone else in the next page, all it does is drive your readers crazy.With this book, Martin seems to be using chapter titles as a method of character evolution, using different descriptions and names for the same characters. I personally found it kind of annoying, but in the case of a certain ironborn, it did a lot to mark his progression through the story. There were several character perspectives that I just didn't care about and I don't really know what the point of it was. For instance, the Prologue. I thought it would serve some grander purpose later in the book, but I think it could have been accomplished with a simple paragraph in a Bran chapter. I found myself falling asleep during the Victarion and Quentyn chapters. Seriously, even if it's set-up for later, it just felt like fluff.Being that this book is called A Dance with Dragons, I expected practically every Dany chapter to be like her second to the last one and I expected her last one to end in a fiery blaze of Targaryen glory. Instead I was given a rather ho-hum ending to a season of The Bachelorette: Meereen Edition.The book is very Jon-centric, with something like every 2 chapters being about Jon. While I didn't mind this, I think it could have been condensed a little. Barristan chapters were particularly enlightening because he is so old and knew so many people from the past that we have only heard about in stories. Reek chapters were fascinating and Martin shows his unique ability to make you feel for a character you previously completely despised (as with Jaime). Sansa is completely absent from the book.While there are some truly magnificent chapters in the book and I'm happy with the advancing he did of the story, it's not the best book of the series by far. I'd rank it second to the last, beating out only Feast for Crows. Still, I give it 4 stars because I did like it. It just wasn't perfect.
2 I am a fan of the "Song of Ice and Fire" series, I even think "Feast for Crows" is a brilliant book; unfortunately I cannot say the same about "A Dance with Dragons". To be short: the fifth book in the series cannot be compared to the previous four. Sadly, I have to say, "A Dance with Dragons" kills almost all the forward momentum of the first four books :-((The following sections contain spoilers, beware.)What's wrong with this book? Almost everything. First of all, it was a very bad idea to go back to the time of the events of "Feast for Crows". The first half of the book covers the same period as the "Feast for Crows". This part is simply boring. The second half of the book is more interesting but the events we are told about simply do not fit into the big picture. The worst part about "A Dance with Dragons" is that almost all the characters lost their wits and their behavior is simply stupid. Let's discuss some details.- Daenerys - the change in her in the book is just nonsense, her decisions are simply stupid; the wise and compassionate future queen of Westeros became a gullible, hysterical, lazy and wanton girl. And Meereen is not interesting, it is simply annoying, all the characters we get to know in this city are selfish and disgusting, and anyway, who cares about the Slavers' Bay? Does it have any connections with the main story? It has none. At least, in the end Daenerys leaves this wretched city...- Quentyn Martell - his story, for me, was the biggest mistake in the whole series. We read a lot about Dorne and the scheming of Doran Martell in the previous book. At the end of the previous book it was revealed that the big secret is that the prince of Dorne is sent to Daenerys. Wow, it could have been interesting... Major spoiler here: all this fuss about Dorne, the sand snakes, Arys Oakheart and so on, what is the result of all this? Quentyn dies without any result whatsoever, he and all the Dornish scheming achieved absolutely nothing! This part is really frustrating because why invest a lot into a detailed, and good story? Just to give an abrupt and stupid ending? I am not against killing off the characters, I was blown away by the Red Wedding, because it made sense, Quentin's story is simply unnecessary.- Prince Aegon - did this new twist in the story add anything to the big picture? No, on the contrary. The more new characters we have, the more likely it becomes that a lot of side stories will not be wrapped up at the end. Are Aegon an his companions interesting characters? Unfortunately, the answer is no. Up until this fifth book Martin managed to avoid most of the fantasy clich&eacute;s, Aegon and his team is simply too bland, and mostly unnecessary and clich&eacute;d (the good but spoilt prince with his loyal and wise counselor is one of the biggest fantasy clich&eacute;). Was the story in such a dire need for another contender for the iron throne?I could continue with all the characters in the book, none of them moved forward. Even Tyrion, who is still the best character in the book, became shallow. And what about this girl dwarf? Really?Yes, I am angry with this book, because the first four books were masterpieces, this one is ordinary. I cannot give it more than two stars.
3 You know how a good movie comes out, then there's a sequel at wasn't as good, and then each successive one has a little less? This series is kind of like that. The first three books were good, #4 less so, and this last one is kind of &#34;meh&#34;. The book doesn't finish up any of the plotlines, and it really feels like the author is just tossing things artificially into the plot to keep the series going.
2 i'm halfway through, and it already deserves a five star review. the 6 year wait was worth it, i just hope he doesn't take another 18 years to finish the series!!EDIT:yeah.. ^^^^^^^^^ that was wrong.  i just finished the book today.  i'm not going to paraphrase the entire book or plot lines that i enjoyed/hated.  this book is, to put it simply, poorly written.the first 3 books left me dying to read more.  the fourth book was generally uninteresting, but i plowed through it twice and upon 2nd reading realized that the 2nd half of the book was actually worth re-reading.  this book, though i've only read it once, makes me wish i never picked up the series in the first place.the writing style has gone downhill, as if GRRMs voice has become a caricature of itself, and all editing has gone out the window.  i was terribly excited to see all the characters i missed in AFFC at first, and anticipated big meet-ups and possibly an explanation of ANY mystical elements thus far.  i was disappointed yet again.  to the people who are saying, "well it's just the 2nd half of AFFC, it's a good 'transition piece.'" does that mean that the 2nd half of a mediocre book should be just as (if not more) mediocre?  i guess in a strange way that does stand to reason, but GRRM [was] so good at bashing expectations!  now it seems like he's a one trick pony, using tiny cliffhangers at the end of chapters to keep us interested.  characters repeating themselves incessantly. even multiple characters having the same memories of things, verbatim..it would be one thing if the next book will come out next year, but as we've heard, GRRM isn't even starting the next book for another year. so it will be at LEAST 2-3 years before the next book comes out, and quite possibly a decade or more before the series is concluded.  i needed a little more out of this book to keep me interested.  sorry GRRM, but i don't know if i can
3 I'm kind of over Mr Martin...way too wordy, way too many characters, too much graphic violence, and sometimes quite boring.I will continue to watch on HBO whenever it comes on again, but will probably not purchase another of his tomes.
5 Great read, but be prepared to study the genealogies, as usual. Glad there isn't a test over them!  I enjoy the stories, but the constant flipping back and forth between characters can be confusing...
1 Don't bother wasting your time if you fell for the drawn-out teaser that was book Four. None of the characters you were following through the first three books and even into the fourth move along here, so there's no point in reading it. Want to find out what happens to Bran and his siblings? (Jon apparently winds up dead, killed by his inner circle. Same fate as too many other characters, ho hum) The other families? All those yarns at loose ends are just left fluttering.Yes, that's correct. No satisfying conclusion awaits and about two dozen NEW characters are added instead, as if the author got tired of the old ones from the first four books and rather move along and then wrap up their stories he just ignored them completely. Not sure which is more disgusting, the sloppy and tedious writing or the utter disrespect to the readers he's dragged along through thousands of pages previously only to arrogantly leave hanging...as if we are all going to rush out for his next book to get what we didn't in this one. Sorry. Fool me once, I might try again. But the final two books were so worthless and the quality so lacking, there isn't any point in bothering with another.Such a shame. These characters and story premise deserved an engaged writer who cared about his craft, not someone just filling pages with the same tediously repetitious situations as if he's tossing darts at a page of the following options: violent and senseless death, introduce new character, boring sex scene, gratuitous violence, introduce new character, implausible escape, introduce new character, or feast scene.
3 I'd like to start my review by mentioning all the positive things about this series, which keeps me reading. GRRM has created compelling characters in Sansa, Arya, Jon Snow, Jaime Lannister, Tyrion Lannister and Daenerys Targaryen, and I'm dying to know what happens to them, and how they come out of this novel. So every time I'm reading something about them I'm happy.I'm not so happy with this novel as a piece of writing. The problem is that the structure of the story has become slack, and we have a situation with multiple characters and multiple plot-lines, which necessitates long waits between each point of view character to find out what happens next. For example, poor Sansa Stark finally left the Eyrie with her uncle-by-marriage Petyr Baelish at the end of A FEAST FOR CROWS, but no-where is she to be seen in A DANCE WITH DanceWithDragonsDRAGONS. So I'm still wondering what happened to her. Instead, the plot has become bogged down in too many minor characters and their dealings, and so the momentum of the story has crawled to a halt.What made J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter series so successful, was that each book was structured around a year at Hogwarts. Unfortunately, A DANCE WITH DRAGONS, like A FEAST FOR CROWS has lost its structure, so one reads and reads with no real sense of where this story is going to end up. And so the arc of tension is either sagging, or absent.I hope that GRRM will do a couple of things with the last two books in the series:Ditch the prologues. I have no idea why ADWD started with Varamyr as it seemed to have little bearing on what followed. The opening would have been much stronger if we had been plunged into the scene where Tyrion is on a boat escaping Westeros, just after killing his father at the end of Book Three.Edit out the minor characters, and make the book lean and mean by just focusing on the lives of the main characters that we have grown to know and love.I would love a scene in which Tyrion meets Daenerys, especially as their encounter in ADWD was such a cop-out. I want to see Tyrion confront his sister and brother. I want to see who ends up on the Iron Throne. And I want to find out what happens to Bran, Arya and Sansa. Do they ever see each other again? As far as I'm concerned, I would be happy NOT having to wade through stuff about another unscrupulous sellsword, or about Theon Greyjoy and his family, or about the Dornes. Frankly, I'm no longer interested. Three stars.
4 If you are a fan of A Song of Ice and Fire, don't cheat yourself - pick this book up.  Is it the most exciting volume in the series?  I don't believe so.  Is it an excellent piece of fiction?  Absolutely.Martin's writing maintains its beautiful imagery and graceful flow.  The dialogue is excellent as always and his character-building remains unsurpassed.  These qualities lend ammunition to his critics, however.  In order to build a deep, rich world, with characters that seem real and stir your emotions, Martin must spend time exploring subplots, private thoughts and reflections.  There's just no way around it, IMO.  Personally, I don't think there should be.This volume is not the battle-filled action volume of a Storm of Swords.  It's much more contemplative and thought-evoking.  That doesn't mean it's worse - just different.  It does advance the plot but not incredibly so.  It's unrealistic to expect that this book ever would when Martin has been clear, time and time again, that this book runs tandem with AFFC.I think the biggest spark that has led to so much disdain for this volume is the fact that Martin - SPOILER ALERT - is willing to kill off major characters.  Anyone who seriously holds this against this book is a fool.  Martin has shown, since AGOT, that he is more than willing to kill off major characters.  This has set him apart from his peers.  Is this a good thing or a bad thing?  That's irrelevant at this point.  If you don't like it, then you should have stopped reading by ASOS.Book reviews, ultimately, should weigh most heavily whether the author has succeeded in maintaining the reader's attention and investment of time.  Martin has done so.  I still remain in awe of his writing talent and feel genuine happiness and sadness for his fictional characters.  That's the mark of GREAT writing.
4 ***No Spoilers!***Book five starts out where book four left off, but in a weird kind of way. You will go back to events that have already happened, but narrated by different characters. It will show you what they were doing and feeling to events that have already been told in  book four. It did include one of my favorite characters, so it was okay by me. Mr. Martin surly makes audacious moves with his characters, and there are no rules to his writing. He has created an Epic fantasy world with Game of Thrones. His fantasy world is created with vivid detail of time, places and events. At times it is hard to keep all the Houses in order. Winter has yet to come, so I am still hanging in there for the finally. I also watch the HBO hit series. All in all, a great piece of work, masterly crafted!
2 I have never been so disappointed and angery, after reading this entire series,  as when I was served up this crappy ending. The author has cheated his readers.
2 I became a fan after reading the first book in the series. It was not surprising that I devoured the next two and waited anxiously for book number four. Like many others I was very disappointed with A Feast For Crows and was hoping that the author will compensate with this book. The author kept saying that most of the popular characters will be covered in this book so the expectation was even higher.Now after reading this book, I must admit I am not eager to know how this story ends or whether there is going to be another book closing the series. Although the writing style is good as ever, the plot does not advance and the few shocking turns during the plot are undone by simple kids realms solutions where the heroes never die. That is also the reason why the ending, which was quite extreme, did not leave a taste of wanting to find out more since the hunch is that it will be resolved with a turn that will take all the surprise away...Just to convey the level of distrust I now hold I can say that when I read in the previous books that Bran and Rickon were killed, I stopped reading having the saddest feeling I had from a book and I could not stop talking about it with my wife for 2 days. In this book however, when anything like that happened to a character I like very much, I did not feel anything and I just did not care. I only checked the number of the page I was at to know how long more I need to endure this reading.A marvelous series that started in the most promising way, just crashed head on into a concrete wall. A shame.
2 I am not sure if Martin has simply lost interest in this project, has become distracted, or simply been overwhelmed...Or if editors have helped or hindered him. Though, I think it is telling that one of his editors admits he's left a book's worth of material on the cutting room floor.The book somehow manages to feel both too meandering and too rushed at the same time. And I can't help but feel that some of his experience in writing scripts for the HBO series has rubbed off on how he writes the books. In fact, I'm certain of it.If so, we're all the poorer for it.I can't imagine events being wrapped up in two books, given what he chose to spend so much time on in this one...and we'll have to wait ten years to find out.Martin was probably a bit too cruelly gratuitous in his cliffhangers. Reading this book might be a much different experience as part of a completed series, but taken alone, is painful, and not as re-readable as the first 3 books.
3 I've read all of the books this far, and I have to say that I think Mr. Martin is just getting long winded...  I have STILL not finish this book because it is just so long and so hard to follow.  I keep putting it down and reading something else then I pick this back up and read a few chapters, get frustrated again, and start the cycle all over again...
5 I Think Martin has stumbled on to a rare psychological phenomenon that baffles the mind & robs people of all sense of discernment and good taste.  Apparently, if you read an amazing book and then are forced to wait multiple years for the continuation the mind begins to break down. Especially, if said continuation doesn't match your expectations.Thankfully, I started reading Game of Thrones (book 1) in November 2011 and today, February 2012, I'm almost done with A Dance With Dragons. So, it seems I've been spared the ravages of this cruel mental disorder. However, I feel for those of you waited and waited.. who built up elaborate fantasies of what you think should happen regarding your favorite characters only to pick up A Feast For Crows to discover they're not there!.. The first brain cells began to sizzle. You then fantasized more while reading about these strange new characters, complicating annoyances within your previously simple fantasy.  Then waited years once again!  Finally, you got your hands on A Dance With Dragons.. only to find that your final creation didn't match the creation of the author! Ahhhh.. SIZZLE!  Well, maybe you should write your own book.Seriously, this book is as impossible for me to put down as all of the other books in the series. I do sometimes skim through lengthy descriptions of Dornish ham and blood sausages and Amber Gold ale, upon which they're usually breaking their fast.. simply because it makes me hungry and thirsty for unhealthy stuff. Ale for breakfast? Come on! Other than that, I love it. If you can read one book after another without waiting years in between all should be well.I seriously don't know what novels I can read after this. I'm ruined.
4 George R. R. Martin has been compared to Tolkein, primarily because he borrows heavily from Tolkein's mythology (and openly admits as much).  I prefer to think of Martin as Tolkein's evil twin: wherein THE LORD OF THE RINGS was ultimately an optimistic, life-affirming journey, A SONG OF ICE AND FIRE is its nihilistic counterpart, determined to present a blood-soaked world where anything and everything can--and will--happen.A DANCE WITH DRAGONS, Book 5, more-or-less occurs simultaneously with Book 4 (though it overtakes it in the last couple hundred pages).  We're presented here with characters missing from the previous book: Daenerys, ruling a city besieged by outside armies and murderers within; Jon Snow, Lord Commander of the Watch, slowly beginning to understand the terror that is approaching, and the evils he must face within his own command; Theon Greyjoy, betrayer of the Starks, has become captive of Ramsey Bolton, and lives in quaking fear of his captor's shadow, even as Bolton makes plans to bring rival King Stannis to his knees; Tyrion Lannister, heading across the sea a fugitive and kinslayer, joined with a band of men who are more than they appear; Quentyn Martell, Dornish Prince, on a secret mission of his own.  These paths and more will converge, and blood will spill, fire will erupt--and yes, winter is coming.If DRAGONS has a flaw, it's this: by now, there are so many darn characters, it's hard to care about all of them.  Martin's world is intricate and well-planned; he covers every detail he possibly can, which can be a bit tedious in spots (okay, a lot of spots).  The story has to be this complex, of course--that's what helps ground everything, even the magic, in reality.  Thus, it's a forgivable flaw, though readers will certainly find the going a little slow in spots.  Tension still mounts, of course--if anything, that's what keeps fans coming back: where is Martin going with this?  No one really knows except Martin himself, of course, but we can be certain on one thing: it's not going to be a happily ever after.
4 I am not giving it 5 stars as in tying in the many characters involved at this point it jumps around but the overall story is well depicted and amazing in content.  I just found the first 4 books were structured a little bit better and flowed a little more naturally.
3 Well, if you liked the first books, you're going to like this one... Even if I found that fewer and fewer of the main characters remain interesting, there are still enough interesting characters to make the book worth reading.
5 It never ceases to amaze me how these books hold my attention!  From the fist book, through this one and even to the excerpt, I simply can't put them down!  The story lines are true, the citing of occurrences from past books and chapters are as  seamless as real life!!Alas, now the wait begins for the next one...
3 The critics say A Dance with Dragons is vastly more satisfying than its predecessor. I call bull****. Feast for Crows wasn't great, but this one is barely any better. I cannot imagine fans waiting the six years between books 4 and 5 only to be rewarded with this tiresome heap. Sure a few of the more interesting characters are featured, but their story lines are tedious compared with the earlier books. Preserving Crows and Dragons as a single book, which was the author's original intention, would have prevented so many problems. All the extraneous standing around and chattering, gone. While we're at it, let's get rid of all the unnecessary characters too. Gawd I hope Martin has a plan for these little side plots.A Dance with Dragons does end on a relatively strong note--not great, but stronger than the 600+ pages preceding it--and that's saying a lot because I was ready to say goodbye to Westeros for good. Hopefully Martin has everyone carefully positioned to drive this story home in the final two books because I don't have the patience for any more meandering. Still, I fear that even with a superior series ending, A Song of Ice and Fire has already suffered irreparable damage.
4 It's bittersweet to post this review because it means I'm finished reading all 5 published installments of George R. R. Martin's epic series. I'm really excited to have time to read other things and do other things, but I'm also going to miss reading about these characters daily so much! I've also made so many new blogging friends through this series because clearly it has affected a LOT of people (readers and television watchers alike!).Fortunately at least two more books have still yet to be published in this series, because unfortunately I didn't feel like this book ended the month with a bang as I was hoping it would. Don't get me wrong, I loved it, and I know that this book was a favorite for many of you; however, it fell a little flat for me, similarly to A Feast for Crows (aka AFFC). While I feel like the details are what make this series so incredible in many ways, there may have been too much detail in AFFC and A Dance with Dragons, to the point where the story didn't move forward as quickly as I expected (and needed!). I wish Martin would have compacted both of these books and made them work as one unit as originally intended. I have absolutely no idea how he would have done this (*cough*cut out the Greyjoys*cough* lol), but many of the newer characters still did not resonate with me as a reader.Now, don't get too angry with me, but I was especially disappointed with Dany's storyline; I felt like she did nothing but spin her wheels in this book!! I'm sure if I look deeper there's some great, powerful explication on her need for stability, to stop moving, her fears and doubts. But as a reader, I wanted action! I wanted Dany to keep moving forward and keep stringing bells in her hair! I need to keep reminding myself how young she is and how vulnerable she is, but I also have confidence in her as a reader and want to cheer her on. I really wish I could go into better depth on Dany, but I don't want to spoil anything at all for those of you who haven't yet read this book.As I mentioned in my review for AFFC, even the worst George R. R. Martin book is still probably the best of 100 books chosen at random. While I didn't connect with this story as deep as books 1-3 in the series, I still enjoyed the experience of reading tremendously and loved the characters. It was exciting to follow Tyrion's story and some of the new characters were especially promising to meet (like, REALLY exciting to meet. I can't stress that but I can't say more). After reading this book, I am also excited to read theories about the future of the series without being spoiled. The beauty of Martin's writing is that you can never anticipate what is going to happen next. This epic tale is truly an adventure to read and discover, and I hope that I won't have to wait long for the sixth installment, The Winds of Winter! I really don't know how fans who started reading this series in 1996 have survived all of the time between publications!Bottom Line: Not as great as books 1 through 3, but I enjoyed this one a little bit more than A Feast for Crows. A must read for anyone who has already started the series!  4/5 stars
3 I've been a huge fan of GRRM's writing ever since I discovered A Game of Thrones all those years ago. I went on to devour A Clash of Kings and A Storm of Swords, as well as a bunch of his short stories and novellas. All of these works exciting and enthralling, so much so that I was willing to forgive the A Feast for Crows fiasco, thinking he'd right the ship in the next book. With A Dance with Dragons, well, consider the ship still foundering.Unlike so many other reviewers, I'm not going to criticize Martin for taking the time to describe all the foods encountered throughout the world of his novel. I actually think that adds a layer of depth to the world-building. I also think it's childish to criticize Martin's sex scenes as, and I paraphrase, "the fantasy porn of a guy who doesn't have much experience with women." Seriously, sex, food, setting descriptions...all those things in fantasy novels are like ads in magazines to me. If I'm interested, I'll slow down and pay attention. If not, I'll just skim through it until I get to the story.Some other reviewers have approached the heart of what's wrong with this book, and with AFFC before it. Characters travel and story-lines are moved into position, but the story doesn't really move forward. Lots of set up, things do happen, but nothing meaningful that gets the main characters acting upon each other.But I think the problem goes deeper. It's the characters, in my book, that are the problem. In the first three books, the main characters were involved in every single page, plotting to gain power and thwart each other. THAT was exciting. Some of them died, but their deaths made sense. Since AFFC, what I've been most disheartened with is the endless stream of characters that don't mean anything. For example, I could have gone through all these books without having to read a chapter from the perspective of any of the Dornish characters. Davos...? His chapters were interesting, but really? Theon's sister (can't even remember her name), Victarion, a Brazen Beast here, a Lannister uncle over there. It adds up to a whole mess of pages from characters I don't give a crap about. On the other hand, Arya gets a measly 2 chapters. Same with Bran. I can't even remember what happened to Rickon, and who knows where Sansa is now. Catelyn? Last I remember her, she had had her head sewn back on, but I can't remember seeing her since. And what happened to the other guy that kept dying and coming back, Berric Dondarion, I think?The sprawl has his this series hard. And I'm not sure GRRM can tighten it and bring it back under control.With ADWD, the problem is that I don't get to see enough of the main players acting in meaningful ways upon each others' plotting. I feel like the story hasn't moved since book 3. Just when things were starting to pick up in this book, GRRM pulls a frustrating little plot twist that's starting to get old. And the book ends.It wasn't all bad. I read it and continued to read it because I wanted to see where the story was going. Honestly, though, I was bored through the first 750 pages. I was more interested in the last 200. But then...well, I won't give the spoiler here.And despite my misgivings, I'm still going to read the next one. I'm holding on to this hope that these 2 last books were an aberration caused by the failed experiment of splitting two books by North and South. If he writes a condensed, complete 6th book, I think he can bring it back. Condensed in the sense that all the major players end up on the same stage (without all those minor characters taking up precious space), doing things that effect each other, and moving the story forward. From all his other works, I think he can pull it off. But he needs to do it quick, not another 5 years of waiting.And that brings me to my final issue with the series. I'm all for taking the time to write a polished product. But GRRM has taken that too far. I hardly remember a thing that happened in the 4th book, and only remember the major events of the first 3. Things get mentioned and referenced in this book that leave me drawing complete blanks. If Martin was releasing a book every 2 years, that wouldn't be the case. With all the time that has passed, the reader changes, and the story starts to lose significance (at least in my mind).So, if you've gotten this far, it's probably still worth reading. But don't expect any fireworks.
2 No need for the 12 paragraph reviews I've been reading.  The review is simple: After the third book this guy just ran out of gas but was making so much dough he kept going. Sort of. But not very well.
3 When I first read Martin's books, I was hooked.  I love the series - the world development and character realism (for lack of a better term) is amazing.  However, this book felt like an attempt at writing a dull history.  Various threads are followed from previous books, nothing really comes to conclusion, and it just feels like a stopgap.  Still very well written technically, but there are terms that repeat, well, repeatedly.Overall, I feel like it was written in bits and pieces without focus.  I really hope the publishers and author pull it together and do not ruin what could be the best fantasy series in multiple decades.
5 I started watching the TV series before I was aware of the books.....I read all 5 before season 2 came out. Waiting as patiently as possible for him to write the last books. Best fantasy political intrigue series I've read to date. Tons of characters and points of view for an overall stupendous story.
5 GRRM is getting a little wordy with his prose and I feel like his publisher is having trouble telling him to pull it back. I really don't need 2 full pages of description of a setting. It paints a nice picture but it slows the book to a halt.That being said, I ate the whole thing up and loved every second of it.
1 I've just been notified by Amazon that the paperback release date for this book has been pushed back AGAIN, this time until September of 2014.  Absolutely ridiculous that it will take at least three and a half years to get a paperback to market, and for people who like their series to be in the same format, a hard cover is not an option.  Order cancelled.
4 Its been a year since I finished Book 4 so it took a bit of memory jogging to remember where we last left off at and while I thought it was a good book it was just too *long*.  GRRM could have lopped off half these chapters and been left with a great book instead of an ok one.I cannot add much more to the conversation as others have before me but its really not as bad as the 1-2 star reviews suggest.  Is/was 8 years to long before this book? Yes, it was.  Has GRRM introduced so many characters (I especially did not like the indifferent chapter titles) as to make the reader angry with the constant POV changes? Yes but still at the end of the day I found myself saying WOW and contemplating what I had just read.Please just dont keep us waiting.
4 After 5 books the verbiage is beginning to wear.  I enjoyed the story well enough but if you're going to title a book &#34;A Dance with Dragons&#34; there'd better be dragons.  they barely made a ripple in the storyline.Having said that, I can hardly wait for the next installment.  I'm curious to know where this is all leading and if ANYone will be left standing at the end.
5 This book jumps, and leaves you hanging  very badly.  Descriptions were very clear of the time period but as i SAID ON THE OTHER REVIEW  OH WELL ENOUGH SAID/
4 I enjoyed the story and would recommend it to others, although this volume didn't seem to flow as well as other volumes.  It might have been because of all the new characters that are introduced.  The downside is that book #6 is not available and not idea when it will be.  The result is disappointing to the reader who craves what comes next.
5 I really enjoy this series. I rate this series as one of the best fantasy series ever, up there with Tolkien (on my list anyways...). There is great depth to the story, you can tell the author has spent a lot of time creating a realistic background setting for the current story. This is more hardcore fantasy, it's not nice/pretty/sunshine/etc. or anything, very realistic and the author throws no punches. I would recommend this to any fantasy fan, and any adult looking for a series with depth. You don't have to be a fan of fantasy to enjoy this series, but you should like more realistic/hardcore books if you are going to get into this series.
2 On the back cover of the book a journalist states that Martin is the closest thing America has to Tolkien.  While Tolkien's work will be cherished by readers for years to come, this series has little chance of being a book of all time. It has nothing of the epic nature of the LOTR--except its length.  A better comparison of this work would be with the "Wheel of Time" series. Neither brings the story to any resolution at any point. This, to this reader, is the most frustrating element of this series in an often frustrating read.Martin stated he would finish the series at book 4; book 4 stretched on in to book 5. Book 5, however, is not a conclusion. The story just stops. It doesn't take a prophet to see that more books will be coming from Martin in this series. I will make a personal prophetic utterance at this point: Though I will read several hundreds of books before I leave this mortal coil, another book in the Song of Ice and Fire series will not be one of them.
5 this book series is amazing i enjoy books like these i love how this book series started i can not wait till books 6 and 7 get released GRRM and GRRM is one amazing author i give him alot of credit for making this amazing book series!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
5 As with any series that is worthy of reading each book reveals more about its characters. You find yourself craving that information in an almost desperate way. Marten captures you with nonstop action and adventure. I only wish he can complete the story before I die.
3 It was okay I had to read it since I had read the other four,rather disappointed in the ending.No tie up and no prospect for another book that I know of.
4 I consciously tempered my expectations for this much-anticipated novel, and I am glad I did. The writing had been on the wall with the relative letdown of A Feast for Crows, like some red comet blazing through the sky of an overly convoluted plot with too many storylines and new POV characters. Unfortunately, A Dance with Dragons follows the same, ponderous tune.As willing as GRRM is to kill off some major POV-characters, he keeps adding new characters and brings back some of those presumed dead. Unfortunately, many of these new characters could not capture me as the original ones could. So the return of Theon was a nice surprise. Of course, Tyrion is truly brilliant, and his chapters were by far the best and showed some satisfying character development. Otherwise, I couldn't connect with many others, as previous favorites Jon Snow and Daenerys managed to annoy me.There is plenty of good as well. The worldbuilding is incredibly intricate and detailed, and extremely well worked out. This series is Epic with a capital E. The same goes for the characters. Like them or not, but they are consistent and life-like, with their good and bad traits and believable motivations. It's too bad that the pacing of a Dance with Dragons is slow, often marred by too-detailed description of food and lacking in action. A pity, even though you can sense the set-up for a phenomenal finish. If GRRM can untangle all these storylines and wrap them up in my lifetime.If I had to liken A Dance with Dragons to one of GRRM's characters, it would be Wyman Manderly, Lord of White Harbor. Huge, slow and ponderous, with plenty of excess fat, but also with some surprising twists of cunning and courage, despite a lack of action.With all my misgivings, GRRM is still one of the best epic fantasy writers out there, and even a novel below his usual standard is still a novel worth reading. I would give three and half stars if I could, but I will give four in the end, just because I know part of my disappointment was due to expectations that could not be tempered.
4 As usual the story was well delivered and entertaining.  Must admit that I'm ready for it to come to a conclusion soon.
3 I feel this is the weakest book in the Song of Fire and Ice series so far. Half the time I felt I was slogging through the book. While I found the chapters on Daenerys to be rather interesting, the others were less than satisfying. For anyone who may not already know, the majority of this book happens in parallel to the previous novel, "A Feast for Crows". Toward the end, some of the characters covered in "Crows" have their stories continued here. As a result, it felt to me like he touched on a lot of different characters throughout without advancing the story sufficiently.A few characters received the bulk of coverage in this book: Jon, Daenerys, Tyrion, and Theon (at least early on). Somehow, despite the numerous chapters about Jon, I didn't feel much progress was made in his storyline. His interactions with Melisandre felt repetitive. There was very little action and it felt like it took too long for anything with the wildings to progress - it would take a whole chapter to discuss a plan and then a whole chapter to more or less repeat the same thing by having it done. The chapters dealing with Daenerys were my favorites, with much of the action and discussion centering how to achieve peace and what to do about the dragons. Even those chapters took a long time for any real progress in the events. And for all the chapters dedicated to Stannis's assault on Winterfell, he doesn't get very far.At times it feels like Martin has overstretched himself by having too many characters' viewpoints and simultaneous storylines to cover. Having just two chapters for a character - such as Arya, Davos, and Jaime - feels more like a teaser than anything else. Other characters such as Samwell and Sansa are left out completely. Having the wealth of different viewpoints can make the work quite interesting at times, but some storylines end up short-changed. At this point it feels like he'll need not just the planned two more books, but several more to come to a real conclusion and tie up all the loose ends.
3 George RR Martin continues his excellent series with this 5th book and thankfully it is an improvement on A Feast For Crows, although it still falls short of the first three books in the series.  Martin's excellent narrative style still makes it an enjoyable read and we get some progress on characters missing from the last book.  Unfortunately there is still very little plot progress, with far too many plot-lines in a holding pattern.  At least we seem poised for progress in the next book.  Considering the very long delay for this book, there may be very high expectations, but readers will enjoy it more if they scale back their expectations on plot progress.
5 Not much to say that hasnt been said that is, if you like the overall story, of course this is a must, the physical book itself is big and sturdy, for a bookshelf and collection,not something to be traveled with. I personally cant wait for the next book
5 Another outstanding book in the series and I'm starving for the next one. Please Mr. Martin don't make us wait too much longer.
5 This series keeps getting bettter and better. I ca not wait for the next book to come uout. Keep them coming George.
4 I like this book, but it has very few twists and turns for such a large number of pages. It should be more action packed, or with a few pages.
1 I was very disappointed in this book.The plot doesn't develop significantly, but that is not my main criticism.I can see what Martin is doing with the story, and I appreciate it.It is a build-up, every story needs that.What lost me was the world-building.Way too many "characters" and "cultures".Endless lists of names and relations.What am I reading, a family tree?  Or a travel guide?I can see why the author might think this makes the world bigger and more realistic etc, but it fails.  Why am I wasting my time reading about hundreds of irrelevant not-even-secondary "characters"?  Answer: I'm not.  I had to do the unthinkable and skim through this verbiage.  If you are a speed-reader, this is the perfect book to practice on.  I suspect Martin likes to make his readers suffer but I think he even failed at that here.  Instead of suffering I skipped.Pros: I enjoyed the descriptions of feasts - Jordan is a pro at that, and it makes my mouth water to read.  The early Tyrion chapters were a nice diversion.  I enjoyed the Theon plot arc, although it was horrifying.  The opening of his first chapter hit me unexpectedly, and my stomach still roils thinking about it.  Props to that, Martin, you got me.  I was not expecting that.  I also had some fun digging back into the 2nd and 3rd book to find out who "Reek" was.However, in the end, the book just wasn't believable.  The motivations and decisions of many characters felt forced.  For instance, why would the Boltons want Reek to listen in on their secret/personal talks?  Why, for the author to give the reader some juicy info.  Add in silly cliffhangers concluding each chapter, new POVs (more scenery, more setup, more verbiage), and cut-aways from action, and the book had me scratch my head thinking "huh?" instead of "that's amazing!" like the previous books.It's staggering how this series went from a focused dramatic saga to a recital of minutiae.  Martin must have gotten convinced along the way that the world-building was the best part of his books, because he's delved into that headfirst, trying to grow the world so large that it absorbs every possible name, event, history, etc.  But it just becomes encyclopedic in nature instead of dramatic, and all the superfluous stuffing smothers the story.I laughed at my friends who had been suckered into Jordan's pointless world.Joke is on me this time.  A Feast for Crows was superior to this book, at least the author's voice was confident.  A Dance with Dragons reads like a stunted and rickety mess.I am unsure whether to continue with this series.  Just because one of the books is bad doesn't mean all hope is lost.  But I am a little worried that with all the extra plot threads, I'll have no idea who is who and what is what next go round, and that the author will undoubtedly throw in hundreds more unnecessary characters.  There is just too much here, and little of it is interesting, and I only have so many brain cells to devote to fictional worlds.
1 First off, I have the kindle version and it works just fine, I had no problems with it at all.  Now for the review of the bookThe first few books started out with a Bang and I thought we were going to get something special and new.  Instead this book has continued what started in the 3rd book with a descent in obsessiveness with mediocre ramblings that while connected to the main story do NOT in any way move the story forward.It's turning into the Wheel of time series for being excessively wordy and boring.  I honestly think that the writer is just writing to make money and not tell a story.The writer just fails to engage beyond the interest created in the first 2 books.  Great you're trying to give us plot twists and intrigue, possible redemption for a few and definite characters that are grey, neither good or bad, just normal.That doesn't mean that the author has to spend pages and pages without moving the story forward.  At this point, I'm not sure I'm going to read the rest of the books.  I don't like getting bilked and that's what this is starting to feel like.
3 For the end of the saga there were to many unresolved questions. I want another book to close the story.
5 I had been waiting for this book to come out in paperback for almost two years now. And I was not disappointed.
5 I Couldn't Stop Reading The Series Until I Finished Book Five I Like Them Better Than Any Movie.The Only Thing Bad Is Now I Got To Wait Till Book Six Is Published.
5 I really love reading these books but they always end when they get good.  Wish he would tie up some loose ends sometimes.  You can tell he use to write for Tv as he always ends with you wanting more.  Can't wait for the next one to come out
4 Martin's epic continues.  The characters neglected in Book Four receive their due in Book Five.  Favorites live or die or appear to die.  Dragons become more than house pets.  If one has read the first four books, one must read this one too - and look forward to the next installment.
3 Those who rate this highly are beguiled by poor workmanship that telling a story involves. As noted before the series of a Song of Ice and Fire started well, but as Martin has evolved the story, one he now clearly had little idea about when he started, it has bloated to a workmanship that only wants to portray that all men are evil.And women too, yet their burden is that they know that they will end up as whores. All in this series know that their lives are worthless, and here in the book devoted to slavery, it is the base nature of the tale that overcomes all else.A book that could easily be half the size it is should we have lost the naming and characterization of countless characters who you forget the minute a page is turned. Now clearly introduced and written in so that the producers of the television show have a guideline for casting when the extras without speaking parts are to be shown on screen. Nothing can come in between Martin and his new mercenary exploitation of his series.Take that half that we did not need, and get to the story that matters, and again half more could be thrown out. It took over a third of the book before interest seeps in to you to see that there is a theme and a reason to hold on as we shift between far too many views. And see Tyrion once again go from countless frying pans and fires until you wonder how he can even have a cheerful attitude at the end whilst that of Jorah Mormont's demeanor, who has seen far less misadventure should be the mien our favorite Imp wears.Then as we see Jon Snow emerge as perhaps the truest heir of his father, Martin once agains twists fate around on its ass as if he laughs at all his readers showing he doesn't care about building any attachments, but to those of evil. That is more and more the theme, and shows a blatant disregard that any who have ruled the people of the seven kingdoms should note that all will eventually be in rebellion as no lord protects their people. All can be sacrificed, enslaved, treated like crap if you can lay claim to a titled name in a land where you have more kneelers than your foes, and all friends are actually foes as well.Twist of fate and twist again as the end approaches. Delay of timelines so those twists may take place. Evil grows ever more, and who really cares about Winter. Who even needs it, if all below the Wall and elsewhere are intent on destroying what others have, thus in they end their own gets destroyed as well.Thus a three star rating. Where Jordan gave us characters who were like us, with flaws we could see and a goal that might have been hopeless, yet heroes who strive towards it. Here Martin gives us man who are not us, for al these are base. Every person of power, base. Every person who has a veneer of serving Justice, is hiding much more evil than all the rest combined. And let us not forget that most days, it is clear that Martin schemes ways to make more money out of HBO and the series, play with his toys, rather than focus on writing else the time between books would finish much more quickly.There is no valid reason to tender this with high marks. Far too many POV Characters have littered the tale, far too much bloat of unnecessary additions are in it. A book a quarter the size would have got the job done.
4 Liked this book so much more than the 4th in the series, which mostly seemed like people wandering around the countryside.  Perhaps because my favorite characters were featured more?  One could almost skip the 4th and move right on to this, without missing much.  Great story and can't wait for the next book to come out.
1 Martin insists that he's got everything under control, that plot isn't the be-all and end-all, that he is equally concerned with "character development" and "world-building", that his epic is "resting", as with Tolkien in The Two Towers.Really?In The Two Towers, Tolkien (the genuine article, not the "American" counterfeit) manages to develop plot, character, and build his world (including several races and languages) simultaneously, and while he's "resting", he chronicles a major battle at Helm's Deep, the destruction of Isengard and the overthrow of Saruman, and Frodo's fight with Shelob and subsequent capture by the Orcs. And all in 400 pages.This is "resting"?Martin is not the "American Tolkien" nor any other kind of Tolkien. He is, if anything, the prose equivalent of Yanni, perpetual middle and no end. Those who love this kind of work -- stylistically similar to The Osbournes, The Kardashians, New Jersey Housewives, even The Sopranos (particularly if Tony had been killed during the first season) -- will likely love this, and will continue to do so as the characters, plots, venues and volumes multiply.Martin had a promising first act, but the literary world is replete with promises that quickly fizzle. Perhaps the publishers could give the series a title more fitting to lowered expectations: Westeros Housewives.
5 Book 5 continues to demonstrate George R. R. Martin's ability to create, develop, and sustain fascinating characters in a consistent world.  While I was not thrilled with the way books 4 and 5 dealt with chronology, I understand and respect the reasons he expressed for breaking the story up that way.  Still working my way through this one (I'm an avid, but not a fast reader), waiting to find out the fate of some of the characters I like best, afraid of the moment when I will find myself finished with Book 5 before Book 6 is published...
5 Awesome now I can finish the entire series in a couple of sittings. Don't know how it ends but want to knowand now I will finally get the oppurtunity to so.
5 A Dance With Dragons is fifth book in the Song of Ice and Fire series and I am hooked, lock stock and barrel.  In this installment, the first 60% of the book covers the same time period as that covered in a Feast for Crows but focuses on things taking place outside of Westeros -- at the Wall and beyond and in the Free Cities.  The last 40% sees the two parallel tracks merge together and move forward.  The immensity of the vision required for this series is beyond belief.  New characters continue to be introduced, including a few that likely will be central to the plot moving forward.  Although this book lacks the relentless plot punches of the third installment, Storm of Swords, there are enough jaw-dropping moments to satisfy even the most blood thirsty, including two unforgettable scenes involving the dragons.Among the things I love about this series are: (1) complicated, three-dimensional characters that can be loved (or hated) with passion; (2) intricate political intrigue with endless twists and turns; (3) an amazingly vivid, original fantasy world with more nuances than you can count; (4) heroes, villains, underdogs, vipers, champions, animals, feats of valor....the list goes on and on.  The unforgettable characters in this series include:  Jon Snow, bastard son of Lord Eddard Stark and the current Lord High Commander of the Night's Watch, desperate to wear the mantle of power with honor and grace; Arya Stark, Jon's half-sister, hidden in Braavos while she learns who she is and where her destiny will lead her; Danaerys Targaryen, Blood of the Dragon, gathering power and the strength to take back the Iron Throne ripped from her family in blood; Tyrion Lannister, the Imp, exiled from the Seven Kingdoms after being branded a king- and kin-slayer, hunted by his evil sister Cersei, mother to King Tommen, for whom no amount of power would ever be enough; and, of course, the animals, including Ghost, direwolf and familiar of Jon Snow; and the three dragon "children" of Danaerys -- Dhrogon, Viserion and Rhaegal.  All of these and many more are woven into the intricate tapestry that is this series.  I could read these books forever.  Opening the cover and starting to read is like diving into a deep pool and feasting your eyes on an aquarium of the most amazing creatures you can imagine.  I can't even fathom how George R.R. Martin keeps the worlds, people, histories and back stories of each and every complex character straight.  If he keeps going for 10 more books, I am in.
4 After reading 5000+ pages of these characters I was highly disappointed in the ending of this book until I found out there were other books in the works.  I purposely waited to read this series until I thought the last book was published but I was surprised.  Now I am waiting along with untold amounts of people for the continuing saga.  I was missing the stories of Bran, Rickon and Jaime and Brianne.  I am a little tired of evil always winning out and would like to see a few of these characters put in their place, Hello Cersei, for a little bit longer.
2 I enjoyed the first three books. There were some really interesting characters and twists and turns. I don't know if dementure set in or what but Martin lost the plot in books 4 and 5, literally. It kind of reminded me of Anne Rice novels from the 80s. Way too much detail and side plots that were frankly boring and irrelavant. Meanwhile the really interesting plots moved at a snails pace.I am able to read boring documents - believe me - but this was just too much. I barely read half of it and I won't be buying the last book I don't think. Such a waste as there were some exciting stories building. He just made it too complicated and not in a good way. In an extrecutiating way. There should have only been 4 books in the series total, with all the crap removed.
5 Book 5 of the ASoIAF is great. Neglected characters from Book 4 are back and facing new challenges. Martin has not failed to keep the story exciting, and the ending paves the way (as usual) for the next book in the epic tale.
5 I can't put it down. Of course, you have to start with one and watching the show gives me a mental picture of the characters.
5 Wow!!  I couldn't put it down. You never know what's happening next or who will die or live. Can't wait for the next book. This is an epic saga.
5 I just received this today.  I wanted to cry.  I love my books.  This books was poorly packed, therefore, I have a beat up book and book cover.  The cover is bent up in quite a few places.  The Book, my main concern, has a dent and a rip in the top front left hand side.  The dent is about and inch and a half long.  There is also a dent the same length in the upper right hand corner.  The bottom front left hand corner is bent in, the bottom front right hand corner is bent in.  On the back, the book is bent in on the lower left hand corner and and the lower right hand corner.  I take good care of my books and I would expect a book that I buy brand new would look as such.  I will, from now on, order a book by it's self and see if it gets packed better.  Although, I should not have to do so.  I do hope Amazon does something about this problem.  My book was not protected at all.  This was not right.  I will update and let you know how I like the reading of the book soon.  Do Not recommend buying this book with other products.May 9, 2013: I am writing an update on my book review.  The book was a great read.  I loved it.  It was hard to put down.  I am anxious now, for the next one.  There are lots of characters, but he (the author) makes it easy to keep up with them. He does so by Putting a title on each chapter that has to do with that person.  So, if you forget something, it is easy to go back and remind yourself.  I love all of these books
5 I have read all five of the Game of Thrones series. I actually read read them in a row after i had watched the first season on TV. If you like a good mix of fantasy, wonderful characters,old historical times and pure adventure- you will LOVE this series. Martin is a master story teller. I can't wait for the final two books!!!
4 The first three books in this series were excellent.  I could hardly put them down.  The fourth book bored me almost to tears.  This book wasn't quite so boring, but was still not up to the standards of the first three.  I read it because I'm committed to the series.  Lets hope the next book is better.
3 One huge let down! Evil always wins the day?? What kind of ending is that? I had hoped for some piece of hope for the ending..The last ten pages left nothing and answered nothing. All this...led to this ending?? I hope Mr. Martin is enjoying his money because I would never read him again.
4 I don't like the way it left off!  It leaves you wanting a book 6 to tie up all the loose ends!  What becomes of Daenerys and her dragons?  What happens to Sansa, Arya, Bran and Rickon?  Does Tyrion make it back to Kings Landing?  Does Cercei survive?  I mean really, there is so much left..right?!
5 A lot of plot progressing.  Mostly great.  Partly amazing. Not as great as the previous ones in the series. Definitely worth the wait!
5 I read previous reviews and thought maybe i wouldn't continue reading the series.I am so glad i didn't give upLOVED ITYes, there were more people added but that just made it more excitingHope this doesn't enddenise
5 Well after waiting 5 years for this book I can safely say it was worth every minute.  Working my way through at a snails pace tobe sure I absorb it all has been the hardest part.  So much happens in this book I considered making note cards so I wouldn'tforget anything.I hope everyone is giving this book a chance.  I am a George R.R. Martin fan since his first book was released years ago.  I recently re-read them all again so as to be up to date when this book came out.Give it a shot and I guarantee you won't be disappointed.Already waiting for the next one:(
5 I love this series.  Originally, I watched the HBO shows and just wanted to know more about the characters and events.But now having reading Books 1-5 I have a totally different perspective regarding many characters and themes in this story.I'm watching the current HBO Game of Thrones (almost season end) and it is deviating quite a bit from the books.  It will be interesting how they handle the story line.To be honest, reading the books and watching the shows have actually become two different stories, with similarities.I suggest both books and shows.  Great entertainment.
5 while this book keeps you up to date with the characters we all love or hate. But al it really does is set up the next book. We don't know when the dragons return, although it was Great to see Cursi great some pay back. But we have to wait until next winter, if we're lucky to learn anything more. At this point I'm hoping I live long enough to finish this wonderful story. But to hear that the actor playing king Jophery is quitting acting because he can't deal with the hate his character drew. He is a first rate actor and should be proud that he did such a great job. He could be a major star if he kept at it. It saddens me that he took things personally, he is truly gifted and I'm sorry it has driven him to quit acting.Since season four will only be part of book four, it really is a drag that after ten shows, you have to wait a year to see what happens next. So great writing, and I understand filming takes a long time, but remember when there were nine months to a season with the summer off. Even six months would be great. But it take a lot of effort to write and to produce for TV. I hope I live to see the end.
2 Its clear now after Feast and Dancing either Martin, the publisher, or both want to milk this for all its worth and there is no plan to conclude the saga. Yet again, as in FFC this one has no plots resolved and too many new characters. I remember when this was supposed to be a three book series. I wish it had stayed that way. I will buy the next book but I will buy a used version because the series is no longer worth $10.
5 George R.R.Martin has a way of keeping you engaged in the book. It is had to put down.  It is very well written and thought out with many twist and turns.
3 "Is it good?"I got asked this by my brother who has only seen the show and saw me reading the newest book. Since obviously I couldn't discuss much with him, but he still wanted to know, as everyone else has been wanting to know:"Is it good?"Yes it's good. It's better than a Feast for Crows by virtue of it's characters alone. But wow, it's also incredibly frustrating. Sorry for the quick change of mood there, but that's exactly what it's like to read this book. Moments will make you snap to attention and instantly remember why you've waited so long for the series, and how you loved it in the first place. This book has the power to draw you away from your world and into its. But these are but brief illuminations in a dark and often blindly led journey.Dance's biggest problem is it's pacing, which is to say stop and go. Whenever you think something major is about to happen, the book seems intent at preventing it. And yet this is a gargantuan of a novel. What makes up the extra space in between actual happenings? Exposition and traveling.  So much of what is spoken could have only been mentioned and still had the same effect. Take for instance every Victarion Greyjoy chapter. Are the iron born interesting? Yes they are and very much so. Is there any amount of information in his chapters that couldn't have been neatly condensed into one? No.This becomes a problem later on when things should be picking up but never seem to. There is hardly a character in this book that doesn't seemingly have their story end one chapter (or more) too short. And not in the "I must know what happens next" way, but rather in the "I fear this may be another six year cliffhanger" manner. Then there is the almost laughable cases of Bran and Davos. I swear to the seven that I flipped back through the book just to make sure that I didn't somehow miss more of their chapters. Let me save you the time. You didn'tThe other major problem is actually some of the characters themselves. Yes, they are much better than the ones we got in Feast for Crows, but only barely. The biggest offender is no other than Tyrion himself. His story is long, mildly eventful, sometimes utterly bizarre (in ways good and bad), but worst of all (and I can't believe I'm writing this) it's humorless. A chuckle here and there maybe, but for the most part Martin loses his way with Tyrion's dialogue. Danerys sadly fairs much the same. She (and Tyrion for that matter) has some INCREDIBLE moments in this book, but for the most part she spends her time spinning her wheels and kicking up mud all around here the whole time. Yet again, it's all in an effort to end the story in an interesting place and then take what may happen away for another day. Which leads us to Jon Snow. The strongest of the three major characters, Jon's story sees him discovering leadership as well as himself as a person. It's a good story with some great little moments, and even in its' drawn out passages it still seems the most driven. Yet it ends with not only a cliffhanger for his own situation, but the ones of others as well who don't get their own final chapters.There's also a problem with new additions. I'll be brief. Tyrion meets an uninteresting dwarf woman who gets much dialogue and time, Danerys is practically surrounded by a cast of "who?"s that you get to know and become "who cares"?, many sell sword companies are introduced out of the blue and now have quite a bit of sway. None of those compare to the holy mother of "huh?" characters however. For the sake of extreme spoilers I will not mention the name, but the character comes right out of the blue and can completely change everything that has been done so far. I hope there is a satisfying reasoning to this...surprise and it wasn't just done to give us a mini-me version of a well dead character we could never have, but I fear the later.Yet I give this book 3 stars, and I say it is good. That's because it is. For instance take the surprising quality of the Reek chapters. By now, I'm going to assume it's no major spoiler to say that Reek is Theon Greyjoy. It might be a spoiler however to let you know that his chapters might be the best in the book. They are purposeful, deliberate, and constantly interesting. They also introduce us to some fantastic new villains in the Boltons, and just for hell he becomes a rallying point of sorts for other major characters. In Theon's story you will find that old magic once again that the first three books had in spades.He's not the only one. Davos and Bran may be cut short, but what's there is great. The activities of King Stannis and those around him are always interesting and make for some of the best intrigue in the book. Asha Greyjoy has a short but sweet story that puts her in an active position within the overall story. Ser Barristan Selmy has a few very, very good chapters. And while I still find Tyrion's chapters to be boring, Jon and Danerys overall provide the major plots of this tale, and both contribute enough to make it worth while. The best characters though? The precious few chapters we get from the Feast for Crows gang. Not only do they advance the unresolved plots of Jamie, Cersei, and No One, but they are also some of the best written of the bunch further suggesting that Martin knows where he going with the plot, but that he needed these last two books to turn a real big ship around to get there.Then there are those moments. In fact I retract my earlier statement. It's not the characters that make this better than a Feast for Crows, it's those damn moments. This installment spreads them around more liberally than its' predecessor did, and is the much better for it. This book feels more alive than A Feast for Crows, even when it's just shuffling it's feet. Plus like I said, it may take a while to get there but by the end of this book the whole overall plot feels much more on track and focused. Oh and that last chapter? Gravy. Pure indulgence and a fantastic bookend to both fully hype you for book six and remind you the power Martin still wields with a pen over your very soul and even your expectations.Ultimately I may have fallen under the same curse as Martin and spoke too many words. Because you will read this book and you very much should. Ultimately some will say that the wait was too long for too much unresolved. Maybe that's true. But as a whole and judged on it's own this is a more than solid entry into the Ice and Fire series and, while not destined to become everyone's favorite, is still a hard work of fiction to out right hate.But George, can I sum up quickly what fans want for Winds of Winter?More Dragons, Less Dancing.
5 Amazing book and tv series. This book is a little bit review but also gets into what else will happen after where the series ended last season. I look forward to the next book(s) and to see how this all turns out. Who will end up ruling from the iron throne? I am rooting for the Mother of Dragons. I bought the hardback and it is BIG.
5 As usual, Martin delivers with this 5th installment! I just wish all of them were written already! I can't wait for book 6!
5 I probably was expecting way too much, having had the past six years to build up those expectations.I have no doubt that, given the depth of plans within schemes alongside plots, I'll end up picking up more of the story in re-reads, as has been the case whenever I re-read the previous books.The first half deals with characters and events that were happening during the timeline of "Feast For Crows", and while it still makes for good reading, the second half is undoubtedly much more interesting. No, it didn't have much of the major events I was hoping for, but Martin has never failed to surprise and shock me, and while there weren't as many powerful and shocking moments as I would've liked, they were still there, and well worth it.I was surprised that Cersei and Jaime were given what chapters they were, considering that they were so prominent in "Feast For Crows", and I wish Martin would've labeled all of the chapters with that viewpoint's character name, rather than a reference to what role that character might have been fulfilling at the time. I found myself skimming a few paragraphs ahead when that happened to make sure I knew which character that chapter dealt with.I admittedly was disappointed that many of my questions/anticipations still went unanswered, but I have more than enough faith that Martin will get to those in time - although I wouldn't be surprised if it takes him three more epic books rather than the two more he currently sees for the series.Still, it is merely because I've come to expect such entertaining genius from Martin that anything short of that disappoints.The fact is that I kept looking forward to getting back to it and finishing it, just as I look forward to re-reading it very soon.
5 Book five is better than book four, and really four wasn't bad. I loved this book! Now I will go into mourning while I wait for book six be completed.
3 I would have rather seen more on the existing characters fans of the series know and love. It seems like Martin felt like he HAD to make new characters to make Dance a big book. It is good but a little disappointing given how long we had to wait for it.
5 Just a continuation of great writing. Plots and twist that make perfect since but you still don't see coming.Cant wait for next installment.David
4 Title says it all, now if we just dont have to wait 10 years for the next one.  Really there is a word minimum ??
4 I understand most of the reviewers point about how in terms of the storyline this book did not move it along. However, we all knew this years back and this should have not been a surprise to fans of aSoIF. We all knew 'A Feast for Crows' and 'A Dance with Dragons' were actually suppose to be one volume but was split up due to size (but let's be honest it's probably due to $ also). So to go into this book and expect something different is totally insane. It's like opening a can of CocaCola and expecting it to taste like Dr Pepper! To penalize this book's quality/rating because of this is unfair. If 'A Feast for Crows' and 'A Dance with Dragons' came out in back to back years this would not even be an issue.I agree with most fans that GRRM is taking way too long to finish this series, the first book came out in 1996 so it's 16 years and counting as of this review! Perhaps if he didn't get sidetracked with so many side projects he would have finished years earlier. The gaps are so long in between each book that I have to lookup Wikipedia what happened in the last book. GRRM is doing himself and his series a disservice with his slightly faster than snails pace writing because people have lives and as time goes on so do our interest and attention span.Now onto this book's review, it once again showed why GRRM is truly a great story teller and how much time and effort he puts into the complexity of characters and storyline. I won't spoil it for those who haven't read it yet but there's a character who we hate because he betrayed the Starks (in book 2) and yet in this book we root for him to escape his captors. This character supposedly really 'Reeks'. A good writer will make the reader feel engaged and emotionally invested in the story and characters and GRRM does that better, if not the best, than many current authors. This book does move the story along for other characters such as Tyrion (my favorite) and what happened to him since he murdered his father. It just doesnt move the story along in terms of the entire series but hey that's not you were expecting right?
3 Book Five and Book Four were very disappointing.  Book Five sort of retraces stories told in Book Four from other perspectives (even though the outcomes are already known).  I hope Mr. Martin intends to correct the errors of prose in these two books when he pens the six.  Love the series, not a fan of the last 2 books.
5 This is the best book of the series. Read it. Now. You will not be disappointed in your choice. Trust me.
5 I'm not sure anyone will read my review since it's coming in after something like 850 entries, but just in case, I wanted to put my two cents in because all the almost hysterical anti-DWD rants may actually discourage people from buying the book, and I think that would be a mistake.Here's my take on way people are so enraged (***some general non-specific spoilers***)1.  They genuinely care about the book and want it to be the brilliant once-in-fifty-years fantasy it has promised to be.  They are afraid it won't, particularly since GRRM has taken 10 years to produce Books 4 & 5 (which could really be one book).  GRRM, like all of us, is mortal, so people are worried, God forbid, he will not have enough time to finish the books at all and/or he lacks the discipline and well power to do so.(By the way, anyone who tosses out bizarre insults about GRRM-he's lazy, he's arrogant, etc - I dismiss out of hand. If you have such little respect for him,  don't read his stuff.)2.  BOoks 4 & 5 are 'middle' books, much as the second book in the LOTR trilogy was.  GRRM deliberately decides to have his characters go in circles and for nothing to 'happen' - that is part of his point here.  Such books are much easier to read when there is a Book 6 & 7 to read immediately, or when you are confident Books 6 & 7 will be on their way shortly.  People are not confident of this.3.  The world of the pseudo Near East was poorly imagined, not as realistic as the Western Westeros.  In particular, Dany's world was not fully fleshed out--it is entirely corrupt & despotic, with no positive traits.  Yet the slave world of, say, Egypt, also had greatness--religion the arts, etc.  This Western stereotype of an Egypt=like state made Dany's stay there very hard to bear because in addition to the one-dimensional world, Dany herself was behaving really really one-dimensionally.Spoiler ** QUESTION---Did anyone else pick up the possibility that Dany was being bespelled by the wizards and that was the reason she locked her dragons and lost her way?  There are numerous hints in the book.4.  Finally, the books could have used editing.  Indeed, with good editing, Books 4 & 5 could have been one book of about 800 pages max.  Nearly all of the Brienne chapters of Book 4, for instance, could have been omitted. In this book, several Dany chapters could have been omitted with zero negative repercussions.Positives:So what's good about this book?The tone, scope and breadth of this book was outstanding.  If you view this as a tale in which Westeros and the outside world are CHARACTERS themselves, the story becomes much more interesting.GRRM, I believe, is attempting to make this a story about a whole world rather than a mere story about Westeros.  Because he decided to do this, he had to follow several story strands he didn't anticipate he would follow.  This is also primarily a story about power---how to get it, how to lose it, what you do when you have it and what exactly it is.  In this case, the story centers mostly on the 'how to use it,' with Jon and Dany really struggling.As with all great writers, GRRM takes story arcs and goes FAR past the predictable--Tyrion kills his father.  But the story doesn't end at all.  Dany frees the slaves.  Then what?  Jon gets power.  Then what?  Arya trains.  But now what?  Bran finds the Children of the Forest. Now what?What I find particularly great about the book is how GRRM refuses to categorize good or evil (with the exception of a truly evil person like the Bolton thing).  Even with the Others it is not clear entirely what their purpose is, or what they are.  Is the 'kind man' Arya trains with evil or good?  Does it matter?  Which of the religions are 'true'?  All? None?  Are they really one?These questions are examined in even more detail and depth in this book than in others.It is a 'dance' and the dance goes nowhere.  That is part of the point.I may be wrong, but I think GRRM had the most difficulty writing these books, 4 & 5, because he didn't originally anticipate having to write them--they are mostly a bridge between 'here' and 'there,' both of which he seems to have mapped out.  It's the bridge part he's had trouble with, figuring out just how to get the characters from here to there, and what the point of the journey was.  I do think the next two books will come quicker and will have a lot more action now that all the chess pieces are in place.I would definitely recommend reading this, particularly if, like me, you know ahead of time that it's not extremely action packed (although it definitely has its moments).  Worth your time.
4 Well written as usual, the story is breathtaking. However, a bit disappointed that some characters seem to turn around. Arya's part was a bit dull. Yet, I'm looking forward to reading the next one.
2 The book is well-written, and if you like the rest of the series, you will like this. It still only deserves 1 or 2 stars in my opinion for 2 reasons:1) Too many characters that died (or seemed to) in the previous books come magically back to life. This Deus ex Machina will not help the plot. In real life, we deal with dead people and the problems the deaths left behind. The first books did that. This book tells us that they weren't really dead -- it was a deception. Blech.2)Martin pulls a Robert Jordan and creates new points of view that extend the plot rather than wrapping up plot threads. We want an ending to the series, even if it makes us sad to see it wrapped up.I also found it confusing to read, because even though I know it takes place concurrent with the previous novel, it was hard to mentally go back to "before this happened." I will have to get both converted to text, then rearrange all the chapters of both books chronologically to get a better picture.My request as a reader: Let the dead stay dead. Minimize the points of view. Write the end of the series now, and then write everything that happens between Dance and the end. But make sure the end is written -- if you die, at least we'll have a satisfying ending to a wonderful literary banquet.
5 This continues the story from the series and does NOT disappoint.  More of the wonderful writing style of George R.R.Martin.  Good read!
2 I really loved the series and was looking forward to the resolution of a lot things. No resolution. Also an epilogue that made me think the writer is saying, &#34;I'm done with this one.&#34;
3 If you expect action and hope that the story will move along a bit, you will be disappointed. Not much happens. But the description and intrigue is rich and well worth the read. I would have felt better about reading this book if I knew that the author was hard at work on the next volume. Unfortunately George is still on the book tour circuit as of January 2012, with no obvious intent to ever finish this series. Whether he will need a ghost writer to finish it for him remains to be seen. I hope he has plotted it out to grease the chute for his replacement.
5 The book is already amazing, so I feel like I would repeat the many great revies about it... I want to comment on the wrapping one more time and on the edition. Five stars out of five, this is what I give to this order; very satisfied and happy it arrived in excellent condition and on time.
4 Just finished the throne-master's 5th installment of power.  Oh yes, winter is coming!  Dance with Dragons was filled with my favorite characters.  George never fails on coming up with original story lines.  Words are wind!  I can't wait until the HBO series comes out.  Very curious on how they will fuse the 4th and 5th book together for film.  Fans, you won't find out in this book who wins the game of thrones.  As usual, he leaves us all hanging.  Here are some of the storylines that I enjoyed.Danerys-Queen of the freed slaves is also Queen of Mereen.  She is in love with her captain, Daharis, but marries Hizdahr to enable a peace treaty.  Her dragons have grown into monsters.  One of them is loose and burning people to death.  The other two are caged in a pit inside of the pyramid/castle of the city.  The chains aren't holding up from their fire.The day after her wedding, Danerys attends a show that involves death fights.  Her dragon swoops in and ruins the event.  The show involves all kinds of perspectives, including Tyrion's, but when seen through her eyes it suggests that she is tired of her "children"/dragons running amok.  She tries to discipline the monster with a whip which kind of works.  She mounts him like a horse and he flies away.  Everyone thinks she is dead, but she lives on an island with her dragon.  At the end of the book a tribe of Dothraki find her chowing down on a horse with her dragon.After Danerys marries Hizdahr, another man comes into her life, the prince of Dorne.  He wants to marry her and he, too, has ancestors from the Targaryen family.  She rejects him but he doesn't leave the city.  He refuses to believe that she is dead and then sets her dragons free, believing he can control them.  He ends up dead, but now there are three dragons on the loose.After Danerys leaves Mereen, her faithful servant, Ser Barristan (the guy Joffrey kicked out of the kingsguard back in season 1 or 2), investigates.  He suspects her husband was trying to kill her with honeyed-locusts.  The dragon ruined his plan.Tyrion-He snuck his way out of King's Landing after killing his father, Tywin Lannister.  He was helped by the bad eunuch, Visrys.  He embarks upon a trip to Dorne with another captive, Danerys's little brother who everyone thought had been murdered.  Tyrion's original travel companions die or get lost after a storm and he winds up in chains under Sir Jorah Mormont's supervision.  He and another dwarf are now part of a circus, headed for Mereen to entertain the lords.  He and the other dwarf entertain Queen Danerys and the city at the fight.  Sir Jorah is also part of the act.  Their lord, a rich man from Mereen, tries to kill them with a man-eating lion, but again the dragon scene ruins the plan.Reek/Theon-This is my favorite story line.  Theon was never one of my favorite characters but in this book he shines!  The Bastard of Bolton AKA Lord Ramsay takes Theon for a pet and tortures him nonstop.  The man psychologically looses his identity and takes on a new persona, the persona given to him by his master.  He is now Reek, the timid meek battered-wife syndrome PSTD prisoner who has forgotten most of his past.  He is made to live in a hole and eat rats. He is not allowed to bathe and often flayed for the entertainment of Lord Ramsay.  One day he is actually needed to play himself, Theon Greyjoy.  Lord Ramsay wants Winterfell so he marrys "Arya" Stark who of course is someone else.  He needs Reek/Theon to vauge for him and vouch for the girl's identity.  A big wedding is held at Winterfell and Theon, through plots and schemes of others, gets free.  This story reminds me of a Dracula-Renfield relationship.Circe-She had a much bigger story line in the 4th book, but nonetheless, George doesn't leave us hanging on her imprisonment of the septas.  For punishment she is made to walk across King's Landing naked.  Her head and beaver are shaved.  Townspeople throw things at her and make fun.  She does live, but will never have any respect as queen.  Her Uncle Kevan, the hand and king regent, is murdered by Visyrs, the bald eunuch.  Before Kevan Lannister dies, Visyrs tells him he is doing it for the Realm and Circe will of course blame the Tyrells.  Love the Machiavellian tactics!My Review:  There are so many new characters and new places.  The maps inside of the book were not helpful.  I couldn't find Meereen or Slaver's Bay.  The story has several moments of greatness, but too many pages in between.  This book has been the most difficult of the series for me to read.  The plot keeps getting bigger and bigger, reading much like a history book at times.  The characters' family trees have centuries of back stories that could have easily been condensed.  Personally, this story could be even more brilliant if 300-400 pages were edited out of it.  In the end, I love it.  For all of Martin's faults, it's the unique and revolutionary story that keeps me coming back for more.  His jaded themes of religion and politics resonate with me.  And love, well it's just a means to an end in this series.  The only halfway decent, moral character was Ned Stark.  Look what happened to him!  Nice guys finish last!  I will buy and read the next book and the book after that and the book after that-I'm hooked.  4/5 stars[...]
5 Wonderful story writing. So much going on and can't wait to find out who will win.  Exciting tale! These books are long and fully detailed. Feels like you are a part of the story. It's a big game and you pick your winners.
4 I am a huge fan of the series. If you made it through the first four books, by now you know that Mr. Martin has 7 books planned so this is not the end of the series. He did a good job of fleshing out the story and left us lots of cliffhangers to make us long for the next book.  I still hate the bad guys and hope that some of the good guys last until the last book. I would think that Martin has tons of motivation to get the series completed with his HBO exposure to current and future fans.Read it. It is a great escape from the real world.
5 Addicted to this world, this language, this landscape-I don't love the violence, but I feel I know the main characters so intimately-I miss them when I cannot be reading them!I need to know what will become of them!There are half a hundred possible outcomes that I can imagine and not all of them happy....
5 Even though the books are long, each one pulls you in and when you are done you are ready for the next one!  Hurry up George and write book 6!
4 I honestly skimmed parts of book. Too many new people. Not as good as books before. Of course I read it and will read last book...but parts of this got a little drawn out...just saying.
5 Love all of these books and this one ranks right up there with Game of Thrones as far as the entire collection goes.  Excited to see where everything goes from here!
4 I loved this book, and at $5.99 is an absolute steal compared to the Hardcover.  We bought the first 4 books in the series from Amazon for only $16.00.  (Right now, Costco is selling the entire 5-Book series for $29.99).As for the actual book, I think Martin should have added about 200 more pages to finish the story, hence my downgrade.So many characters have been left out or omitted completely in this book, but Martin explains this in the prologue.No doubt everything will be wrapped up in Book 6 and Book 7.Nevertheless, I am completely mesmerized by this FF series and would recommend to anyone who's a fan of Tolkien, Steven King, and/or JK Rowling.
5 It took me an awful long time to read this book.  I'm not the fastest reader though.  I usually only read right before bed and on my lunch hour.  Can't get through a lot of pages that way.  And this book is looooooooong, but it's oh-so good.  The author does such a great job describing scenery, clothing, foods, smells, that I could really picture everything.  I love that about this author, there are pages and pages of description.  I know the show is a different animal, but I cannot wait to see which parts are used in the show and how they are adapted for cable tv.
4 I enjoyed reading this and loved finding out what happened to all the characters. Unfortunately I also found myself bored with reading it, unlike previous books that I couldn't put down. I wad a little disappointed with the development of some of the characters as well. Overall though it's a good read and must for fans of the series.
5 I'm always eager for the latest installment of of well-loved series.  I bought the written form of this book the week it came out, and purchased the audio version so my husband could enjoy it, too.  He travels a great deal.  This series is, hands down, the BEST fantasy series out there.  George R. R. Martin can write rings around Tolkein, but if he doesn't get off the stick and start cranking out more books, he's going to find that HBO will finish his story for him.
5 Reading this book has brought it full circle. Now i understand what the dance with dragons is! Bravo mr. martin!
5 I am stuck on this series. I loved this book too so can't wait to see the next one up. I will be grabbing it here too I m sure.
2 I have read the series this far, so I am a fan. And only a dedicated fan should read this book. I love Martin's writing, but I have to say that this is by far the worst book he has written. Where were the editors? It's way too long and it fails to advance the story more than a millimeter. You could read the first chapter and the last chapter and skip everything in the middle, because nothing happens! Well, it does, but somehow it all seems very boring and predictable. The copy editing is sloppy with errors in grammar and overuse of the same words and phrases.This book should have been released as two books. Then the first book would have been released sooner, it would have been shorter and the publisher would make twice a much money. The fans would be happy and the author not so burned out. I hope the next book is shorter, tighter and more eventful.
2 His books get longer and longer but have less depth, and story. You'll get entire pages dedicated to family members they will never mention again. It's like reading early chapters of the Bible... and Mzdahr, begat Lothar, who begat Hizdahr, whose second uncle was a great man of the fishing provincies and had three brothers named.... WHO CARES!!!!  I find myself skipping entire pages. He does the same thing with descriptions of places, explaining every wall in a room, Ok I get it,flesh out your story. Don't write a movie, including screenplay, and set design all in one. Needs to seriously learn how to edit out the crap or the for the next book I will only be reading the Cliff's Notes version.
3 Read the middle 4 books of the Wheel of Time series again... and DON'T DO THAT.  I say this because you are well on your way to writing a WoT clone in a bad way - you started brilliantly but are now lost, characters are standing around saying "what's my motivation?" (you're a Hollywood guy now... you know what I'm talking about).  Dragons are on vacation in the hills, or maybe they stomped off to their trailer in a huff (of smoke).  Get Tyrion off his party barge and send him to a celeb detox program so he gets his personality back (worked for Ironman).  Get the wolves of Winterfell howling... you know they want to.  And tell me that Jon somehow survived his Et tu, Brute moment... because he's the only intersting character at the Wall right now!Don't follow in Jordan's footsteps and write 4 books where the characters do NOTHING of note (well yours do die, but that's not the kind of 'of note' I'm talking about)... you've got one already with aDwD, stop now!  You've got a LOT of ground to cover yet so start trudging, Winter is coming.
5 I'm thoroughly sucked into this series. I began I to be interested from watching the 1st. Season on HBO. I stopped watching the series in order to read and finish the books first. I have now read all of the books that have been written thus far and I'm anxiously awaiting the next in the series. And beginning to re-start the watching of the series on HBO Go.
4 Books Three and Four had me literally skipping pages, due to all of the secondary and tertiary characters I just did not care about.  Why he chose to abandon Brandon and Brienne and focus on these characters kind of upset me.But Book Five brings it.  Brings it back to what's important to the fans.  At least this fan.
5 I loved this book. It was well written, and there was excitement, surprise, and mystery. I really wanted to savor it and make it last, but I read it rather quickly, and am about 1/4 way through a second read.I don't quite understand all of the negative reviews. This is a transition book. It parallels another transition book. The plot cannot advance beyond what the other book allows until the story lines catch up. Don't you think that if any MAJOR events happened in these POV chapters, the major characters in the other book would have heard about them? The action moves exactly as much as it should considering the timeline and what's happening elsewhere. We had three books before, we'll have at least two after, so there is plenty of time to run the plotlines back together. Relax. Enjoy the story.In a story this large, it can't be the pace of A Storm of Swords constantly. Plenty of very important things happened, and beyond that, the characters are primed to move the story forward rapidly as the threads all near one another. To me, the plot moved along just fine. The more story that there is, the more I get to enjoy. Sure, I want to know the secrets we've been waiting to know, and I'm also eager to see how this whole story plays out in the grand scheme of things. But I really like this story and just want to enjoy the journey. That's okay with me. May not be (and obviously isn't) for many people.I think that some people are just upset because they've spent years assuming they knew where the story was going, or guessing at where it was going, and then they realized that it's not their story. It's not wrapping up as quickly or neatly as they would have liked, in the way they wanted it to.This book is also bleak. And dark. Winter is cruel, and it's coming fast. Hard decisions have to be made. Many of them are choices between bad and worse, and you don't know which is which.New twists, misleading storylines (I have no doubt), and hard realities are woven throughout the prose, which continues to improve.I'm not telling you that you must like this book, I'm just saying that I liked it. My opinion is that it was great, and that many people who have disliked it might have had expectations unfulfilled, causing them to react negatively without regarding the story in light of what it really is, and on the merits it has on its own. I'm one of those who waited almost the entire 11 years for these plot arcs and characters to continue since ASOS. Believe me, I'm anxious for answers, too. But I still really enjoyed this part of the story.Short story: if you disliked A Feast For Crows, you'll probably be frustrated with this book. I like them both. A lot.
2 Like many readers, I was smitten with the world Martin created inA Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1), was caught up in the vivid showing of the battles and the intrigue inA Clash of Kings (HBO Tie-in Edition): A Song of Ice and Fire: Book Two, and was impressed by his ruthlessness towards his characters inA Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3).  As with many readers and fans, I cut Martin some slack inA Feast for Crows (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 4)- the storyline was just too big, apparently for a single book. A rationale I thought reasonable, and although the storyline moved at a glacial pace, I had high hopes for some resolution of loose ends from Book 4, and some forward movement in _A Dance with Dragons_.  Were that it was so.  _A Dance with Dragons_ was in many ways, an utter disappointment.That is not to say I found Book 5 a total bust.  To avoid spoilers, I'll write in broad terms.  I did like the wider sense of geo-politics Martin develops here, as the conflict in Westeros has ramifications in the Free Cities and Valyria.  It was a relief to see the storylines that had diverged in _A Feast for Crows_  again rejoin each other, and readers are given a longer perspective of the political web that "the game of thrones" is: princes thought long dead instead found in hiding, old alliances and old rivalries between noble houses uncovered, details of storylines from the first four books (particularly around Daenyrs) brought to light.  In a perverse way, I also liked the lack of resolution of some of the story lines: tantalizing clues left about what will happen with Daenerys, Arya, the dragons; characters in difficult situations that I am anxious to see solved: Jon on the Wall, Bran Beyond the Wall, and Jamie and Brienne in the Riverlands.  As much as I enjoyed this, it was not enough to earn more than a mediocre review.There are many more points that I take issue with than there are redeeming features.  First is the geologic pace at which the story moves.  At just under 1000 pages, I had expected more forward movement of the plot.  This did not happen.  Stannis remains in the North.  Daenerys remains in Slaver's Bay.  Tyrion, for much of the story, is at sea - and so on ad nauseum with all the characters.  Books One and Two moved much more quickly, and which I liked much more..  Perhaps juggling 23 story lines has simply become untenable for Martin to maintain.  Another issue I had concerned the changes in authenticity of several of the characters.  While I recognize characters do (and should) change across the story line, Martin has several of his characters take almost 180 degree turns from who they were in the first four books - especially Jon ("The Night's Watch takes no part in the wars of the Seven Kingdoms") and Tyrion.  I also expected at least some sort of "chekcing in " with other characters from _A Feast for Crows_ would happen once the storylines from Book 4 was reunited in Book 5 - specifically the happenings and goings on of Sansa and Samwell Tarley.  It looks like readers will have to wait for the next installment to see what these characters have been up to.  In a similar vein,  Jamie was hardly mentioned at all.The divergence of story lines between Books 4 and 5 was a challenge as well.  As a relative new comer to the series, I had the advantage of being able to read the books more or less concurrently (I pity those who had to wait over four years between books), but even then I frequently found myself going back to _A Feast for Crows_ to reacquaint myself with characters and their stories that  I had fogotten all about, it having been 500 or 600 (or, in the case of Daenyrs) almost 900 pages since last they were a part of the story.  Some sort of prologue (other than the pointless prologue involving Wargs and apprentice maesters) recaping the story thus far would have been helpful, I think.As much as I am tempted to give _A Dance with Dragons_ a one-star rating, I can't.  This is a work in progress - I remain hopeful that, once the "Song of Fire and Ice" is completed, my objections and complaints will be inconsequential.  While I remain frustrated that the story has moved so little over the last two books, I also remain optimistic that there will be a payoff in the book(s) to come.  Those expectations aside, for a 1000 page investment in reading, there is precious little payoff for audiences here.
5 Excellent continuation of series although somr pov's missing because of split with &#34;Feast&#34;.  I liked it better on reread after also listening to the audiobook.
5 A welcome return to the deep complexities of the first three novels and away from the repetitive fourth tale. The story of Bran becomes more developed and stranger and that of Jon shows a stronger character. Daenerys is still waiting in the wings and it is not yet clear how she and Jon and Tyrion will intersect.
1 Such promise in A Game of Thrones.  So much anticipation in A Clash of Kings.  The warning signals came for me in A Storm of Swords: the ratio of story versus "rich fabric" was reversed; and it was perpetuated in A Feast of Crows.  I was prepared to abandon the series right then, but didn't Martin promise to make it right in A Dance With Dragons?  Instead, Martin wrote as if he had no idea where his runaway project was going. Oh, and the HBO screenplay is still worse.
3 I started this series riveted, unable to put the books down, even after the author killed Eddard Stark. There were plots within plots that kept you on your toes, but this book should have tied together better than it did.  There were too many characters too loosely connected and the reader is left wondering to much.  What happened to King Stannis, Jaime, Jon........?????  I hope the next book, if there is one somehow can pull all of the characters together without killing all of them off.
4 I Loved the book series but hated being left hanging...it would have been nice to know what happened to them all.
2 So I just finished ploughing my way through all 5 of the Song of Fire and Ice books and I'm regretfully finding myself in agreement with many of the other reviews here.  Despite the breathless reviews posted on the back cover hailing George RR Martin as the "American JRR Tolkein" what he's shaping up to be is the next Robert Jordan.  This is not a good thing.Like the late Mr. Jordan whose Wheel of Time series was strung out horrifically, padded with useless new characters and endless descriptions of clothing, and basically milked for all the new volumes it could sell until the author lamentably died before he was anywhere close to a conclusion, the Song of Fire and Ice series is showing disturbingly parallel tendencies.  While the series started reasonably strong in the first book or two, by book 5 it's clear the author has no idea where he's going, doesn't know how to keep the plot moving anymore or even build suspense except by the soap-opera-like device of continually having characters you think he's killed off amazingly resurrected (sometimes off-stage so you have no idea how this actually occurred), and he still maddeningly pads out his prose with endless lists of clans and the heraldry of all those present at any event whether or not those people will actually play a part in the subsequent plot.And like Robert Jordan, it is looking as if the author is likely to expire before he can finish.  Even in his book jacket photo on Dance With Dragons (which would normally be expected to show the author in the most flattering light), Mr. Martin does not look well.  I am certainly not wishing any ill health on him, but I really wish he'd just get on with it and wrap up all the various plot lines in one final, climactic book.  Robert Jordan would have written a modern masterpiece if he'd had the willpower to make it a 6-book series; George RR Martin would be well-advised to do so.This is really a failure of editing.  It's an understandable problem - once an author becomes a wildly-successful bestseller, no editor has the power or the guts to say, "George, this is a piece of long-winded crap that doesn't go anywhere.  Take it back and cut it by 50% and tighten up all the plotlines."  But I guess they figure they'll sell a lot more books this way.As long as the author can survive the experience.Bottom line - I think I'll wait until I hear that the series has actually been completed before I purchase another volume.
4 I finished A Dance with Dragons a few weeks ago after reading books 1 through 4 just over a year earlier.  When I logged on to see the reviews for the book I decided to sort them by date and I found that all negative reviews are overwhelmingly "helpful" and all positive reviews overwhelmingly "unhelpful".  Is there a cult of anti-GRRM reviewers just sitting at their computers clicking unhelpful at every reviewer who liked this book?  Seriously, get a life and move on.  If you didn't like the book then fine, that's your opinion and you are welcome to it.  So write your scathing review about how George has turned into a cash cow, and about how bad the editing is, and how nothing at all happens in the book, and then move on with your lives.  By sitting around and bumping up all of the negative reviews it just proves that you care so much about this series (good or bad) that you feel the need to stalk the review page night and day to leave your feedback.  So don't bother saying that you are done with the series, because you know darn well that you will be first in line at the bookstore when book 6 is released.If that first paragraph made you angry, then just go ahead and click "unhelpful" but if you are just going to sit here all day anyway then you might as well read the rest of my review.  Are there any Tolkien fans out there?  I ask because most people don't recall that the Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings took 12 years to write.  That's right, it took Tolkien 12 years to write 4 books.  Sound familiar?  The fact is that the time it took to write a series means absolutely nothing when the series is finally completed.  60 years after the completion of The Lord of the Rings, it is held as the pinnacle of the fantasy genre.  When all is said and done, and GRRM has finally finished A Song of Ice and Fire, it will be held up as the best fantasy series since Tolkien, and I have absolutely no doubt about that.  The reason for the disappointment is because each individual book can not meet the reader's expectations after such a long wait between books.  If you had just finished The Two Towers after a 4 year wait I'm sure you would be disappointed with that too, and how nothing got resolved.  That fact is that no one read Tolkien as the books were being released.  What must have seemed a curse at the time turned into a blessing, as Tolkien's works became popular in the 70's and people read the books all at once, judging them as one large work.  The same thing will happen with GRRM when the Song is finally completed and people start to read the series as one large work, without long waits and building expectations between books.Sorry for the rambling review, but I (gasp) actually enjoyed A Dance with Dragons.  Was it as good as books 1 through 3?  No not quite, hence the 4 stars instead of 5.  Was it better then book 4?  Yes it was, and it is also head and shoulders above 99 percent of all other fantasy, period.  GRRM will finish the Song at his own pace, and when it is all finally completed, Dance will have its own special place in the series.  It is a book of transition and growth.  It is a book where Westeros recovers from the War of the Five Kings.  It is a book where Jon and Dany learn that with leadership comes great responsibility and hardship.  It is a book where despicable characters are redeemed, and where villainous ones grow even more hated in the reader's mind.  It is a book that held me like no other book I had read in the past year and it reminded me of why I love this series so darn much.  I will admit that I was a little disappointed in the end.  Not disappointed in the Dance itself, but disappointed that I would have to wait a very long time to see the final fates of my favorite characters.  However, I am confident that, 20 years from now, I will be sitting contently in a cozy chair next to a warm fire, revisiting the events of this beautiful series after it is finally completed, and the agony and disappointment of waiting between books will be nothing but a distant memory.
3 Look these main characters are really good.  We all know by now that Martin can write and he's not afraid to take leaps that many other writers would never dream of and I applaud that but there are some serious problems here.  First it is beyond obvious that Mr. Martin is milking this series out.  The last book did literally NOTHING to advance the plot or solidify main characters.  Another problem is THERE ARE ENTIRELY TOO MANY CHARACTERS.  With it taking so long between books you forget the minor char's and what has happened.  I'm not at all opposed to an author killing off main characters if it develops the plot or has meaning in some way.  However, so far we've seen only 2 main char's deaths actually mean something relevant to the story.  Its like this author is killing main characters just to prove to the reading community or more likely, his peers, that he isn't afraid to go against the grain.  RR Martin is seriously in danger of the Robert Jordan and George Lucas curse in that their popularity has those working with them and for them afraid to do AND constructive editing at all.  Someone needs to tell RR Martin to let an editor methodically work thru his drafts to make them better.  When I was reading the Wheel of Time books I started wondering "who the hell is editing this drivel", then I found out it was his wife.  Fans of your work aren't the best to add constructive criticism.  I can honestly say I think I am done with these books just like I stopped on book 4 of Wheel of Time.
5 Goes deeper yet into the wars for the seven kingdoms. Waiting for the next chapter to unfold. Too many twists and turns to describe.
4 After five years, GRR Martin finally decides to grace us with another book the same time HBO comes out with the TV show. As a fellow fan, I can't help but pick it up to figure out what happens to the story. But did anything really happen? That's an arguable point.Let's talk about the enjoyable things before getting to the more unpleasant parts of this review:Martin is a great writer. No matter how slow the story is moving, I still didn't want to put the book down. Martin's writing really brings the world to life. His descriptions of cities and markets and people makes a vivid image in your mind. In the current fictions climate where descriptions are minimal, it is a refreshing change, but it could also be annoying to the readers who are used to "action action and action" books instead of a book that brings the world alive with vivid details.It is also hard to think of exceptionally good things about this book, just because this is mainly a book that pushes things along at a snail pace. As others have stated, things can happen much faster. There're just chapters and chapters and chapters of events that were useless. **Spoiler ahead: **For example, from the beginning to the end, war threatens Mereen, but does it actually happen? No.** With this long of a book, you'd think there would be more life-changing, well, at least more surprising twists around the corner. I'm not saying there arent, but there are just not enough for the length of this book.Martin does have a way to grip readers if only because I want to know what happens even though nothing happens chapter after chapter. After every page, for every chapter, I keep hoping something important will happen, but usually I am left with disappointment. Yet still I go on reading, because I do care. I still care about the characters, old and the new.Nothing much left to say. If you read the previous ones and is a fan, then it's a must read, if only to continue the series. If not, then you shouldn't be looking at this review. Read the first book and decide for yourself.
2 I think George R. R. Martin was hungry when he wrote A Dance with Dragons. It's odd, but the thing I remember is page after page describing food. The problem is that outside of eating, the characters really don't do anything else. Indeed, it's the only thing they can do while traveling from one spot to another. The problem is that they never seem to reach their destinations. Other than the ending, there's a whole bunch of nothing going on. Quite a disappointment for everyone who waited years for this tome. Even Tyrion can't save this stinker.I was really hopeful that the previous book, A Feast for Crows, was the rare rotten exception to this otherwise fantastic series, but sadly, it wasn't. The series has become way too fragmented and unfocused. Martin has become a victim of his own success, seemingly unable to edit anything from this lengthy volume. I rarely say this, but I think the TV show will be better than the book. So far, HBO has managed to do a superb job in whittling down a lot of Martin's narrative bloat.I think it says everything that I bought this book the day it came out and it wasn't until almost a year later when I forced myself to finish it. Sadly, it became a chore. I'm still a fan and hope Martin can rekindle the series in the next volume, but I'm afraid it might have already jumped the shark.
5 As a long-time of fan of the work of George RR Martin, I have, of course, read every single book of his epic work, Songs of Fire and Ice. Creating a complicated, medieval-like world of knights and bloody battles, Martin's work is always both confusing and mesmerizing. This, the fifth in the never-ending [I hope] series, is another massive, 1000-page saga covering not only the original fictional continent Westeros, but including ever more lands and peoples, all generated by the fecund mind of Martin. Rivaling Dickens in his imaginative names and parade of characters, Martin has truly outdone himself in this last book. I heartily recommend it to anyone who loves fantasy or even to anyone who loves fiction. It helps to have read all the other volumes as they mesh and interlink so beautifully, but this book can also stand on its own.
1 He fancies himself Tolkein, however he's just another wannabe even going so far as to add the second "R" to his name. He even borrows some things from LOTR for example his "Kings Moot" compared to Tolkeins "Ent Moot". Tolkein was smart keeping the story moving and ending it in three books. Martin will be lucky to finish in seven books if at all. The fourth book was very disappointing because what happened to all the characters?????? I gave it one star should be a 0 since I'm done now, I've lost interest and won't buy any more.
2 I wasn't more than forty pages into this latest failure of GRMM,s, when I realised how repetitive and lacking of story advancement it was. It is so full of loose ends, a professional seamstress could tie them up. Martins problem is he no longer controls the story, the story is controlling him. He appears to be writing whatever garbage pops into his head, to fill pages and hopefully find a conclusion, one where he can pick it up for the continuance, "Winds".I'd like to know if the timeleine of "The Winds of Winter", will be before Dance with Dragons, because in the main part of the book, DWD, a raven arrives from Lord Ramsey, advising that Stannis and his army have been wiped out, but in the first pages of Winds, we have Stannis back planning his attack on Winterfell. If a boring book that you can skip every second line interests you, buy it, otherwise give it a BIG miss. Everything that needed to be said in the storyline, was said in the first three books.Will I buy "Winds", no way, I might venture to the libary and take it out, just to see if he can put an end to this horrific saga.I awarded it two stars on the basis, one for content and story, and one for length. 1099 pages plus the epilogue a total of 1117, a mammoth effort of writing in circles.
4 Although I love these books,#5 is not my favorite -- not enough Ayra & other favorites for me and too many new characters I don't care about.  Also too much fighting detail and not enough dyrewolves! Finally, when will Dany reach the west and have meaningful interactions with hwe
5 Here is my advice:  If you love the HBO series on television, then buy the books and read them.  Or, if you like stuff like King Arthur, Merlin, Medieval Times, Tolkein, then you will enjoy.  Just an epic adventure!With the sex and violence comes the caution that these books are NOT for kids.  I think I would say 18+ on the books if your children are asking for them.Only critique is that there are SO many characters added, and so many places in the realm, I sometimes find myself referring back to another book or to the maps (which can be kind of fun too!).  I also missed some of the characters that he killed off or those that didn't make the cut to this book.  Can't wait for the next one!  Brilliant Author!
3 There is an old story of a fanatical golfer whose partner died on the 10th hole.  After returning to the clubhouse, he shares with his other buddies the fact of his golf partner's death.  When asked what he did after his partner died he said, &#34;There was nothing else I could do; it was hit the ball and drag Charley!&#34;  That's how I feel about getting through this book.  I read the other four of Martin's books and so I wanted to finish the series.  But I must say, this one is a chore.  I want to get it done to merely to be able to say, &#34;I read them all&#34; so I read for awhile and then switch over to another book just as a change of pace.  I come back, read a few more chapters and then find another book to read for awhile.  But I swear to you, the reader, I plan to finish it someday.
4 Stannis Baratheon marches on Winterfell from the Wall. Daenerys's empire is threatened from within. Tyrion finds himself enslaved. Cercei finds herself in chains. The Crow's Eye desires Daenerys for his own but so do several other would-be suitors. And Jon Snow faces dissent from his brothers of the Watch...In the latest installment of Incest and Intrigue, more of the pieces are placed on the board. Daenerys can't trust anyone. Jon Snow can't trust anyone. Iron Lords cannot trust their own brothers. Sellswords in general cannot be trusted. In short, no one can trust anyone while the Game of Thrones is being played.This one had its share of memorable moments, both good and ill. I really like how Arya's story is developing but I don't see how it's going to tie back into things. The revelation of Young Griff's true identity was a game changer and its repercussions will be felt in the next couple books. I liked that Brienne is still alive and that Jaime Lannister chose to follow her instead of rushing to Cercei's defense. Jon Snow getting knifed on the Wall by his sworn brothers didn't sit well with me. I'm really hoping he's still alive come next book, whenever that may be.It looks like Theon is headed for redemption but I'd rather see him dead or taking the black. Bran is progressing nicely. Whatever happened to Ricken and that bastard of Robert's that isn't Gendry? And who is Cercei's new champion Robert Strong, the Mountain, perhaps?I honestly don't think Martin will be able to wrap things up in two more books, not with all the balls he has in the air. Plus, it would be all too easy for him to throw more players into the mix to keep the saga going. Still, with A Song of Ice and Fire, George R.R. Martin has made an Oathbreaker out of me. I once swore I'd never get caught up in a neverending fantasy series. In fact, I believe I said I'd rather eat my own testicles. However, I'm pretty caught up in this one. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm off to join the tent city on George R.R. Martin's front lawn, to wail and gnash my teeth every night until the next book is ready.
5 Despite the author being an indescribably evil man who feeds on the tears of his fans, the book is great as usual. And best of all, now none of you @#$@# can spoil me on the show since I've already spoiled myself reading the books.
1 This is one of those series where it just feels like the author grew to hate everything to do with the world he had created and started wantonly slaughtering the main characters with no thought as to how he was going to fill in the gaps that they left in the story.  Between the 5 years it took him to write this and the fact that he is off writing another series of books now I would DEFINITELY advise against buying anything that this author writes until he completely finishes the series or you might just get burned like so many have .  Oh and what was the deal with the so many chapters being dedicated to shallow boring characters that had no influence on the overall story.  It felt to me like they were just there to add extra chapters to an overly long book in a series that will in all likely hood never be finished due to the author dying of old age half way through the 7th book.  That and I don't know about you but I don't fee like waiting another decade for books six and seven to be released.
4 I have read any reviews for this book and any stressed the message that this was a disappointment and lacked the action of the first three novels. After reading this I will admit it isn't as eventful but it adds a whole new level to Martin's world. This novel acts as a set up piece for Martin's sure to be classic final chapters. I can see why people are angry especially since they waited so long for this volume but a work this big requires time. That being said I can't wait for the next volume and the resolutions of the many cliffhangers.
1 I am completely convinced that the author of A Dance with Dragons is not the same person who wrote A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, and A Storm of Swords.  Here's my reasoning.  Take the book A Storm of Swords.  Open it to any page.  Now open A Dance with Dragons to the same page number.  Read the page in A Storm of Swords and immediately read the page of A Dance with Dragons.  Repeat this process three of four times.  A simliar comparison of A Dance with Dragons to A Game of Thrones and A Clash of Kings is worth the effort.Compare the use of dialog, narrative, and even punctuation.  The difference is amazing isn't it.  Most reviews are complaining that A Dance with Dragons is a poor companion to the first three books in the series based on plot and lack of forward momentum, but no one is addressing the reason behind the slip in quality. My take is that the difference in the very mechanics of writing between A Dance with Dragons and the first three books is so dramatic the it could not possibly be written by the same author.So who wrote A Dance with Dragons?  If it was truly George R. R. Martin, then who wrote the first three books?  It just can't be the same guy.
1 I picked up the first book and loved it.  The second book was okay...but didn't have a purpose beyond expanding the story...then we got into books three to five.  Great stories...but no reason for them...new characters coming out of the wood work and not advancing the plot.  This last book was hopelessly the worse one yet...nothing happened and the characters never got beyond doing stuff...To be honest George R.R. Martin is a great writer and should stick to short stories, or he needs to go back to writing 101 and learn to develop a novel...or just go back to book one...he did so much better there.
5 The only downside to this series is waiting for the next book. Glad I came into the series later, I burn through these like paper.
5 Who does not like this series? I was skeptical but he is such a good creator of very in-depth characters and an amazing world.
2 I will not forgive GRRM for not killing off Cersei in some horrible way. IF this series goes on long enough, if I live long enough to see it happen, maybe Tommen will grow up and  realize what a treacherous bitch his mother is and have her beheaded for trying to harm Margery. The only reasons I read this book were to find out what happened to Bran, the true lord of Winterfell, and to find out how Cersei died.  SOL on both counts.
5 This series is excellent. Can't wait for the future books.  As it progressed the twists and turns increased with many unexpected events.
4 It has been SIX LONG YEARS since George R.R. Martin last released a book in his Song Of Ice And Fire Sequence. That's a pretty long wait.So was "A Dance with Dragons: A Song of Ice and Fire: Book Five" worth the wait? Well... yes and no. It returns to much-beloved characters like Tyrion, Bran and Daenarys and slowly moves us toward the complex, treacherous endgame of Westeros' power struggles. But it's also very slow-moving, and sometimes it feels like events are happening too slowly.After killing his father, Tyrion flees his native land and ends up adrift in another, dependent on others for safety and shelter. So instead, he forges a new destiny for himself. Meanwhile, Bran is en route to the Wall, only to run into wargs and discover new facets of his mysterious skinchanging power.The new Night Watch commander Jon Snow finds himself facing an incoming horde of wildlings, as well as the presence of grouchy King Stannis and his bloodthirsty priestess Melisandre. Jon is determined to keep doing what he thinks is right, but his steadfastness may also be his undoing.Having conquered the city of Meereen, Daenarys starts learning the ropes of queenship there, as well as caring for her three rapidly-growing dragons. Of course, she soon discovers that it's a lot harder than it sounds, as she becomes enmeshed in a deadly tangle of love, treason, ambition and bloody murder.It's honestly hard to sum up a George R.R. Martin's books without giving away far too much, or going into countless detailed subplots. However, this book is very slow moving, and there isn't a lot of forward momentum until the last several chapters. It feels like Martin is arranging his vast chessboard for a the final clash, but it's going to be slow moving until he's done.However, for a Martin book, even moving forward slowly is a striking experience. He embroiders this bloodspattered tapestry with vivid poetic prose prose ("he fluttered like a burning leaf, a moth caught in a candle flame") mingled with sex, and quite a bit of gruesome violence handled very casually (when a man is beheaded, someone asks, "Can I have his boots?").The only very flawed scene that springs to mind is Daenarys' final scene, which is so melodramatic as to be almost silly. And yes, it ends on a multiple cliffhanger. Prepare to scream in frustration.As for the vast cast of flawed, intriguing characters, Martin only handles some of them -- we see more of Bran's burgeoning powers as he grows into a young man,  Jon's bleak, frustrating life as a commander, the ever-embittered Tyrion afloat without his family's influence, and Daenarys' quiet nature at war with her "dragon's blood." Well, he touches on some of the other characters -- such as Cersei, who hits rock bottom -- but mostly focuses on those four. And without revealing too much, yet another much-loved character seems to have bitten the proverbial dust."A Dance of Dragons" dances too slowly, but it's still a deeply absorbing read -- and it feels like George R.R. Martin is arranging the grand finale. Let's hope the next book doesn't take six years.
1 I bought the first book and was immediately hooked; the second book was bait for the third, which left me waiting for a finish...instead I get feast of crows, which asks more questions than it answered.  I love fantasy, I enjoy ongoing series, but I am not buying into another "Robert Jordan" and waiting for this guy to die so I can finally figure out the finish.  I suggest the fan base of the initial plot lines get together online and finish it ourselves.
2 Get an editor! Finish the story! Is that really so hard? Review the first 3 books and make the next one like those!!!!!!AAAAAArgh!
5 This books dust jacket proudly mentions that George R. R. Martin is known as the "American Tolkien". With all due respect, besides both working in the genre of middle age fantasy they have almost nothing in common. The Tolkien trilogy was published in its entirety in less than two years. The complete story adhered to traditional rules of storytelling with a beginning, buildup, climax and ending and the reader knew the general path the story was going down and what an expected conclusion would look like (destroying the Ring of Doom) while Martin's book is essentially just a chronicling of events in sort of a swords and sorcery soap opera. Martin is now in his fifth book with at least two more planned. The first book was publishing in 1996 and at this pace would likely not finish before 2023 meaning it would optimistically span 27 years and that's IF Martin actually ends the series after seven books as he's predicting. I think there's pretty good odds the series may get extended. My copy of the Lord of the Rings trilogy is 1008 pages long, 32 pages less than A Dance with Dragon's. The audio disc for this book is over TWO SOLID DAYS LONG!!! There is an appendix at the end of the book with a couple lines of dialogue describing each character. It's 53 pages long. In other works Tolkein's masterpiece is a quick sprint compared to Martin ultra marathon.I finally finished the marathon that is `A Dance With Dragons' and all the criticisms that have been leveled again George R.R. Martin are on display here. Martin is all over the place introducing storylines and characters and then dropping them. This book is the compliment to `A Feast for Crows' focusing on the characters and storylines omitted from that book. We revisit Bran Stark, Jon Snow, Tyrion Lannister. So after 959 pages what exactly happened? Let me just say a lot less than one might expect given the length. Martin's writing is as superb as always and this may be his best yet but he writes like he suffers from attention deficit disorder. The storyline with Bran was quite intriguing but before the half way point of the book it just stops. Likewise we spend a bit of time with Davos Seaworth before Martin seems to just forget he exists. Of all the storylines the one with Stannis Baratheon was the one that had me the most riveted but with several hundred pages left in the book Martin stopped writing about Stannis leaving his fate for the next book.Ah, the next book, `The Winds of Winter'. Based on the writer's current pace I would expect it no earlier than 2017 at which point all the cliffhangers will be distant memories. Martin spends a bit of time in the latter half of the book on the OTHER half of the characters (Cersei, Jamie, Arya etc..) It had been so long since I'd read `A Feast for Crows' that I'd completely forgotten that Cersei had been imprisoned. It's really hard to be on the edge of your seat for 6 years. It's not that I'm asking George Martin to crank up his productivity but I wish he could focus. The storyline with Davos could have been jettisoned with no effect on the greater book and he is just one of a ton of extraneous characters including Victarion Greyjoy and Quenyn Martell that do little to advance the main storyline. Martin is so good with characterization it feels blasphemous to ask him to trim characters but there has to be a limit or this series will never end which would be tragic for those who have stuck with it for 15 years.As might be evident by the title this book focuses on Daenerys Targaryen and her three dragons who are getting closer to full maturity. Many of the surrounding storylines revolve around this central thread. Tyrion has long since been my favorite character and he's used tremendously but sadly his role is essentially inconsequential and again could probably have been trimmed. We get to peer within the very mysterious Lady Melisandre but again Martin only seems to tease and just when I really wanted to see more of her Martin gave me less. Sometimes I wonder if I regret ever getting into the series and not because it's bad but because it's so good. Time will tell whether we actually ever see an ending but I shall try and patiently wait for the next book and see if my memory can last the length of time until it's published.
5 George is a master of suspense!  With each turning of the page the plot twists and turns like one of Danary's dragons flying in the sky! I can't wait for the next book.
4 Lots of twists and plot surprises.  Sad to lose characters we all liked, so wonder if another plot change is in the future????
4 This is an ingrossing tale I  hope the author is not burned out ! Just  about everyone Enjoys this series avid readers from all walks of life like these books!
