1 This book by UK politician Patrick French is junk.Two examples:One, the author says India's independence movement would not have worked under Stalin's Russia since Gandhi/Nehru would have been summarily executed. By this logic, Britain would not have had magna carta if Attila the Hun was its King at Runnymede!Two, the author says that a few "volunteers" and not Pakistan Army invaded Kashmir in 1948. Is this still in dispute? Really? So passe.Unfortunately I bought Patrick French's 2010 book on India last week; allegedly a history of a billion people. Now, am apprehensive. What is the focus this time? Two billion arm pits?
5 If you're the type reader who likes to armchair psychoanalyze characters, then you'll enjoy diagnosing the distant unmovable Sarah (and her half-baked mother).  I'm surprised that William didn't burn down his building out of sheer frustration.  But seriously, the book eloquently speaks to the timeless sorrow and mystery of a young man's unrequited first love.  I found myself painfully identifying with William's situation.  Cheers to Hawke, it must have taken real courage to write this book--and I hope to see more in future.
5 This books displays what a real heartbreak feels like. It's about meeting the "perfect" person and suddenly you realize they didn't think YOU were perfect for them. It's such a good read! It's too short though I wish Ethan would have made it longer but still he did a really great job. I can't wait to watch the movie!
5 Hawke accuately captures the emotions we go though when we are just gaining our independence from our parents and experimenting in serious romantic relationships.  He doesn't cut the embarrassing elements from the main character, but still manages to allow the reader to root for them.  And he avoid the cliche ending, but rather give us a real ending.  He just shows us that a non-Hollywood ending is ok.  I was surprised by how good a book this was, and actually read it again recently after many years and still found it enjoyable.  His second book was a disappointment, but based on The Hottest State I'd probably give other works of his a shot.
2 Ethan Hawke's first novel is a sweet attempt in achieving true love at first sight in your twenties while living in New York City.  The story starts off very strong and holds your interest until the middle, where its drawn out and exagerated.  The end sort of makes you feel flat and empty as if a few more chapters are missing which leads to an unsatisfying end.. Still I will give this actor/author another chance..He has a good heart let's see where his second novel takes me..
5 I think that Ethan Hawke is as great a writer as he is an actor.  This book was phenomonal in every aspect.  It gave me a great outlook on the male's perception of relationships.  It was so great that I cannot wait for  another book from this young author!  I have read it at least 5 times and I  suggest that everyone else should as well, you won't be dissapointed!
3 Seems like everyone is looking to make some sort of cross-over hit these days.  Actors singing, singers acting, actors writing.  And very few of these efforts are ever very successful.  However, Ethan Hawke might be on to something here.The Hottest State finds a character based, we may assume, on Hawke himself.  Newly arrived in New York seeking acting jobs, he meets a girl, falls madly in love, and suffers the ups and downs of the relationship.  The story itself is fairly predictable, the outcome never in much doubt.  But what's striking about the novel is that, even though you know what&#65533;s going to happen, you feel as though you have an emotional stake in it.Hawke's skills need work and refinement but he's definitely got talent.  He's able to engage readers, lure them into a story despite its predictability.  I certainly hope he continues his literary endeavors.
5 A rare book that is written from a male perspective about love, rejection and pain.  I liked the crisp prose and the use of great cliches.  A good quick read.  On-on (more-more)!
4 Like many people, I didn't expect much because he's, y'know, an actor, but I read the first page and liked it, and then...wow, it's actually a very deep, quirky, well-written novel that clearly took thought, work and talent - and it's not pretentious.  It's a good post-college novel just like Benjamin Kunkel's highly-praised ouevre.  If Hawke wasn't an actor, he might be getting the same kind of literary attention Kunkel got.  Anyway, he obviously doesn't need the literary success, but this book moves swiftly, has wonderful description, and is a great New York gen-x love story for all ages to enjoy.
4 It's too bad that Ethan Hawke was an actor first, because who will take his literary efforts seriously now? He'd have had an easier time trying to be a rock star. The dude is a creative type; why must he be creative in  only one medium?That said, I was pleasantly surprised that &quot;The  Hottest State&quot; is as good as it is. Hawke very concisely and  accurately conveys the utter confusion that envelops a guy when a girl  dumps him. He's not any better at figuring out &quot;why&quot; than the  rest of us, but it's a nice view into our heads, if that's what you're  looking for. Hey, he's not Thom Jones, but this is a good start. For  anybody--even an actor.
4 The foreshadowing is heavy-handed... the narrator meets the woman with whom he will fall in love, at a bar called The Bitter End. It's a reason to not like the book, but I have other reasons.I can always tell if a book has an impact on me, good or bad, if, years later, I remember where I was when I read it.This was a slim novel. I bought it in a small bookshop in Union Station in D.C. and read it on the plane to San Juan, Puerto Rico one November in 1999. I can't remember many details of the trip except it was to visit a friend named Brian who ran a hotel on St. Thomas.Why does that matter? Well it shouldn't, really, except it was somewhat of an exciting trip because no one knew I was going there and it felt very grown up to have business meetings in D.C. all week and then sneak down to the Carribbean for a couple of days.My point, and I'm finally here, is that the only thing I really remember about the 4-5 day trip is reading The Hottest State.It's not a book that scholars will laud and it certainly won't win any literary awards, but it spoke to me. I'd like a man to see me like Sarah. I'd like a man to realize he's damaged and immature but still aspire to the love of a genuine woman. I like reading about angst and I like eavesdropping on people's conversations about their relationships.I'm not going to get into the row about good writing or bad writing or ghost writing. Whatever it was, I enjoyed the book and I remembered it.p.s. According to ancient Hollywood rumor, the narrator was Ethan Hawke himself and Sarah, Lisa Loeb.
1 This review (hopefully) is a concise explanation to the 1-star reviewers who can't stand Ethan Hawke's writing and to the 5-star reviewers who see Hawke as a literary genius.As a college English major, a novelist, and an avid participant in multiple writing groups and forums over the years, I have seen evidence of this type of listless, vapid writing for almost two decades.  The explanation is painfully simple.As in 99.9% of the other cases I've witnessed, one starts with a talentless writer, in this case, Ethan Hawke.  He pens a dull, amateurish, rambling vignette about anything - in this case, about two misguided young star-crossed lovers.Inevitably, the semi-complete literary work will be unpalatable, jumbled, sophomoric and ultimately unpublishable.  Here is where most literary dreams die, the wasted tree fibers left to sit high on a closet shelf or hidden in the back of the desk drawer, until someone finds it years later and, by taking it out to the local dumpster, puts it out of its misery.  In some severe cases, an industrial strength document shredder is employed to protect the oft-criticized author's progeny.Except, in Hawke's case, there's a glint of hope.  A market shrewd, fiscally inclined literary agent knows that, with a great deal of reworking by a professional, she can foist many, many volumes of this detritus onto an unsuspecting book-buying public.  She arranges with a ghostwriter (also known as a book doctor) to "edit" young Mr. Hawke's work.  She mollifies our young actor cum wannabe scribe by saying, "He's just going to clean it up, dearie, you know, round off the sharp edges."The ghostwriter, with unrelenting assiduity, attempts to create some type of logical order out of the nonsensical verbiage and to finesse the text into something ultimately semi-legible and, with fingers crossed, possibly even meaningful.  The best the ghostwriter (um, er, "editor") can manage, is to coalesce as many of his own witty phrases and apply his own verbal gymnastics to the very confusing muck of Mr. Hawkes original draft.So there you have it.  Anyone who has ever tried to edit copious amounts of pleonastic garbage well knows that it is infinitely easier to start from scratch.  Otherwise the effort culminates in, well, as stated in the title, a ghostwriter's awkward amalgam.So you 1-star reviewers are right to feel repulsed by this "novel".  It has been through the sadly common, but always ultimately unsatisfying, detour through a literary wordsmith's word processor.And to you 5-star reviewers who think young Mr. Hawke is brilliant and his ingenious ability to turn a phrase is nothing short of Heminway, Proust, and Joyce incarnate, please know that every single word, sentence or paragraph that impressed you in this meager work, was solely the work of an expert ghostwriter.  Any mistakes you see, are merely Mr. Hawke's rudimentary awkward prose excreting through the thinly veiled conspiracy.
4 I was very impressed with Ethan Hawke's writing ability.  I thought he wrote a very creative, genuine story.  Sad and depressing (would make a good Oprah pick if she picked books about males), but undoubtedly a real love story.  Honestly, I was only interested in this novel because I'm a fan of Ethan Hawke, the actor.  Now, having read his debut novel, I'm a fan of Ethan Hawke, the writer.  A believable, bittersweet, desperate tale about William Harding, who falls in love with an unconventional girl named Sarah after four days together and becomes completely wrapped up in her in the most unhealthy way.  This novel is not for the weak of heart.  Would make an excellent movie.
5 Living outside of States in Europe I was primaly intrasted in describing young soul living in a big NY. I was more then suprised to find out how an actor can express such amount of emotional descritpion of love. You would  think that an author would be able to feel his protagonist of this book,  but actually wraped it in words and to do it so accuratively was just a big  cheerful event of I would like to read more. Ethan Hawk greatly with  passion of an elder, experince writter has described this young character  and his struggle in this world. After seeing Great Expectations I can  understand where he gets his inspiration from. I think that you acctually  can notice a lack of not being used to wriitng but promisses a great author  soon. Looking forward for next one.
3 I thought I'd give this book a shot. I always have liked Ethan Hawke, and it was a two dollar Goodwill book.I thought the writing was pretty good for a debut, and page-to-page it held my interest enough to keep turning. However there is no kind of happy ending. I don't really need that, and it's more realistic really, but emotionally it was kind of a drag. The protagonist gets his heart broken, and cannot get over it. He was kind of sad and weak I thought.One thing we know for sure is that William (or is it Ethan) loves breasts. Every third page was describing boobs in some way. For that I gave it an extra star.
4 I'm a big fan of films like Dead Poet's Society, Reality Bites, and Before Sunrise, so I picked up this book. Ethan Hawke proves himself a competent writer in this first novel. His narrative persona is observant, believable, smart, and honest. He understands young love, and how a young guy thinks. In this story of a goodlooking young actor (who I think is perhaps Hawke's alter ego), we meet 21-year-old rising big-shot actor William who falls for a nobody, and she's the kind of girl he doesn't usually go for (she's not pretty). Yet he totally falls in love with her personality and intellect. There's just something about her. But there are plenty of bumps in this relationship, and it doesn't work out. I recommend this to young and old who like to read about the romantic loves and disappointments of young people.David Rehakauthor of &quot;A Young Girl's Crimes&quot;
5 An incedibly well written book. His writing is unpretentious and honest. He writes how a guy would think. I made it through this book in one sitting.  I look forward to reading more from him!
1 As far as I can tell, the theme of actor Ethan Hawke's first published novel seems to be, &quot;Hi, I'm actor Ethan Hawke.  This is my first published novel.&quot;  The plot of pretentious know-it-all narrator meets and falls for annoying-shallowly-written girl will be familiar to anyone whose ever taken a freshman creative writing course.  At last estimate, there are about 20,000 aspiring writers out there so in all probability, there are indeed worst books than this.  However, most of those books don't get published because most of those authors haven't appeared on the cover of Premiere.  As I read this book, all I could think about were all the aspiring writers out there who don't have the luxury of getting their first drafts published.
5 I found this book at Goodwill one day when I was scourging for used books. Most of the titles there are really weird (Reaching Heaven: You and Your Ways with God and the People Surrounding You. No thanks). But I found this one and saw the back cover. First of all, Ethan Hawke is quite the hunk (seriously). Maybe not anymore, but back when he was all hip and young, yeah. I didn't even know he had written novels, so being a fan of his movies, and his picture, I purchased the book for 12.5 cents (they were four books for 50 cents. Seriously! That's a good deal if I ever saw one. I highly recommend you go to your local Goodwill the next time you're in need of a good read. It's like a treasure hunt; most of the books there are slightly rubbish, but every once in a while, you find a real gem. Plus, you could save a fortune off of Barnes and Noble). I'm glad I did. Here is Ethan Hawke's The Hottest State:Blurb: When William meets Sarah at a bar appropriately called the Bitter End, he is a few months short of his twenty-first birthday and about to act in his first movie. He is so used to getting what he wants that he has never been able to care too deeply for anyone. But all of that is about to change. And it is Sarah --bold and shy, seductive and skittish-- who will become William's undoing and his salvation.William's affair with Sarah will take him from a tenement on the Lower East Side to a hotel room in Paris, from a flip proposal of marriage to the extremities of outraged need and the wisdom that comes only to true survivors.Ethan Hawke really will break your heart. The Hottest State chronicles one year in the life of young, dashing William Harding: aspiring actor and charming lover. When he first meets Sarah, a girl unlike any he's ever seen, he knows from the beginning that he's a goner. She's beautiful. She's elusive. Every little thing she does strikes William greatly. The passion the two share, the chemistry; it's all so surreal, that even he can't believe it. He knows right then and there, that she is the one, that she's the one that he'll love forever, but little does he realize that though she may be the pursuit of his pleasure, he is just a twenty-year-old fool in love, and by time he's twenty-one, he'll just be a broken-hearted man.The way Hawke captures your interest in enthralling. He makes you become William Harding. I by all means, am not a helpless twenty-year-old boy in love, but throughout reading the book, I really felt like I was. All of William's movements and thoughts, I could relate with. It was so eerie. When William cried, I felt like crying, and when he got psychotic over his breakup with Sarah, I could feel the pain tugging inside of him. There's this one funny scene where he throws furniture around, and it's not funny like "haha!", but funny because, it's a scene where it should have been a turning point. I should have said "Wow, this William is nuts". But I didn't say that. Instead, I found myself cheering him on, because as crazy as he was, the emotion that was seeping throughout all of it, was so legitimate.This novel was by far one of them most entertaining novels I've ever read, and not only because I feel like it's something straight out of my own past, or future, for that matter. Ethan Hawke will make you laugh, and he'll make you love William's story, but in the tragic end, Ethan Hawke will break your heart.Rating: 10 stars out of 10.Thanks for reading :)Stephanie!
4 I won't bother with a lengthy review.  The plot's already been discussed, as has the spareness of Hawke's writing.  I bought the book because I'd been curious about it for some time, since I first heard about it.  In fact, at first, I was annoyed.  "Great.  Another actor 'writing' a 'book.'"  (As an aspiring writer, actors getting their "writing" published simply because they're actors drives me crazy.)  Finally, this past week, I bought it because I just had to know what kind of book it would be, what Ethan-Hawke-the-Actor would write.It was great!  I liked that the actor profession was downplayed as a regular job.  He could have been a cab driver.  William was a regular guy with a job trying to deal with a woman who refused to let him love her.I also liked that Sarah was - contrary to what's written here in a few reviews - NOT a simple character.  She was neither devil nor angel - she was simply an insecure woman who thought there was so little about her that was interesting that William's fascination with her was threatening to her.So interesting to read about a male whose ideal woman is not society's ideal, but instead a real woman with really wild hair and a real figure and a real face William even calls "funny looking."The language was spare, and it wasn't poetic.  But, then, I've never read as much for the language as I do for the truth in the characters.  I thought Hawke's characters, and their struggle, were true.  Conflicts were tense and real.  You can put all the pretty language you want on a page, but that doesn't make a story great.  True storytelling is the heart you're able to put into it, and I think Hawke did a great job giving truth to these characters and their story.  Now I can't wait to read his next one.  Thanks, Ethan Hawke, for actually writing a literary story and not being yet another actor who a. uses a ghost writer, b. gets his bio published, or c. writes some easy, no-effort POS just because you can.
3 ...and then drops you like a hot potato. I was riveted by Ethan's wonderful way with dialogue and character development and so I'm naturally waiting for some sort of intense, raw ending and then boom, it's over with a thud. Why Mr. Hawke chickened out at the end I'm not sure. Still, I recommend reading this book if only to get a taste for his writing style which is really great, he just needs to figure out how not to drop the ball at the finish line.
2 Here's a universal truth: at least once in our lives every one of us has fallen in love with the wrong person.  And we have fallen in love despite the fact that we knew perfectly well that s/he meant trouble.  This usually happens when you are young, at a time when it is almost impossible to reconcile hormones with common sense.  There's nothing new here: Shakespeare already dealt with this in Romeo and Juliet, and lots of other authors did it before him. This is the single one thing that Hawke does well in this novel: Portray how incredibly reckless young people are with their lives in the name of &quot;love&quot;.  If it weren't for the fact that kids in their 20's are never going to listen to anyone, this should be mandatory reading.William, who turns 21 in the novel, falls in love/lust with Sarah, who is E-X-T-R-E-M-E-L-Y messed up.  William gets all head over heels about her, and it becomes obvious very quickly that this story is going to have a bad ending.  Sarah has so much rotten baggage that you can chew it in every page.  Hawke is a powerful writer in that he is able to elicit strong emotions from the readers.  I wanted to slap Sarah over the head so badly!  I wanted to tell her: enough with the bull!  Then, i would turn around wanting to do the same thing to William.  I could almost understand the amounts of devastation that William causes when upset (one more sign of the power of testosterone). He destroys kitchen cabinets, his hand, and even drops his contacts on the floor when they feel uncomfortable!Some of the writing is very exaggerated and staged.  If Hawke makes William speak like that because William is an actor, then OK.  However, the climate in some of the situations was not conducive to remembering lines of any kind, so i go for the affectation option.  The end of chapter 12, where William tells Sarah: &quot;I've been you, and i know that you suck&quot;, must be one of the most unfortunate sentences in XX century American Literature.  At the same time, Decker's resolutions for the New Year in Chapter 20 are very wise (&quot;[...] never waste energy degrading someone else.  Also, i want to try not to see life as a competition.&quot;)So, this novel is interesting, easy and fast to read, does a fairly good job at portraying how you can over-dramatize a peanut when you're in your early 20's, but at the same time fails to deliver good quality writing, falling for too many cliches.
1 I rushed and ordered this book after seeing Actor Ethan Hawke on &quot;In The Actor's Studio&quot; with James Lipton on &quot;Bravo&quot;. I enjoy watching Ethan in movies but his writing style is not to my taste.  The phrases were short and plain.  The author assumes that we should know why the characters do what they do...They get on a plane to Paris and spend most of their time in a Hotel...he is suppose to be shooting a movie there, yet it is never mentioned.  The girl leaves him and the reader doesn't have a clear reason why? the charactors are stereo typed... I mean the starving artists in NYC story has been done many times before.  I think his editor could have done a better job! the book was flat...the words too simple not creative at all...and when I was done, I was not impressed.
5 When I bought this book, I was really excited to read something by Ethan Hawke because I knew he was very intelligent and very opinionated. He's also very perceptive about life and emotions. This book left me with a lot of good impressions. Several times throughout the book, he had these one-liners that seemed to be like secrets to life. I used to share those with my friends because I thought they were sensational. I think Ethan's been writing for a long time because all of his thoughts they just flow onto the page so honestly and he gives enough of an idea of each character so the reader can picture exactly who these people are.Generally, Ethan likes to write about love and figuring out the meaning of life (which he generally points back to love). It's fun to read no matter what your age, although he does use cuss words a bit.
4 The editorial review and the publishers weekley review are very poorly made. Publishers w. talks about when william returns from Paris, when its Mexico. Did they see the movie? I don't think so.The story is very human and sincere, there is very good music. There is one scene where william walks by a movie house and you see that " Paris texas" is playing, and thats a very good movie.
4 After coming off of "Emperor of Ocean Park" and reading a few pages of this, I thought, "oh, brother ....". But slowly I became drawn in, and by the end was nearly weeping. It is honest, incredibly depressing, rich in detail and an amazing first novel.
4 As an actor, Ethan Hawke has spent a long time working with dialogue, plot, and character. He has translated this experience, as well as his natural gift for stage and screen, onto the page, and the result is this excellent first novel.The Hottest State is a simple story written with all the depth and breadth and lyrical beauty one would expect from a complex novelist. I was pleasantly surprised to read this dynamic story of a simple relationship among two young adults living in New York City. No big money glamour, no celebrity, just two normal people relating within a romance at the start of their professional lives. I give Ethan Hawke credit for his daring: he has written a novel with a refreshingly simple premise; he has written a novel that emphasizes style and substance over celebrity; he has, in an age of corporate money mannequins, written a great American Novel, with a capital N.
4 Remember young-crazy-selfish love? Hawke is a wonderful poetic writer. The story is semi Brette Easton Ellis like. I read it in one day, I couldn't put it down. It took me right back to my twenties, the days of neurotic obsessive love.
1 By the same author...1. Watch Me In This Lonely Corner2. Oh My Love, Oh My Dearest Darling--I Pine For You--PINE!3. How To Trick Yourself Into Thinking You're Still 155. How To Feel Sorry For Ethan Hawke6. The Secret Garden7. Self-Indulgence: a Primer8. Tori Amos: EarthQueenGoddessMother9. Prozac Nation10. Oh Life! Oh Love! Oh Eternity!
4 I heard this book wasn't any good, but because I like Hawke as an actor I decided to give it a try. I ended up enjoyed the book so much that I read it in one sitting. He does a great job of conveying the loss of control and despair experienced by William (the main character and narrator). I was impressed with the use of dialogue in the development of the story. This book is definitely worth reading regardless of who the author is.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  Hawke tells a tale of young romance that I think most of us can relate to and will remember long after we put the book down.  It is well written and a quick read, so it won't take you long to get through it.  I find it rare to pick up a book that I don't want to put down, but this was one of those gems.
4 Ethan Hawke captures very well the emotions that cascade from a young man who falls in love and has his heart broken. We never fully understand what attracts William to Sarah, and I don't think William does, either. But that  is what happens when you fall for someone; someone asks what it is you love  about this person, and you are left saying everything and nothing at the  same time. From a cold, objective standpoint, it was clear that both  William and Sarah needed to grow up before they could be in a grown-up  relationship. Perhaps if they had met five years later, they'd live happily  ever after. But that doesn't make William's heartbreak any less real, and  his reactions to the breakup, I think are realistic, for the most part.  After I finished the book, I cried, not only for the characters, but for my  own lost loves that, even after 12 happy years of marriage, still haunt my  dreams from time to time.
3 Ok, let's give Ethan Hawke a break here.  Like most authors, his first writing effort left something to be desired.  However, given a bit more time and experience, I think he would really improve.The Hottest State is a short novel, from a male point of view.  It's about his falling in love and getting his heart broken.  It's about his absentee father and his trying to cope with this most of his life.  It's about a 20 year old, turning 21 and trying to figure out what to do with his life.After finishing the book, I was left a little bad taste in my mouth.  The book wasn't quite what I thought it would be, or could be.  And the ending was a bit odd.  However, I did enjoy much of the story and the characters.  Even though the characters did get on my nerves at times...I'm not decided yet about reading his next book, but I've heard it's better, so I'll probably give it a try!
1 I read the hardcover when it first came out.  I have a perverse desire for celeb-written novels.  Okay, who out there liked this book, who isn't a fawning girlfan? Nice try, Mr. Scruffy Wuffy.  I give you a cookie for  getting your book out there.  But really, people, really... try some  Leonard Nimoy poetry, and THEN we'll see who's the Love Stud.
4 This was a very solid debut novel by Ethan Hawke and a realistic tale of first love. It was almost a five star review, but not quite.
1 If a writer's greatness was judged by the fewer number of stars received, Ethan Hawke would be AWESOME!
5 Written in a literary prose that reveals the author's passion for these primordial creatures that predates the more popular dinosaurs.
5 I became fascinated with the demise of dinosaurs after seeing a program on TV, and reading the book it was based on - 'Hot-Blooded Dinosaurs' by Adrian J Desmond. And there was no shortage of fascinating books about dinosaurs to develop my interest. But for me the most ingruiging aspect of dinosaurs is not their end - what caused their extinction - but why, whatever it was, didn't cause other species to disappear. Crocodiles and turtles, some small furry mammals, these survived. But not one dinosaur (excluding the possibility of radical evolution to birds, as some have suggested) - not the big fierce predators, not the small fast scavengers, not the slow-moving armoured hulks, not the vegetarian giants, not the flying dinosaurs, not the sea-going dinosaurs (Nessie excluded!) managed to survive. There must be something to learn about the extinction event from the SURVIVORS - they must have had some feature that distinguished them from the dinosaurs and allowed their survival.So, when I saw 'Trilobites!' I was immediately interested. Here was another far-reaching, long-lived, diversified species that is as extinct as the dinosaurs. Perhaps here there would be some clues by looking at what made the trilobites - all of them - extinct.When I started reading I was surprised to be clambering along a Welsh cliff top with Thomas Hardy quoted at me. Later on in the book I am in a much more familiar territory - an Australian outback pub, experiencing the discomfort of being assailed by those who have had just one or two drinks too many. This all seems far from trilobites. And yet, for me there was something of a relief in it too, because I was spooked by these strange ocean-going creatures. They looked too much like spiders or other unloved creepy-crawlies!! Just looking at the fossil illustrations gave me the heebie-jeebies.But there was so much more in this book than the description of the types of trilobite, the geography of them (cephalon, thorax, pygidium), the exploration of how we (the Human Race) have got to know them. In this book you will learn about the role of Museums in scientific discovery, the naming of species, the shaping of the planet over geologic (almost astronomical) time. But the book is a vehicle for a much stronger message.On page 207 E O Wilson's idea of consilience is introduced - consilience is the unification of knowledge. Mr Fortey has demonstrated consilience wonderfully in this book. Here we have colourful stories about the geography of the places of discovery, there are literary connections, stories of the people who made and are making the discoveries (including Mr Fortey), reviews of other scientific writers and - as indicated already - a bringing together of geology, biology, chemistry, history and so on. There are clearly great advantages to seeing how all aspects of knowledge interlock and benefit from each other - it is better that not all of us are specialists. This message is one that interests me because it seems to me that A E van Vogt promoted the idea in a science fiction novel 'The Voyage of the Space Beagle' (probably a precursor to 'Star Trek') in 1951 where the science of 'Nexialism' was proposed to guide specialists (such as biologists) and the military controllers of the space ship as they explored the Galaxy.I never really got to feel any closeness to the trilobites, perhaps an uncomfortable intimacy in the end. But this is a great book and I'm sure any person interested in scientific endeavour will love it.
1 The information in "Trilobite!" is like raisins in the dough of digressions. Before you find out the names of the parts of a trilobite body, you'll have to read thirty pages of something like this:(chapter Discovery) "This," our professor said, "is the most important and characteristic part of the trilobite -- the glabella." No familiar ring to this word, it just had to be learned. It had the small advantage of rhyming with "umbrella" -- and undergraduates are fond of such aides-memoires, even if they are harder to remember than the original thing to be memorized. The glabella was traversed by furrows that suggested that there was more than one segment in the cephalon, just as in the thorax and pygidium. However, ...So you see, instead of showing you a drawing of the glabella and moving on, you have to read all this nonsense (and _then_ you get a drawing).There are plenty of trilobite descriptions: this one's pleural region is kind of embossed, and this thorax has thirteen ridges, while that one had only eleven, and the cranidium is roundish... All this appears in plain text -- am I supposed to reconstruct 3D trilobites in my head from these descriptions? When not describing trilobites or naming ancient earth's periods, author engates in pompous rhetoric:(from summary) "I have been waving the continents past, ten million years at a shot, with a flick of my wrist."(chapter Time) "Mortality makes time our master, yet we continue to pretend that we can bend time to our will: we make time for things, people are said to die before their time, as if we all, briefly, had a period when our existence and the time of it coincide perfectly, as with a surfer successfully mounting and moving with the curling crest of a wave."Time for a sentimental break:"This was the time I explored with a coal hammer at a period of my life when my voice just turned unreliably falsetto and baritone by turns. While others discovered girls, I discovered trilobites."I give this book one star, because I can't stand whining sentimentality, high pretense and bad sense of humor. Find out about Trilobites from another source.
5 Thankfully I grew up in a family who believed that girls should be exposed to palaeontology, archaeology, astronomy and anything fun. So I fell in love as a pre-teen with arrowheads, petrified &quot;rocks&quot; and trilobites.Pronounced as trilbit, subphylum of the phylum Arthropoda that includes a large group of extinct marine animals that were abundant in the Paleozoic era( 600 million years ago). They represent more than half of known fossils from the Cambrian period. The trilobite body was generally oval and flat and was divided into three roughly equal sections: the head, thorax, and tail. The name trilobite refers to a pair of furrows along the length of the animal that divided the body into three longitudinal regions. This was an era when the development of the first fishes, amphibians, reptiles,and land plants occured.Which is why this book is so damn awesome. The author begins the journey in a Pub in Boscastle which lays in a SW English area where he is about to take a walk along the shorelined cliffs and find a trilobite. &quot;Drawings and photographs could not compare with the joy of actually touching a find which seemed , in the egotistical glow of boyhood, dedicated to yourself alone.&quot;I wondered while reading his words how many of us have found a fossil, lost coin or beautiful shell and had a similar feeling?The book is 284 pages long and is full of mind boggling facts and trust me if you are the least bit curious about &quot;other worlds&quot; this is a book you will love. He discusses how the different triobites look and looked like millions of years ago. Shells of sealife beinning on page 27. Legs of these creatures and eyes, how they evolved and the message of evolution they teach us. The crisp clear illustrations and photographs make this an added pleasure.The book will have you seeking out local museums and haunts that even offer trilobites for sell, and if you can buy even a small one, you will hold it in you hand and be awed. And it will whet the curiouslity of any young person who reads it, and maybe cause them to consider a science field as an occupation.See if your library has the book, but I recommend adding it to your home library. I highly recommend parents buy the book for their childs school, be it public, private or a home school.
4 The other reviewers are right, this is a well written book. However,I agonized over how many stars to give this book since if one is looking for a detailed account of what science can tell us about trilobites, this book will only be intermittently satifying. Fortey combines a detailed discussion about tribolite fossils and what may be deduced from those fossils with stories of his journey of discovery in learning about these fascinating creatures. He writes well in both areas, but in the end I found it frustrating to sort the information out of the travelogue.
5 Provides scientific details on the subject of trilobites in a very readable and sound presentation. Provides many snippets of British humor to engage the reader in anecdotes from his career at the British Museum and his numerous field trips around the globe (like when prospecting for trilobites in China and bitten by a huge Asian hornet, after medical treatment at a local hospital, his Chinese colleague remarked that he had never seen anyone so attacked by the insect, excepting 'peasants'). Fortey also discusses historical people and places in trilobite paleontology.Provides an overall picture of his research on the Paleozoic and how trilobites fit in to the reconstruction of past continents, oceans and environments. A more comprehensive and historically complete picture of the field than the book by Riccardo Levi-SettiTrilobiteswhich is replete with dozens of detailed trilobite photographs and scientific technical information.
2 I love trilobites and having, for the most part, enjoyed Fortey's Life! book, I borrowed this from my library. Boy, am I glad I didn't purchase it! As a few other reviewers have mentioned, the title is a bit misleading. For every paragraph about trilobites, expect two to four paragraphs about Fortey's life experiences (not ones necessarily related to trilobites), philosophies (including asides about foreign food or what makes a good teacher), and favorite literature. I tried hard to finish this book, picking out the parts about trilobites -- when Fortey does touch on this, he does it very well -- and skimming through Fortey's expositions on other subjects, but the morsels are just too few and far in between to make the search worthwhile. No doubt this type of style appeals to certain types, as judging by the reviews here, but for those seeking to sink their teeth into trilobites, look elsewhere. If anybody has a recommendation for a popular science style read that covers trilobites well, please let me know.
5 This is a recreation of these creatures which used to roam the sea floors in prehistoric times, explained by an expert.  The basic pattern of body, head and tail in segments, with legs allowed for astonishing variations as some creatures adapted to shallow or deep waters, mud floors, rocky or sandy.  The trilobites (three lobes) had two eyes made of a solid crystal, amazingly.While all palaeontologists study no-longer living creatures, some have left descendants such as modern sharks or crocodiles and it seems the trilobites have not. The author admits that for years he silently hoped that one day deep sea searches would turn up a colony, but he has now given up on that hope. We still don't know what's down there of course.I enjoyed this book which is well written and presented, and quite accessible.
5 What a lot of fun!  Richard Fortey takes us on an adventure that began about 500 million years ago.  He uses his lifetime of experience and study to share with us the amazing things scientists have learned about trilobites over the past 300 years. Not only are there more kinds of trilobites than I had ever imagined, scientists have figured out more about their lives (as species not as individuals) than I would have ever believed possible.  It is just incredible.But the book isn't just about trilobites.  The author shares wonderful stories from his own life and the lives of those that have spent their lives learning about these creatures.  We also get to learn about science and the various arguments that have arisen over the centuries and how they were resolved (or continue to this day).  The author even throws a yellow flag on a heated debate between the now sadly late Steven Jay Gould and Simon Conway Morris for becoming unprofessionally vitriolic.This is a fabulous book for anyone who wants to read a non-technical book about natural history.  It is written with great style and a deft touch that never overwhelms the non-specialist nor becomes so frothy that it loses the ability to communicate serious and wonderful things.I think this would be an especially wonderful book for young people to read who are interested in science and want to learn more about what it is and what a life spent studying science is really about and what it is like.  Fortey demonstrates clearly the work involved, the rigors required, and the where the rewards are.Reading this book made me wish I knew where I put that trilobite head and tail I found in an Ohio quarry when I was a boy.  It makes me want to go out with a geologists hammer and find some more.  Maybe it will inspire some young men and women to take that inspiration more seriously and take it on as a career.  Just great.  Thanks, Dr. Fortey.
4 TRILOBITE is for those who love prehistory and paleontology but don't want to read big fusty tomes written by obtuse learned men (and women). I suppose most folks younger than me came across trilobites in grade school, my daughter certainly did. I first discovered them when she was in fourth grade and had an assignment on the little creatures. Actually, I thought they were little until I read Fortey's book and discovered there were hundreds of species ranging from gnat-sized to stingray sized.My daughter's class had a field trip to the Smithsonian, and it was there I became overwhelmed by trilobites. I will never forget the shock of walking into that museum the first time and seeing the story of evolution laid out and the exhibits of the Cambrian, Silurian, and other eras. Why the shock?  Because I grew up in the South, and having had &quot;Bible Study&quot; in place of science, I had no idea evolution existed. The trilobite was my  introduction to the story of evolution. Well, that was many years ago, and now I have years of education behind me (I went back to school) but still I love to read about trilobites.Fortey apparently has a background in geology and I found his discussions of land forms quite interesting. It's amazing to think the Appalacian chain which extends from Canada to Geogia was created millions of years ago and that part of this mountain range may be found in Europe. He explains how the fossil record (especially the part containing trilobites) can be used to link the world's surface areas. For example, by matching the various fossils (trilobite species), paleontologists have been able to link Newfoundland with the North Sea.Fortey discusses a reformulation in the theory of evolution that somewhat abandons the notion of &quot;progress&quot; and replaces it with the notion of &quot;punctuated equilibrium.&quot; Creatures evolve but it isn't always &quot;forward&quot; as some scientists once thought. They sometimes adapt to hostile conditions and in the process lose a former trait. For example, while most trilobites seem to have had eyes, blind species apparently evolved from sighted ones. Fortey says he has almost given up hope of finding a living trilobite in an abyss in the ocean, but the horseshoe crab and scorpions and other arthropods may be the related to the fossil trilobites. If so, the trilobites have not become extinct, just adapted to new circumstances.The only misgiving I have about Fortey's book is that he does persist in calling the Middle Ages the Dark Ages. Historians now know that a great deal of &quot;science&quot; occurred during the Middle Ages and although practices such as autopsies might have been disapproved by church leaders, their disapproval was no more invasive than government intervention today in areas involving stem cell research, fertility issues, cloning, and AIDS. In every era there have been ethical issues that lead people to take differing positions. Fortey is apparently 100 percent for science which is his perogative.
3 This was not the book about trilobites that I expected. The first thirty pages hardly mentioned trilobites at all but instead were a side excursion into a Thomas Hardy literary landscape in which the author attempts to prove to us that he knows who Thomas Hardy is and that there was a connection to trilobites somewhere. Along the way we learn that this author, who presumably is able to write scientific research articles, feels compelled to demonstrate to lay readers that he is also something of a litterateur, and is able to blend that into a discussion about trilobites. Along the way, the author loses sight of his subject and his audience as well and the general result is that the reader ends up learning less than he otherwise might have because of the literary diversions and pretensions of the author. The first 30 and the last 20 pages and much interior text was wasted. Three stars.
2 I'm very fond of trilobites, perhaps the most successfull animal (metazoan) ever, with a staggering 300 million years of recorded history. I wish the little buggers were alive today. I have a fossilised trilobite on my dining room wall.I suppose if you want to know quite a lot about trilobites, there aren't many places to go, and this is one of them. But the book shows little passion, and it did not make want to adopt one as a pet.
5 Natural history, deep-time may conjure up images of Stephen J. Gould's wondrous creatures of the early Cambrian (530 million years ago), dug out of the Burgess Shale in British Columbia.  I realize that other paleontologists have had problems with some of his anatomical descriptions and theory of punctuated equilibrium ("Trilobite" spends a chapter defending Gould from some of his more vigorous critics), but the world that he created was strange, beautiful, and compelling.Fortey creates a similar vision of Earth as it existed for 300 million years, starting like Gould, in the Cambrian. No animals better exemplify the drama of evolution and extinction than trilobites, except perhaps for the Johnny-come-lately dinosaurs.  If you are interested in really deep time, you must travel back before the dinosaurs and peer with the author through the eyes of a trilobite.  "'Look into my eyes,' the trilobite seems to say, 'and you will see the vestiges of your own history.'"And very strange eyes they are.  In the chapter, "Crystal Eyes" the author plays an exuberant, complex riff on vision as it first evolved, most specifically on the uniquely developed eyes of trilobites.  I used to think of these creatures as mud-colored beetles that spent their lives crawling around on the bottoms of shallow Paleozoic seas--interesting basically because they lasted so long.  But according to Fortey, their eyes were made of calcite crystals, which "makes them unique in the animal kingdom...Look into a crystal of Iceland spar and you can see the secret of the trilobyte's vision."The author then goes into quite a bit of detail as to why double vision was not a problem for these amazing arthropods, even though their eyes were made up of six-sided crystals.Since the trilobite's eyes were part of its exoskeleton and just as hard, it had to shed them with each molt.  Imagine, a new set of eyes every time you shed your 'skin!'Trilobites ranged from platter-size down to bitty bugs that were barely a millimeter long.  Fortey describes them in loving detail and also defends the need to collect and study trilobites.  Lord Rutherford's remark that 'all science is either physics or stamp collecting' is vigorously repudiated (I think Rutherford's aphorism must have really stung, because it gets a good bashing in nearly every natural history book in my library).Just one of the reasons why trilobites are not like stamps is that studying their distribution helps us determine the outlines of continents and islands that predated not just the modern world, but the ancient supercontinent of Pangaea.Trilobites managed to squeeze through several evolutionary bottlenecks, surviving and multiplying for over 300 million years.  In his heart of hearts, the author admits to hoping that, like the ancient coelacanth, a remnant of this once-vast family of arthropods will be rediscovered, curled up on some unexplored sea bottom, or gazing through crystalline eyes at a newer denizen of the deep.After reading Fortey's "Trilobite," I can only hope the same.
5 Truly a joy to read. This book is excellent for beginners. The author's writting style kept my intrest while the many photos and illustrations were visually stunning. Concise and imformative, I think the "average joe" will be very pleased.
4 honestly.... i never thought that there were so many species of trilobites..... Fortey's writing style is charming.... the author is definitely passionate about these prehistoric creatures.... and is well reflected here....
5 I have always loved Trilobites, ever since I found a small fossil on a beach (God knows why it was there, but it felt pretty cool).  This book finally helped me understand the animals I had been collecting.  Fortey writes with a real passion that any reader can feel.  While he doesn't shy away from in-depth science, he invites the reader to join him in understanding geology and paleontology.I wouldn't necessarily say this book is for a wide audience.  However, for those looking for a scientific adventure, this is it!
4 Though they disappeared long ago, most people seem to know Trilobites by sight. Their instantly recognizable remains, often resembling a petrified ribbed scarab, sometimes cover the shelves of fossil shops. This modern day fossilized commonality parallels their once ubiquitous presence on Earth. As such, many refer to trilobites, numbering some 20,000 recorded species, as "the beetles of the Cambrian." Looking somewhat insectoid, somewhat arthropodal and somewhat ineffable, they seem both completely alien and strikingly familiar. Nonetheless, though many can name a trilobite when presented with a rocky specimen, few seem to know anything specific or significant about this bizarre ancient creature. That's where books come in, of course.Few people will desire, or possess a nano-fraction of the time required, to sift through the deluge of academic papers on trilobites. The generally curious then need to rely on specialists to deliver a thumbnail sketch of a species that ruled the oceans for some 300 million years. Richard Fortey has provided such a popular account with the aptly titled book "Trilobite," though it also forays into the territory of personal memoir. Obviously a lover of art and literature, Fortey often waxes poetic on the vastness of geologic history with the aid of now legendary artists. Thomas Hardy, in particular his 1873 novel "A Pair of Blue Eyes," plays a large role in the book's opening as Fortey, apparently part mountain goat, traipses over vertiginous Beeny Cliff in Cornwall. Trilobites remain strangely elusive in the text for some 15 pages into the book. At first, some may feel a Calvino-esque shudder that they've somehow bought the wrong book. Suddenly, following the dramatic buildup, the big scene appears. A direct quote from Hardy's novel finally introduces the longed for protagonists. The trilobite has arrived. We have the right book!A detailed discussion of trilobite anatomy soon follows. Some required terms appear such as cephalon, pygidium, glabella and others. The book does not get more technical than these special terms and the latin species names that litter the narrative. Anyone can read this book. Nonetheless, the book does contain a wealth of information about trilobites and the history of their discovery, though the discussion remains at a very accessible level throughout. Everything started with Edward Lhwyd's 1698 "Flatfish" letter. Other eminent names such as Joachim Barrande, Charles Dolittle Walcott, Rudolph Kaufmann and Sir James Stubblefield appear along with their important contributions. On trilobites themselves, entire chapters cover their most fascinating and mysterious part, namely the legs and the eyes. Trilobite legs remained a deep mystery until important discoveries including preservation of soft tissue were discovered at the end of the 19th Century. Researchers only had access to the shells previously. But perhaps the most compelling trilobite feature, so far unique in nature, are their eyes made from calcite. In other words, trilobites had eyes made from solid crystal. Stare at the bulbous pockmarked protrusions on the head of the indescribable "Phacops" species to see the most stunning example. At one point Fortey describes a trilobite safely watching its prey attack its hard shell. They eyes were apparently as indestructable as the rest of the shell and they had no lids. So the trilobite would probably have little choice but to watch the attack proceed. These and other observations, including the origin of the word "trilobite" from "three lobes," a description of the animal's structure, makes this book a great read for the general curious reader. Those with no knowledge of this strange extinct species will learn plenty.That said, the book seems to assume not only no prior knowledge of trilobites, but a very basic knowledge of science in general. Some sections veer off into discussions about fieldwork, the author's career, evolution, fossil excavation and the debates over the "Cambrian Explosion." Most of these discussions are fascinating in and of themselves, and they relate tangentially to trilobites, but some might find the frequent change of focus from the book's title and main topic distracting. A general discussion about geologic time also appears later in the book, complete with ruminations on plate tectonics, Pangea, and the exhumation of lost worlds from rock strata. Other interesting asides, such as the author's eating of a horseshoe crab, trilobites' closest living relative, in Thailand to see how trilobites may have tasted, provide occasional comic relief. And since trilobites left our planet some 250 million years ago, the author also rhapsodizes on time, mortality and extinction. Apparently a possible meteorite impact known as the "Frasnian-Fammenian Event" in the Late Devonian may have greatly contributed to the end of the trilobitic reign. Then they were no more. Fortey mourns that no living trilobites have emerged, a la the anachronistic Coelacanth, from unexplored ocean depths. At this point the odds of such an event seem slim. Nonetheless, their abundant remains have proven a remarkable tool for studying the earth's history as well as the mechanisms of evolution.Anyone curious about trilobites and the history of their study should read this book. Those who have studied trilobites in any detail may not learn much, as the material seems fairly basic, high-level and accessible to the general public. As usual, expectations will shape opinions about a book's quality and diving into "Trilobite" expecting a deep and detailed scientific study will likely end in some disappointment. This book does not contain hard academic science, though the information presented definitely originated from highly professional fieldwork and study. As said, the book reads mostly like a scientific memoir with details and facts scattered throughout. Approaching this highly readable and entertaining book with this frame of reference in mind will probably help avoid dashed expectations. Lastly, the book first appeared in 2000, so the field may have experienced some new revelations in the more than decade long interim.
5 Before I read this book, it wasn't even clear to me that &quot;trilobite&quot; literally meant &quot;three lobes.&quot; This lovely species (or set of species?) had a simple and long-lasting body type that reveals the nature of the planet over geological time. Fortey's excitement about the subject is contagious: I can now name not only the glabella (the head sac containing the brain and stomach), but I also can explain why the trilobite's eyes are unique and how they work.This book is terrific for anyone interested in understanding more about how the planet formed and species evolved, and I'm sure a teenager with a scientific bent would enjoy the straightforward tone and lack of pretension. Trilobite! has spurred me to read more about science, including Fortey's overview of all of existence, called &quot;Life.&quot;
5 It would seem to be a tough subject to get excited about, but if you have any interest at all in the pre-dinosaur era ancient world, you will find this book fascinating. The authors enthusiasm and humor are evident, and his writing goes far beyond the scientific examination of fossils. As the retired head of paleontology of the British Museum of Natural Science, he witnessed a tremendous expansion of knowledge, but also knew many of the players personally. I found the book to be an easy and fun read.
5 Fortey's wonderful book is a little gem - one of the best books on a paleontological topic in recent memory. His enthusiasm for his scientific quarry shines through on every page. Fortey manages to convey a lot of information of these fascinating denizens of the Paleozoic seas while we join his rambles in such places as Svalbard and Oman or his 'gourmet moment' involving horseshoe crab in Thailand. He is a superb science communicator, and, to my mind, this book is one of his best (along with his recent book about the Natural History Museum in London).
3 This was an excellent book and I greatly appreciate the enthusiasm of the author.  I would have like to learn more specifics about trilobites, I would have liked more pictures, and mostly I would have liked to understand better how the author (or the scientific community) come to some of the amazing conclusions they have.  For example, I didn't think it was explained well enough how they know that a small fossil is a less mature (rather than a completely different) trilobite.  Also, I would have appreciated more information on how they came to their conclusions about the eye-structure (some of the pictures look pretty inconclusive to me).  On the other hand, the author goes into good detail about how the community has learned about the legs and other fine details of these creatures (features that are not easily preserved nor safely hammered out of the rocks either).I particularly enjoyed the conversational writing of the author.  For me one of the best parts of this book was how he weaved scientific endeavors with history, literature, and other human activities.  He talked a lot about the scientific philosophy and people in this small community, the camaraderie and competition, past and present.  For sure this is a book written from a perspective, but Richard Fortey never represents it as anything else.  To my mind it is a fair and refreshing perspective, so I appreciate this book.  The silly reviewer from Helsinki didn't like his perspective because it did not have enough creationism in it, but at least Dr. Fortey has the integrity and intelligence to clearly state his position and process.So why did it give trilobite three stars?  It was a difficult decision, perhaps the book deserves four stars but though I learned a lot, I simply would have liked to learn more about the science.  For me the one huge shortcoming of this book was the pictures and illustrations.  There are two sections of "plates" printed on higher-quality paper; there are two indexes at the beginning of the book, one for "illustrations" in the text and another for the "plates" in separate sections.  Additionally, there is an index in the back of the book that is completely separate from the two previous indexes, and did not seem very complete to me because every time I tried to use it to find something mentioned earlier I was not able to find it.  I don't know if this is the common method in scientific publications, but I did not find it helpful.  The selection of pictures seemed arbitrary to me and I don't like pictures in separate sections.  All the pictures were black and white so I really don't see why they cannot be printed on the same paper.  If the paper quality is too poor to keep a picture, then why are there also pictures in the text?  If pictures in the text are too disruptive, then again, why are not all the pictures in separate sections?  It doesn't make sense to me.  There were many references to trilobites and their features (or similar ones) that had pictures but the text did not reference where.  Even worse, there are many references to trilobites and their features that the author was obviously very familiar with but I could not make a clear picture in my mind because I could find no illustrations of them at all.So in conclusion, I would recommend reading this very good book, but I would recommend buying a good picture book of trilobites to refer to alongside.  Contrary to what some other reviews thought, I believe that to write this book is a very difficult and ambitious proposition.  As the author reflects on, the first task of a student is to learn the language; it would be easy to bury me in Latin and technical terms that I could not (and would not want to) remember.  The author gives a nice selection of advanced reading so perhaps it is my responsibility to learn the language if I want to learn more.
5 As this is my first book written by Richard Fortey I didn't quite know what to expect from this British paleontologist.  Part science, part history and autobiography,  Trilobite is written with a poetic slant that can take the reader off on some of the author's personal musings on a variety of subjects that are seemingly unrelated to trilobites but, sooner or later, he reveals the connection.  Fortey's first job as a professional paleontologist was at a museum, a dream come true, "Getting paid for what I loved doing!".  I found the chapter on museums and the process of naming a new species to be to be very interesting, but some readers might not agree with me on that.  The opening chapter takes place on the North Cornwall Coast of South West England near the town of Boscastle and starts with the author retracing the steps of a fictional character, from a novel that I was not familiar with, who encounters a fossil trilobite on a storm-tossed cliff overlooking the Atlantic.  In this round about way he brings you to the heart of his book: trilobites.  And this book is indeed about trilobites and everything you ever wanted to know about them.  In the late 17th century we find the earliest reference to trilobites when a "gentleman fossil-collector" wrote of finding some fossil "flat fish" that turned out to be trilobites.  In exploring the history of trilobite research the author introduces you to some early workers like Charles D Walcott (about 1910) and Harry B Whittington (late 1960's) of Burgess Shale fame (see S Gould's 1989 Wonderful Life).  Walcott discovered appendages (legs) in a fossil trilobite (1876).  In 1893 William D Matthew was the first to spot fossilized antennae, plated with Iron Pyrite, confirmed by a Professor Charles E Beecher.  All of these early workers were not only finding fossils, they were also doing research on trilobite anatomy, evolution and number of species.  The research continues to this day.  Traditionally, trilobites were considered, by some, to be losers in their evolutionary race for success but they were around for over 300my, had thousands of species and each were finely tuned to their environment--sounds like success to me.  What caused their extinction is open for debate but changes in their habitat  and environmental conditions that they were unable to keep up with is a good bet, that's the fate of all species and maybe us humans as well.  I found Fortey's writing style to be ornate and, at times, quite technical, but not so technical that it overwhelms the layperson reader.  The chapter on trilobite eyes was outstanding, some had them mounted on long stalks others were large and bulbous and some species were even blind.  I had no idea that trilobites were so diverse, evolving to fill a wide range of habitats from shallow seas to the abyssal deep with numbers beyond counting.  Some sported an assortment of spines or bumps that must have served some sort of function.  Fortey covers it all in fine detail mixed with some speculation.  While not for everyone, this book is right on track for anyone interested in paleontology, evolution and nature in general.  I had no technical or formatting problems with this Kindle edition and, as far as I could tell, all of the illustrations and plates are included.LastRanger
5 Not only do I love this book for its subject--trilobites--those fascinating relatives of horse shoe crabs and wood lice--but for the gorgeous and precise language the author uses to describe everything from the murky seas that blind trilobites used to inhabit to the vast sweep of certain strata of the earth's crust with its dents and bifurcations and crenelations indicative of ice ages ancient when the dinosaurs first came into being, and strange events that wiped the evolutionary slate clean when the earth's atmosphere itself was in its infancy. Fortey takes a close look at the mechanics of trilobite vision and lets us know not only how they saw, but what kinds of things they were witness to. He also gives us a quick and easy guide to the anatomy of the trilobite, and he starts it all off by quoting from a Thomas Hardy novel!Makes you wish that Fortey was your next door neighbor and that those fascinating trilobites were still around in the back pond or in the parlor fish bowl to inspire yet another level of commentary!All in all, a rich repast and perfect for summer reading.
5 Richard Fortey draws upon a lifetime of fossil study to reveal the history of not just trilobites, but the evolution of life on earth. Trilobites are relics of a very different past: this surveys what is known about them, evolutionary facts, and geologic history. Scientists and non-scientists will find Trilobite! fascinating.
5 Trilobite is a really perfect example of a paleontology book for an educated layman.  It is very informative, surprisingly detailed and a fun read.  In many books of this type long digressions tell the biographies and anecdotes of discoverers etc...  But Fortey keeps nicely on focus, and while he will discuss Thomas Hardy and some personal anecdotes they are brief and always entertaining and illuminating.Also I have to love a book where the author talks of eating limulus (Horseshoe crab) in Thailand, not a particularly successful meal.  Fortey truly loves Trilobites and his affection is infectious, I still find them creepy but I can see the fascination.
4 On the face of it, trilobites seem a very dead subject (pun intended). That which lived such a long time ago cannot tell us a great deal about how life existed then, or indeed now, can it? If you prejudge a book by its title, cover or subject matter, you risk missing something, or disappointing yourself, depending upon whether you are pessimistic, or optimistic.Richard Fortey is a very enthusiastic narrator, and he starts by describing the anatomy of a "standard" or typical trilobite (tri-lob-ite: three lobes, or parts). As the book progresses, you become aware that these creatures have incredible variety, just as individual humans are different, but more so. If palaeontological evidence is to be believed, these "beetles of the Palaeozoic" lived over hundreds of millions of years, and were spread over the whole earth. Their habitat was not uniform, but a whole variety. Fortey is a passionate advocate and a champion for his cause, and clearly knows his subject.For me, I would have benefited from more diagrams. Periods of geological time, and the neo-classical names of individual trilobite species or genus are hard to put into perspective as just NAMES. Others reading this book could be very familiar with the subject matter. However, a diagram of geological time and another of rock formations, perhaps, or basic geology would have helped me. It would have perhaps been controversial, but also a tree diagram of how one species is thought to have been a successor of another. That would have helped this reader, for the subject matter, rather than being confined to the trilobites encased in stone, covers lots of other areasI don't agree with all the inferences drawn, but if I only read what I agreed with, my diet of books would be pretty poor. What I did find is a book well written, with very good use of English prose. Read the book with a pen and paper handy, and you may find some good one-liners - certainly ones that I had not come across before, and ones that spark the imagination. Here are some: "If you wish to snare a butterfly, it is no use using a blunderbuss and a suitcase" page 48; "There is no final truth in palaeontology" page 63 and "All questions in real science are journeys towards the right answer" page 149.The book introduces some interesting areas of current thought on how species develop, and demise. As Fortey rightly indicates, life is changing, and you cannot study life without contemplating how individual life begins and ends, and how species begin and end. Dinosaurs have fed the imagination of generations of children, but were not around for very long in comparison to the over 300 millions years of the trilobites. In talking of time, Fortey points out that it is only approximate: "In time, precision is relative" page 232. So we are introduced to Punctuated Equilibrium as a way of bridging some of the evolutionary missing links that seem evident, and the ideas for the unification of knowledge - consilience.Fortey examines a dead subject, and brings plenty of life from it. The end chapter is rather speculative, and is not to my choice, but that said, the overall impression is very favourable. I will look more closely at remains of these tri-partite creatures that I may un-earth, or more likely see in an exhibition. However, my passion would not extent to distinguishing one genus from another, or name the body parts.Peter Morgan, Bath, UK [...]
5 This is an excellent book from the point of view of the elucidation of the life of 300 million years of trilobites as well as the view of the discovery process in science.  Fortey gives a lucid account, that is funny also, of his involvement in his life work on trilobites.  He describes the details of the structure of these invertebrates and how they evolved over time. Their remarkable diversity of structure allows them to be used for the elucidation of the evolutionary process as well as the construction of maps of the early world, which Fortey explains in charming detail. In the focus on the trilobite there is less said about the simultaneous evolution of the predators of the trilobites, such as the toothed fishes, and the eventual extinction of the trilobites.  This is a great gift book for the young biological scientist and for the old ones also who love the process of discovery.
5 This is a remarkable book that will introduce you to the process of science and a fascinating aspect of the emergence of life.  Trilobites are among the best fossils for children to get to know because they are very distinct (the tri lobed shells) and very different from anything currently living (the horseshoe crab on American Atlantic beaches is comparable in unique appearance and attracts children with similar fascination).For those who want a better system of American science education, Fortey gives some powerful hints.  Consider his language: &quot;The fever of discovery was upon me.... I found a trilobite...the textbook came alive...this was my first discovery of the animals that would change my life (p.18).&quot;  He continues, "I knew, by some principle which I could not articulate, that the wider end was the head of the animal.  And of course upon the head there were the eyes.  Despite the unfamiliar conformation of the fossil I knew that eyes must always belong on heads.  So despite the exoticism of the fossil there was already a common bond between me and the trilobite - we both had our heads screwed on the right way.&quot;(p.19)Again and again Fortey reminds us that scientists grow from discovery, mystery, romance, intrigue, while the memorization comes later.  He reminds us that there is an enormous amount we still do not know and in the process introduces us to a world we have never considered:  &quot;I want to invest the trilobite with all the glamour of the dinosaur and twice its endurance.  I want you to see the world through the eyes of trilobites, to help you make a journey back through hundreds of millions of years...this will be an unabashedly trilobite-centric view of the world,&quot;(p.19).For anyone who wants to take a few hours to think different thoughts, to consider how brief our history has been and how successful other organisms have been, to contemplate the various catastrophic extinctions and their dramatic impact on life, to ask about life beyond the rush hour traffic and the monthly report, Fortey's work is a little gem of an introduction to a fascinating part of the world.  I highly recommend it.
5 He is pretty good at passing the information on, too.  This is an interesting book, and very readable.  It impressed me enough that I have since bought several of his other books.
5 The very best science book for laymen is the book that is written by an expert in a field about his favorite area of expertise.  So it is a delight to read _Trilobite!  Eyewitness to Evolution_ (Knopf) by Richard Fortey.  Fortey is surely an expert; he is a senior paleontologist at the Natural History Museum in London, and has done extensive research in fossil fields all over the globe.  His favorite specimens (he refers to them as "my animals") are trilobites, and reading his lucid, humorous, enthusiastic pages, one can certainly understand why.Fortey writes with humor about his adventures in the field.  He has hunted trilobites everywhere on the globe, in desert as well as arctic wastes.  But of course, most of Fortey's book is about the trilobite itself.  The name comes from it's three lobes, not head, thorax, and tail, but the central body axis flanked by the left and right pleural regions.  It was originally thought to be some sort of flatfish, but as more specimens were found, it became clear that it was an arthropod, with the nearest living relative the horseshoe crab (although they look more like the woodlice or roly-poly bugs, and some balled up like them).  What is generally fossilized in trilobites is the outer upper shell.  The underside, with the legs, is thin cuticle that decomposed before fossilization could take place.  It was only when specimens were found from a certain field in New York state that details of limbs became plain.  Because of a peculiarity in the minerals of the area, the thin cuticle had become gilded with pyrites, fool's gold.  Every segment was shown to have a pair of branched legs, and the creature even showed antennae.  Fortey's chapter on trilobite eyes, the only ones ever to use calcite prisms for lenses, is amazing.In Fortey's account, trilobites become interesting in themselves, but he clearly shows that they have larger importance.  Trilobites were always marine, never freshwater, and they generally inhabited the coastal areas.  Because of this, the outline of trilobites in what is now land shows where the coasts used to be.  Trilobites help to track the movements of the continents as they split off and sailed to their current positions on the globe over millions of years.  Fortey shows how tracking trilobites can sometimes top paleomagnetism as a way of documenting continental drift.  In addition, trilobites serve as timekeepers.  They are found all over the world and range through such times as Cambrian, Devonian, and Permian, and if you can confidently identify a trilobite, you can spot what range of times your rocks come from.Trilobites lived for over three hundred million years (humans have been around about a thousandth of that time), so they had, as the British say, a very good innings.  They have been gone for over two hundred and fifty million years, and yet in this fascinating book, they live still and, with help from a superb reporter, they have news to tell us.
5 The Trilobites were the most common organisms on Earth for a very very long time.  This is a wonderful look at them, at their position in evolutionary history and at the odd circumstances that lead to their utter extinction while other species survivived.  Great book, well written and absorbing.
5 This is a superb book well worth the reading for novice and informed alike. Fortey has a knack of expressing himself in a clear unambiguous manner that puts together all manner of facts into a whole. Would that more technical writers could do fractionally as well.
5 I'm a huge paleontology fan, and have always loved trilobites.  This book is a fascinating discussion of all things trilobitic (as the author would say), and it is an astonishingly beautiful piece of prose, too.  People routinely praise Stephen Jay Gould's writing as elegant, but I always found it highfalutin and awkwardly phrased.  Richard Fortey, on the other hand, is a truly elegant writer, and this book is a joy to read.  Be warned, though -- Fortey has a real fondness for obscure words (I'm not talking about scientific terms, which he explains with care, but rather just oddball bits of vocabulary); I'm glad I read this as an ebook, so that I could look up definitions as I read along.
3 This is a book with modest goals which fully achieves everything it sets out to do.Anyone who was enamored of dinosaurs at six - which means all males and at least half the females in the Western world - will instantly recognize a trilobite. Most of us will know that they stuck around longer than the dinosaurs did, and died out before Barney's kin put in an appearance. And that's about it. To see a whole book devoted to trilobites (but a book so slim as to guarantee it will not daunt) naturally stirs a hope that one may extend  one's long, arm's-length acquaintance to a kind of tentative intimacy.By the time I was two chapters in to Fortey's book, I had grown pretty impatient. He was eminently readable, but the pace at which actual scientific information was being conveyed was glacial. It was as if he had spent a long life, most of it devoted to a passionate love affair with trilobites, trying to convey the flavor of his subject to literate, intelligent dinner companions with very short attention spans. The reader becomes one of those dinner companions. Fortey is an easygoing raconteur, never talking down to us and never wearying us with technical detail. By the time the book is over we've learned a fair amount about trilobites, quite a bit about their importance within the larger evolutionary scheme of things, and quite a bit about what it is like to be part of the small worldwide society of dedicated trilobite hunters.Given how frustrated I was at the early pacing, it was a nice surprise to look back at the end and realize how much more I knew about these ancient arthropods than when I'd started. But among the many things I had expected to learn, and had not, were basic topics like: how does one actually go about liberating a specimen from the rock? What are the major orders of trilobites? If I'm looking at one, how do I begin to locate it within the classificatory scheme, or within the geological timeline? Where do I start reading if I want to learn more?So if you want to while away the time with some engaging light scientific reading, this may be the book for you. If you want to persuade an initially indifferent friend to warm up to the idea of learning something about fossil invertebrates, this might be the book to lend out. But if you want to get a solid basic overview of the trilobite world, I can't help feeling there've got to be better places to go. Still, until I learn what those are, I'm happy enough to have gone to Fortey's book.
4 I almost returned this book to the library after the disappointing first chapter.  That would have been a mistake.  Fortey's prose tend to ramble (the book just uses too many words to say what it has to say) but the content makes the prose (which, in fairness, often were entertaining) well worth wading through.  I had the advantage of a keen ambient interest in the critters going into the book but Fortey's command of the key discoveries and their implications is outstanding and his passion for trilobites is contagious.  The book could use about twice the figures, but has included over 25 including some very instructive ones.  On the whole a worthwhile read.
5 Fortey's writing talent is capable and captivating.  Whether describing the cliffs of Cornwall or his journeys in search of fossils, he keeps your attention in thrall.  He is even able to lead us into the realm of arcane terminology.  In an early section in this book we are carefully introduced to the physical structure of long-extinct creatures.  With graceful descriptions, he demonstrates how to painlessly add eight new words to our personal lexicons.  He has much to tell us and he relates his story and his science with evocative skill.  The exclamation mark of  the title certainly reflects his enthusiasm for the topic.  With his ability to communicate that zeal, it becomes infectious.Trilobites, he continually reminds us, lasted far longer than the dinosaurs - nearly 300 million years, compared to the saurians' 120 million.  Their persistence, Fortey explains, is due to their adaptability.  They were so efficient at finding and filling ecological niches they are sometimes referred to as &quot;the beetles of the Paleozoic&quot;.  Fortey shows how various species inhabited deep oceans, shallow seas or glided through the mid-depths of the seas.  The only niche left uninvaded, Fortey ponders ruefully, was fresh water streams and lakes.  Had they done so, he muses, they might have persisted to modern times.  Whether that step might have precluded our evolution, Fortey sets aside for others to consider.We learn the anatomy of these lost arthropods, how the structure of the legs was discovered, how they grow from minuscule diatomic forms to more than lobster-sized.  The most engaging aspect of trilobites was the variety and form of the eyes.  Unlike the squishy, liquid-filled sensitive orbs we carry, trilobites &quot;learned&quot; enough chemistry to form eyes of calcite crystals.  These are arranged in a wide variety of patterns and structures, reflecting the animals' diversity.  Some lacked them altogether, having never developed vision, or losing it as successive generations migrated to the stygian depths.Fortey has traveled the globe in search of these mysterious creatures.  From misty Newfoundland through snake infested Queensland to an Arabian site infested with scorpions.  He insists the risks are ignored when a new fossil emerges from the rocks.  You feel that every new find should have a champagne celebration to accompany it.  Fortey, however, is content with beer - sometimes just a bit of cool water suffices.  Every page of this book dispels the mistaken image of the unfeeling, austere, white-coated academic.  His contribution to the science is inestimable - he's named 150 species.  Yet those accomplishments pale against his love for the science and the creatures he studies.In explaining the diversity of his treasured trilobites, Fortey takes us through the mechanics of plate tectonics.  Geology is the science that birthed paleontology, and the two sciences have been intimately entwined for generations.  In explaining why different types of trilobites evolved, Fortey traces the movements of continents over the millennia.  East Coast Newfoundlanders may be pleased to read how their part of the island was once joined to the European continent to later merge with the western segment.  The key to discovering this phenomenon was, of course, trilobite species differences.  This kind of information Fortey offers within a framework of why these lost life forms are important for an understanding of who we are in nature.  A fine addition to any bookshelf. [stephen a. haines - Ottawa, Canada]
5 This is a wonderful book! Trilobite! Eyewitness to Evolution is a skillfully crafted narrative that displays Fortey's impeccable scientific credentials and his engaging and highly entertaining style of writing. Readers unfamiliar with these remarkable creatures and their 300 million year history will benefit from well organized chapters that explain the physiology, life habits, evolutionary patterns and geological time line with insight and clarity. Those readers with a better understanding of the class Trilobita, will enjoy the personal observations and anecdotes of a superb writer, who just happens to be a leading authority on the subject.  Fortey even tackles the role of ombudsman in his attempt to soften the contentious battles between Simon Conway-Morris and Stephen J. Gould over those controversial early arthropods and other creatures of arguable affinity. I applaud his restraint and gentle hand in dealing with the emotional fervor of his contemporaries.  If I have any criticism of this book, it would be to step on to the soapbox and point out that Fortey details the moment when he chipped out his first trilobite at age fourteen as an epiphany that determined his lifes work. He discusses Walcott and other self taught geologists and paleontologists who started as eager young fossil hunters. Sadly, in several places throughout the text, Fortey explains that these sites are now closed to collecting. Typically, these closures are to protect the area from the hammers of interested collectors (with special emphasis on those who might profit from the sale of their collections) in the misguided notion that invertebrate fossils are national treasures that must be protected for all through restrictions and the intervention of government agencies. I subscribe to the belief that a fossil left uncollected is a fossil that is lost. If common sense prevails, the search for specimens- even for profit- can benefit us all.  Instead, we get over zealous regulation and permanent site closures. In the final pages of his book, Fortey marvels at the recently discovered trident Comura trilobite. (now Walliserops trifurcautus) I only wish he'd made it clear that this unique fossil discovery resulted from the activities of Moroccans digging the Devonian strata for a modest profit and that future fossil wonders, as well as future paleontologists, are much more likely to occur when people are allowed to freely explore the rocks, as Fortey was allowed to do in his youth.
4 A must read for fossil fans of the cambrian era. Fortey is not only a scientist but also a gifted writer.
5 _Trilobite_ by Richard Fortey is a wonderful, witty, charming, very well-written, and very richly illustrated homage to the trilobite, an arthropod that teemed in the millions in the seas of the ancient earth for 300 million years before becoming extinct. Fortey is an enthusiastic expert on all things trilobite - having studied them for over 30 years - and did an excellent job in conveying his passion for these long extinct creatures in a very readable format with many dozens of excellent photographs and sketches.Early on Fortey introduced basic concepts of trilobite anatomy (he said eight technical names is all anyone needs to describe any species). With the help of a diagram of a representative species, we learn for instance that the head is properly termed the cephalon while the other end -the tail - is called the pygidium. Between the cephalon and the pygidium is the thorax, which is subdivided into segments (thoracic segments). A central convex portion or lobe running down the thorax and pygidium is called the axis, while to either side are the lateral or pleural parts.Reading about trilobite eyes was particular fascinating; they were made of calcite (the same substance that makes up the white cliffs of Dover and was popular in classical architecture), something unique in the entire animal kingdom.  Fortey discussed the physics and chemistry of the crystal eyes of trilobites, how they enabled the animal to see, how the lenses on trilobite eyes were arranged and how they functioned, the unique optical properties of calcite, even experiments replicating the vision of individual trilobite species (in particular the experiments relating to the vision of _Phacops_ were extremely interesting; I never knew that physics had such a place in paleontology).We learn also that while whole trilobites are certainly found in the fossil record (or more accurately the carapace of the animal, as the soft and delicate parts such as the legs only rarely fossilize) much of what is found are only bits and pieces, often shed when molting. Thoracic segments, pygidium, and other parts litter the fossil record like puzzle pieces and it is often the job of the trilobite expert to reassemble them, much like a jigsaw puzzle. Some fossils sites - such as Beecher's Trilobite Bed, an Ordovician fossil site in New York - have preserved through unusual circumstances such delicate trilobite parts as their legs (long a mystery to researchers) and even antennae. The details about the life of the trilobite found there - genus _Triarthus_- was fascinating; apparently they lived in a very low oxygen, high sulfur seafloor environment and may have perished during a fatal drop of dissolved oxygen (and were thus preserved) but otherwise lived symbiotically with bacteria that derived energy from sulfur.Fortey introduced the reader to a wonderful parade of trilobite species, relating the history of the group from the Cambrian to its final days in the Permian (the true Age of Trilobites he wrote ranged from the middle of the Cambrian to the Ordovician). We find that trilobites lived in diverse habitats, from the shallowest "sands to the deepest-water shales; in sunlit reefs and in gloomy abysses." _Olenellus_ for instance is the commonest of the earliest Cambrian trilobites, a creature the size of a large lobster that was a voracious predator 535 million years ago. _Agnostus_ was a tiny, millimeters long trilobite that swarmed in the millions, odd creatures that only had two thoracic segments and was so abundant that some late Cambrian limestones are made of nothing but this tiny trilobite. _Elrathia kingi_ is the commonest of the "rock shop" Cambrian trilobites, a "middle-of-the road" typical trilobite, one of many dozens of very broadly similar trilobites that make specialists gnash their teeth. This species has been known to leave tracks that have been fossilized, one of the true "mud-grubbers" that plowed furrows in seafloor sediment in its quest for food. _Parabarrandia_ was a streamlined, torpedo shaped Ordovician trilobite, a species that Fortey had performed experiments on in a water tank with dye to prove that it was well suited to a free-swimming role (I never thought one could do experiments on a trilobites; that was fascinating to read). Another free-swimmer was the giant-eyed _Opipeuter_ (Greek for "one who gazes") from the Ordovician, with eyes oriented to see forwards and backwards and a body plan designed to house powerful swimming muscles.  Also from the Ordovician was _Isotelus_, an unusual animal which completely lacked eyes and had a head surrounded by a border full of perforations, not unlike a colander. This pitted fringe lay about the front of the head sort of like a halo, a rather complicated bit of Paleozoic engineering, the function of which has remained an enigma.  The Devonian abounded in trilobites covered in prickles and spines (possibly related to the dominance of fish); one, _Dicranurus_, among its spines appeared to have had great curling ram horns originating at the neck.As fascinating as trilobites are, Fortey had encountered those that question why he has devoted his life to their study. The author made an excellent case that knowledge of trilobites has played vital roles in the debates over the origins of new species and the nature of evolution itself (researches have been able to track changes in trilobite species over time thanks to their great abundance in the fossil record) and in the study of the positioning of ancient continents (as it has been discovered that trilobites make excellent index fossils, not only for marking intervals of geologic time but also to mark the shores of ancient continents, enabling or aiding in the mapping of the ancient world; indeed Fortey himself named an Ordovician ocean, Tornquist's Sea, which separated the continents of Avalonia and Baltica, thanks to trilobites). Fortey weighed in also in such divisive concepts in evolution as gradualism versus punctuated equilibria, the nature of the Cambrian explosion (and what trilobites tell us about that), the origin of eyes in animals, and the importance (and proper interpretation) of the weird Burgess Shale fauna.
5 The trouble with trilobites is that after 300 million years of evolution and survival - a third of a billion years! - they became extinct.  Alas, there haven't been any living trilobites for 250 million years or so.Fortunately, they left behind lots of fossils.  Although these are incredibly old, they are so common that anyone can afford a trilobite fossil or two for their home.  Scientists have figured out a lot about trilobites from all those fossils.  Richard Fortey, senior paleontologist at the Natural History Museum in London, is an authority on trilobites and, fortunately for us, a wonderful writer on science.  This book not only gives you a lot of technical detail about trilobites in a painless manner, it also communicates the importance and excitement of science.Fortey's discussion of how he used trilobite fossils are used to help track continental drift over millions of years is fascinating!  I also enjoyed his discussions of such divergent topics as the naming of new species and how trilobite eyes worked.This book, along with the beautiful bookTrilobitesby Riccardo Levi-Setti, belong on the bookshelves of all amateur paleontologists and anyone else interested in exciting writing about science.
5 I'm writing this review a little prematurely. I've only gotten about 70 pages into it. The first chapter was a little overly literary. The author finally broke into stride after that, and the book is quite enjoyable. The primary reason for writing this premature review is to point out the large number of figure typos. I'm talking about the american hardbound copy. Figures seem to be misplaced, pages other than where the text says they are, and figure numbers missing.
5 I foundt this book to be the best I have ever read about Albania and the Balkan mountain region. His treatment of the locals is fair, accurate, and extraordinarily compassionate. I found no tone of sarcasm at all, but one of true objectivity and kindness towards even the worst of the worst criminals and 'hoodlums' of Albania. The writing style is poetic and beautiful from the very first page. I was taken by surprise by how well-written and insightful this book was. I am going to read it again and I never read travel books twice unless they are better than awesome, and that is exactly what this book is! Robert Carver is honest, direct, and a genius at languages and cultural perspectives, including the Communist/Socialist, Democratic, Religious, and Ethnic ideaologies which he explores in conversations with locals. These vignettes and these characters are definitely real people with real 'biographies' as they like to call them in Albania. A truly wonderful read! I enjoyed every single page of Robert Carver's journey through Albania.
4 Having visited Albania several times and hunted similar themes, I found Carver's picture well in line with my own. It was insights to some of the  'whys' which caught me the most. He gets a hearty well done for doing what  I had hoped to in 1992 when visiting as a journalist.
1 Antonie de Saint-Exupery said "I have no right to say or do anything that deminishes a man in his own eyes. What matters is not what I think of him but what he thinks about himself.Hurting a man in his dignity is a crime".Whoever appointed mr.Robert Carver to write a book about Albania,must be satisfied with his work!A great job he's done at telling the truth about Albania's Albanians and also a riveting job by making up stories about Albanians in general.I am an Albanian,for example I have never been in Iceland, and if I had to write a book about Icelanders within a short time, you can imagine how accurate that book of mine would have been!!!I must admit I found this book too offensive,too unfair but it is a book and books are meant to teach us something.Anything.And it is up to you dear readers what you're gonna learn from this particular book!!!If mr.Robert Carver was appointed by whoever that is - to write another book about any other country I wish with all my heart to remind him of this adage "Two people stare from the same bar - one sees mud the other sees the stars".And it is the STARS people are more interested than in the mud. Because stars are 'unreachable' while mud can be created anywhere!And for the end mr. Robert Carver's books will always have a spare place in my bookshelf. He's a great writer!
1 The first time I visited Albania there were no guidebooks available. I read some history books, but the most recent one available then was published in 1978.The year was 1992 and the country had just opened up to foreigners. Living within swimming distance, in Corfu, Greece, from 1972-1974 had piqued my curiosity. At that time, no Americans were allowed to visit, due to the harsh policies of Enver Hoxha's severely Stalinist regime.So my first trip to Albania was like jumping backward off a cliff: I had no idea what to expect until I landed. Once there, the beauty of the country and the generosity of the people blew me away. I am a photographer and in Albania I found my life's work, beginning a project to document the Albanian people, including those living in Kosova and Macedonia. Since 1992 I have spent almost a month each year in this region.I had looked forward to reading Robert Carver's "The Accursed Mountains", but found so many inaccuracies and author prejudices that I could not possibly recommend this book to anyone seeking to learn more about Albania.The author overuses such qualifiers as "reputed", "it was said", "widely believed" and "claimed". Was there no way he could have found out if these statements were true or not? The more I read of this book, the more annoyed I became. I was in Albania in 1996, the same year he wrote about, and it was hard to believe that we had traveled in the same country. Whereas he continually met "unsmiling" people wanting to rip him off, I had totally different experiences. Strangers invited me into their homes, fed me and put me up for the night-and refused to accept  one lek for their kindness.Some of his inaccuracies:"Fifty thousand green card visas had been allocated to Albania on a lottery basis..." (p. 24):50,000 is the total number of visas granted to all the countries allowed to apply, not just Albania."Maps only became legal in 1995...There weren't  any for sale anywhere." (p. 29)I was able to purchase a map of Albania at a kiosk in Skanderbeg Square in 1993."There was no driving test in Albania. You just paid the police $10 for a permit. Spectacular crashes were common." (p. 39)Why not mention that, until 1991, most Albanians were not allowed to own a car? Wouldn't that be an interesting fact to impart?"There was only one ship left [in Saranda]...a small rusted freighter" (p. 99)That's strange, because, along with Durres and Vlore, Saranda is a major port and every time I've been there I've seen quite a few boats of all types in the harbor: Freighters, ferries that travel back and forth from Corfu, and fishing boats, among others."The police were out in force...collecting cash [bribes from bus drivers]" (p. 115).I have traveled extensively on buses in Albania, and never was stopped for this reason."For Macedonia, you had to have a passport with no Greek stamps at all, or they wouldn't let you in." (p. 133)Funny, but the Greek stamps on my passport have never kept me out of Macedonia."The US Treasury had apparently put five hidden raised serrations on each bill...to detect forgeries" (p. 150)Please, can someone tell me when this was done?"...my mistake was to risk taking a photo of the giant equestrian statue of Skanderbeg...Now is a bad time for people with cameras." (p. 157-162)I have never had a problem taking photos anywhere in Albania. In pre-war Kosova, yes; the Serbs liked throwing their weight around. But in 1996 I was working on a project concerned with the fate of political prisoners in Albania and was able to photograph in former and current prisons and other places that would have been forbidden during the Hoxha regime."If a foreigner got a cab it cost $50 [to go to Rinas Airport]." (p. 328)I have never paid more than $20, either coming or going from Rinas, until 2003, when the lek became based on the euro instead of the US dollar.What bothered me most about this book was the author's treatment of women. It's obvious that he cares very little for feminists. However, he has no problem in describing the size ("enormous") of a woman's breasts, or lack thereof. He meets two "professional feminists" in Bajram Curri and gives them "no more than a 50-50 chance of getting to Tirana unviolated." It's as if he hopes something bad will befall these women. He tries to track them down in Tirana:"...when I enquired at the various aid agencies no one had ever heard of them...All sorts of people were disappearing without trace in Albania that summer." (p. 267)As if he really cared-or as if that were really happening.The above quotes are taken from the hard cover version published in 1998. If you plan on traveling to Albania, or merely want to learn more about this strange and beautiful country, don't waste your money on this book. James Pettifer's "Blue Guide" is so much more useful. Edith Durham's "High Albania" and Lloyd Jones' "Biografi" are more informative about the Albanian people.
5 first, let me say that i love to travel without maps, and to places deemed weird or scary (but not "dangerous" for example, chechnya, afganistan, etc won't be on my travel itinerary for the near future )  however, several years ago i was staying in southern italy's beautiful puglia region, sitting on the beach, when i asked about some interesting cloud formations on the distant eastern horizon that seemed to be stationary. i was told they weren't clouds, but the tops of mountains in albania! this blew my mind, i never thought such high mountains existed there, in addition, i am attracted by small out of the way places. i asked around, and most italian's have a very negative bias against albania, most to the drift that if i went there i'd never come back, etc. so this kind of ignorant gibberish draws me in further, and without much to go on, i ordered this book from amazon, while i was there. the book seemd to reinforce the weirdness that my italian friends attributed to the place, and i was soon looking for a way to get there. needless to say, once i got there, i could understand some of the author's opions, but as a whole, his point of view is very unbalanced. in fact, i ended up staying for a while longer, learning the language, and finding work with an italian dry goods importer, as the country was undergoing an unfortunately short term boom.
4 Anti-statists, anti-industrialists, NRA ideologues, and neo-cons of the world, take heart!  There is a small nation that has turned itself into a laboratory for your social vision.  Divesting itself of government, industrial technology, local arms control, and sickly notions of political correctness, human rights, or civil society, Albania has plunged deep into the brave new world of the 21st century by rediscovering its roots in the 12th.While I've never been to Albania, I find most of the criticisms made of this book to be rather unfair.  One reviewer made a catalogue of alleged inaccuracies, but failed to add the author's caveats of "so I/as I was told."  If Mr. Carver was spreading disinformation, it was thanks to his Albanian hosts feeding him their own misinformation or paranoia.  As for his "condescending" views, these seem to reflect a certain First World snottery, but were no doubt enforced by the sense of personal threat as a lone traveller in a "fledgling Balkan democracy."  On the other hand, Carver does note acts of generosity and hospitality he received throughout his journey.  He ends his book with a deep but unsentimental appreciation for the people and culture he has just passed through, alive to tell the tale.I found it quite ironic to read of the Communist genocide museum, and its statistics quoted so freely, when all around is a society seemingly hell-bent on self-destruction, decimating itself by unrelenting homicide and emigration.  However patronizing his account may read, one has only to keep in mind the bitter ethnic blood wars raging just to the north of the country at the time of his visit; confirmed by Albania's own utter collapse as a functioning state and civil society just a year later, the path now followed by "Free Libya."Rather than gloating over such tragedy, however, I would be heartened if the country has made some kind of recovery in the intervening years.  To portray it, however, I would want as merciless a mind's-eye scalpel as Mr. Carver's, over the sugar-coating of Western diplomats, EU investors, NATO attaches and evangelical missionaries.
4 As I began reading this volume, I was immediately put off by such statements as &quot;..in Albania more or less nothing worked, nothing was  available, and no one knew anything.&quot;  or &quot;duplicity and trickery  were the currency of everyday life&quot; or &quot;Cynicism was  intelligence, fairness stupidity.&quot;  And to take a final, random  example, &quot;If there was one consistent trait the Albanians shared, it  was to charge the foreigner the absolute maximum the market would  bear.&quot;  On top of such wildly general statements, the author allowed  himself the use of such words as Wop and Froggy, expressing here and there  his dislike of the strictures of political correctness.  While not entirely  disagreeing with that last point, I still don't like books that make use of  such rubbish terms that add absolutely nothing to the topic at hand.  So, I  must say that I got off to a bad start with THE ACCURSED MOUNTAINS.  I kept  reading and now I am glad I did.  In many ways the picture Carver draws is  very accurate, and somehow, despite himself, he seems ultimately to like  some of the people he meets. The further he was able to retreat into the  past, the high mountains of the northern highlands where even the  all-embracing Communism of the Hoxha years could not much penetrate, the  happier he seems and the less likely to make sweeping negative statements.  I have the ability to comment on his opinions because, strangely enough, I  was travelling through Albania at exactly the same time he  was--mid-1996---though not for as long.  I did not have any contacts at  all. The picture Carver gives of the economic situation is absolutely  true--utter desolation, back to zero.  As he had more political contacts,  he could find out more than I did, but what he wrote rang very true to me.  The politics of family, clan, and tribe had sprung back as if it had never  been gone (it hadn't)and the words 'compromise', 'consensus' and 'practical  program' seemed unknown.  Where I disagree with Carver is in the nature of  the Albanian people.  Allowing for the two facts that a) the entire economy  had totally collapsed and b)it was a Third World economy anyway, it was  amazing to me how honest everyone was.  In the weeks that I was there,  nobody cheated us, only a couple minor attempts were made even to try, and  desperately poor street vendors would return you the correct change even if  you had understood &quot;50&quot; instead of &quot;15&quot; due to poor  Albanian. Dirt poor people would insist on paying for your coffee, your  drinks; hospitality was universal.  Con-men existed, but primarily in the  world of package tourism, which, despite Carver's denial, did seem to be  getting a toehold at that time.  Carver reports roadblocks where police  extorted money from bus and van drivers every few miles (it seems).  I  travelled from north to south, east to west, on regular buses, quick vans,  taxis, newspaper delivery vans, and the train, never finding even one  instance of this, though wide travels elsewhere in the Third World make me  aware of how common it is.  Carver sees bandits on the road---oops, they  are only a bunch of refugee kids.  He almost gets shot on a desolate road  but---oops, the pistols all fire at a target set up a moment ago. The  Macedonian border was shut off but---oops, I went through it with no  difficulty.  I can easily share his feelings of anxiety--and equally shared  the experience of being warned in America before leaving that Albanians  were thieves, murderers, bandits, etc.  But somehow my fears dissolved  while his did not.  If you don't mind living with those fears, despite the  hospitality he received, the kindness of people who had next to nothing,  but shared it with him, then you ought to read this book, ignoring some of  the parts that try to make Albania sound much more horrendous than it is  (or was in 1996).  I share Carver's vision of the rising tide of desperate  Third World people who are going to overwhelm the more organized countries  in search of order and prosperity, thereby destroying what they came for.  Albania's tragedy is yet another one, sending out floods of desperate  people.  There was no need to make it worse than it is.
4 I liked Carver's book for its honesty.  He experienced these things and he relates them.  Many Balkan peoples like the written word to be sugar-coated.  The Kanun of Leke Dukagjini, the "controlling yardstick" for behavior among the Gheg Albanians, dictates that an offense to one's honor is never pardoned.  It can be expunged with a "magnanimous pardon" or she shedding of "gjak", or blood.  For that reason, Albanians are cautious with their language.  Carver, astute for the short-term traveler that he was, picked up on this.  Is he an expert on Albanian history? No.  Don't expect him to be, either.  What you get with Carver is honesty combined with the day-to-day events of his three-month tour.  Does it stack up with Durham or Rob't D. Kaplan?  No, but very few would.
5 My interest in Albania began with a TV documentary about tribal feuds in that country. Amazed that such barbaric custom could exist in the heart of Europe in this day and age, I decided to find more about Albania. Robert Carver's highly readable book only confirmed the documentary story. While many readers who commented here condemn Carver's lack of political correctness, I appreciate the fact that he had the courage to write about what he had seen through his personal lense - political correctness be damned. I don't see why an author should be held responsible for the reputation of a country. This is how Albania appeared to him and if those who lived there had different experiences, they are free to write and publish them. I, for one, find it difficult to defend a culture where family honor is blown out of proportion, where women are treated like cattle and insults are drowned in the blood of innocent family members.
4 An excellent debut work. I couldn't put it down. This is a highly readable, enjoyable and chilling account of an unexplored and lawless land right inside Europe. The postscript penned by the author was very sad to read as many of the persons whom he had met had been ambushed and killed in blood feuds. I grant that impressions about a foreign culture are always subjective and I may not believe in all that the author has written. This is a travelogue, not a Lonely Planet guidebook and this subjectivity makes it all the more interesting to read. I am sure that that many things would have improved in Albania since 1996. In fact, I have a copy of &quot;Europe on a shoestring&quot; by Lonely Planet and the book says that some of the towns are now completely safe for travellers.Even these days Albania is in the headlines for all the wrong reasons - Kosova, and the current ethnic strife in FYR Macedonia so one wonders if the blood feud has now been taken to an international level.The comparison with Afghanistan and North West frontier is apt. Neither Islam nor the British were ever able to change the way of life of these people.I have a few remarks against the author -1. The author betrays his Christian bias when he extols the missionaries working in  Albania and constantly refers to the pre-Islamic pagan past of Albanians. I don't think any religion teaches its followers to cheat and lie, so I don't see why Christianity is superior to other religions in this regard. The author unnecesssarily drags religion into a purely social problem.2. I don't know if this book was primarily meant for Europeans. With so many untranslated Albanian, French, Greek, German and even Latin words/sentences, it was annoying.3. The author can't hide his disdain for the Third World countries and seems to be frustrated that there is such a country right inside Europe. He should know that the so-called &quot;Third World&quot; countries had a very high culture and wealth when Europe didn't have any. Most of these countries are poor directly as a result of exploitation by the colonial powers. Even today, the tinpot dictators are funded by USA and other countries for their own strategic interests.4. The note on the author says that he grew up partly in India and I am sure he would have been born after India's independence. His knowledge of modern geography is inaccurate. He refers occasionally to the North-west frontier of India. Dear Mr. Carver, this lawless land is in Pakistan, not in India, and we Indians thank god for that :-)
3 Jhumpa Lahiri has a particular talent for describing the textures of life both inner and outer - the Gangulis of the "The Namesake" come alive through vivid descriptions of their home, their food, and their quiet, unspoken feelings of alienation from the world of clashing cultures they inhabit.  These details are rendered in lovely, deliberate prose, and the book is a pleasant one for curling up on the couch on a particularly lazy afternoon.  Lahiri has a distinctive voice - no small accomplishment - and she is a very talented writer, but not yet a great one.  "The Namesake" - like "Interpreter of Maladies", Lahiri's slightly better short-story collection - is very good, but lacks the passion that makes good works great.  The Gangulis are well-drawn, multi-dimensional characters; they just need a dose of passion to bring them to life.  Lahiri's writing describes, it narrates, but it lacks vibrancy and any hint of danger.  When it becomes less inhibited, it will be truly great.
4 The Namesake deals with themes on culture clash between the first generation Bengali Americans and the second generation. Crediting the writer of the "Overcoat", Nikolai Gogol,with saving his life in a train wreck, Ashoke Ganguli and his wife, Ashima, both Bengali immigrants in the USA bestow the name, "Gogol" on their infant son. While the name was intended to be a 'pet name', the task of coming up with a 'good name', according to tradition, was the duty of Ashima's grandmother. Unfortunately, her letter never arrives, and so, Gogol officially becomes this young man's pet name turned good name.Gogol Ganguli, ignorant of the circumstances for his name detests it, because it is neither American nor Indian, and rebels against it by changing it to Nikhil. He has little tolerance for his Bengali heritage which is reflected in his choices: Majoring in architecture, as opposed to engineering, and then moving in with his American girlfriend's family where he gets caught up with their extravagant lifestyles and feels his parents mode of living and entertainment cant measure up with them. When his father dies later on, culture clash ensues between him and his girlfriend, Maxine, and they break up.Following the breakup, Gogol falls in love with the daughter of a family friend, Moushomi. On the surface, the pair appear to be a match: They are well educated, alienated from their Bengali heritage and have a flair for worldly sophistication.Yet, his bride comes with an emotional baggage stemming from her family background, an unresolved broken engagement and a circle of friends she keeps to validate her self-worth. An extra-marital affair on her part destroys the union.As the story wounds up, Gogol reflects on the "string of accidents" in his family background from his father's accident in a train wreck, which prompted him to name his son after the writer of "The Overcoat", as a gratitude that the novel saved his life. He reflects on his father's death, and the dissolution of his marriage, after Moushomi confesses to cheating on him. He comes to the realization that despite his detachment from his family years earlier, he was in close proximity with them because of the train. This string of accidents continues back in his bedroom when he comes across the book, "The Overcoat", bequeathed to him by his father on his fourteenth birthday which he had so detested and simply refused to read it. This time around, he begins to read it.The Namesake is a touching family saga that sucessfully conveys the conflict of cultural assimilation and identity. The presentation of Gogol's relationship with Maxine (white woman) and Moushoomi (a Bengali) addresses the conflict and unfulfilment in his life as an Indian American.
4 Ah, all so familiar, so throughly, disturbingly and sadly familiar!  Once an immigrant, always an immigrant.  Nice and easy reading, very direct but intimate at the same time. Clash is within the individuals, as well as beween the cultures this time.I also have to admit there is a refreshing sincere and genuine quality to her writing style, so sorely missing from many of the UK-groomed Indian writers.
4 I have just finished "The Namesake" so all my impressions are fresh. As many other readers, I bought this book because I was impressed by Lahiri's short stories. This one, although obviously the author should try to do better with the novel form in future, is remarkable too. The story of Indian immigrant family, typical for second half of the 20th century and, in many ways, matching my own, which just started (scholars moving to the States thanks to their academic achievements and lured by career prospects, sinking into this "melting pot" and becoming a part of it) is emotionally charged so much that sometimes I had tears in my eyes. The parents, Ashima and Ashoke Ganguli, deal with detachment from their families and their world in India by incorporating parts of their old life and tradition into the American everyday reality, surrounding themselves with Bengali friends in the same situation, but their children, born in America, have a much greater problem with their identity. This is common to most of the immigrant children and more or less a generally known truth, but Lahiri describes the feelings of the main protagonist, the firstborn son of the Ganguli family, with extraordinary acuteness. The boy is named Gogol, after his father's favorite Russian writer, but Ashoke gives him this name not only as a tribute to the novelist. It is a memory of an important event in his life, he treats the name as a symbol, a sign. Gogol, however, hates his name and we go with him through the rebellion years, contesting the values of his family, trying the new ways, name change, falling in love with American girls (or more with their lifestyles), slowly and gradually getting to understand, accept and finally appreciate the Indian heritage and his parents (although there are many failures on the way). I was left with a profound feeling of melancholy and thoughtfulness.Formally, there are some uncomfortable shortcuts (especially towards the end of the novel) and the plot feels sometimes a bit awkward (I would like to make a more general remark here, namely that the new generation of authors who attended the Creative Writing courses has something in common, as if the rules they learn left on each of them the same mark, difficult to wash away and cover with the personality; it might be expected from beginners but surely must fade away if they do not want to be called beginners any more), but it is an interesting novel. I treat is as somewhat of an appetizer, a promise of the masterpieces yet to come from under Jhumpa Lahiri's pen.
4 is still a Rose. And Gogol, by any other name, is still Gogol. Although it takes him quite some time to figure that out.I quite enjoyed this journey through one family's story. The gentle way time passed, the incredible amount of description provided that lets you really see and feel the environment and people, the daily wear of life. I would say this book is like a stream that meanders quietly down a path with a few bends along the way. It is not my usual genre (my books usually have blood or sizze in them!) but I was gradually enchanted and persuaded to appreciate this due to the wonderful writing and the emotion I attached to the characters. I felt real pain when certain events happened - and a keen sense of disappointment and loss. I don't want to give the impression it is a depressing story - although it has enough realism to keep it far out of the fantasy realm - yet the ups and downs of life happen as the characters go through school, jobs, friends.Enjoyable. Not a quick read for me surprisingly - I really paid attention to each word and took a few breaks to digest the story. It felt like that is the way I was supposed to read it - more of a casual sipping than a full fledged devouring. I will pick up more by this author!
3 This is a tale of two generations of an (Asian) Indian family.  The first part of the book, focusing on the parents, is primarily a social novel.  The second part, focusing on the son, but the mother also to some extent, is more a novel of character.  I learned something from the first part, and enjoyed the second part, but overall I would have to say this book was quite ordinary, as contrasted to Lahiri's earlier effort, Interpreter of Maladies.  The son, although  liberated culturally, is rather a repressed personality, and Jumpa manages to make him interesting primarily through his sequence of lovers.  The Namesake was the second novel I have read this year in which a young man moves in with his lover AND her well to do parents, and they become something of a foursome (no, not sexually; the other novel was Russian Debutante's Daughter).
1 I really wanted to like this because of the great reviews, but this book suffers from several fatal flaws. No spoilers ahead. By the way, I couldn't get through it and quit about halfway. First, it has no plot, but lots of descriptions. Lots of descriptions but with absolutely no point at all or greater purpose just cannot hold your attention. Things need to happen in a story to keep you engaged. Second, when things actually do happen, there tend to be NO descriptions. There are several deaths in the book and at no point do you learn what the person was thinking, how were they grieving, how did they respond afterward and how it affected them. What was the point of bringing it up at all? The person dies in one sentence, and then it's over. There are finally big things happening and they are breezed over. Third, there is NO dialogue. When I was ready to give up on this book because there is no dialogue or conversation, I paged ahead to see when the next time someone would actually say something might be... pages and pages with no interaction with other people. It's just ridiculously dull to read a book that's all narration and no one ever interacting or speaking to each other. I had to quit. Can't waste my life on this when there are so many other great books in the world out there! I suggest you save yourself the energy too.
5 We meet a couple who are married and must set off to America for better employment. They are quite young. Soon, they have kids, he has a job at MIT and she stays at home. It sounds tame but the tale is exquisite in the detail it uses to describe common staples of Bengali life, American life, the issues immigrants and first generations face. All the characters are loveable even when they are lost. You become shocking intimiate with them all before you turn the last page. Their family haunts you because while you read, you became that immigrant mother worrying about her son dating an American. It's a great tale of immigration, assimilation, struggling between cultures.
3 Anyone who has lived though the teenage years can relate to thisstory about a relationship between a child and his parents.
2 This book follows the life of Gogol Ganguli, from his birth to his thirties.  He is the firstborn son of Ashoke and Ashima, Indians who have come as newlyweds to the United States.  As newcomers to the American way of life, they are sometimes confused by the way things work, and there are cultural misunderstandings.  One major misunderstanding concerns the naming of children.In the Bengali culture, formal names are hardly ever used.  They are serious and meaningful and precious.  Family and friends refer to a person by a pet name, which can be silly and meaningless.  When Ashima is pregnant, she requests her grandmother choose a formal name for the baby and send it in the mail.  The letter containing the name never arrives, though, and the grandmother has a stroke before she is able to transmit the information.  Ashima and Ashoke are paralyzed, unwilling to choose a formal name on their own.  However, they are also unable to get a birth certificate without a name.  They decide that a name change can occur later, and they put their son's pet name on the birth certificate.  Gogol is the last name of one of Ashoke's favorite authors, and when he was in a train wreck years ago, he feels like a book of Gogol's stories played a part in his rescue and recovery.Gogol's parents choose a formal name for him just in time for him to go to kindergarten, but he refuses to answer to it.  His teachers are on his side, instead of his parents', and they refuse to call him by the good name.  Thus Gogol's fate is sealed when he is five.Many things about Gogol's life as a child of immigrants bothers him.  He dislikes the huge parties his parents throw for every occasion, with all of the other Bengali families in the area in attendance, cramming into the house and needing to eat in shifts.  He dislikes their trips back to Calcutta to visit their relatives.  He dislikes that his parents make him go to a Saturday cultural school and celebrate holidays that seem to have nothing to do with him.  He knows that his family will never fit in with their New England neighbors.  All of his discomfort, though, seems to be caught up in the issue of his name, which he absolutely detests by the time he is in high school.  His father has never told him why he is called Gogol, and to Gogol it just seems a terrible cruely has been done to him.When Gogol graduates from high school and is about to go to college, he legally changes his name to Nikhil, the name his parents tried to get him to accept in kindergarten.  He thinks a fresh start is all he needs to be happy and well adjusted.  Instead, though, Gogol finds himself floundering, feeling not only new at college and away from his parents for the first time ever, but also feeling as though he is a stranger to himself.  Throughout the next twelve years, through college and relationships and entering the adult world of work, Gogol continues to struggle with his identity and with accepting the life and choices of his parents.This book provided a great deal of interesting information about the culture and traditions of the Bengali people.  I enjoyed reading about the food Ashima cooked, the holidays and milestones the family celebrated, and the ways they learned to fuse their culture with the America in which they lived.  I liked that the family was stable and financially secure and didn't carry more than their share of personal tragedy.However, I simply didn't feel much of a connection to the characters in this story.  I never felt like I understood the depths of Gogol's pain at his strange name, and thought it was a weak analogy to the difficulty of trying to find a place in two separate cultures.  The family was nice, but a bit vague.  Gogol's relationships were never rounded out and it was not clear to me why such wildly gorgeous women were so attracted to someone who seemed to have very little personality and little ability to make personal connections to people.Overall, this was a book that I read without difficulty but without much real feeling.  Although I only finished it two days ago, it has already faded in my mind, and likely will be completely forgotten fairly quickly.
5 Being from South Asia, this may be biased, but I found this book extremely captivating.  After reading the story of this family, I'm left feeling that I know this family well.  I could not help but relate to the life experiences of the characters in terms of situation, experiences, and histories.  The author has a writing style which is sharp and leading without revealing the future.  The reader and the characters approach every new  corner their lives together.  I am curious to see if the story is continued.
3 I never considered a name as defining a person but obviously this author does.  I wasn't convinced he proved his case!
2 The story itself would have been very good and very compelling had the writing carried any emotional weight. Unfortunately, the great story was buried under needless details and written in such a way to provide no real connection to the characters.
5 Reading the first page of this book will have you not wanting to put it down. The words just flow off the page. The imagery is amazing. I respected the insight given by this book into one aspect of Indian culture. The descriptions of the foods in the book can make one's mouth water. This book can easily be read in a weekend and the story is so compelling it will stay with you a long time.
2 Jhumpa Lahiri's writing has style but draws from  limited experiences- mostly that of displaced immigrants. After her first book, this limited storytelling, this attempt to extract maximum mileage out of small pains,  gets boring. Gogol is named Gogol because that writer meant a lot to his father. However the author fails to show why someone would thank Gogol when surviving a train accident. At the end of the story Gogol finds the book of stories his father had gifted him, and cluthes on to it as a guide for the years to come. This is supposed to be the 'climax' but it does not evoke much emotion.
2 While I appreciated the use of langauage and the author's skill in crafting the novel,  it lost its focus.  It was also rather self-conscious and a glimpse into a very, very narrow slice of the immigrant experience.  As a result the story lacked the hallmark of a great novel:  universality.Nikhil a.k.a. Gogol, remained a bare bones character and the reader comes away with the impression that nomeclature is destiny-and that's all.  The author has apparantly used this novel as a thinly veiled catalogue of mildly interesting autobiographical experience but the book lacks imagination, drive, vision.  It is time for the author-clearly an adept writer-to take plunge into the unknown.  I have a feeling that the results will be wonderful but this book does not get her there.
1 Having read Interpreter of Maladies by Lahiri, I eagerly awaited her novel, The Namesake.  Interpreter of Maladies was well-written, contained characters that drew the reader to them, and packed a lot of action in each short story.However, The Namesake was dissapointing.  It is not as well-written as Interpreter of Maladies.  The characters lack that something that draws the reader to care about them.  The story is really a short story that has been stretched out to a novel lengh, filled in with unimportant detail.The story line is too predictable and there is little urgency in the writing.  Where is the crisis to solve?  If the main character dislikes his name so much, then he should change it.  End of story.The bottom line:  Read Interpreter of Maladies, enjoy a fine collection of short stories, but do not waste your time with The Namesake.
4 I enjoyed this book very much. The story of Gogol and his Bengali family, from his parents emmigration to America to find a new life; the cultural gulfs they need to transcend; Gogols coming to a gradual admiration of the steps and sacrifices his parents took. All this interwoven with episodes such as his father surviving a train crash, Gogols affairs-that went against the grain of his parents values, to an all but arranged marriage to a fellow emmigrant that fails.Having read 'The Interpreter of Maladies'-an equally superb collection of short stories, I found the themes of those stories recurring in 'The Namesake' and quaility writing as this is, I half wonder if Lahiri has exhausted her repartee. Only her next book will truly tell, but even if she has, it will no doubt still be worth reading.
5 I don't know why it took me so long to read this novel. I had read some of her stories and really enjoyed them, but maybe it was because I saw part of the movie from the novel and just couldn't get into it. The book is different.Sometimes when I read novels with various points of view I find it a bit trite and not really useful. In this book I enjoyed getting the background on the main character, Gogol, through the story of his parents. The novel builds on the lives of the young Indian parents, goes on to describe their American-born children's lives through Gogol's eyes, and continues to follow him through adulthood and loss. Perhaps one point of view jump to his girlfriend wasn't really necessary, but I didn't hate it.The novel reads like a nuanced family history, although it is mostly about Gogol, the Indian immigrant culture that shapes him, and his rebellion against all that. Anyone who has lived a certain number of years--whether they are children of immigrants or not--can empathize with the feelings of resistance against our parents that eventually, with time, morph into longing for the things that remind us of our parents.I find Lahiri's writing clear and clean; flawless. She doesn't use a lot of trickery, and the simplicity is comforting and pleasurable. Reading this novel was like going on a smooth boat ride on placid waters. This is not to suggest it was boring--just that I never felt irritated or troubled by the writing.
5 After reading Interpreter of Maladies, I wondered if she could write such a sensitive, exceptional book a second time. This shows what a prolific writer she is. She captures the dilemma and all of the emotions that go with people who must deal with 2 cultures---and how some do it better than others. Her characters are so richly described in terms of their inner quandries. I loved how Gogol and Mo both dallied with what they thought symbolized the "American culture" by befriending people who were very into the finer things of life, but with no inner soul.  This book is about the inner soul, and the prices we pay for what we deem important. Mo was such an interesting and tragic character.  Bravo!!
4 I really enjoyed this book. It wasn't a page-turner -- there's no compelling plot to drive the reader forward, but it was beautifully written, and satisfying. Sometimes you don't want a book you can't tear yourself away from, sometimes you just want something that's a pleasant read while you're waiting for the subway. I always come to Amazon to read the reviews after I finish a book (it's kind of like an instant book club!) and I'll agree with some of the negative reviews. The main character is a bit of a cipher -- he is interesting for his name and his crisis of identity, but little else. That doesn't hurt the book for me though... I think to add more information about him would distract from the themes and interactions the author was trying to get at.  I'll also agree the book is a bit yuppified. But it all seems so normal to me, I guess, because this is a milieu I'm familiar with -- indeed, my life has been lived very much in the worlds that the book's characters, and the author, live.
4 Jhumpa Lahiri does wonderful work here fleshing out the details of this fictional transplanted Bengali family.  I saw Mira Nair's film adaptation first.  I found it so compelling that I felt a need to read the novel as well to see how the two compared.  The Gangulis are likeable, interesting characters, so spending time with them twice was a treat.Except for minor details, the essence of Ms. Lahiri's tale is told on film.  What struck me is how Nair captured and highlighted the emotional high points of the book.  I ended up liking the movie more, but surely credit is due to Jhumpa Lahiri for her creation of the tale and its extraordinarily rich detail.
5 I had knew that Jhumpa Lahiri was an author I should be mindful of from reading "Mrs. Dutta Writes A Letter" in a short story writing class, so I came to "The Namesake" with a good deal of anticipation.  Would I be adding Lahiri, to my list of "must buy" Indian authors, Mistry, Mukherjee and Divakaruni?  The answer...absolutely!  "The Namesake" is a peek into the world of immigrant Americans that I can only imagine.  I have always wondered how one lives between cultures, not entirely part of one or another.  "The Namesake" gives me a snapshot of that world.  Helps me to understand. A wonderful gift of a novel.
5 I am a voracious reader and this book honestly drew me in faster than almost any other book.  I fell in love with all of the characters and was deeply touched by it.  The film adaptation is not half bad, but I really recommend reading this novel if you have even the slightest inclination to do so!
4 One of the world's best writers. She is able to describe an environment and character's so vividly that you truly feel as ifYou are there.This with her ability to weave the character's into very credible plot make the namesake a winner.
5 I loved this book, to me it was  better than the highly praised Interpreter of Maladies.  I thought in short stories there was simply no time to develop the characters and their individual stories.  The Namesake, however, did all that.  It's an excellent story, with characters so well developed you couldn't help but feel for them.  For the immigrant parents, who try so hard to make a new life for themselves and give their children everything they possibly could, and for their children, the first generation Americans caught in two cultures and having to find peace between the culture their parents created at home and the culture all around them.  It's a story that any first generation American can relate to, no matter what culture they came from: parents clinging to the culture they left behind because it's the only familiarity they had in the new country and children born and educated in the US, shielded by their parents and trying so hard to figure out who they are.  A great book!  I highly recommend it to everyone.
5 This book is well-written. Great characters and storyline. I'll be reading more from this author. I especially enjoyed it because I live in Boston and could relate to the landmarks mentioned.
3 I don't want to be harsh, but this book didn't move me.  There's lots of east coast "society" references in this book which did nothing for me at all, lots of cooking references for things like creme brulee, which did even less, some talk about Prada shoes or something like that and all along I was thinking "Where's India"?  Nowhere to be found.  It seems like the main conflict of the story was a relationship gone wrong, but this happened so late in the book that it seemed pointless by then, and then it was kind of glossed over so as to seem unimportant anyway.  The author is very good at explaining details but not necessarily emotion.  She very often puts the action in the present tense which is curious, and began to seem like a device.  I didn't find much spice in this story: no rising conflict, no action or suspense, it was just a bunch of bland tasting pudding - like a flavorless creme brulee.
3 There is no denying that Jhumpa is a captivating story teller, as I completed reading this book within three hours of getting my hands on it.  However, citing empirically from "Interpreter of Maladies" and now from Namesake, I say that thus far, Jhumpa lacks in diversity.  Elements from several of her shorts stories, mainly, "Sexy", "Interpreter of Maladies", "A Temporary Matter", and "Interpreter of Maladies" mushroom throughout her novel.  I concur, that this novel reads more like a short story.  There is definitely a theme.  It flows nicely like a dulcet song.  However, from Jhumpa, I expected something different.  I wanted to say "WOW" as I did when I completed her short stories.  I was denied that opportunity.  However, I have no quandaries that Jhumap will soon give me that "WOW", and I will not be the least bit surprised if there is arleady intrigue amongst directors to bring her vivid stories to the big screen.  Jhumpa, if you're reading this, I'm still looking forward to that "WOW".
5 I highly recommend this book. It's full of culture, romance, heartbreak, & family. It's a great book club book. You won't be disappointed.
5 I am so touched by this book.  Her writing is deep and fulfilling and I am very touched by the story.  I will read everything she writes for the rest of my life.
5 The biggest controversy around Jhumpa Lahiri's "The Namesake" -- her second book and first novel -- is if it is better than her Pulitzer Prize winning "Interpreter of Maladies", a book of short stories. Well, it turns out that her novel is not better than her previous book. But, that doesn't mean that this is a bad novel -- actually it is pretty good. The point is that her collected stories were so good that she set her standards too high, and some readers were disappointed.The second controversy -- and this some people seem to be a way too harsh or narrow-minded-- was whether she can or not write long narratives. Taking "The Namesake" as exhibit one the answer is yes, she can, thank you very much. No matter how long her narrative is, Lahiri has absolute control of the language, plot and character development required to all good novels. If we feel that her narrative has some highs and lows -- this is not really a defect that is common in most books we read nowadays. And, mind you, her lows are not that low too qualify her debut novel as an awful book."The Namesake" cover about thirty years in the lives of a group of people having as central character Gogol Ganguli -- named after the famous Russian writer. The story of the man's name is worthy a book itself -- actually it is the central issue of the novel, most of the time. The Gangulis are a family of Indian that move to United Stated and have to establish their lives there. What rises as one of the most important themes in the novel -- and that is also present in Lahiri's "Interpreter of Maladies" is the cultural clash between the two civilizations, or in other words, between Western and Eastern cultures.Gogol is the product of his time and place. The man can nor connect to the US's culture, not to India's. He is a person who is torn between two worlds and can't come to terms to accept neither of them. Due to Lahiri's background and work, it seems that this is (or was) an issue that the writer has faced in her life and work.Her prose is astonishing -- and so is her lexicon. The choice of words is crucial to develop her characters and their lives. And she never fails to choose the most beautiful and useful word to build her sentences.After her two books, Lahiri is one to watch. Her books will be talked about for years to come. People will read and love her words for many years. And we're looking forward to her next book that will certainly surprise us again.
2 I give the first seventy pages, or so, of this book, three stars.  It is an interesting tale that draws you into the lives of a family.  All of a sudden, when Gogol becomes Nikhil, the storyline bogs down and then crawls at a snail's pace.  Nikhil becomes a snobbish, unlikeable guy, and he is very hard to take.  At this point, and right up to its conclusion, the book gets one star, at best.  I know the author received the Pulitzer for her short story collection.  I may check that book out, one of these days, but I will steer clear of this author's later work if she sticks with writing novels.  One novel, by her, is all I can take, I'm afraid.
4 I remember seeing clips of this movie that intrigued me, then at the bookstore one day, the clerk suggested Interpreter of Maladies. I went back the next week, but they didn't have it so I picked up The Namesake.I read it quickly, then watched the entire movie, which was a pretty good adaptation of the novel.There is not a lot of dialogue in this book, and usually, I don't like that, but I guess when you have a powerful story it isn't necessarily needed.The tale is about Bengali immigrants and the polarization of the first generation and the second. I thought it was a poignant tale and would recommend it.I am now ready to read Interpreter of Maladies and I believe if you've read an author for the first time and are willing to check out their other work, the author has done their job.
4 I am not don yet, but I can rate it.It gives me the view of a different culture, the struggle of life in an unknown environment.I have gone through this in my midlife and I see how truly this book is written.I wish Lahiri success and best in life.
5 The Namesake is an excellent intergenerational coming of age story.  The story was so compelling that I found the book difficult to put down.  Highly recommended to someone looking for a thoughtful summer read.
5 We begin an d end named. Lahiri has applied this truth across a lifetime of accomplishment and tragedy in a perfect hand, She has managed to paint the times between milestones with the noise of life and in the detail she's made the images we make of ourselves out for the ordinariness they are. A sad beautiful tale.
4 It gave one an example of how we often try to get away from what we are and how we are raised,our roots, but how we always seem to come back to them. I liked learning about another culture. How we are different, but also how we are alike. I did not like where it ended. I wanted more.
4 Jhumpa Lahiri offers an authentic view into the worlds of Cambridge, Boston, New Haven and New York City, as seen through the eyes of Bengali immigrants and their American-born sons and daughters. This is a story of assimilation; of the turning away from the customs and values of ones homeland, and ones parents, and accepting ones American heritage, whether via birthright or adoption.Lahiri's point of vew shifts through the course of her novel, from one member of the Ganguli family to another; first Ashoke and Ashima, Bengali husband and wife, respectively, then to Gogol--their son, the eponymous "namesake." This shifting feels natural enough, though not necessarily motivated by the story arc; Gogol's little sister, Sonia, never enters the fray, leaving this reader slightly disappointed and wondering over her purpose as a character.Mid-novel, Gogol assumes the true focus of this story, and later still his wife, Moushimi, has her moments in the spotlight--though her episodes feel less authentic, her motives too desperate, too American for her to be truly a Ganguli. Indeed, Moushimi proves herself as unworthy as the previous captors of Gogol's heart, though she's the only Bengali among them.Gogol develops identity issues as a child. He hates his name and resents his heritage. He wishes to reinvent himself, and the first step takes place at Yale, where he's changed his name. Later, in New York, he becomes strongly tied to the women he takes up with, in a fashion assuming their identities, or facsimilies thereof--the reults never quite satisfy poor Gogol, who in the end returns to his own homeland, his original identity.I first became enthralled with Lahiri via "Gogol," which appeared in "The New Yorker" some time ago. Clearly, the excerpt was lovingly crafted by the fine editors there. And while "The Namesake" may not always read as breathtakingly, and may in fact plod in some places, one is left with the feeling of having been somewhere, of having assumed another's identity, even one as complicated as Gogol's.*Final note: though written by a woman, this is a story about men, for men. Grisham and Clancy fans may not agree, but male readers of literary fiction will enjoy this novel. -bpf
3 Lahiri's debut novel exhibits many of the positive attributes of her justifiably esteemed short story collection Interpreter of Maladies--an exquistely honed sense of detail, an intimate sense of character, a quietly controlled emotional tone-- but the requirements of a novel aren't always the same as a good short story, and despite Lahiri's obvious strengths as a writer, The Namesake falls a bit flat.The Namesake charts two generations of the Ganguli family,  following Ashoke Ganguli through a nearly-fatal and life-changing train accident, his subsequent move to America and then his arranged marriage to Ashima, who never really feels comfortable in America.  Their son, Gogol, is the title character and after his birth the focus of the book shifts to him, following him through his childhood, youth, and adulthood, tracing the various arcs of his career, love life, and relationship with his family and culture.As in her short stories, Lahiri is a master of the telling detail, whether it be a description of a character's cooking or the interior of a house or the small dynamics of a party.  In her short stories these lead quickly to characterization and often realization,  but in this longer work they sometimes bog the story down or feel repetitive, despite the many gems that sparkle throughout.While the shift in focus to Gogol allows for further exploration of family and immigration, Lahiri drops the parents a bit too wholly (especially the father) in the middle, though we come back nicely to Ashima later in the book.  Other characters suffer as well in relation to Gogol, especially all of the female characters.  His sister may as well not exist and the various loves of his life seem more like plot devices than fully realized chararacters, one of them skirting pretty closely in the description of her and her parents to stereotype.The sense of dislocation felt by first and second generation immigrants is fully and sharply conveyed, though at times the reader is told this rather than shown it.  The tugging emotions of family are more nuanced and moving in their depictions (though here is where the sister's weakness as a character is a major detriment).The structure is straightforward chronological which is a problem in such a quiet book filled with such lengthy detail.  Gogol is interesting but not particularly compelling; a less straightforward approach could have compensated for this somewhat. As it is, though, I found the book slow-moving, not in a langorous enjoyable kind of way but more in the impatient to  skim some detail way.  By the latter third I found myself tempted to simply put it down, though I did persevere.  The end is admittedly moving, but I'm torn between saying it earned that emotion and saying that it cheats a bit with some easy sentimentality in the last page or two.  It's debatable.In the end, while there is some beautiful craftsmanship here, some truly poignant moments and fine detail, I can't recommend it all that highly due to its sketchy side characters, its uneven pace, and general lack of compelling story,  though I think what's here bodes well for her next novel, which I'll definitely pick up.
3 The Namesake is Gogol Ganguli, the American-born son of an immigrant Hindu couple from Calcutta who is named for the great Russian novelist. Nikolai Gogol and other 19th century novelists were the tie that bound Gogol Ganguli's literature-loving great-grandfather and father, who believes one of the Russian's books actually saved his life. The Namesake is the story of the Ganguli family's adjustment to the United States, beginning with the newlyweds but soon shifting to a study of their eldest child and his struggles with a name he hates and the challenges of being an American child of traditional Bengali parents. This is a quiet novel with the everyday occupations of growing up -- figuring out who you are, what occupation you'll take up, and who you'll love -- are overlaid with the additional burdens of the immigrant experience. Given the fact that the U.S. is once again an immigrant nation and that many of those new arrivals are coming not from Europe but from Asia, this novel offers timely insights into what our first-generation friends and family may be experiencing. However, it was published before 9/11, which means that an important aspect of that contemporary immigrant experience -- the suspicion and hassles endured by many people from southwest Asia since that attack -- is unmentioned.
5 My daughter needed the book for summer reading before September.  Of course, she waited until late July to mention that she needed it. I turned o Amazon once again, and they sent the book so fast that my daughter could no longer procrastinate on the assignment.  Once she began to read, she found the story so interesting that she finished the book in 2 days...before the end of July!!
2 Paul Theroux, in his wonderful "Sir Vidia's Shadow," recorded V. S. Naipaul carping about how most modern novelists are mere "bringers of news."  well, here's Lahiri, bringing news too.  i agree with the reader below who said he skipped--and i don't skip!--a load of this novel.  "Interpreter of Maladies"--i mean, i teach Literature at a major NY college--is real literature:  lush, rich, ambiguous, deft, sweet, sour, "teachable."  this novel's kind of a bore. you got the sense she plundered her own life instead of plumbed it.  the most interesting character was the French major chick Gogol marries--and she's only in the book for fifty-odd pages.  i wanted to like it so much.  better luck next time, Jhumpa.  i think she put this out just to get it out of the way, as it were.  she'll recover.
4 (This is based on the audio version of the book). I was impressed with the book and highly recommend it. Lahiri's use of the Gogol theme to show immigrant dislocation is impressive. But I must confess that near the end I was getting tired of these people. They are highly educated academic aristocrats, yet restricted in their cares. The only things that seem to grab their attention are their careers, sex and food. It's a pretty total self-absorption. This makes their couplings and uncoupling somewhat uninvolving. Gogol and his wife split with little pain or regret. They probably won't think about each other very much.  His parents seem to run on duty, not love. Gogol says he never saw his parents caress each other or say something endearing to each other.  Lahiri is very strong on details which gives a reality to her scenes. But again, after a while you feel like someone looking in from the outside, like a good objective academic, and want more inside, more soul from these people., not just ego. Still, it is a fine book. My one complaint about the reader in the audio -  who does a fine job-  is her pronouncing  Gogol, with an a instead of an o, Gagol.
5 Jhumpa Lahiri, the author of The Namesake, has a gift for writing about the immigrant exerience.This novel tells the story of an Indian family and the struggles and adjustments they make to live in America. Most of us are all the children of immigrants and this novel will help us all understand what our ancestors went through to build a new life in a new contry.
4 *4.5*wow, this book was amazing! yet another that's been sitting on my shelf gathering dust for at least two years. so glad i finally happened to be in the right mood to read it. somehow the author manages to make you feel a part of this family's life, like you're right there with them through every moment, every happy and sorrowful occasion. every time i picked up this book and thought about reading it i put it back quickly wondering what had made me buy such a boring sounding book. but it was far from boring even though really there was nothing spectacular that happened, it just takes you along for the ride of this one particular family. i've come to the conclusion that the spectacular thing about it is the writing itself. you'll just have to read it for yourself to see what i mean, you won't be disappointed!
3 I enjoyed this book and was able to empathize with the main character very well. I've lived my entire life with a name I've hated and understood exactly what he was going through. While my name doesn't really have anything to do with being caught between cultures, I do understand what is like to kind of cringe when asked your name and to live with at least mild resentment about it.The characters in this novel were not as fully developed as they could have been, but I did care about them, and did find beauty in their story. This book is not something that will change your life, or even stay with you for any length of time after reading it. But, this being said, it is worth reading.
5 I never read any of the authors books before.  I am the rare ones who had a hard time getting into Kiter Runner.  When I read middle east or Chinese or Indian authors they always seem to have too many characters to get them straight.  Not this author maybe because she writes like a American Indian.  The book really deals with 1st generation being born in America and assimulating into american society.  When the young man struggles being Indian and American.  It all centers around him with how it is important in his culture to have 2 names.  But the name is never recieved in the mail because his granmother passes.  It isn't just about indian culture.  But, anyone who has come here as a 1st generation american.  Or wonders what is like for their parents to be born into the us from foreign parents.  I really could identify with the characters.  I am 2nd generation born into the US and wondered what it must have been like.  Our book club mostly loved this book.  One of our members did not get what the big deal was to change the name.  If you want to have a lively book discussion read the book.
5 Jhumpa Lahiri's first novel, THE NAMESAKE, begins with a recipe. In her small apartment kitchen in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Ashima Ganguli is mixing together Rice Krispies, peanuts, diced onion, salt, lemon juice and chili peppers in "a humble approximation" of a snack she used to buy in Calcutta.For Ashima, who is newly married and nine months pregnant, who misses her family and feels thoroughly alone in New England in the late 1960s, everything in America is "a humble approximation" of her life in India, which she left behind when she married Ashoke, an engineering student at MIT. For Lahiri, who won a Pulitzer Prize for her debut short story collection INTERPRETER OF MALADIES, this revelatory detail is typical: refined, effortless and graceful, it seems obvious only because it's so profound. The rest of the novel follows this tack, locating small truths and ironies in mundane, often overlooked objects like food and, as the title suggests, names.While mixing her snack, Ashima goes into labor and the next day her first child is born --- it's a boy. Such a joyous occasion for Ashima and Ashoke is nonetheless complicated by the choice of names. Bengalis, Lahiri explains, have not one but two names --- a pet name used by family and friends, and a good name by which he or she is known to the world. "Pet names are a persistent remnant of childhood, a reminder that life is not always so serious, so formal, so complicated," she says. "Good names tend to represent dignified and enlightened qualities" and appear on diplomas, awards and certificates.Following Bengali custom, the choice of names is left to Ashima's aging grandmother, who posts a letter containing one name for a girl and another for a boy. But the letter never arrives and grasping for choices Ashoke chooses Gogol, a name with much greater significance than merely that of his favorite writer.Lahiri introduces the Gangulis in such a way that it feels impossible not to be enticed into their world and demand to know their journeys, hardships and fates. After confidently setting these characters in motion, she traces their lives and the repercussions of Gogol's name through three decades, knowingly evoking the compromises and sacrifices they make to adjust to life in America. Throughout the novel, her prose is consistently somber and refined, subtle and subdued, but always pointed and revealing. Likewise the novel's pace arcs gracefully, a model of writerly patience.But what makes THE NAMESAKE so enthralling and so richly readable is the care with which Lahiri recreates the ever-changing America where the Gangulis live. She populates her scenes and descriptions with a multitude of well-observed specifics --- at times far more details than necessary for verisimilitude, but never once threatening to overwhelm the story.More crucially, Lahiri writes about Indian and American cultures with the same generosity of detail. She evokes the suburbia of Gogol's adolescence through his beloved Beatles albums and the Olan Mills school pictures as confidently as she describes his adulthood in New York through Ikea furniture and Dean & DeLuca gift baskets. Her descriptions of Ashima's painstaking preparations of mincemeat croquettes are as assured as her descriptions of spaghetti alla vongole at a dinner party.Such a range of details may not seem overly significant, but Lahiri uses these differences in cultures and cuisines to keep the reader aware of the growing rift between these two worlds, of how far Gogol has moved from his origins and of how strongly those Bengali ties hold him in ways that he only gradually begins to realize.Ultimately, there is something culinary about THE NAMESAKE, something complex, refined and robust in its blends of ingredients, something substantial and nourishing in its interplay of ideas and characters. This is a novel to savor, whose taste will linger in the reader's mind long after the last course is eaten, the dishes washed and put away, and the book placed aside on the shelf.--- Reviewed by Stephen M. Deusner from Bookreporter.com
5 Perhaps one of the most beautiful books I have ever had the pleasure of reading--I was enchanted with the characters and the authors use of language was beautiful..I still think about the book often ...I will recommend this to my reading group and look forward to discussing it
2 I had seen this book on the 10 ten list for weeks and thought I would try it. I have no idea why it was on a top ten list!The book has no plot, few emotions, no characters to embrace and no drama. There are a few glimpses into Indian culture which I appreciated but not enough to make the book worthwile. An easy read, a glimpse into Indian culture but not a top ten.Maybe if the child had had a proper name!!
3 The Namesake follows the Ganguli family, starting with the parents as they move from their native country of India to Massachusetts.  They then have a son, whom they name Gogol, a name that Gogol himself struggles with.  He's caught between the desier to blend in with the students and people around him in America and the loyalty he feels to his parents and ancestors.  Lahiri follows the Ganguli family, through the eyes of Gogol, as he struggles with his name, love, acceptance, loyalty and self-discovery.I thought this book was OK.  It was a little slow paced and I didn't really feel invested in the book until I was 2/3 of the way through it.  If you were only going to read one Lahiri, I would pick up The Interpreter of Maladies instead.
5 Some two hundred thirty years ago, an immigrant attempted to answer the vexing question his French parents had posed him:  "What is an American?"  His answer, famous for its clarity, ignited a debate that continues today.  Hector St. Jean de Crevecoeur's thesis was that the American is a "new man," one who eagerly discarded the cultural traditions of his former home and just as passionately adopted the ethos of his newly adopted land, the United States.  The American, de Crevecoeur, discards his former cultural heritage and completely "melts" into his new American charcter.  It is the perils, costs and anguish of assimilation that Bengali author Jhumpa Lahiri explores in her brilliant debut novel, "The Namesake."  Her exquisitely rendered protagonist, Gogol Ganguli, becomes the archtype for every immigrant who has wrestled with issues of conflicted identity, cultural confusion and humbling marginality.Through Lahiri's wise and sympathetic characterization, Gogol begins his odyssey towards Americanization even before he is born.  His Bengali immigrant parents, whose marriage was arranged by their adherence to cultural tradition, cannot provide a proper name for their American-born son.  Their patient but unrewarded anticipation of a "good" name for their son selected by a Calcutta matriarch, results in Gogol inadvertently acquiring a "pet" name chosen by his father.  This duality, between Gogol's ethnic roots and his American birthright, perpetually torments him.Befuddlement, confusion and anger over unresolved identity occurs with dispiriting regularity across the span of Gogol's young life.  Even at a traditional Bengali party celebrating his six-month-old status, the infant Gogol, "forced to confront his destiny," cannot and "with lower lip trembling," begins to cry.  Ashima and Ashoke, his mother and father, wrestle as well with the burdens of adopting to a new nation.  His father seems to assimilate with relative ease, but Ashima likens her immigrant status to a "sort of lifelong pregnancy...a perpetual wait, a constant burden."As a junior high school student, Gogol loathes his name, despondent that it is "never on keychains."  Conscious of his differences, he is hurt by the snickers his parents' accent evokes from store clerks.  By actions conscious and unintended, Gogol immerses himself in the American melting pot.  It is not an accident that by the time he is an adult, he will live in New York City, a refracted image of "How the Other Half Lives," affluent but disenchanted, externally successful but internally impoverished.Jhumpa Lahiri seems to understand the enormous costs abandoning one's  ethnic identity carry for immigrants who desire nothing more than to blend in.  Her Bengali protagonist, acutely aware of his differences but unable to resolve his dual identities, comes to symbolize the anguished decisions all young immigrants must make as they carve out their paths towards becoming American.  "The Namesake," in its treatment of individual growth, romantic possibilities and generational reconciliation, is an authentic masterwork.
5 I've always been fond of Indian writing. Everything from Rushdie to Narayan to Naipaul has actively captured my interest. However, it is this book which has finally incorporated EVERYTHING I love in Indian literature (immigration to America, family significance, the role of fate/chance, and the simple idea of one's namesake).Ms. Lahiri has captured all of this beautifully. This is the best book I've read in 3 years and is one for which I KNOW I will read again (hopefully sooner than later). Her sentences flow from one to the other. I couldn't imagine editing her work as it would disrupt the smooth, unwavering flow of the narrative.Lahiri's use of tragedy was remarkable. She'd simply interject a sentence regarding a character's death, and then show the reaction of the other characters--rather than build up an overly melodramatic death scene. Incredibly powerful.It's almost a shame that Lahiri has won the Pulitzer already--as this book would certainly have been a contender this year.
2 I had high hopes for this book because I have many things in common with the Gogol character, including the fact that I came to the United States from an asian culture, changed my name as an adolescent, and struggled with fusing my native and adopted cultures.  Unfortunately, I was disappointed in the book.  Its biggest flaw is that the narrative is so emotionally detached it is difficult to care about the characters.  The best way to describe the author's writing style is "clinical".  Too many unnecessary details about objects; not enough emotional development.
4 Ms. Lahiri cast a compelling net over the lives of a Begali family making us love each and everyone.  The lives of these characters is so real that I feel like I know the family and have tasted the food.  I'd recommend this book to everyone.  Thank you Ms. Lahiri for a delightful and thought provoking read.
5 One of the best books I have ever read. I loved reading about their culture, and it's very touching. I was hooked right from the beginning as the mother talks about raising her family here in America, and trying to get her kids to rememeber their heritage.But also how she, Ashimi, struggles with being an woman here, whose own husband is not very affectionate, and she longs for that kind of attention that American husbands give to their wives.  But the book's primary focus is on her son who is embarrassed about his own name, and wants to change it. And as he ages, the struggles he faces in his own relationships.
4 Beautiful story of very intelligent Indian family adjusting to living in US. completely different lifestyle but a baby changes both parents perspective.
2 I was disappointed in this book.  I could not even finish it which is unusual for me.  It sounded good in the review.
4 I must agree with the reviewers who said there is not much to the story - it's true but the writing is so good and the characters so real and well shown that you keep reading anyway. I definitely enjoyed reading it.
5 The Namesake is a moving novel about immigrants and their children. It follows an Indian couple as they move to America, and raise children who live in both India and America, but are never really at home in either place.  Their son, Gogol, struggles with his heritage, his family, and the oddity of his name, which was never intended as his official, legal one.  Through his work and his love affairs, he works hard to balance the desires and expectations of his parents, against his need to belong to the larger culture.  Jhumpa Lahiri provides rich detail about Bengali customs and culture, showing us the world Gogol's parents came from, and that he tries to resist.  It is a wonderfuly written book, with appealing, sympathetic characters, and a compelling story.
5 I have probably read this book a dozen times by now (via book on CDs).  The narrator is excellent and lends depth to each story line and characters.It is my background that I relate wholely to this book.  As a foreign born new immigrant, I see myself in Ashimi and Ashok, trying mightily to adapt to the new culture and country.  As I became more Americanized over the past 30 years in the US, I see myself in Gogol, unsure about mother culture and American culture and where I stand in all these.Seeing Maxim, her parents, and their life in Manhattan, I totally got Gogol's sentiment.  It is as foreing as it gets for me coming from a completely different family life and structure.  The friends of Moushumi, as seen from Gogol's point of view, also resonates strongly in me because I have the same sense of ridiculousness if I was Gogol being among those clueless cultural elitists.  Chinese people are seldom bothered by those "issues" and topics embraced by those hipsters.Now in old middle age, I have finally found peace.  Like Gogol, the mother culture will always be a part of me and there's no conflict with the adapted culture.  I am proud to be both Chinese and American.  America is more home, as Ashimi had realized after decades of American life.If you can get an audio version of this book, do listen to it.
4 A prior reviewer wrote that "Lahiri is an amazing writer who can make a long book seem like an enjoyable film."  I have to agree, but think it more an indictment than a compliment--which was doubtless unintended.As I recall, the first chapter or two of the book was excerpted in the New Yorker before it was published in its full length.  I found it more satisfying, more literate, and, yes, less cinematic.  There was the father's childhood in India, the fantastical tale of a book saving his life in a trainwreck, the decision to name his son after the author of that book, and the interesting way in which his relationship develops with the mother whose marriage to the father had been arranged.The problem with the rest of the book is that it proceeds in quite predictable and conventional ways, in what seems to be almost strictly chronological order.Some previous reviewers have properly noted the author's understated and graceful prose.  As someone who lives in Cambridge, I can add that the author's prose is uncanny in the accuracy of its physical description.  And yet I must confess that I wished for more of a plot, with a climax and a catharsis.  As it is, the book ultimatelty conveys familiarity but not much profound understanding.  Where will Gogol go from here, now that his father is dead, his marriage over, and his mother gone back to India?  Only a sequel, again like the movies, will tell....
5 This book is my new favorite.  It's not action-packed or anything, but it is a perfect book to sit back, relax, and enjoy.  I couldn't put it down simply because it was written so well and served as a theraputic purpose for me.  I don't want to go into a long review; all I know is I was stressed when I started this book and with every page I was more relaxed.
5 Identified my immigrant roots and family in this novel, told so in heartachingly beautiful prose.  The courage it takes to reinvent yourself in another country, the legacy it gives to the children, the great expectations.
2 Lahiri's The Namesake starts with a premise of promise, Bengali man endures life-altering train wreck, but turns into a mundane, unemotional void. The very best of this book is found in the first one third. Bengali life, it's nuances, the culture and family life leap off of the page and make for informative, enjoyable reading. Unfortunately, the latter two thirds are filled with bloated, irrelevant descriptions, lousy, uninteresting characters and overtly intricate expositions detailing nothing of merit. Despite the wordiness, the writing is detached and counter immersive. Opportunities for creating real cohesion are largely ignored or glossed over. For instance, the family goes to Calcutta several times, but the experiences are mentioned almost as an afterthought. They go; they come home. What happens in between would have been far more interesting than the U.S. existences Lahiri created. For a novel to span three generations, the reader usually expects some depth and ingenious decades-spanning threads to care about. This book has none of that, and for an audio version that clocks in at just over 10 hours doesn't have the breadth to really pull it off. I will say that the narrator was quite good, but this book was undeniably boring, in droves. In companion levels of disappointment, I'd compare this book to Hosseini's And The Mountains Echoed. They both seem to leave the reader walking away thinking, &#34;So what?&#34;
4 I PICKED THIS BOOK UP AT A YARDSALE AND ALTHOUGH I HAVEN'T READ ANY NOVELS ABOUT THE INDIAN CULTURE, I THOUGHT I WOULD GIVE IT A TRY.  I LOVED IT!!!  THIS WAS A VERY QUIET AND SUBDUED BOOK, BUT DREW ME IN FROM PAGE ONE.  I COULDN'T PUT IT DOWN.  IT ACCURATELY DEPICTED HOW PEOPLE FROM ANOTHER CULTURE STRUGGLE WITH AMERICANIZATION.  MY HUSBAND IS FROM FRANCE AND THIS BOOK REALLY HELPED ME BETTER UNDERSTAND HIS STRUGGLE TO CONFORM.  I WILL DEFINITELY TRY THE AUTHOR'S SHORT STORY COLLECTION "INTERPRETER OF MALADIES" NEXT.
4 I strongly believe that everything we do is for the purpose of preparing us for something in the future. I don't believe in fate or astrology, but I do think that life is a journey and we don't have the tools for that journey at birth - we earn them. It's like school. First grade prepares you for second, which prepares you for third, and so on.The Namesake, by Pulitzer Prize winning author Jhumpa Lahiri, is about the Ganguli family and the journey of that family as one unit and about some of their individual journeys. Ashoke comes to the United States to make a life for himself and eventually returns to India to marry Ashima and bring her back home with him. The reader is not shown much of Ashoke's transition into American culture, but we see every painful detail of Ashima's. Coming straight from India, she does not have all the tools to cope with life here. Gradually though, her experiences prepare her. Her children make that transition much more smoothly.Early on in Lahiri's tale, Ashoke is in a train accident. He survives with only a limp, but his car-mates all die. When Ashoke and Ashima have their son, they name him after one of the men who died in the car - Gogol. The naming of something, be it a person or an object, is a powerful moment. Gogol's parents name him because they know that the train accident played a pivotal moment in their life. Gogol takes more than 30 years to understand that lesson. It takes those 30 years before he accrues the life experiences that leave him ready for that information.Lahiri is a beautiful storyteller and the book is an easy read. She transitions from character to character but the reader never loses touch of the central story of one family - of family in general. There are two lessons Lahiri gives. First, as time moves on, so do peoples' lives. In each moment something new is learned and that lesson can be applied later. No moment is meaningless. Second, family is necessary, though not necessarily in the biological sense. We need family for support, for love and for a foundation. It is family who knew us when and will know when we change, grow, excel, decline. When we don't have family surrounding us, we can make our own up of friends, lovers and neighbors.
5 I had to read this book straight through, with it propped beside my plate at lunch.  It was a beautiful story about the struggles to be a part of the American experience, while always feeling apart from it.  It is about assimilation and yet retaining individuality.  I thoroughly enjoyed it.
4 This book tells an engaging story;it will resonate with anyone who has been an immigrant or a child of an immigrant. It is very readable, but in my opinion, it isnot a literary masterpiece.
5 I was shattered by this novel, in awe of its clean, compelling and always colorful prose.  Ms. Lahiri is more than a gifted writer, she is an assiduous one -- every sentence is as crafted as a painting by Rembrandt. The world she writes about is an alien one, but after reading this novel I feel I know her world on an intimate and personal level.  She has achieved the ultimate goal of a great work of literature: a compelling story that illuminates the human condition and at the same time illustrates one of its unknown corners.  My favorite book in a decade.
3 Unfortunately or fortunately for Ms. Lahiri, her debut "Interpreter of Maladies" has set a very high standard & high expectations from the readers. "The Namesake" is a quiet story about a South Asian immigrant family from Calcutta. This narrative is reflective & observant. The author's exploratory style captures feelings & social insight. However it fails to highlight the subtleties which made her first novel unique. If you could read this novel without expectations, it will prove to be a pleasant read.
5 This book has a very lean, quick style where almost every sentence is an action as opposed to deep thought. Some reviewers feel this takes away from rather than enhancing any literary pretensions.To me, this book feels like a 21st century take on the disaffected youth novel, particularly the second half. The conflict may be between old and new world India and adjustments to the United States, but this is just a frontspiece for a larger issue.The depiction of life in New York City couldn't be more realistic and she has a real ear for detail when describing Gogol's girlfriends and their foibles (not that he is angel either.)The movie simply adds another dimension to an already multi-layered story that reflects American life through the immigrant experience better than most books in recent years.
3 As many have already attested to, "The Interpreter of Maladies," Lahiri's true fictional debut is something so wonderful that everyone was eagerly anticipating her next venture, regardless of what form it took. Suffice it to say this novel did not dissapoint, but may not have lived up to what people were hoping for. I should preface the rest of what I'm writing by saying I started reading this after finishing Wallace's "Infinite Jest," so in terms of clarity I may be overestimating what Lahiri has written.Let me begin by saying that I'm normally not a fan of trans-culturation tales because I find it is hard to write a great story while not becoming too mired in problems concerning assimilation. Julia Alvarez is a master at it, but many have tried and failed miserably. Lahiri does a solid job of following the Ganguli family and their assimilation into American culture, one that really only crystallizes with the birth of Gogol and Sonia, the two Ganguli children. Lahiri deftly weaves together the lives of these characters, balancing important perspective shifts and temporal ones so that we can see the ups and downs of the family. The multiple deaths surrounding the characters are done with little melodrama and instead weave themselves into a somewhat sobering and realistic portrayal of loss. I simply loved the use of simple and straight-forward prose and narrative represenation (again, it may just be a result of reading David Foster Wallace right before) and one can simply get through this book effortlessly in a few nights. So much happens in the text and you can literally feel yourself move through the lives of these characters. Lahiri also shows her talent for tying up her storylines and continuing threads throughout by using the title and the idea of Gogol's naming as well as the act of naming as an integral part of the text.Somehow, for all the praise I have for the text, there is simply something missing. Something that causes me to look at the text and think, as good as it is, there's nothing spectacular going on and that she somehow has not as of yet lived up to her promise. It's an enjoyable tale that is missing that something extra that differentiates good novels from great ones.
5 Told from the viewpoint of a first generation Indian American, this story is rich in the details and feelings of his parents' life far away from their native Calcutta. Gogol (named after the Russian author) narrates a story that spans his parents arranged marraige and move to America, through his birth, childhood, and continues into his adulthood. One warning- alot of cooking occurs in this book. I eventually had to put the book down and go out to an Indian restaurant to satify my cravings!
5 I had never heard of the author, her previous book, or her Pulitzer prize, when I picked up this book at Barnes & Noble.  I read the entire book in one day; it was so engaging.  Developed characters and vivid descriptions of Indian culture vs American culture kept me from putting it down.  Although it's kind of depressing, it also seems realistic.  I'm not an Indian nor have ever visited Calcutta, but this book was written so well I felt like I understood these characters and their journey.  Great read.
5 Author takes you to her place, puts voices to the characters that you can actually hear. Love it - read it too!
5 Jhumpa Lahiri's first novel is a treasure.  The story of American-Indians challenging traditions of their families but maintaining true to themselves is one that everyone can identify with, regardless of heritage or cultural background.  Lahiri's writing is so strong, I'm convinced she could write a cookbook that would be riveting.  I look forward to more from this author.
2 I found this story really disappointing.  It just never delivers  -- in terms of plot, characters or action.  I kept waiting to be engaged or moved, and it never happened.
4 Detailed and precise in it's beauty.  A simple story about complicated people.  Well told and engaging.
3 Had to read this for class, but was not terrible impressed. It was interesting to see customs from other cultures, but besides that it was a little boring. I didn't connect with the characters and it didn't leave a lasting impression.
5 After thoroughly enjoying Jhumpa Lahiri's Pulitzer Prize-winner, Interpreter of Maladies, I was anxious to start her first full-length novel, Namesake.  This young and talented author has proven that her Pulitzer was not a fluke.The story begins in India.  Like most Bengali's, Ashoke and Ashima have an arranged marriage.  They move to America when Ashoke is offered a fellowship.  When he is eventually offered a professorship at MIT, they decide to try and make a life for themselves in this unfamiliar land.  Ashima gives birth to a son (Gogol) and a daughter (Sonia), and these first generation Americans embrace American food, customs and culture.  While not ashamed of their Bengali heritage, the children are more bored by the old ways.  Lahiri takes this story through their early adult years, and shows us how hard it is to straddle both cultures.Lahiri's book is so appealing in that she writes of universal themes.  First, she shows us how difficult it can be to make a life in a new homeland, and the guilt and problems resulting from first generation Americans who have a foot in both cultures.  Also, that love that grows from arranged marriages is often more enduring than marriages that are based on love.  And finally, how the values of our parents become more important as you get older-and sometimes when it is too late.  The importance of names is also a major theme in Namesake.  Sometimes, your acceptance of your name is the key to accepting yourself as a person.  There are themes that appeal to almost all of us.Lahiri's writing is fully satisfying, but not in a rich or overblown way (much like the many foods she describes in Namesake).  Her prose is graceful and elegant, but with a surprisingly simple style.  Lahiri has a way of looking into the heart and soul of her characters without a lot of excess.  Also, I found her characters haunting.  All in all, I hope that this fine author is already working on her next book.
4 This book lacks what I typically seek in a novel.  It was at first painstakingly slow and unexciting, however Lahiri's style quickly grows on you.  The power of this book is in its simplicity.  The beauty in Lahiri's prose is not owed to vivid descriptions and does not generate from a sense of urgency or whimsical magic that has you whipping through the pages.  It is elegant and uncomplicated writing that resonates with deep emotion.My most memorable line in the book is Ashoke's words to his son: "Try to remember it always.  Remember that you and I made this journey, that we went together to a place where there was nowhere left to go." - A few lines mentioned in passing, with time, take on such great meaning.  Ashoke's subtle and implicit acts of affection are later treasured and appreciated immensely.What I most loved about this book was its truth in recognizing younger generations' (of non-American background) desires to detach themselves from tradition and convention and to latch on to Western ways with both hands and feet.  It is however with time and experience that you eventually come to realize that who you have become is a testament to who you were born.  Sometimes we need to step away from something to recognize its true worth.  This is a truly beautiful story that will remind you to never take for granted who you really are.
4 In lyrically, poetic prose, the author offers an account of the lives of a Bengali family who have emigrated from India to America.  Giving readers a window into the Bengali culture, we witness the struggle of the mother to adjust to life in a new country, while leaving her heart in India.  We watch the relationship between the couple, who are the product of the traditionally arranged marriage.  And though seemingly devoid of passion and fire, there is certainly no lack of love and respect.  When children Sonia and Gogol are born, the novel focuses primarily on son Gogol...and his struggle for acceptance amidst his American counterparts.An absolutely beautiful tale, readers will shed a few tears and come away with a true love for this family and their love for each other.DYB
5 I was so moved by the movie that I had to buy the book. The book was so much better than the movie. The movie I loved but this far surpasses it. I couldn't put it down and when I was done I wanted to start all over again!
4 I thoroughly enjoyed The Namesake: the language is beautiful, delicious to read. The story doesn't become tiresome even as we cycle through the various relationships of one of the protagonists. It evokes real feeling and real experience, although my own identity is far from that of the book's characters.The basic story follows a young Indian man as he brings his new bride to Calcutta to join him as he finishes his Ph.D. They have a son whom they name Gogol (after the Russian writer) for a convoluted reason. As Gogol grows up, he hates his name and - more potently - doesn't feel comfortable with his parents' Indian culture yet feels like that culture keeps him from assimilating in the American culture of his peers. The story mostly follows Gogol, with significant chunks of narrative from the point of view of his mother, his father, and his wife.A friend and I were recently discussing the value of fiction, and his two principal suggestions were that fiction (1) articulates fully those half-ideas and half-thoughts that go flittering around our heads, not fully expressed; and (2) inspires empathy for the experience of others, which is the basis of morality. Lahiri accomplishes both. Because much of my praise is in half-ideas that I cannot fully express, I will filch a few ideas from professional reviewers. Lahiri's writing is "supple, elegant, economical, simultaneously ironic and compassionate, marvellously effective with nuances and minutely-observed details, and eloquent throughout" [1]. Just occasionally I felt like "Lahiri's extensive use of descriptive detail [is] more decorative than effective" [2]. That said, the book "serves up heartfelt moments of clarity" [2] and I particularly appreciated the mature ending, "overshooting her fairy-tale happy ending and granting us something wiser, darker, fuller" [3].I listened to the unabridged audiobook read by Sarita Choudhury (published by RH audio). Choudhury gives a very good rendering.[1] Andrew Reimer, 25 Oct 2003, The Sydney Morning Herald[2] Julia Hanna, 12 Sep 2003, Boston Phoenix[3] David Kipen, 14 Sep 2003, San Francisco Chronicle
5 Lahiri's tale of a Bengali family that emigrates from India to America "feels like a string of accidents, unforeseen, unintended, one incident begetting another." For Gogol Ganguli, the son of Ashoke and Ashima, "these events have formed [him], shaped him, determined who he is. . . . Things that should never have happened, that seemed out of place and wrong, these were what prevailed, what endured, in the end." Even Gogol's name is the result of an accident. Named after the Russian author, whose work his father was reading at the time of a nearly fatal railway crash, Gogol tries to, but ultimately cannot, escape either his name or his heritage.After an arranged marriage and before his birth, Gogol's parents settle in Massachusetts, where they spend weekends entertaining and visiting other Bengali families. Gogol's father, Ashoke, slowly accommodates himself to his life as an American professor, but Ashima never stops considering Calcutta as her home. Gogol, quietly embarrassed by his parents' provincialism, does everything he can to shun his Indian heritage and to fit into a mostly white, Birkenstock-footed crowd. (He and his sister especially resent their long visits with their extended family in Calcutta.)While Gogol is struggling to escape the accidents of his heritage, his father is ineffectively attempting to relate to his son; one of the most heart-wrenching episodes is when Ashoke presents his indifferent son with a copy of Gogol's stories. Lahiri is at her best in presenting these two themes: the duality experienced by second-generation Americans and the acid-sweet schizophrenia generated by the typical father-son relationship.Lahiri's prose is also in top form. Her omniscient voice alternates among characters, sketching their outlines before zooming in on specific incidents or traits. Her story will cover the events of several years in a few pages, almost as if she were writing a biographical essay; then we will read in minute detail about a particular tragedy, a family reunion, or even an idiosyncratic yet everyday routine, such as how Ashima has purchased and maintained her various address books or when the young Gogol and his father walked along a beach to a lighthouse. I can understand how some readers feel that the expository sections are too emotionally detached, but the contrast surely heightens the impact of the more intimate passages.The invisible presence throughout "The Namesake" is the ghost of Nikolai Gogol, and I can't speak to the parallels between the novel and his fiction. Like the protagonist of Lahiri's book, I too have a copy of his collected stories--a gift from a beloved friend--that has been sitting for many years on a bookshelf, untouched and unopened. It's time I crack it open.
5 Beautiful novel, with delightful juxtapositions, looking through the eyes of the world at America. The sensual descriptions, lyrical and surprising, present a fresh imagining of carrying your country with you, no matter how far, and the tragic emptiness of feeling you don't really have a country, regardless of where you're born. In many ways, as David James Duncan channels Dosteovsky, so does Lahiri translate the spirit of Nikolai Gogol. I loved the way Gogol's father quietly moves through his son's life, only really there after his death, and I practically ground away my teeth waiting for Nikhil to finally crack open the dusty old book his father gifts him. This novel was a sensory delight. You'll start watching for Jhumpa Lahiri, as I do.
3 The Namesake is essentially a biography of a fictional charactor, Gogol Ganguli, the son of Bengali immigrants from Calcutta.  It follows his life, from birth in Boston though childhood, college, a number of romances, marriage, and divorce, along the way giving us a view of life of the Indian community in America, and the typical conflicts between immigrant parents and native-born children.This book is not what I consider a novel.  It had no plot other than describing the things that happened to Gogol, no overt conflict, no tension, and no resolution.  Other than changing his name from Gogal to Nikhil, he makes no decisions that the reader can see (decisions such as what college to attend are treated as "Before his freshman year at Yale was to begin..." Even his decision to get married is never shown to the reader. They go from dating to "They marry within a year, at a DoubleTree Hotel in New Jersey...")The writing itself is generally good and sometimes very good in describing the small details of Indian-American life.  It alone carries the reader along, but rarely rises to brilliance. Gogol himself is not a particularly interesting character and the book is stronger when writing about his mother and his girlfriends.For a book that brings a lot more plot and excitement to a similar set of characters, I recommend Zadie Smith's White Teeth instead.  For better characters and brilliant writing in a similar literary genre, I'd recommend anything by Salmon Rushdie instead, with Satanic Verses his best if you don't mind long sidebars into history and religion.
4 In THE NAMESAKE, Pulitzer Prize winning author Jhumpa Lahiri's first novel, the characters are always hungry:  for a place to call home, for family, for love, and, of course, for food.  Ashima, in an arranged marriage to Ashoke Ganguli, misses her native India as she sets up house far from her family in Massachusetts, a land of bleak winters that her family will never know, much less understand.  Making Bengali food out of American substitutes, she searches desperately for the comfort of her childhood.  Time gradually pulls her away from the past, and she learns the ways of America, becomes friends with other transplanted Bengalis, and begins a family.  A quiet affection develops between Ashima and Ashoke as they raise their two children, oddly-named Gogol and his sister Sonia.  The novel lovingly follows the family through decades of heartache and celebrations.Gogol is the novel's center and its primary perspective, the namesake of the title.  Although he does not know it until much later in life, Gogol is named after the Russian author not because, as he is told at first, Gogol is his father's favorite writer but because a copy of Gogol's short stories saved Ashoke's life after a train wreck.  To Ashoke, the name of Gogol signifies a beginning, survival, "everything that followed" the horrific night spent in the rubble.  This idea is the heart of the novel; as immigrants the Gangulis must look forward to what lies ahead instead of what is past.  In America, Ashima and Ashoke are reborn, just as their children must find their own paths.Rich with detail and infused with affection, this novel has a lyricism that brings the Gangulis' world to life without exoticism.  The description of food - Indian, French, American - is so exactly decadent that one should not read this book hungry.  The only thing this wonderful novel suffers from is a neatly-wrapped nostalgia in the final chapter.  Despite this minor flaw, I highly recommend this novel for a wide readership.  Only those who desire strongly plotted fiction should be disappointed.  (4.5 stars)
5 Jhumpa Lahiri's debut novel is every bit as wonderful as her collection of short stories. Sensitively written with remarkable descriptive power, this book establishes Lahiri as one of the best young writers of our time.Through the eyes of Gogol Ganguli and his parents, we see experience almost firsthand the Indian-American immigrant experience. As a young first generation Indian immigrant myself, I can vouch for the dazzling accuracy of Lahiri's descriptions. Page after page the prose is lyrical and the word-pictures brightly vivid. There is never a dull moment nor a superficial one. A beautiful and heartfelt book- I recommend it highly.
5 Gogol's name is unique, and his experiences are unique.  Like other people, whether from immigrant families or not, he must find his own way into adulthood.  Common experiences are complicated by the cultural choices he must make.  Grief, which enters the picture with the death of Gogol's father, complicates his experiences further; yet his grief experiences will sound familiar to anyone who has grieved someone really close to them.I have always had a fascination with names and the process of naming people.  Consequently, I found Gogol's struggles with his unique name very interesting.  Grounded in Indian culture with an Indian perspective on names and their role in a person's life, and rushed by the need to supply a name for a birth certificate, Gogol's parents give him a unique name with implications they could not have foreseen.
4 This book describes very well the feeling of being from two different worlds and not being completely at ease in any of them. The theme is not new and yes Lahiri is a bit repetitive, but the Gogol character will struck a chord to all the readers who are of mixed origin or have gone away from their homeland like myself. His Indian family is not too dissimilar from my Southern Italian family, always giving you food and please call! Yes nothing special happens in the book, he goes to school, falls is and out of love and his father dies... Just a normal life of a second generation Bengali in America, and for me it was enough to enjoy the reading.
3 The title The Namesake reflects the struggles Gogol Ganguli goes through to identify with his unusual name.  This story is also subtle in style, elegance, and is realistically paced.  It is character driven and I found the writing to be simple yet wonderful.It was interesting to me to read about the immigrant experience and the differences in cultures.  To see Gogol struggling with his identity and trying to fit in was, for me, a reason to turn the page, to keep reading.  He had to learn to accept his name in order to accept himself as a person.A haunting and wonderfully written book. I look forward to her next one.
2 I gave this rating due to not enjoying the story, had to read it all, but was disappointed in it's contents.  Left you hanging wondering about lonely man who seems quite confused about life.
4 The book starts off well with the struggles on an immigrant family and the adjustment problems they face in terms of culture, language and customs. Also depicted well is the way in which the protagonist's family tends to stick with their own kind in order to remain within their comfort zones. In a way, they embrace change by moving to a foreign land but are still tied to their culture and traditions which means they are resistant to change. Ambivalence would be a good word to depict the theme of the book.However, the cultural differences are overdone so it comes across as fake. The movie is also quite close to the book with good performances by Tabu, Irrfan Khan and Kal Penn.
5 Jhumpa Lahiri's "The Namesake," deals with the life of Gogol, an American-born Indian who struggled to deal with the dual identity that he carried. His parents, Ashoke and Ashima, came over to the United States from Calcutta and had more or less adapted themselves to the foreign culture. Their children, Gogol and Sonia however were very different in their mentalities compared to them. Gogol struggled all his life to deal with his name as the name "Gogol" was only suppose to be a pet name; something that his parents or relatives would used. He was in fact named after a Russian writer, Nikolai Gogol. His good name was "Nikhil," one that would appear on the diploma, driving license, etc. However, due to some unforseen circumstances, "Gogol" became his official name. Gogol struggled with that as he wanted to blend in with his American friends and felt that his name was too different. As he reached eighteen, before going to college, Gogol resorted to change his name back to "Nikhil" and felt that he could finally fit in with the rest of the crowd.On the surface, this book seems to deal a lot with names; good names, bad names and pet names. However, far beyond that, Jhumpa Lahiri touches on the issues of first generation born Indians in the U.S. who had to struggle to fit in, as well as their relationships with their parents. Gogol's relationships with his parents became strained when he did not want to be raise like he would in India, as well as having to accept that his parents would be very different from his friends'. The author did a great job in her descriptions of her characters as well as the relationships between them. Her writing was clear and descriptive. She was able to engage me from the beginning to the end of the book. I highly recommend this book!
3 Interesting book, helped me to understand how people from India feel about being raised in a different country and what they are faced with daily.  Easy to read and understand, the culture is explained in an understandable manner.
1 Yet another couple from Calcutta comes to the US and settles in Cambridge for the husband to finish his PhD in engineering.  They birth two children who rebel from their claustrophobic upbringing, yet attend prestigious schools and seek advanced degrees.The characters in Lahiri's stories are almost interchangeable.  There's the overbearing parents who feel isolated in their new dwellings who seek comfort by recreating Bengali customs and making friends almost exclusively with people from their homeland.  Then there are the kids who don't feel like they belong anywhere.  Throw in a plethora of advanced degrees.  Couple that with deep seated melancholy, and you'll immediately understand the background of her work.This is a tedious, repetitious and unilluminating book.  The author compulsively explains herself, never giving the reader the opportunity to make observations without her guidance.
5 I identify myself more with Ashoke, although I should be just about Gogol's age. Having been raised in Kolkata and lived in Boston - all the places, characters and anecdotes are so familiar to me, it was a surreal experience reading through this book. Ms Lahiri is a genius in the way she brings out these characters to life with love and tremendous attention to details. I know Ashoke, I know Asima and Gogol and his sister. Yes, that's exactly how they talk, cook, think and feel. You can't help the lump in your throat at the last few pages.This book is a WOW!
5 I had put off reading The Namesake as nothing about the story or characters really grabbed me; however, once I started I could barely put it down. The characters are so very rich, so beautifully detailed. You feel you know these people, inside and out, their passions, their fears, their desires. The story itself is not all that involved - it is the characters that make you want to read on into the night.
4 While many are today fascinated by the extent that our heredity and environment shape our lives, Ms. Lahiri takes on the narrower question how our names influence who we are and who we become.  The premise is an intriguing one and is fully developed in the novel.  Unfortunately, that premise is too weak a reed to carry an entire novel.Ashoke and Ashima Ganguli have a traditional family background in Calcutta.  After they marry (an arranged marriage), they move to Cambridge, Massachusetts where Ashoke pursues his education.  Their lives are made more difficult by the separation from their families and homeland, and they cope by drawing their Bengali friends in the U.S. close to them.  Through an implausible series of events, they have no name prepared when their son is born.  Forced to put down something, they choose "Gogol" to be his name.  To their son, that name is a curse that he bears which puts distance between him and his family.  The story carries on until he is in his late 30s.Ms. Lahiri is a very stylish writer and she tells her story well.  Ashima Ganguli is her finest creation in the book, and you will relate deeply to this woman.  A major disappointment about the book is that it moves off of Ashima too much after the beginning.  Gogol isn't nearly as interesting or attractive a character.  In fact, I didn't relate well to him at all.  The sections about his life by the end seem like just so much filler for the book's interesting conclusion.  As a result, the book comes off like a fine short story or novella that has a lot of excess material stuffed into the middle and end.Many of my favorite parts of the book were the many references to Bengali customs.  Seldom does a book about immigrants describe their cultural practices in such loving and thoughtful ways.Without Ashima, the ending, the fine writing style and the cultural descriptions, this would be just another debut novel.  If those elements had been put into a stronger story with more characters of Ashima's development and appeal, this could have been an excellent novel.  As it is, the book starts off at a high level and drifts off from there.I suggest you give the book a try.
4 I like this quite a bit. The family relationship was interesting and seems pretty true about Indians coming to this country and how they do or do not integrate
3 Jhumpa Lahiri's The Namesake did not disappoint. True, I believed her Interpreter of Maladies was an extraordinary work, and I was eager to see if she could sustain such brilliance throughout a singular story. The quick answer is that she does not. But that doesn't make this a bad book -- just not an especially memorable one. Because the synopsis of the story is mentioned in most of the other reviews, I won't dwell on it here. There are numerous Induan writers out there today and this book probably suffered a bit in comparison to all (...) But I can't sell Lahiri short. She's a marvelous writer and I believe most people will enjoy her book
5 THE NAMESAKE, by Jhumpa Lahiri, is a really engaging and intelligent look at the experiences of a young Bengali-American man, Nikhil "Gogol" Ganguli.  It starts with a look at his parents' beginnings in the United States, living in a middle class town in Massachusatts, and adapting to the culture of the United States, while maintaining connections to their Bengali roots, in India. Prior to their union, Ashoke has a life-altering experience that changes his view of life and his possiblities in the world.  He encounters another passenger who encourages him to see the world before he settles down with wife and children.  It isn't until an unfortunate sequence of events, that he realizes that he can't take his life and time for granted.  Their young son, Nikhil (or Googol, his petname) carries the legacy of his father's experience on the train, along with his faher's great love of the author Nicolai Googol's novels, in his name.I don't want to give away too many plot twists.  I will say that this book was beautiful, descriptive, moving and intense.  Lahiri has a real flair for storytelling and this is a book that really tells a very compelling and engaging account of one young man's experiences as an "ethnic Other," with a name that makes him stick out in society, as well as an identity that is scrutinized an often misunderstood by those outside of his immediate culture.In conclusion, I think that filmmaker Mira Nair did a marvelous job adapting this for the screen, and I was not disappointed.  Yes, I read the book AFTER I watched the film.  I reccomend both the film and the movie (in no particular order).  I can see why this book was chosen as this month's "Seattle Reads" novel for May.  I look forward to seeing Jhumpa speak at Seattle's Town Hall in just a couple of weeks time.............
5 "The Namesake" is a good story, a highly enjoyable story even. The only problem with the work is that it becomes too detail oriented at points. For example, the main character is with his girlfriend at her parents. The author provides us with a complete list of instruments used by the main character and his girlfriend to pursue a pseudo-yuppie lifestyle. I get the things they used do donate some aspirations to that lifestyle. I don't like getting beat over the head with these details, however. The repetition of these details over and over again was the only disagreeable point. Oh well. Aside from this point, the book was good. Get it and enjoy!!!!!!!
2 I loved Interpreter of Maladies but this book was just terrible. It really isn't a novel; it's an incredibly overgrown short story. An incredibly overgrown BAD short story.It features a boring main character,a handful of underdeveloped supporting characters and a really mindnumbing narrative style.It was such a dissapointment that it makes me wonder whether "Interpreter" wasn't overrated. Maybe the colorful window-dressing of "Indian immigrant experience in America" was enough to hide the sad fact that Lahiri's writing is actually both pedestrian and shallow.
4 This past spring I saw the film adaptation of Jhumpa Lahiri's THE NAMESAKE. I enjoyed the film so much I decided to read the novel the film was based on.THE NAMESAKE revolves around the Ganguli family. Ashoke and his wife Ashima had immigrated to the United States in the late 1960s in search of a better life. Ashoke had taken a job as a teacher at MIT. The couple has two children son Gogol (who was named after Nikolai Gogol) and daughter Sonia. Most of the book revolves around the couple's son Gogol who grows up being taught traditional Indian culture in America. Eventually Gogol becomes conflicted between his parents' roots and his American roots.I personally enjoyed the book more than the film (although it was quite good). The book delves more into Gogol's life as a young man which parts were not included in the film. There were moments in the story when it veered off into soap opera territory which I didn't particularly care for. I also didn't like how women were written by the author. I didn't think they were fleshed out enough by the author to make them remotely likeable or compelling enough. For all its foibles, THE NAMESAKE was a great read for me.
4 As a second-generation Japanese-American, I could particularly relate to the struggles between old world and new that Bengali-American author Jhumpa Lahiri depicts in her emotionally drawn story between first generation Bengali immigrants to the United States and their U.S.-born children. Personalizing the inevitable cultural disconnects, whether they emanate through religious, social, and ideological streams, seems to be a specialty of Lahiri's, as she fluidly handles the bumpy transition for Ashoke and Ashima Ganguli from Kolkata to Cambridge next to Boston.This intricate, life-spanning novel speaks to the universal struggle to extricate ourselves from the obligation of family, and more broadly, the past. It starts in 1968 just after the Gangulis move to Cambridge so that Ashoke can study for his electrical engineering Ph.D. at MIT. They give birth to a son, Gogol, named inadvertently after Ashoke's favorite Russian writer, Nikholai Gogol. The book chronicles the struggles of the young parents, in particular, Ashima, in assimilating into the often cold U.S. culture, and eventually switches perspectives to Gogol's as he grows up, changes his name to Nikhil, attends Yale and becomes an architect in New York.At the same time, Lahiri makes the old world of Ashoke and Ashima a compelling leitmotif in Gogol's ongoing quest for self-acceptance. Through his parents' traumas and joys, Gogol realizes he is the sum of his family's experiences no matter where he goes. The author seeks the truth in her characters through their guilt and eventual liberation, and she seamlessly passes on the discoveries of their journeys from one generation to the next. There are some sequences that come off a bit too pat, especially toward the end when the focus is on Gogol's social whirl in New York, but Lahiri really succeeds in transcending its intimate portrait into a greater social context, and she does it with prose that alternates between dazzling and poignant.
2 Many people seem caught up in comaring this to Lahiri's collection of short stories, but I haven't done that because they are two separate works, written in different forms. But I will say that I think while Lahiri is a beautiful short story writer, she still has to learn how to best structure a novel.In many ways, this is a fine book. The writing is wonderful, and at times her detailed descriptions made me smile and savor the words I'd just read. But ultimately, this novel lacked focus and clarity. And while sometimes all the detail is mesmerizing and touching; at other times, it made me want to scream. At times I felt we were just treading water so the author could describe something to death.But my biggest problem was the structure - so much time and detail is spent on describing a relationship with a new girlfriend, and then suddenly I turned the page and it was a new chapter and "Oh, they broke up three months ago. On to something else..." Well, what? I felt dragged into detailed plot lines only to find out later they ultimately don't matter at all.I must say that the last several pages of this novel were so aching and beautiful...I only wish Lahiri had kept up that momentum throughout the entire book. She's obviously a gifted writer and I'm sure her next novels will improve, but right now I can only give this book two and a half stars for shaky structure and lack of tension.
5 "The Namesake" by Jhumpa Lahriri is the most recent pick in the book club I am in.  I just finished it last night, staying up late to have it done in time for my meeting. Another member picked it and I just have to say she's done a great service to us as readers.  "The Namesake" is not only a beautifully crafted telling of The Ganguli's lives, but it's a great  and also very interesting lesson in a different culture. Both the writer, Pulitzer Prize(her first work of short stories won her the award) winner Jhumpa Lahiri, and the family in the book are Indian.This book is a lot like life itself. It's not always perfectly happy yet even in those sad bittersweet parts, we soldier on.The idea for the book club selection came from seeing the preview of the movie version, which i am definitely going to go check out.A young Indian couple arrive in the states from Calcutta, leaving all they know behind only to venture out into a place they don't know.  They raise two children, Gogol, who hates his name, and Sonia.  A big part of this book is focused on Gogol's life once he enters adulthood.  He questions so much about his life, upbringing, and name."The Namesake" is a great piece of literature that will always be in my heart. I could go on and on, but I will stop at this:This is one of the best books I have read in my 31 years of reading.Eileen Famiglietti
3 Found it to be depressing.  Personally like upbeat books.  Recommended to me by a friend who loved it. Thank you
1 I figure that one star is fair, because I only enjoyed the first fifth of this book.  By page 200, only the fact that I would be attending a book discussion kept me going.  To be fair, most of the group liked the book.This book is written in a style that I personally call "The Airplane Seatmate from Hell."  That is, the book prattles on in a boring manner about superficial and sometimes slightly deep subjects in excessive detail.  People don't have snacks, or even wine and cheese, they have merlot and asiago, but they have very few reactions to the events in their lives.  We know that Ashima was embarrassed when she said "finger and toe" instead of "fingers and toes", but why did she get a library job?  Did she like it? How did close contact with a presumably wider segment of American society affect her? How did she affect her coworkers?There is little character development.  The elder Gangulis seem to be generic Bengali emigrants; we have individual details about them, but they don't have individual personalities.  I don't think that I would have thought that anyone was acting out of character because I never had a clear idea of what they were like.Since I knew that I was going to read this, I didn't read the flaps or anything else about it.  The first 50-60 pages were quite interesting as I learned about Bengali customs.  I assumed, from these opening pages, that the Gangulis were going back to India when Ashoke finished his degree.  An exemplar of the problem with the book is that I cannot figure out why they remained in the USA.  Oh, we know why Ashoke went to America, but now that he has had his adventure and he doesn't seem to love the USA as his mentor Ghosh loved Britain, why does he stay?I don't mean to take a "love or leave it" stance: there would be a lot of stateless persons if that was the rule.  It is simply that the Gangulis seem to miss India terribly, and there is no explanation for their remaining in the USA.  Other members of the group threw out various suggestions, but the issue isn't the top ten reasons why people move to the USA, but rather, why did this particular family stay here?  People may live regretfully in exile, forced from, or prevented from returning to their country by famine, war, political turmoil, poverty, etc., but these don't apply to the Gangulis.  Other group members suggested that Lahiri wanted to show how people are torn between cultures.  I'm sure they are, but "torn" implies a pull from at least two sides: what is the pull of the USA for the Gangulis?  Are we supposed to just assume that of course, everybody wants to live in the USA?The book uses a great many flashbacks, which stifles what little narrative drive there is.  Very emotional scenes tend to be avoided in the present and discussed only in the past tense in a rather flat way.If Gogol/Nikhil's constant obsessing over his name is supposed to indicate divided loyalties, it would have been better to have used a Bengali name versus a European name; say, Nikhil/Nicholas.  Otherwise, he needs to get psychological help - in a culture where people commonly have two names, why is this such a problem for him?  For that matter, other Americans often have two or more names - what's the big deal?  I can understand that one may be wistful at losing all the people who used a family nickname, but this seems to be the most important issue in his life.  Perhaps if we understood what this means to him besides vaguely that it is a dilemma, I'd be more sympathetic.  His intercultural conflicts also seem minor and manageable: it's not like his parents are on his case to accept an arranged marriage.  Altogether, a tedious character.  [Added later:] Nikhil/Gogol's dilemma might have had some resonance if it had been portrayed as the struggle within ourselves, between conflicting wants and needs, that everyone experiences.  One can feel like a stranger in a strange land in the place that one was born.Ashima was mildly interesting, and Sonia might have been very interesting, but she was a minor character.I've read much better books about the immigrant experience, both fiction and nonfiction: Eric Liu'sThe Accidental Asian: Notes of a Native Speaker; Isaac Asimov's In Memory Still Green, where he dicusses the shock to his Russian parents of suddenly being illiterate;Fifth Chinese Daughterby Jade Snow Wong; the dilemmas of Pakhistani-Britain Sahlah Malik in Elizabeth Georges'Deception on His Mind; the movieBend It Like Beckham (Widescreen Edition).  I recommend this only to people with a particular interest in Bengalis.  Or, read the first few chapters, learn some interesting things abut Bengalis, and forget the rest of the book.  Or just read a book about Bengal:Calcutta: A Cultural and Literary History (Cities of the Imagination)by Krishna Dutta orBengal: Sites and Sightsby Pratapaditya Pal & Enamul Haque both sound promising.
2 First off, let me say that Jhumpa Lahiri's "Interpreter of Maladies" was an incredible book, and one of my favorites. That collection of short stories is a five star effort. Lahiri is a master of the short story. I wish I could say that she is a master of the novel as well, but alas, "The Namesake" proves that she's human like the rest of us and couldn't get it right on the first try. The Namesake has beautiful prose and description, but lacks characters you can connect to and a plot. I think it's also lacking a subplot, which in reality would make this book a 300 page short story.If you want to experience the best Lahiri has to offer, forget this one and go get "Interpreter of Maladies".
5 This is her second book and it was so much worth the wait.  A definite short list at the pulitzer for this year,  the book is all about American confused desi( country men).  Very well written and beautiful description,  it definitely is a great book.Its a story of a migrant couple from the slums of calcutta to the skyscrapers of boston and the various adjustments and confusions that go through the minds of the family.  The mother trying to stick to the traditional values inspite of being in a western surrounding and her son Gogol,  who is the soul of the book,  trying to cope with the differant cultures enforced on to him.  It portrays various ways in which an american indian looks at his homeland,  sometimes he is ashamed,  sometimes he wonders why the world thinks india is great but never does he feel proud of his homeland. And I wonder why,  not just for Gogol but for the millions of confused desi living in america.And Jhumpa has understood this core very well,  her style of writing is brilliant and there is no unwanted informations, nor does the book bore you at any point of time.
5 The writing was magnificent. Every emotion and thought described with brutal honesty. It was a glimpse into another culture, A story of assimilation, return and ultimately how we must find ourselves through our own eyes.
4 A touching story of the cross over from immigrant parents who managed to hybridize two cultures, to the next generation who must make their own choices to find a balance of independence and acceptance and learn what is important to keep.
5 The best novels entertain and enlighten at the same time. "The Namesake" does both admirably. In a gentle, sympathetic voice, Lahiri recounts the first three decades of a young man's life, and along the way, the reader can learn something about absurdist Russian literature, Bengali culture, New England geography, and the human spirit. Of the many places she vividly describes, I can attest to the accurate descriptions of New England and New York, especially Cambridge, MA. Reading the first few chapters reminded me of my first days in that city and how I felt as a newcomer.The main character is adrift through most these pages, and you can feel his sense of isolation and ennui. His resignation means that his life is a kind of picaresque gambol, so that things happen without planning and surprise both him and the reader. This gives the book an episodic nature, as he finds himself in different situations as time passes. By the end of the book, he is poised to take ownership of his own life, giving the reader a sense of resolution without artificially wrapping up loose ends.Lahiri makes deft and consistent use of symbols through the book, especially trains as a metaphor for life and death. Although the prose is simple and lyrical, the subtle shades of meaning stand up to reflection. Like "Interpreter of Maladies", her collection of short stories, this book is deftly observed and thought-provoking.
5 This is an outstanding book that I couldn't put down, and I was so sad when I was finished because I wanted to keep reading about Gogol! Maybe she will write a sequel. I'll leave other reviewers to write summaries of the story. Suffice it to say, if you enjoy reading family sagas and stories where you learn about other cultures, you will not be disappointed in this novel. Although the story mostly centered around Gogol, it was told at times from different characters' viewpoints, which gave the characters and the story more depth.Great author and great book!
4 Jhumpa Lahiri is a young writer who originally put out the collection of short stories that was a hit in the reading world.  It was followed by acclaim and helped her on the road of writing, soon producing this novel.  The Namesake is about a transplanted Indian family who starts a new life in America, mainly the Boston area, and decides upon making not only a living there, but a family.  Unlike India, America is a much different place with its own rules and names for things and customs that are completely foreign, mostly, to the mother figure, Ashima.  Ashoke, her husband, is a bit more used to it, but struggles in his own fashion.Ashima and Ashoke have their son in Boston and they come to realize that the naming of their child is a rushed ordeal in American culture and that it is unheard of to leave the hospital with a &#34;pet&#34; name for their son instead of a real name.  In order to satisfy the American culture, Ashoke suggests the name Gogol, inspired by his favorite Russian author, Nikolai Gogol, and a life changing accident he had experienced on a train years passed that is linked to the writer as well.As the child grows and matures, he is torn between two cultures: Indian and American.  He is shamed by his name and it becomes a deep set dislike that spreads through him.  His name is first, a &#34;pet&#34; name, second a rushed name, and third is neither American or Indian but, of all things, Russian.Though the story focuses mainly around Gogol and the way in which he establishes his life, it is also a story of family, of tradition, of, mostly, identity.  What does identity mean?  How is it developed?  How is it effected or changed?  Is it the most important thing to an individual and how does one go about defining oneself through it?  The complexities of a dual, even tripled identity folds on top of itself into a complicated, poetic, and joyous read that helps to answer questions about the self in frank, truthful sentences.The novel is a great fictional depiction of very real circumstances, but it can be slow at times for those that do not often question the psychology of identity or have not gone through the pains of choosing a self.  Therefore, it is not an &#34;everyone&#34; book.  This is a book about life, and life can sometimes be boring or too symbolic or metaphysical.  This is a hump that needs to be crossed to enjoy the book to its fullest.
4 Her second book and first novel deserves another Pulitzer Prize. And anyone who gives it fewer than 4 stars is probably prejudiced in some way. Easily read; incredible depth. In today's world, everyone should read it and think its message over. BRAVO, Jhumpa! MORE, MORE, MORE!
5 I was very impressed with Lahiri's collection of short stories entitled "Interpreter of Maladies" when I read it last year, but was absolutely throttled by "The Namesake." I don't know how to explain this story. There is nothing overly exciting about it or overwhelmingly dysfunctional, it is simply a subtle, but expertly written story about Gogol Ganguli, an Indian boy growing up in America. This story takes us from preconception to his middle years with astonishing clarity. The smallest details are attended to in such a way as to make you think you are revisiting the life of an old friend. It just has that kind of natural feel to it. Certainly, nothing comes off as forced or contrived.As in her short story collection, Lahiri does a wonderful job of illustrating the culture clash between Indian culture and western trends, dealing with issues such as arranged marriage and the effects of immigration.Throughout the novel is the ongoing story of how "Gogol" got his name (if you are literary, you might already have a guess...but it's not quite that simple).All I know for certain is that I read this book from cover to cover. I absolutely could not put it down and the last two pages? They gave me goosebumps...this is the moment when you know you have a truly special story on your hands.You will care for characters in this novel and sincerely dislike others. This is one to curl up and relax with; a book that is sure to inspire additional readings. I cannot recommend it enough.
5 The narrative flows along like the river of life. It is a compelling read. Reflects life's randomness and strange connections.
5 The author brings us into the culture and experience of a young Bengali bride as she comes to America. Rich in emotions, the author explores the complex lives of her family.  The shifting settings of Calcutta, Boston and Manhattan add  color and interest to the family's journey of discovery.  A very moving story that I highly recommend!
2 This is a novel about a very ordinary young man who, dispite his Indian heritage, lives a very ordinary life.  His range of emotions runs from mildly horny to mildly bored.  There is so little affect, in his life or in the book, that I would guess both are borderline depressed.  Maybe the author's intent is to show how boring life in America is, compared to the crowded, occasionally dangerous life in India.  If so, she misses her target.  Certainly my life has been more interesting than Gogols.
3 I read Jhumpa Lahiri's "Interpreter of Maladies" and very much enjoyed it, so I was looking foward to "The Namesake". This book started out good, but by the time Gogol started dating, I was bored. There is too much detail about Gogal and his girlfriends. All that information about Maxine and her family was pointless. There are other times in the book where too much time is given to mundane stuff.I found myself rushing through the second half of the book just to get done.
4 It's an amazingly melancholy book. The characters are so well etched that for once you don't think and fret too much about the plot.The only character I felt who was underdeveloped was Moushumi, Gogol's wife. Her extra-marital affair and subsequent handling of the divorce was too quick and too soon. Was Jumpa Lahiri being pressured by her editor to shorten the book?Gogol (or Nikhil's) struggle against the ghost of his nickname the Russian writer Nickolai Gogol was great....in the vein that all of us have private irrational demons that we struggle against.All in all, the subtext of the story is about shifting boundaries, and crossing cultures, and isn't that a reality for most of us, whether we remain rooted geogrphically or not ...our context keeps changing so fast so soon...that we struggle to hold on to the straws of our identity in all ways !
4 One of my friend suggested this book and it was a very good book but a slow read.I could relate to the book since I am a first generation non-immigrant and my daughter is an indian-american, but I guess she will be addressed as "ABCD" ( American born confused desi).Jhumpa portrayal of the characters, Gogol's dad, Ashima and Gogol, Gogol's girlfriends and Gogol's ex-wife all serve a purpose and tell us about life and the choices we make.Reading the book was a culture shock for me since it was really hard to understand the pre-marital sex with different women and also the post marital affair by Gogol's wife.But by the time I finished the book,I could really understand the way of  life and the choices people make to get there.I was really shocked when Gogol's dad dies...in a flash...This book made me realize that we don't have control over anything, life in general, kids, parents, relationships etc...A very good book to read and to understand the relationships from an immigrant's perspective..
1 The Namesake begins as a novel of immigration, a familiar genre for obvious reasons in the USA. The first two chapters, describing the dislocation and alienation of the Gangulis upon moving to Cambridge, MA, are relatively poignant and evocative, though the same experiences have been described more memorably in dozens of books. Then the American-born second generation son, Gogol, is introduced, and the rest of the book focuses on his prolonged identity crisis, especially the tension he feels between the expectations of his family and his own desire for assimilation. Again, there's not much new here; the same story has been told with greater realism and more believable individuation of characters by writers from all corners of the planet, including such masterpieces of fiction as "The Bread Givers" by Anzia Yezierska, "Peder Victorious" by Ole Rolvaag, and "Call It Sleep" by Henry Roth, as well as very fine books by more recent writers like Amy Tan, Gus Lee, Julia Alvarez, and more. As a novel of immigration, The Namesake doesn't belong on the same shelf as these. But it doesn't try to. In fact, it changes genres completely around the third chapter, becoming a story of failed love, or rather of serial romatic failures, three humdrum and futile sexual partnerships (one a marriage) all based on mere happenstance of encounter and all ending "not with a bang but a whimper." Honestly, Nikhil Gogol Ganguli is too boringly self-absorbed to be much of a partner, or to be very entertaining to read about. He learns nothing from his wussy love affairs, and in truth there's nothing to learn.There's nothing especially potent about Jhumpa Lahiri's prose, either. Descriptions are as stale as the dilemmas of life her characters face. Neither Cambridge nor Calcutta is vividly evoked; streets are named, buses are caught, but the imagination slumbers page after page. Likewise, the romantic episodes of Gogol's plodding life are narrated without sensuality. We are told what happens, but we don't feel empathy.Why, perhaps you want to ask, did I bother to finish The Namesake if I disliked so much? Well, I'm a bit of a compulsive reader, and it was the only novel I had in hand at the time. Also, I began to sense that I'd have to review it by the middle of the book, so I had to finish it in order to be fair. Now I can say, in fairness, that if I were an editor, I wouldn't even consider publishing such mediocrity.
4 I enjoyed reading this book.  Jhumpa Lahiri created an interesting read.  I would recommend reading the book before watching the movie.  You get a lot more detail and insight by doing so.  It touches on a common concept of kids not understanding or relating to their heritage.  They often do not appreciate or realize the sacrifices and struggles their parents endured to give their children a better life.  Gogol, our lead character, traveled an important journey of self discovery and re-discovery to find out who he truly was and where he was meant to be.
5 First I must say that I waited very impatiently for Lahiri to write a follow up to 'Interpreter of Maldies', her Pulitzer Prize winning collection of short stories. That is one of my favorite books, so I was eager to see what she would do next. That level of expectation usually only serves to hurt a book, but 'The Namesake' is up to the task. Lahiri masterfully weaves a compelling story that doesn't fall into the trap that most short story writers get into when they write a full novel (inevitably most seem drawn out and boring, as if the writer is simply trying to fill the pages). The beautiful prose draws you into the story of Gogol, the son of immigrants from India named after the Russian author. 'The Namesake' is about the gap between Gogol and his family -- he born into America and wanting to fit in with our society, his parents unable to let go of the land they knew and the customs they grew up with. Gogol spends his life distancing himself from them and their ways, somewhat desperately trying to assimilate himself to the American way of life. It is a very relatable, very real story that feels close to the reader's heart and is true to life. This is all thanks to Jhumpa Lahiri, an author with a unique understanding of complex human emotions and an incredible ability to convey them to the reader. 'The Namesake' made the wait from her last book worth the while, and leaves you impatient for her next book all over again.
5 Jhumpa Lahiri has captured the quintessence of expatriate life for Asian families in a profound, animated ad strikingly precise fashion. This book is a pleasure to read and touches on numerous topics related to family, identity and the seemingly fettering hand of tradition. The story's protagonist is named Gogol, after a famous Russian author who is admired by his father. The story relates his struggle to come to terms with this intricate world wherein he comes from an Indian family, lives in the US, harbors no affinity for Indian tradition and is galaxies away from his traditional parents who left India in their youth. Jhumpa addresses issues governing the strong role of tradition in Asian families and how despite the proverbial expatriate's aversion to them, they play pivotal roles in his/her life. I moved from the Subcontinent about six years ago and can safely say that this is a perfect expression of what I feel about certain things and the inevitable frustrations my children will encounter as they grow up. But that's me, there is something for everyone in this book; there is something to relish and a lot to relate to.
3 I actually read the book and then watched the movie so I will be mentioning both!This was a wonderful novel...it follows an Indian family from the time they are married (arranged) till their son Gogol is all grown up. The story focuses on Gogol named after his father's favorite author. Gogol grows up first-generation American and takes on all the struggles that that entails. How does he immerse himself in one culture while hanging onto another? We follow Gogol through his life and struggles...he hates being Indian and is embarrassed by his parents. He wants to break out from this mold and chooses to be an architect when his parents want him to be something more distinguished like an engineer or a doctor. He refuses to date Indian women, he even changes his name to Nikhil and people begin to call him Nick.As a reader along for the ride I wanted Gogol to be proud of who he is and to be proud of the struggles and sacrifices his parents have and are going through and to be appreciative and loyal...but that's life and it's all about the journey. Gogol does learn how to appreciate who he is and am so glad I was along for the ride!The movie was really well-done...it didn't quite have the impact of the novel, but that's to be expected. They did throw some details into the movie that made it a bit more personal than the book did so that was a nice change. I recommend reading the book first and you'll better enjoy the movie!
4 A book that was at first nearly monotonous.....until the characters aged and developed....and then I couldn't put the book down.  Gogol became so real in his confusion of cultures, while his parents never wavered and were always so patient.  I really like this author.
5 Beautifully and gently written, this book holds and builds your interest as you read on. It is a study, on one level, of people from India in the USA; on another level, it is a wonderful study of the life history of families everywhere. Highly recommended (and I am completely baffled by the low-star review here). The movie is also excellent, but I think you must read the book first, because the movie cannot capture all the nuances of the fine writing in the book. Her volume of short stories, which I read after this, is also a joy, and I eagerly await her next book.
5 Ever since reading "Interpreter of Maladies," I have been waiting to hear from Jhumpa Lahiri again.  This book did not disappoint.The story is simple.  An Indian couple, new to America, have two children, Gogol and Sonia.  Gogol gets his name from a Russian writer, and the unusual moniker is a perpetual embarrassment to him.  Not realizing the personal meaning behind his namesake, he changes his name to Nikhil when he enters college.  But the name does not completely leave him, as he realizes throughout the novel.  "The Namesake" is a story of an Indian-American and the identity and family conflicts that accompany that heritage.Lahiri is one of the most elegant writers working today.  Her prose is remarkably simple and clear, yet manages to convey meanings and emotions with startling impact.  Her descriptions of Gogol and his father walking on Cape Cod and of Gogol and his wife eating their first anniversary dinner are some of the best scenes in this book, tersely delivered but at the same time deeply touching.  Lahiri's descriptions ("He feels a pleasant ache at his temples, and a sudden gratitude for the day and where it has brought him") are remarkably insightful, and capable of twisting a reader's heart. This is one of the few novels I have read (not for school) that I found myself highlighting passages and repeating sentences in my head throughout the day.  I hope I don't have to wait another 4 years for Lahiri's next novel.
4 I liked this book and it was wonderful, yet it was sometimes boring. Although it captured a boy growing into an adult and him struggling with his identity and culture, I was not drawn to it. I was reading it for a literature class and although it was very good from time to time I struggled to keep interest up until the last 70 pages or so. It starts out with Ashima, the main characters mother, pregnant with Gogol (the main character) in a new world (America) and follows her and then Gogol though their lives and struggles with the American and Bengali Indian cultures clashing. It was worth the read, sometimes very commonplace and mundane, but nonetheless it was worth reading and if you like readings about different cultures.Gogol is a nicely flawed realistic character, and makes for someone that is easy and good to read about, yet he is kind of a pain. I got rather annoyed with him frequently (which just shows the writing of Lahiri). I think I might have felt this way while reading it because I was at the age (almost 2 years ago) where his character does not appeal to me much, but I do love the cultural clashes and interactions.There is really no doubt that Jhumpa Lahiri's writing is impressive and the book was very well done, it just was not my piece of pie. Although I got annoyed of Gogol and sometimes got bored of this book, I feel that it is worth reading and maybe even for me to re-read. I think that to read this book and appreciate it, you have to be old enough to understand Gogol's struggles as he grows older.Overall I recommend this book for its wonderful writing and really complex struggle of living as a first generation American. I hope that you all have a fantastic day and if you buy this book, I hope you enjoy it!s
5 In her touching tale, Mrs Lahiri tells the story of an Indian family living in the United States. The novel opens with the birth of Ashoke and Ashima Ganguli's son in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1968. Then the author relates in detail how Ashoke and Ashima marry in Calcutta without having met even once before. After the wedding, Ashoke is offered a position as a doctoral candidate in electrical engineering at MIT and moves to Cambridge, followed some time later by his wife Ashima. Since it is the tradition in Bengal that the grandmother determines her grandson's Christian name, she sends a letter from Calcuta to Cambridge but the letter never arrives and so the reader learns how the main character in the novel comes to bear the name of Gogol.It is interesting to see how the first generation emigrants feel completely out of place in their new environment, constantly longing to return to their country. But as their children grow up, they gradually adapt to American customs, startled by the fact that their offspring feel much closer to the culture they are being brought up in rather that to their parents' original civilisation. After Ashoke's death, more than thirty years later, as Ashima is about to sell her house and return to Calcutta, her conception of "home" has naturally shifted and she actually feels like going to a foreign place.A moving first novel in which Mrs Lahiri describes in a compassionate, tender and human way a small family making the voyage between Asia and America.
4 This book follows Gogol Ganguli, the son of Bengali immigrants, through the first thirty some-odd years of his life. The book is rich in detail, excellent in describing the traditional Indian customs, and describing how Indian immigrants cope and live in America; however, some of the plot is predictable and, frankly, not much of a plot. Gogol changes his name early in his life because he is ashamed by it's unorthodox origins and sound. We follow Gogol's early love affairs and how he perceives himself and how his perceived sex appeal is tied into his name. His romances come and go; finally, in the end, after the destractions of relationships are behind him, he reads the book by the author who inspired his name. It all comes to a satisfying, nostalgic finish. This book is a fine novel, well structured, rich in detail, competant in its organization, albiet a little short on the plot. As one other reviewer mentioned, it reads like a long version of a short story. This is not the best foundation for a novel, but this is what Lahiri does best, and we are treated to her craft.
5 I greatly enjoyed the Namesake, especially the first half.  The second half lacked some of the allegorical qualities found in the first half, but on the whole, the book was a quick, high quality read.  The story covers the life of an immigrant Indian family and what challenges each of the members face over its first generation growing up in the US.  Throughout the book I couldn't help thinking of similarities I found with an Indian family here that I know quite well.  How true and how insightful.
5 I loved this novel about the Gonguli family - who left their home in India in the late 1960s to begin a new life in America. It's a story not only about the immigrant experience, but also about the family ties that bind us all. Beautifully written.
5 For anyone who has ever been torn between two cultures, between love and family responsibility, between tradition and trail-blazing, this book will resonate. On one hand, it's a colorful and honest depiction of a family torn between native Calcutta and suburban Massachusetts, later New York City, but on a deeper level, this story is about the joy, regret, wonder and frustration of being part of a tight-knit family (both nuclear and manufactured).  The characters are wonderfully real--and flawed--to the point where you understand that while Lahiri doesn't hand you a happy ending, she gives you something infinitely more satisfying.Life happens. And this book is written as if it has been lived.
5 I truly enjoyed this novel, the characters are rich and believable, it was incredibly easy and pleasant to read.I wish Jhumpa had more than two books published. I think I fell in love with her writing and hope I'll find something similar to read by other autors.
5 I am sure you now know much about this story, so I'll stick to giving you my opinion of the book.  It is an extremely well written story and touches many of the experiences and emotions involved with immigration and relocation across cultures.  I highly recommend this book to immigrants and their friends and families as well as anybody who is curious about the immigration experience, but please take it for what it is--a nice little story about a family, not a masterpiece but beautifully written never the less.
4 It was interesting to learn thr problems immigrants have in trying to be American and yet not lose their native heritage.
5 I loved the book, it showed the different cultures between India andUSA.  The Husband easily adapted with his work and associates.  The wifemissed her family and had difficulty making friends until she had a child.Our book club read this and enjoyed it.
5 I have recently taken to audiobooks, and The Namesake was a great read/listen!  Starting with the newlyweds Ashima and Ashook, an arrainged Bengali couple new to Cambridge MA, and the story of their new life in the USA, their children, with a particular focus on their first born.  Having lived most of his life as his "pet name" Gongoli, given while awaiting his proper name from his great grandmother- a name which will never come, he remains uncomfortable with being names after the Russian literary scholar his father admires.In contrast to his parents, Gongoli goes on to live an American life, sometimes finding his Bengali heritage an imposition, and at other times finding it holds him close to his family.  The book weaves through all the major stages of his life, alternating with his parents.  His younger sister is only a small character in the book, which was okay, but I would have liked to know more about Sonya.In regards to the reader on the audiodisks, her voice was smooth and switched to an authentic accent when reading the parents narration.  One thing that was a minor annoyance was that there was no warning the end of the disk was coming up, so my car CD player would just quickly go to the next disk on rotation, giving me no time to eject quickly!
4 Although historical novels are my favorite, I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book.  The cultural struggles of the people in the book were interesting.  My book club ladies had mixed ratings- but we always do- but we agreed it brought on more personal discussions than other books we have read.  I would read something else by this author.
3 I found the writing to be VERY good, but the storyline was rather boring.  I kept waiting for something exciting to happen throughout the book.  It was interesting in terms of learning how the character views and deals with his Indian culture and background as an American.  But it certainly was not a page turner.
5 It really doesn't matter if your parents are immigrants or not, I think almost everyone can identify with almost all the aspects of this book.  Who among us hasn't struggled with their identity at some point of our lives?  Aren't we all trying to find our place in this world?  Aren't we all struggling to find a balance between being happy and content and being comfortable in our own skin?  At the end, the character of Gogol accepts himself for who he is and accepts the uniqueness of his name and background which I think is admirable.
5 The Namesake. The central character of this book is Gogol Ganguli - who is born to Bengali parents gone to the US. Gogol is son to Ashima and Ashoke Ganguli who had an arranged, traditional Bengali wedding in the 1960s. They start their family in the US - one son and one daughter. Ashoke keeps his son's name as Gogol - a name that Gogol has to live with his entire life - whether he likes it or not.The book revolves around how difficult at times it becomes for Gogol Ganguli to be a part of India and being accepted as an American. All this even though he is a very bright student and also settles, pretty decently, as an architect. He has had pretty girlfriends. Still.I have also watched the movie - by the same name - based on the novel. The movie too is very closely made on the lines of this book and I could remember movie scenes as I read through the book.This is a book that is recommended to be read.
4 The story held my interest to the end.  The one issue I had with the book was that I didn't know how to pronounce any of the names properly... one page of help would have  added to my enjoyment of this novel.
4 I enjoyed reading the Namesak. It's so easy to take for granted our way of life, never thinking about what our own culture finds valuable in family relationships, compared to others. This novel brought to life, for me, the different relationships in a family from another country and culture, who have moved to the United States to live and work and raise their family. I found the way they coped with the differences of both cultures and also the lives of their American born children very interesting.  Having a family member who has recently married into another culture, I was enlightened about some of the differences that they are facing, and how both culture might blend and negotiate to make a life for themselves and family. An interesting read.
5 Finally got around to reading it and wasn't disappointed.  First generation immigrants beware! Lump in my throat started midway thru the book and couldn't stop weeping for the last quarter. Had to call my parents as soon as it was over to tell them I loved them... Yeah, it's that kind of book. No need for me to go over the plot since it's been hashed over many times. Something about Jhumpa Lahiri's style of writing. It's languid, evocative, and very very real.
5 I have learned not to read these reviews before I actually read a book because with everything out there, either you love it or you hate it.  There is really nothing in between and I like to form my own opinions on things. So-all of that being said, I know that there are people out there that read the reviews and based on others opinions of the story, choose to read the book or not, so here is my opinion-I LOVED IT!  I read for a living.  I'm a librarian, and I can tell you that this is one of the best books that I have read in a long time!  I couldn't put it down.  Lahiri is wonderful with words.  Her descriptions where beautiful. I love to read a book and feel that I am a part of the story, like I am sitting in with the charcters watching what is happening, and I can say that I felt this way with her story.I have read other reviews on this book, and people seem to be very critical of Gogol and his struggle with his name.  I can only imagine that being a the first generation born in a country and culture that is not your parents, can cause confussion and a need to want to fit in. And a name is a big deal! It's almost as if it can define you to others.  When naming your child, you wouldn't want to name them something that you know will get them tormented on the playground would you?  And Gogol wasn't teased by others because of his name, but he didn't feel that he fit.  He didn't fit with Bengali people and he didn't fit with Americans either.  This caused an inner struggle that affected him for years, even after he was married and no one, except for his wife, knew that he had changed his name.  And if you read the book, remember when it comes out?  The people at the dinner party were shocked, and again Gogol felt as if he didn't fit.Of course, as with all (well most) stories, everything comes full circle and Gogol learns (and begins to appreciate) why he was given that name, and he makes peace with it.Lahiri wrote and incredible book about love, family, tolerance, growing, multiculturalism and life.  As I mentioned, I had a really hard time putting this book down, and would recommend it to anyone that has an interest in cultural studies, literature or a good read!
4 The Namesake is a great novel for first time immigrants, whatever background or ethnicity.  It is a novel about adaptation to a new environment, and quite simply, it is about people who are living in an ever-changing world, and how their own lives change when it is required of them.  Lahiri cleverly interweaves the story of two generations of family, one Bengali Indian, and one American born of Indian parents.  Ashoke and Ashima are two lonely souls trying to make their way of life in the United States, a place where they can give their son, Gogol a chance for an opportunity to succeed.  Gogol's name in itself is not Indian, but it is something that he struggles with as he goes throughout his life.  His identity and his self worth is wrapped up in his name, a name his father named after his personal favorite Russian writer.When I first read the book, I was enchanted because of Lahiri's storytelling, but also because I felt like this novel reflected a lot upon me and my experiences here in the United States.  As an Asian-American, I found similarities to the way Gogol thought, and similarities to way my parents are like Ashoke and Ashima.Lahiri's tone is somber throughout this book, subtly beguiling.  But in the end, it is moving and beautiful, and it will be worth your read.
3 While I learned a great deal about Indian culture, I felt the story was boring. I kept waiting for something to "happen," and it didn't. Poor Gogol seemed depressed most of the time, dependent on others to make his life what it wasn't. Guess I know too many people whose lives are like this.
5 Such a beautifully written book! Assimilating into American culture  while at the same time remaining true to their Bengali heritage is this book's theme. You will love these people and enjoy their history, cooking, travels...it's a very lovely book.
5 The Namesake is a well written story that gives in site to a family struggling to adapt existing cultures with their adopted country The author weaves a lovely tale, so worth the read. Enjoy.
4 After falling in love with Jhumpa Lahiri's short story collections (Unaccustomed Earth and The Interpreter of Maladies), I was curious to see what her first novel was like. Turns out, it feels like an extended version of her short stories. Chronicling the Ganguli family's immigration to America from India and their assimilation into their adopted country, the novel takes many of the themes from Lahiri's short stories and bundles it into a long-form narrative. As always, the writing is spare, poetic and wondrous. I don't think Lahiri could write badly if she tried.
5 Immigrants of all sorts have built America, and this book profiles an Indian immigrant family.  The challenges they face are described with warmth and sensitivity as they confront the larger culture around them.It's easy to imagine minor substitutions, and this being the story of nearly any immigrant community, struggling to maintain their connection to their homeland and instill that link in their children who grow up as Americans first, and of the immigrant community second.I highly recommend this book - and would advocate its use in explaining to high school students the importance of America as a "salad bowl" where groups maintain their individual identity yet become part of the cohesive whole, and not a "mixing pot" where the individual ingredients lose their identity.
3 Jhumpa Lahiri describes the immigrant experience better than any writer I know.  Her first effort, a collection of short stories, "Interpreter of Maladies",  was wonderful.  I read The Namesake as a short story ("Gogol"  in The New Yorker Magazine.  I have to conclude that it was more effective in an abbreviated form than as a full length novel.  I became bored with her lengthy descriptions of affluent upscale lives of Ivy League professionals.  Although I get her point about the emptiness of it all, I think it went on too long.  Still, the story held together and I could understand why the death of Gogol's father caused him to return to his Bengali roots and find new meaning in the customs and culture and his connectedness to his family.  While a quick  and enjoyable book to read, when it was over, I scarcely thought about it again.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed this novel. It made for great pre-sleep reading, when one would like to unwind and be entertained in a gentle, intelligent manner. The characters were realistic, and as a first generation foreigner in the USA, I enjoyed the perspective of the writer. She never overdramatized events and people, and made it all seem plausable. I was cheering for her true to life characters, and identified with many of the issues they had to deal with. All in all, a nice experience. What more does one want?
5 The Namesake is not just a great first novel but a great novel. After winning the Pulitzer for her first book,a collection of short stories,entitled Interpreter of Maladies, it seems Jhumpa Lahiri was born to write.Without going into details of plot The Namesake is simply wonderful and entrancing. Most of the characters aren't particularly nice ( and indeed Gogol is rather shallow ) but what happens to them draws you straight in. Jhumpa is an excellent prose stylist. Her descriptions, for example of architectural details, can be quite stunning.I enjoyed The Namesake so much I had to read the original Gogol's The Overcoat. That too was worth it.
3 I read this book because it was chosen by my book club.  It was beautifully written,  but very slow!  I realize that novels of this type are not meant to compete with suspense or mystery novels, but I want to be so interested in the everyday details of the character's lives that I am compelled to finish the novel.  Not the case here.  While it was interesting to learn about the Indian culture and see how one family chose to assimilate (or not), this was just okay.  The decision amongst book club members was split.
4 "The Namesake," by the pulitzer prize winning author of "Interpreter of Maladies," is a gorgeously written novel of an Indian family transplanted to America. Lahiri knows her material--she lovingly re-creates Bengali culture, famous for its cuisine and hospitality. She very convincingly portrays the "outsider" in an alien culture, especially through Ashima, Gogol's mother. And her prose is wonderful.But....I agree with many that this book is more like a string of stories held together by a common character, rather than an integrated whole. Lahiri creates a time and place with breathtaking detail and draws us in--an example is Ashoke's train ride, where he is saved only because someone notices the soft sound of the pages of his book, fluttering in the breeze. Or take the "Maxine" section--Lahiri recreates a sort of WASP heaven, from the magnificent townhouse in New York, the cocktails, the conversations over dinner, to the New Hampshire "camp" deep in the woods with its shabby mismatched decor. But then it just ends--and Gogol moves on, seemingly untouched by the experience. The same with his marriage--we are totally caught up with how this pair meets and falls in love--suddenly we are left puzzled when it ends abruptly out of nowhere.Lahiri is a wonderful writer and her Pulitzer was well-deserved. The novel falls a little short--but maybe we think so only because the "Interpreter" stories are so great. This author is certainly worth watching as she develops.
3 There is a good story here, but I felt like I was reading pulp fiction instead of the work of a Pulitzer Prize winniing author.  The writing seemed cold and did not engage me.  There were some good themes running through the novel - the power of a name, the importance of heritage - but, for the most part, they got lost in the soap opera of Gogol's life.  As many others already commented, this would have been better as a short story, focusing more on the real themes.
2 I had high expectations for this book, but it was just blah. It's superficial, with no insight behind it. The author seemed to spend more time dreaming up outfits for her characters than substance for their personalities. I'm sorry to say this book was kind of a waste of time; it's the kind of writing you might appreciate to have, in a magazine, while you're waiting at the dentist's office...not something you'd like to see dragged out into a whole novel and paraded as literature. Blah.
2 This story had no pulse. The entire book was a flatline. No highpoints no low points. Will not read anything else by this author and would not recommend this book to anyone else.
4 I was attracted to this novel as my father in law came from the Punjab region of India. Interacting with many East Indians over 50 years this novel reminds me that those who were born in India maintain ways of that culture. Second generation Indians born here assimilate into our culture yet some are controlled by the traditions of their parents. Fifty years ago there was more of a stigma involved in an Indian. Assimilation is an individual and family issue. Each generation has their own experience regardless of ethnicity. Add another culture and the generational differences are wider. This is an interesting novel about assimilation regardless of the country of origin. Customs and traditions and there impact on families is shown as the characters in the novel age and mature. An interesting read.
2 while the namesake is written well, it doesn't do much for making you care about any of the characters. it's very much a slice of life novel. this is what happened to gogol and that's all-- after all the raves i'd read about the first book i thought this one would be way better.
5 "The Namesake" is the debut novel by Jhumpa Lahiri.  She has previously written the Pulitzer Prize winning short story collection "The Interpreter of Maladies".  This is the story of immigrants from India and is also the story of their son, Gogol Ganguli.Ashoke and Ashima are married in India in a marriage arranged by their parents (as is the custom).  Just after the wedding they travel to America where Ashoke is first a student at MIT, then later a professor.  While Ashoke is able to feel a connection to this new country (he starkly remembers an older friend saying that his one mistake was leaving American to return to India), Ashima feels her immigrant status keenly.  She holds to the ways of the Bengali and when their son is born they want to name him in the old manner: the grandmother will send a letter with his Good Name.  A Good Name is that which is the official name on record and is used publicly and professionally.  The private name is that which is only used among family and friends.  But this is America and the child may not be releases from a hospital without a name on the birth certificate.  The parents decide to name their son Gogol, after the Russian author Nikolai Gogol who, in a roundabout way, was instrumental in saving the life of Ashoke when he was a young man.  They never intended this to be his Good Name and they waited for the letter from the grandmother to come, but it never does and so right up until Gogol is ready to go to kindergarten the only name he has is Gogol.  When Gogol is to enroll in kindergarten his parents give him the Good Name of Nikhil and try to force both Gogol and the school to use it, but he refuses and so does the school.  His name is Gogol.I stressed this part of the novel because it raises a rather large theme within the novel: that of identity.  It seems that everyone in "The Namesake" is dealing with their identity.  Ashima is trying to hold onto the Bengali cultural identity while her two children, Gogol and Sonia, are trying to break free of that identity.  Gogol and Sonia find partners that match, for a time, what they feel their identities should be."The Namesake" takes us on the journey of the Ganguli family over the course of more than two decades.  After Gogol graduates high school he decides to legally change his name because of his deep dissatisfaction with his name.  Strangely enough, Gogol decides on Nikhil, the name he would not accept as a child.  The novel takes Gogol through his college years at Yale, his relationships with women, his marriage (and divorce) and his reconciliation with his mother.  All this is truly a quest for identity (in particular, his marriage to a Bengali woman with a similar identity issue).Simply put, this is a good book.  It is infused with quality and good writing and Lahiri gives us a good sense of who these characters are.  The fact that I didn't truly care what happened to Gogol did not lessen my enjoyment of the book at all.  Throughout Lahiri's short stories and into this novel, I have enjoyed stepping into the world she has created and meeting her characters.  To me, Jhumpa Lahiri feels like a more accomplished Zadie Smith ("White Teeth") and "The Namesake" is much stronger than Smith's second novel "The Autograph Man".  I look forward to Jhumpa Lahiri's next novel (or short story collection).
4 I liked this book but I liked her other novel a lot more.  I would suggest you check out her first book before reading this one but this one is still good.
5 "The Namesake", Jhumpa Lahiri's debut novel is a riveting, often fascinating, saga of an Indo-American family, the Gangulis, as seen through the eyes of son Gogol Ganguli. Lahiri takes readers on a compelling exploration of the family as it seeks to find its identity as Americans while not forsaking the family's roots in Calcutta, Bengal, India. Named for his father's favorite Russian author, Gogol undergoes a life-long journey of personal discovery and personal identity, finally deciding late in his adolescence to change his name legally from Gogol Ganguli to Nikhil Ganguli. Lahiri's deceptively simple, quite poetic, prose tells a most captivating tale of an immigrant family's successful rise to capture some of the American Dream, focusing on Gogol's joys and sorrows, trials and tribulations, as if his is an Everyman saga of a Massachusetts-born son of immigrants struggling to retain his family's culture and traditions while fitting in with American life. Critically and popularly acclaimed when it was published originally in 2003, "The Namesake" remains a notable addition to Lahiri's award-winning oeuvre.
2 Based on my reading of Lahiri's fine short story collection that justifiably won the Pulitzer Prize, I expected a complex, nuanced novel which would deliver closely observed and clear writing. I was ready for a real treat.Instead, I got a kind of automatic writing of a drawn out short story. At first, the book opens very well with descriptions of a birth and an awful train wreck that changes the course of Gogol's father's life. I thought I was in for something brilliant. But then the plot, if one can call it that, drags and drags. The writing becomes antiseptic, mistaking minute observation for literature, and losing its overall passion and reason for being. I had to fight through much of this book, skipping pointless passages, and enduring elaborate descriptions of Gogol's lovers, their clothes and hairstyles, their shoes, their parents, and their parents' homes. All for what?Then, when Gogol must confront his father's death, we see him acting like a zombie, retching, breaking up with his girlfriend, but never getting to anything that moves us. His mother's reaction to her husband's death seems inauthentic. And in fact, much in this novel is just that. After a while, I just didn't care about the characters.The real problem is that Lahiri is a short story writer who tried to stretch a short story into a novel, but didn't have the substance in the original idea to bring it off.I was frankly disappointed.
2 It might be harsh to expect Lahiri to achieve the same type of EXCELLENCE as of her short stories in this long novel. To be fair, though, this novel was a bit disappointing even without the expectation dragged from her 'previous record'.The trouble about the novel was that it was stretched and dragged unnecessarily; her signiture style of the'stunning developments' was lost this time. The other dullness this novel sufferred for was that the way Gogol was portraied as a second generation Bengali-Indian-American was too stereotypical,safe and boring, TOO LACKLUSTER and unattractive. There seemed to be no risk of representation Lahiri took to create the minority character in the Euro-centric society, either, as her double. Although it still maintained another Lahiri's feature qualities such as very well structured sentences and insightful perspectives that literally saved the whole story and I found this work as whole not only just readable but adorable and warm, this was somehow mediocre or a bit worse job than that to me. This can be what happens when safety is put first. It seems like every ethnic writer initially in their career has to submit this type of 'moderately comfortable minority representation'work as thier assignment to get to an advance level, where they are finally allowed to write something that transcends their ethnic background and be creative and original(only if they want to (even if it does not appeal much to wider audiences).I hope Lahiri has enough guts to refuse to live up to the tokenism that is well prevailed in the publishing industry and restore her creativity to write more shortstories, which she seems to be better at.
4 I wasn't familiar with Lahiri's previous work, so had no expectations as many of the other reviewers.I always found the story enjoyable, her writing solid and if not poetic, well structured and straightforward. She expertly leads us into the thoughts and minds of people we probably don't and might never know, allowing us an unbiased look at a different culture. It would be easy for a writer to have a bias, or to have cardboard characters that have the typical biases you would expect, but Lahiri's characters are fresh and believable.Because there was so much territory to cover - 1968 to 2000 - some very important events were covered in a couple of sentences, a paragraph, or not at all. Lost virginity, for example. If you were lazy for one second as a reader, you wouldn't have known about it. As time passes in one's life, losing one's virginity is nothing more than a fond memory that rarely bubbles to the surface, but when it happens, it is a life defining moment. There are other examples of what I'll call "skimming", but I'll allow this to suffice.There's also a considerable amount of telling within the skimming. Most of the narrative is told from a somewhat distant third person. When Lahiri comes down from the ceiling and interacts with the characters, showing or dramatizing their story, that's the strongest part of the book. I gained more of an insight into the main character when she did that than at any other point when she simply told me what people were thinking, what people were doing, etc.From a writer any less skilled than Lahiri this would have been a disaster. But it wasn't. Even when she retreated back to the ceiling, and started to skim over large seemingly important events, the story was still engaging. That takes some talent.
4 Lahiri has that amazing gift -- the ability to describe people, places, emotions, scenes in prose that seems almost effortless. Her writing accomplishes the task without ever calling attention to itself. She writes as the reader's close friend or confidant, chatty without being talkative. It is quite a gift.As to her subject matter, this is certainly a story about identity, as the name of the book implies. It's also a story about immigration and assimilation. Lahiri has received criticism for writing about the academic and intellectual upper crust, where attending MIT or Yale is commonplace. But that is the world that she knows well. I certainly will read her other books as they appear. A truly talented writer.
5 This is a worthy follow up to the amazing "Interpreter of Maladies" collection. Jhumpa Lahiri is a first-rate writer, with an incredible command of her craft and her material. I'm awed.
5 In "The Namesake" Lahiri once again produces a work of fine art and beauty.  But her purpose is to look at the particular cross-cultural problems, especially for children of Indian parents, in the United States.  After all, these children are Americans, not Indians.  The emotional struggle to deal with that dissonance is finely described by Lahiri, perhaps better than I have ever seen it done before.  The internal feelings, self-rationalizations and justifications, and the result of what environment and origin have on people and how that transition can be made, sometimes successfully, but mostly, with some problems and regrets, are beautifully elucidated.Lahiri's style is fine tuned and explicit.  She is insightful and incisive.  Her vocabulary is vast, but is not used with academic arrogance in any way.  She has a crystal clarity about her writing that leaves little to guess for the reader, but much to ponder.  Her subplots mesh seamlessly into a well honed novel.In addition, it is important that the reader not miss Lahiri's reference to Nikolai Gogol's short story, "The Overcoat."  It really is impossible for the reader to miss, it is one of the main premises of Lahiri's plot.  The reader is well advised to read the story before reading the book, as the plots are interwoven in certain non-obvious manners.  But near the end, Lahiri tackles one of the main issues of everyone's life, her protagonist and that of "The Overcoat."  She seeks to interpret in some way, how so many of the events in our lives seem out of our control, even random.  Toward the end, Lahiri has her protagonist, named Gogol, say this:  "In so many ways, his family life feels like a string of accidents, unforeseen, unintended, one incident begetting another."  But as in "The Overcoat" Lahiri tries to tell us, that in some way, the soul can and does live on, in the hearts of those who remember.  And just as in "The Overcoat" the remnant of the protagonist's soul remains, so too, the remnant of Gogol's father's soul still remains, in Gogol's memory, forever.
3 Well-written narrative by an obviously talented writer, describing the day by day lives of a professional class Indian family becoming adjusted to life in Boston as the father gets his PhD, becomes a professor and dies of a heart attack. The story then becomes mostly about his son, and his struggles to find himself - his loves, joys and disappointments. We empathize with the young man, and see that these things of the heart are universal, not a function of culture. I personally found the story rather sad, because of it's very existential nature - the trying to find meaning in a Godless life - full indeed of culture, friends, entertainment, drinking, food, and sex, but in the end always ending in disappointment -the cycle of life without larger meaning.
5 I am a big fan of novels involving immigration and cross-cultural struggles. This book captures the essence of the struggle for one young man with poignant and compelling writing from start to finish. I have given away both copies of this book to family members who have also thoroughly enjoyed the book. I now need to buy a copy to keep!
5 A story about integration and finding oneself. So perfectly written with such perfect characterization, it is hard to put down. The most mundane and everyday observations and actions come to life in such detail, the author has you living the characters lives and feeling their emotions and hearing their thoughts. This is writing at its finest.
2 Based on my reading of Lahiri's fine short story collection that won the Pulitzer Prize, I expected a complex, nuanced novel which would deliver closely observed and clear writing. I was ready for a real treat.Instead, I got a kind of automatic writing of a drawn out short story.  At first, the book opens very well with descriptions of a birth and an awful train wreck that changes the course of Gogol's father's life. I thought I was in for something brilliant.  But then the plot, if one can call it that, drags and drags. The writing becomes antiseptic, mistaking minute observation for literature, and losing its overall passion and reason for being.  I had to fight through much of this book, skipping pointless passages, and enduring elaborate descriptions of Gogol's lovers, their clothes and hairstyles, their shoes, their parents, and their parents' homes.  All for what?Then, when Gogol must confront his father's death, we see him acting like a zombie, wretching, breaking up with his girlfriend, but never getting to anything that moves us.  His mother's reaction to her husband's death seems inauthentic. And in fact, much in this novel is just that. After a while, I just didn't care about the characters.The real problem is that Lahiri is a short story writer who tried to stretch a short story into a novel, but didn't have the substance in the original idea to bring it off.I'm frankly disappointed.
5 I loved this book. Jhumpa is a graceful writer and an absolutely effortless storyteller. Her plotting is so uncontrived and her pacing so natural that you barely notice that a novel is being constructed. I actually don't think she is a natural novelist -- in a way, "The Namesake" is more like a group of intimately linked short stories -- but that's more a description, not a critique. I haven't read "Interpreter of Maladies" but, after "The Namesake," absolutely intend to. Lahiri is such a gifted writer that her work demands attention.About the content, I am a first-generation American of European parents and I found some of the descriptions of Gogol's experiences extremely telling, thought-provoking and moving. In fact, I had strong identification with many of Gogol's experiences and feelings. The book made a big impression on a personal level. I think many first generation or foreign-born Americans will connect with it, too.Subsequent to reading "The Namesake" I made sure to read "Interpreter of Maladies" and that group of short stories struck me as being a preparation for this novel, and not as accomplished or successful.
3 I fell in love with Jhumpa Lahiri's work when I had read her first short story collection, Interpreter of Maladies, and was eager to dive into her first novel. Her writing is luminous, seemingly effortless, and as a writer I was fully absorbed by her use of language, and its simple beauty.But this story of how an Indian family, the Gangulis of Calcutta, finds their place in the United States lacked the depth of character development that was not an issue with the short stories. It is a universal tale with familiar elements: the immigrant generation longing for home, dealing with their loneliness for family, bewilderment at aspects of their adopted culture, eventually learning to adapt and find their place in a new land. One of the saddest aspects to this and other stories like it is the inevitable acceptance -- however reluctantly -- of the immigrants (in this case, Ashoke and Ashima Ganguli) to watch their American-born children rebel to varying extents from their cultural roots. Gogol, the main character in this novel, and his sister Sonia, are determined to be fully American, and typically are at times embarrassed by their parents' "Indian-ness."This story revolved around Gogol, whose name (after the famed Russian writer) plagues him for years, until he decides to change it. Yet Lahiri, as omniscient narrator, continues to refer to him as Gogol, even when others in his life refer to him as his chosen name: Nikhil. It was her way, it seems, of conveying that his cultural roots are something he cannot escape and will one day choose to embrace to a larger extent. The story behind his name is a deeply affecting one as well, but is one that is not appreciated by Gogol until the end of the book.There are many poignant aspects of this story, mostly involving Gogol's parents, Ashima and Ashoke. I wish there had been more dramatic episodes that involved the three of them. Gogol's romantic life involves women who at first inspire yet ultimately disappoint, and we sympathize, but perhaps not as much as if Lahiri had gone deeper into his own emotional life.I will still eagerly read Lahiri's other works. She is a writer of immense talent, and despite these shortcomings, reading her prose is an intoxicating pleasure.
3 Gogol Ganguli is just your average Indian-American guy. Unfortunately, the story of his life, and its telling, are just as average. His is born in 1968 to a couple living in Cambridge, Massachusetts. His father, Ashoke, is a "doctoral candidate in electrical engineering at MIT," who later becomes a college professor. His mother, Ashima, travels 8,000 miles from their native Calcutta to be with him after their arranged marriage. Preparing to leave the hospital with their newborn, the parents are unconcerned that the baby names (one boy, one girl) chosen by his maternal grandmother have not yet arrived by mail. Although they feel that the naming can wait, a staff member convinces them otherwise and a temporary "pet" name is given. "Gogol" is the surname of one of Ashoke's favorite Russian authors and "had saved his life." The letter never arrives. And after a well-meaning principal foils his parents' attempt to foist a "good" name on him upon entering kindergarten, the name sticks. What follows would probably qualify as standard fare for many first-generation hyphenated-American families. The parents adhere to their cultural traditions, while sampling some American ones. The children (there is a younger sister, Sonia) quickly assimilate into the local culture, while shunning some of their ancestral customs. They tolerate trips to India to visit relatives, while longing for certain comforts of home. There is no "extra" in the ordinary that is the life of the Ganguli family. Additionally, Gogol's friends appear, disappear, and are unmissed. He partakes in a series of romantic attachments, becomes an architect (failing the exam twice before succeeding), neglects his parents, and, after a family member passes away, regrets his indifference. The remaining characters and those who appear after his death are tedious. In fact, the exclusion of several of them, including his sister, would affect the story only slightly. "In so many ways, his family's life feels like a string of accidents, unforeseen, unintended, one incident begetting another...his father's train wreck...the name [his] great-grandmother had chosen for him, lost in the mail...the accident of his being named Gogol..." Although The Namesake, the accident-prone Ganguli family's story, is uninteresting, Lahiri's first novel, a collection of short stories entitled Interpreter of Maladies, is not. Each story contains engaging people, places and plots. It should be chosen over this unremarkable book.
2 I generally enjoy reading stories about other cultures (I usually choose non-fiction), particularly ones with middle-eastern and indian settings.  This book looked like it would be interesting; Indian foreigners trying to establish themselves the USA.I found the beginning captivating enough, where the author details the arranged marriage, move to the USA and the birth of the main character.  Once the main character grows up however, I lost interest entirely - I cant put my finger on what happens but the momentum of the story comes to a grinding hault.  And unfortunately so did my reading.  I kept going for a bit, hoping it would improve, but this was not the case.Unfortunately I cant recommend this read.
5 This was a great follow-up to Lahiri's Pulitzer winning collection of short stories, "Interpreter of Maladies."  Gogol's life is not necessary extraordinary, but the name his Indian immigrant parents bestow on his plagues him throughout his life.  Lahiri's first novel is rich in Indian culture and the American dream.  It was a wonderful story and I was drawn to Gogol and his family.  I felt close to the characters, and Lahiri's straight-forward writing is very engaging.  I look forward to her next published writing.
5 I would describe this book as tender, gentle, truthful and poignant: a gentleness in  tone, a tenderness amongst the characters, a  pleasing rendering of  loneliness, rebellion, disappointment, tension, abandonment, all of  which evoke a common sympathy. It is  woven together by a thread which stays in place though the characters may unravel a bit at times facing life situations which we all must face and  ultimately understand and eventually accept which allows us and this story to move forward.
5 What a great book!  I finished it in two days and cried at the end - not because it was sad, but simply because I was so moved by the characters and their stories.  I highly recommend this book particularly if you are interested in learning about other cultures and/or are first-generation American yourself.
5 If you ever thought your own life was too boring to write a book about, think again.  Jhumpa Lahiri has proven that any life can be the subject of a bestselling novel, so long as ordinary events and relationships are examined with loving care and attention to the most subtle of emotions. I fell in love with every single character in The Namesake, perhaps because I could relate so much to the immigrant and 1st generation American-born experience, and because so many of Gogol's (the protagonist) perspectives and reactions resonated within me. But not every writer can pull this off -- for example, Amy Tan's books have always annoyed me because they don't do justice to the Chinese-American experience, while trying so hard to do just that. Lahiri doesn't seem to be trying at all; every sentence is so artfully yet simply constructed. Don't read this book looking for action or adventure, or waiting for some plot twist.  Instead, read this book as if you were reading your own journal entries -- if only you were so lucky to have flawlessly recorded and expressed the emotions surrounding each and every exerience of your life.  Some fault this book, citing that "nothing happens". How wrong are they, for in The Namesake, "life happens".
5 Jhumpa Lahiri displays great sensitivity for her characters, while describing the experience of an Indian couple who leave behind their Indian culture to live in Boston, where the husband, Ashoke, is a college professor.  From the poignant opening moments when Ashima tries to make a palatable Indian-like dish from Rice Krispies and onions to the final moments, when she returns part-time to India, this book details the trials and heartaches of the immigrant experience.  Ashima is a partner in an arranged marriage and she travels to America to put her life and future in the hands of a man she hardly knows.  She works hard to keep Bengali customs alive in their home while making the necessary adapations to a new culture.  Her children are drawn to the ways of America, and quietly rebel against the old customs of their parents.  The story follows Gogol, the son, whose love affairs with women mirror the duality of his American/Bengali heritage.  Central to this struggle is his name Gogol which his parents call him at home and Nikhil, the name they give him when he goes to school.  The book uses the names interchangably, depending on which culture is the predominant one in his life at a particular time.  When his father dies, Gogol mourns, not so much at his passing, but at the missed opportunities to spend time with his father and give him the appreciation he deserved.  The book rings with truth, from the broad themes of clashing cultures and generations to the poignant details such as Gogol and his sister Sonia losing the train from their Monopoly game by dropping it accidentally into the heater.  The reader learns about many Bengali customs while at the same time vicariously living through the immigrant experience.  The people in this book are at first torn by the two cultures, but eventually they learn to make peace with both of them and to feel like whole and integrated people.  This is a book well worth reading.
5 The rug arrived very quickly, was exactly what I needed.  I amvery pleased with it's appearance and quality - but most of all,the price!
5 When Jhumpa Lahiri wrote 'Interpreter of Maladies' I thought it was a really good book. Did it deserve the Pulitzer...probably not in my opinion. However with this book, Jhumpa has more than convinced me that she is a Pulitzer deserving author.This book is brilliant. The character of Gogol is beautifully brought out in this book. Waiting for her next book.
5 I really liked this book. It was so well written and it did make me think and realize the hard transitions of immigrating far from home and culture . A nice book of family and the strength of relationships.
5 I was gently surprised by the gentle flow of this journey.  It is a wonderful insight to anyone finding themselves in a foreign country trying to hold onto a sense of self.  I loved all the characters and the interweaving of their stories.  I hated to see this story end.
5 Moved to laughter and tears, this book has inspired me to finish mine. Thank you, dear one for sharing your delightful talent.
5 This was a very interesting book that expanded my cross-culteral knowledge about arranged marriages and the challenges facing children whose parents have enthnic and cultural  differences from the typical American family.
5 I really enjoyed reading this book by Jhumpa Lahiri. "The Namesake," is a sensitive, detailed and nuanced portrayal of the trials and tribulations of the Ganguli family. This book belongs to the new and growing genre of books that examines the lives of displaced people: the new immigrants to the US. Along with their dreams, the new immigrants carry with them a strong sense of cultural identity and history that sometimes can be a bit of burden to the children born to the immigrants. I found that at times Lahiri's narrative had a detached quality and there was no great drama or passion, except for the character of Moshimi who appears in the second half of the novel.The book chronicles the life of the Ganguli family. The book begins with Ashoke Ganguli who comes from Calcutta, India to the US for his graduate studies, and upon completing his PhD becomes a faculty member in a university. He gets married to Ashima, and they become the proud parents of two children: Gogol and Sona. Like many Indian immigrants the parents are unprepared for naming their new born child on the day he is born, and therefore to fulfill a legal requirement decide to name their firstborn son as Gogol after the famous Russian writer by the same name. Herein lays the nub of the story.The story is about Gogol's struggle growing up in America, and trying to assimilate both the American and Indian strands of his life. In a way this is a coming of age book on Gogol and how he eventually comes to accept life in his own terms. This book also chronicles how Gogol's parents surely and steadily carve out a life for themselves and realize their American dream: white picket fence house, cars, etc.While reading the book, I had an eerie feeling that this book many have been semi-autobiographical and my feelings are not unfounded. Consider this: Lahiri's parents migrated from Calcutta, India to New England when she was a child; her father worked as a librarian and her mother was a teacher; Lahiri studied in Boston (which is where part of her novel is set); her family made frequent trips to Calcutta, India; many of the descriptions about growing up in the USA must have been drawn from Lahiri's own experience; and the book is about a Bengali family; and Lahiri is married to a non-Indian. Above all, Jhumpa real name is not Jhumpa, and like Gogol, her protagonist in the book that was a name that her parents gave her when she was born.A hallmark of a good book is to see if the reader's attention is captured from the first to the very last page. Lahiri's book more than meets this requirement - letting the reader agonize between racing to the last page and having no more to read beyond.
5 I found this book so interesting because it really did give me a look a world that I know so little about.  Part of it is set near to where I live, and part of it is set in India.The book delved into customs, trying to reconcile the world of your parents v. your world, and trying to be yourself while also trying to be respectful of your heritage.  Well done!
4 I attempted to read this book several times, but after a page or two, I was not engaged enough to continue further, so I would put it back on the shelf.... one day I finally decided that I paid money for this book, so I was going to finish it! After the first chapter, I found that I was so enthralled with the world of the Gangulis, that I could NOT stop reading - and even when I did stop reading, I was constantly thinking about the characters. As previous reviewers have noted, the book does not have a very distinguishable plot, but rather, it weaves for the reader the beautiful and haunting story of two Bengalis who come to America, the challenges they face, and then of the bicultural, emotional, and familial challenges of their American-born children. The story of the Ganguli family is as unpredictable, joyous, and horrific as real life is. Despite the lack of a clear plot, I never tired of reading it, and was always wanting to see what would happen next in the lives of the characters - I wish the book had never ended! Lahiri writes in such an melancholy yet enchanting way that I cannot wait to see what she comes out with next!
5 I was sad to let Gogol go at the end, which, for me, is always the mark of a good story. This book also got me interested in other Indian authors and I am now reading "Red Earth, Pouring Rain," another good read.
4 I liked this book for its window into the lives of people that are trying to live with two different cultures.  It explores the different points of view very well.  The americanized children that are embarrased by their differences.  Also the immigrants who try to keep their traditions and beliefs intact.  It was well written and easy to follow.  You could sympathize with almost all the characters.  Good book.
4 Well told, interesting story, page turner.  The story of a young Indian family growing up in the US.  I really enjoyed it.
5 Poignant portrayal of the immigrant experience from the perspectives of both the parents and children. Among the topics approached are the challenges of inter-generational communication, the individual's struggle to define oneself in contrast to cultural expectations, and the resulting conflicts. This novel delves masterfully into characters' psyches that give rationale to their decisions, and the reader in turn experiences this struggle of opposing forces - Gogol's need to be free, as well as what he owed to his parents (if not muted acceptance of their wishes then at least a recognition of their toil), and his forays into New York society.The descriptive writing is also great. Lahiri had a particularly simple but effective way of drawing attention to colors, smells, noise, and texture to bring the novel's world(s) to life.
3 Bravo to the author who kept me reading about a pathetic main character.  I loved Lahiri's style of writing, and enjoyed peeking into a family epic.  The main character Gogol, though, is so distasteful.  His whole life is a pity party:  He hates his name (the hatred of which seems to form his distasteful character), constantly moans and groans about his confusing Indian/American heritage, not seeming to fit into either, and makes poor choices.  He does not show any respect for his parents, which they greatly deserve.  And he hops from one bed to another, not fully giving to any relationship.  He is a pathetic human being. He has absolutely no redeeming qualities.  Despite my distaste for Gogol, I enjoyed the book.
5 This book absolutely blew me away.  As a fan of East-West novels, I feel that this one shines out as a masterpiece among other works in this genre.This book's genius is in its subtlety; it is not a plot-driven work.  Its draw is in its sensitive treatment of the emotions experienced by immigrants and their children.  I found Lahiri's portrayal of Ashima, Gogol's mother, particularly powerful, giving the reader a sense of how a parent feels as she watches her child slip away into a foreign culture.  Through the entire book, I felt Ashima's loneliness and fear through Lahiri's gentle prose.  To get a good sense of this, I highly recommend viewing the preview pages, where you will be able to see the themes of approximation and displacement emerging already.Although it is easy to criticize Gogol as undefined and uninteresting, it is this lack of identity that drives the novel.  Through the book, Gogol "tries on" all sorts of different identities.  He is inconsistent and transient, but rather than a flaw in Lahiri's portrayal, this is ultimately the point of the novel.  This transience, the lack of a solid identity over a long period of time, is what makes this novel so deeply moving, and in the end allows the reader to share Gogol's (and Ashima's) sense of desperation.  Lahiri does not resolve this desperation, but allows the reader to see that it is like a set of glasses that Gogol and Ashima will be forced to look through for the rest of their lives.  She allows the novel to conclude with bittersweet realism.This novel is very quiet, and it progresses delicately.  It is, at times, a bit dense, and takes some effort to read, but it is well worth it.  Take time to savor the emotions in this text, and you will certainly find it rewarding and masterful.
4 The Namesake is about struggling to find ourselves:  our roots, our longings, and some definition of meaning and purpose in our lives.The main character, Gogol, stumbles through life doing just that. He rejects and is utterly embarrassed by his family's Indian traditions and searches mindlessly through failed relationships, marriage, and superficial friendships.  Nothing appears to satisfy Gogol, nothing fills his unquenchable void, and in the meantime he misses out on truly getting to recognize his true traditions, heritage, and family.Gogol's father names him after his favorite author, which is either an American name or an Indian name. This appalls Gogol and he suffers (needlessly) searching for his true self.  His prestigious job, money, and shallow relationships cannot save him. And still he doesn't change.This is a universal story of how our history pursues us wherever we go and the expectations our parents desire from us.  We cannot run from our origins or hide from our deep roots, which intertwine within us.  Gogol, thank goodness, begins to realize this at the end of the book before it's too late when he picks up a book given to him by his father.They say one must show- not tell, and Jhumpa Lahiri brings the reader inside the pages with all the senses-- taste, smell, texture, sight, and sound.  The details of her writing are astounding and gorgeously present.  The reader will smell the curry and onions frying and taste the spices upon their tongues.**Beautiful until the last delicious page.**
4 While Gogol is the central character in the novel, it is something of a character study of the parents as well. The name change is a metaphor for Gogol's evolution as an Indian-American wanting to be more of an American who is simply of Indian heritage. This is strikingly evident in his two main love interests who are like day and night. The writing is fluid and descriptive although sometimes oddly and awkwardly using passive present voice ("The book is seen by him as he turns around." as opposed to "He turned around and saw the book."). My main criticism, though, is the truly melancholy feeling about Gogol's relationships - whether it's with his father, his mother, his love interests - and how all of their stories end. I truly cared about the characters, but wished somehow things might have resolved in a more positive way. I'll push this from three and a half up to four stars for the wonderful insight of life of foreign nationals settling in America and the compelling storyline.
5 I usually read 2-3 pages of a book before falling asleep, but this book - Jhumpa Lahiri's "The Namesake" kept me staying up till 2am in the morning, and the only reason I stopped reading then was because I had to be at work the next morning!I really liked her observations of things - and often made me wonder how close this was to the author's own real-life experience growing up in New England.  Having lived in New York myself, and travelled around the New England states, I could relate to the events in this book.I was so impressed with this book that I gifted it to several people in the Holidays of 2003.  Have a good time reading it yourself!
4 Pick up this book as it's hard to put down.  It's a real look into other lives.  As disappointed as I was in turning certain corners in this book, it all made sense in the end.  These people are reflections of people you know.  They also are able to move on with their lives, which is also a part of life that isn't always written about.
4 This book gives a fictional perspective of life of a first generation immigrant(specifically desi). The book is engaging for me and some what surreal because i am also a migrant who moved into USA about 13 years ago.The title has a meaning for the book, but the main pretext is to cover the many emotions, sacrifices and cultural aspects of 1st or 2nd generation immigrant in USA. This aspect is covered pretty good.The negatives are excessive references to possible sex life of 1st generation immigrants kids. May be it is almost real, but did not like the twists at the end of the book. The changes in the life cycle of the protagonist in the book are some what depressing aswell.
4 The  Namesake, the first novel by Jhumpa Lahiri, is writtenin a deceptively simple style.  It is a very well crafter novel thatboth explores the role of Indians in America, and tells thestory of a family over several decades.Unfortunately, I have to say that I was somewhat disappointedby the novel.  Lahiri's collection of stories, "The Interpreterof Maladies" had a much larger impact on me.  A version of "The Namesake"also appeared as a short story in The New Yorker, and I liked thatversion far better.  I agree that Lahiri is among the best writers inthe US currently, but short stories are her definite strength.
4 Great insights into Indian traditions and immigrant experience. Well written book that's a very enjoyable read! Author does a great job making you feel like you're in the scenes.
5 Jhumpa Lahiri is such a hypnotic writer that I wasn't able to put either of her two books down.  Although, I prefer "The Namesake" to "Interpreter of Maladies".I felt so close to Gogol and all of his struggles.  From beginning to end this book was beautiful and mesmerizing.  I wish Lahiri would write some more novels.
3 Lahiri left a potentially strong theme undeveloped. The conflict between American giving of names vs. the traditional Indian name giving could have been the foundation of a really interesting novel ; it could have set up a series of conflicts between first and second generation immigrants. But no.  It was a fine book, but missed the mark several times by just hinting at struggles and leaving them undeveloped. A bit frustrating to read actually.
5 I am not a crier, but this story really hit home. Jhumpa Lahiri is an amazing author who is able to capture the immigrant experience, both first and second generation. She says what we have all felt, thought, or said at any and many points in our lives. The guilt of assimilating, the fine line we walk in balancing cultures, the regrets all people (immigrant or not) face in life are all woven so beautifully within the story of this family. This is one of the most moving stories I have ever read.
4 lahiri's "the namesake" includes some wonderfully written prose, especially when said prose is describing the emotional intimacy between various characters.  one example, of many:  "Quickly, simultaneously, he falls in love with Maxine, the house, and Gerald & Lydia's manner of living, for to know her and love her is to know and love all of these things.  He loves the mess that surrounds Maxine, her hundreds of things always covering the floor and her bedside table...Her unkempt ways, a challenge to his increasingly minimalist taste, charm him."  an enjoyable, warm, hopeful -- and quick -- read!
5 My God, what a tale.  I was concerned that the novel form with its length might dull the crispness and clarity of Ms. Lahiri's prose but the details and descriptions though more detailed are clean as ever and the format permits her to give the story the full flavor of lives where the stories do not end sharply and cleanly.  (The twists of the lives here are in such contrast to the resolutions of short stories, that it made me wonder what happens to the family members in Ms. Lahiri's wonderful The Third and Final Continent after the short story ends -- as a "fan" of some of the Russian novelists described, my only disquiet from reading Interpreter Of The Maladies was that I found myself thoroughly though somewhat guiltily enjoying what were in some ways relatively "upbeat" stories like The Third and Final Continent.  The Namsake gives me a hint of what could happen.)  The transition from one character's point of view to another's is seemless -- almost dsquetingly smooth.  And the details (for example Commons, Silliman, Farnam and entryways at Yale) have the effect of some of Kazuo Ishiguro's novels of leaving the reader wondering how it's possible for the author to know and write as if having lived the details.I've reread many sections -- one advantage over life is that to see the crisp details of events again, in the Namesake the reader can just turn back, although it almost feels like cheating to do so.I have in fact read some sections "too many times to count" each time captivated by the absurd, tragic, yet oddly inspiring (and ongoing) story of the family. Our hearts go out to the characters who are like our parents, grandparents or siblings and each time reading the acount, for example of Ashoke's apartment or of the last christmas party in the house on Pemberton Road never fail to bring tears to the eyes.The odd inevitability of strings of chance events, and all the the unretold moments give The Namesake it's own authentic life.  And Lahiri gives full voice to the feelings of never quite being in the right place/home, that sensation of the Other shared, if not acknowledged by, immigrants and their children and the ambivalence. On the back cover Michiko Kakutani is quoted as saying: "Ms. Lahiri chronicles her characters'lives with both objectivity and compassion ..." Here even the objects are treated with such sympathy that we wonder what happens to them -- What happened to the crayon rubbings, "ignored but protected, gathering dust for years to come"?This is a wonderful book.
4 the namesake pulled me in quickly, and kept me there- but it was due to lahiri's lovely prose, more than the actual story.gogol, the main character slides through life (as it appears on the page), and things just happen to him- it's as if he is inactive in his role as main character and fictional human being.once i closed the book i felt gogol might take on a presence of his own... still, for such an inactive main character, the book has a quiet grace- not often found anywhere.
4 Gogol Ganguli is The Namesake of the title of this book. A first generation American, born to Bengali parents, Gogol is named after a Russian author is father admires.  The name was given to him as a temporary name, while is parents await a letter from home in which a grandmother will send with his true name. The letter never arrives and Gogol becomes a name that never seems to fit, just as Gogol himself never seems completely at home in America or on his frequent trips back to his parent's home country.I really liked the use of language in this book, as well as the description of a culture and customs I don't know very well.  The depiction of the children of immigrants who seem caught between two worlds was portrayed very well. At times I did find Gogol a hard person to like, but I did understand his confusion about who he was.A very good story about the difficulties of assimilation and loss of identity, I thoroughly enjoyed reading about Gogol and his family's trials and tribulations in America.
5 Normally I do not watch movies before reading the book, which I did with The Namesake. Both get the highest praise. The film was one of the best of the year and the novel was almost perfect. Gagol's life is extremely typical of a first-generation American of Indian heritage. He faces the classic conflict of identity that comes with being a child of minority immigrants is the U.S. I wish there were more novels like The Namesake to counter the anti-immigrant bias that is taking sadly taking over the country.
5 This book is not for everyone. If you especially enjoy reading about what a room in a certain house looks like, then you will dive right in, because this novel thrives on its vivid portrayals of the foundations where an Indian family makes their new home in America, how their young son, Gogol, comes to terms with growing up with a foreign name, and the desires to find a place to belong.Buried deep within is a heartbreaking story about emotions that don't come out of people (Gogol's parents, Ashima and Ashoke) until tragedy strikes, the power behind names, as well as lessons about making yourself a home away from home. It's a very fine piece of literature, just be sure to pause once in a while to imagine all the details Lahiri puts into her work.
5 Wonderful story, so well written,engaged me fully as I read. Lahiri draws upon her Mixed heritage to tell of a family building new traditions in this country and holding on to many of the old traditions from Calcutta. Gogol, the American born son, struggles to understand the two worlds of his parents, rebelling and finally accepting the life he is given.I wanted to read this book because I had previously read the author's book of short stories and learned many things about the customs of Bangladesh. The traditions and beliefs surrounding the importance of a child's name were central to this story.  Ms. Lahiri has done an excellent job in bringing the people and customs alive. She engaged me in telling both the difficulties and the acceptance of lives invented to straddle different worlds.
4 I really enjoyed reading The Namesake. Lahiri makes her writing look so effortless. The story is about the immigrant story of the Ganguli family. The book discusses their journey from India to America and their experiences of adjusting to a new culture, environment, and traditions. I could easily relate to the characters and see what they were going through. I would highly recommend this book.
4 I really enjoyed this book which revolved around how one's identity is shaped through one's name. The pace was slow and steady but the story penetrating. Anyone who has an unusual name or has &#34;foreign&#34; parents will be able to relate.
5 A really wonderful story of family and the true meaning of love.  All immigrant stories are unique.  It seems all children of immigrant parents want to break free from tradition.  This one from a distinct perspective-how tradition, arranged marriages, affect the children.  Wonderful read.
5 This is an immigrant story. It starts in 1968 when Gogol Ganguli is born in a Boston suburb.  His mother, Ashima, misses her homeland terribly and there is an awkward distance between her and her husband as it had been an arranged marriage and they are just getting used to each other. Gogol's father, Ashoke, was in a terrible train accident in his youth and he feels his life was saved because he happened to be reading a book by the Russian author, Gogol. As the book develops we see how this name impacts the young boy's life as we watch him grow up in America.When Gogol is a child, he and his class visit an historic graveyard and he realizes that this is not an Indian custom and that when he dies, he will have his body cremated instead of buried. Later, we watch him and his younger sister hate the infrequent trips to Calcutta with his parents. We share his romances as he goes to college and then out into the business world.  His family is delighted when he marries an Indian woman.  But all does not work out the way it was planned.This is a simple book, tracing the life of this particular family and making their experience of adjusting to American life one of our own.  Somehow, the writer is able to put us into the skin of her characters as they go through the process of Americanization.  It is all so different from their roots.  And there are pitfalls and stumbles along the way.The writer exhibits a mastery of using the perfect details to create a feeling that echoes throughout the novel.  There's a bittersweet sadness  as it chronicles a story that has been played out again and again -- loneliness for the old world and gradual assimilation into the new.Jhumpa Lahiri's short stories won a Pulitzer Prize in 2000.  This is her first novel.  I found it wonderful and look forward to reading more of her work in the future.  Definitely recommended.
4 This book wasn't written extravagantly, yet it had such depth.  It wasn't a cliff-hanger, but I still couldn't put it down.
4 Funny and heart warming story in which the parents try to hang on to their culture while raising an American son.  Entertaining and enjoyable.
5 This is one of these novels that you wished lasted a few more chapters.  I hated to let go of Gogol, but yet I knew it was time.  Wonderfully written.Lahiri tells the story of the Ganguli family and how each of them navigates his way between his heritage and the New World.  Highly recommend!
4 what a great novel.  I enjoyed the development of the inner conflict and coming to terms with who you true self really is - that dark self that only you can discover through such a historical journey.  the relationships that each character manages to develop is great.  As a first generation immigrant myself I can relate to a lot of the struggles and epiphanies as well. great author great book!
5 From childhood to adulthood the reader follows Gogol as he caves out the identity that he creates for him self.  The relationships with his family, his failures in love, his discovery to know himself keep the reader turning the pages.  Mostly told from his point of view but also by the most important females in his life.  An interesting story about his first generation journey - exploring a world unknown to his parents, one leg in the old world, one leg in the new- not fitting in either.  Love, lost, self discovery
4 I listened to this book on CD and I'm glad I did. I think I would have been bored with it if I had read it -- lots of detail and not a lot of emotion. I enjoyed it nonetheless, due in no small part to the lovely accented voice of the narrator. Books like this that condense several generations into one volume make me depressed, though, as if I fear my own life will merit little more than a few chapters. And I wanted to tell Gogol, "It's just a name -- get over it already!" Still, I'm giving it a high rating for the clarity of the writing and the way the author was able to describe in such detail without boring me to tears.
3 The Namesake is a wonderful book. I enjoyed the brief lesson on Indian culture and the plight of the torn main character between 2 cultures. It almost makes you jealous to not be so diverse in your upbringing or beliefs. The main characters are all flawed and very real. It was nice to read from the inside looking out rather than the opposite as most of us do.
5 This book was amazing.  I don't know if it's because I'm a Bengali-American girl myself who can empathize with Gogol's predicament of dealing with two names and thus two different personalities or if it's just because the story is a great read.  Lahiri's small details are wonderful and at points I feel as if she was writing about people in my own family. Though at points the story seemed to move a little too fast and things ended without real explanations, overall the story didn't fail to keep me enthralled. This is the kind of novel I've been waiting for since I read her short stories in Interpreter of Maladies.  It has it's moments of sadness and a whole lot of confusion but in the end, it leaves a good feeling in your heart.  I would recommend this book to everyone, but especially to all the other second generation Indians out there who've felt like they've never quite fit in anywhere.
4 I really enjoyed The Namesake, which was a selection of my local book club. The story resonated with me, as I know many Indian immigrants who are struggling with the same adjustment issues. I am also the grandchild of immigrants from another part of the world and can imagine similar struggles between my grandparents' generation and my parents' generation. Although certain parts of the story disappointed me (perhaps I was hoping for a happier, more pat ending), on the whole I was fascinated by the reaction of the two generations to life in the U.S. vs. life in India. I borrowed the recording from our local library and very much enjoyed the voice of the narrator.
5 This is a portrait of immigrant family life and generational assimilation. While the family is seen through the eyes of the family's first, born in America, son, it is artfully written in the third person.This is not a family of the "huddled masses" that spawned so many mid-20th century urban narratives; Nor is it a border crossing  family like those in late 20th century literature. There is no extended family sharing wages and living space. The Ganguli family of India is on its own.  Their "close" friends live in other states.Ashoke provides a good middle class life for his wife and two children.  Gogol and Sonia know their mother tongue, but are fully American in language and orientation. They know the customs, but they seem odd in the American world they live in.  Gogol doesn't attempt to explain his home life to his friends or his friends' to his parents. The  parents do not interfere with their children's' lives. Ashima is particularly lonely and seems to live from phone call to phone call for news from "home". They save to visit family in Calcutta every few years.The book follows Gogol/Nick through the twists and turns of his young adulthood with the theme of his "accidental" name woven throughout. His name resulted from the Begali naming custom and is an example of the distance between Ashima and Ashoke and their families in India. It is also a result of a trauma of Gogol's father's youth. It represents identity, which Gogol, living in two cultures is seeking to establish.While Lahiri writes beautifully throughout, she particularly masterful in showing the contrast in culture through Gogols' relationship with his girlfriend Maxine.After reading the book, I saw the film, which follows it closely. I would not have appreciated the film without the the book. The book describes the rituals which the film shows without explanation. For instance Sonia's solid food ritual and the significance of the tray of objects; fire at weddings; funeral customs.  The book gives more description of everyday life so you can more fully understand the character of the people, for instance Gogol's impressions of Maxine's casual family life and small details such as Ashima's hand made Christmas cards and how she prepared them.This is a great novel and it would be good to see it on high school and college reading lists.
5 I loved this book. I had seen the movie and was inspired to read the book and I was glad I did.
4 The newlywed Ganguli's arrive in America in 1967, beset with conflicting expectations and dreams. Calcutta-born Ashima and Ashoke Ganguli embrace their new life together in America. They approach each new task with considerable courage; however, as Ashoke grows more comfortable by the day in his work, his young wife is tormented by a terrible homesickness for her extended family.Pregnant, Ashima is lethargic and lonely, anticipating only the letters received from Calcutta, news and gossip from favorite relatives. Once she gives birth, however, Ashima is able to focus more on the requirements of everyday life, her son's demands requiring her attention. Informed that they must provide a first name for the birth certificate, the young couple is forced to forego Bengali custom, which would allow them to choose a formal name when the child is older. Nonplussed, Ashoke submits the name Gogol, never meant for use as the child's public name. Ashoke makes this choice impulsively, based on the Russian writer Nikolai Gogol, who inspired Ashoke in a very personal manner as a young man.The Ganguli's fit readily into an academic community, where they eventually establish a network of Bengali friends, gathering for holidays and special occasions common to their traditions. Unfortunately, Gogol, a well-mannered and dutiful boy, detests his name, although helpless to change it until he reaches maturity. Gogol and the other second-generation Bengali children become progressively more Americanized, never really participating wholeheartedly in the family gatherings or visits to Calcutta. Still, following a number of relationship experiences, Gogol's perspective changes and he matures into a man who values his family of origin.Gogol's story is actually a simple one, as lived by many multi-cultural citizens of America. The human complaints and complications stem from the dichotomy Gogol endures for most of his early years, but the strength of the writing is in Lahiri's exquisite attention to detail. These people are not strangers; they are our neighbors, friends and fellow workers, whose lives are fraught with indecision and constant change. With enviable ease, Lahiri illuminates the intimate traits that are so appealing and familiar to us all.The Namesake overflows with the subtle grace and dignity of a family forced to make peace with their divided loyalties. Lahiri delves into the heart of the Indian experience, the difficult and tedious adjustments and the inevitable pain of separation. Lahiri's compelling prose flows beautifully into each character's definition. The temperament of the Calcutta-born Ganguli's is brilliantly portrayed, the couple tied to their Indian roots, customs and rituals. From their difficult immigrant experience to Gogol's continuous struggle for comfort in his own skin, the reader is privy to the intricate process of assimilation and the comforting ties of tradition. Affection is generously transferred from one generation to another in The Namesake. Confronted with culture shock and a yearning for acceptance, the novel's focus is familiar territory: the power of family in any land. Luan Gaines/2003.
4 A look into the lives of an Indian family struggling to keep the traditions and lifestyle of their mother country while raising their children in America. A great read.
5 Born to Bengali parents and brought up in America Jhumpa writes about another such kid Gogol Ganguly, in The Namesake. As Gogol grows up, through him Jhumpa depicts with rare sincerity and details the maladies of alienation and identity crisis. She did it with remarkable success in her debut with 'Interpreter of Maladies'. In The Namesake she finds a solution to these apparently inevitable crises the immigrants, why only immigrants, all who have to cope with a mechanized cosmopolitan environment being at the wrong end of cultural relativity, have to face. As an extremely strong metaphorical statement on the predicaments of the Indian immigrants to America, Jhumpa describes how in his childhood once Gogol with his father went to the very tip of the shore into the sea at Cape Cod, to the last rock, surrounded by water on three sides. Later his father told him 'Remember that you and I made this journey, that we went together to a place where there was nowhere left to go.' Gogol's wife Mousumi who in her childhood vowed never to marry a Bengali, tried desperately to find a further destination in French culture - a new identity. But life's fulfillment still deluded her. In this novel 'name' evidently stands for identity and Jhumpa makes Gogol realize and assert 'There is no such thing as a perfect name'. There is never a perfect outline of a culture or a clear definition of an individual in cultural terms. Jhumpa treads into the realm of universalist religious thoughts to escape the crisis.As Gogol's father dies and his mother decides to go back to India, Gogol 'wonders how his parents had done it, leaving their respective families behind, dwelling unconnected, in a perpetual state of expectation, longing...with a stamina he fears he does not possess himself.' Many people came to see the Gangulys on the eve of Gogol's mother Ashima's return to India. 'People talk of how much they've come to love Ashima's Christmas eve parties... They have come to rely on her, Gogol realizes, to collect them together, to organize the holiday, to convert it, to introduce the tradition to those who are new. It has always felt adopted to him, an accident of circumstances, a celebration not really meant to be. And yet was for him, for Sonia (Gogol's sister), that his parents had gone to the trouble of leaning these customs.' Unmistakably reminds of another Bengali, Rabindranath Tagore, Nobel laureate in literature 1913, who in his Hibbert Lectures at Oxford, titled 'Religion of Man', said: "The individual man must exist for Man the Great... on the surface of our being we have the ever-changing phases of the individual self, but in the depth there dwells the Eternal Spirit of human unity beyond our direct knowledge."With this perception as the backdrop we would naturally remember Tao Teh Ching as saying 'the name that can be named is not the real name', in the context of that 'perfect name'. The Namesake is a clear and timely suggestion to transcend the realm of cultural identity and walk the path to the ultimate goal, that of integration. Jhumpa reminds us, preaches the path towards unity with the said 'Man the Great' with great craft in story telling, deft observations and a rare sensitivity.
5 One of the reviewers of "The Namesake" remarked that it flows so effortlessly that the reader forgets he or she is reading a novel.  I had exactly the same experience.  "The Namesake" is about an immigrant family from India and their struggles to adapt in America, but more importantly, the novel speaks to relationships and rituals of family, country and love in a manner that is so simple, yet so elegant, controlled and profound.  Ms. Lahiri has her detractors who say that nothing happens in this novel; I am reminded of critics of Austen who have said the same thing.  However, this novel tells a very believable story that is animated by the author's ability to captivate the reader with unadorned prose that is never false or tentative.  I am truly amazed that this is only her second work of fiction.  Think of Hemingway or Kent Haruf.
5 This is the perfect novel.  Jhumpa Lahiri has written a lyrical, wonderful novel.  Her descriptions pull the reader into every scene without a wasted or extra word.  This author won a Pulitzer for her first collection of short stories and there is no let down in her first novel.  Buy this book and savor it.
4 I enjoyed this book. Lahiri's writing is beautiful and lives up to the promise of her previous book of short stories. This is not an exciting book, it is not gripping or a page turner, but is a well-written story of an immigrant's life. She makes the ordinary beautiful and moving.
5 An insightful introduction into the minds of a society we Indians know nothing about. Excellent. Even better than her Pullitzer prize - winning Interpreter of Maladies. I would give it 6 stars if I could.
5 I first came across Jhumpa Lahiri when I heard one of the haunting stories from "Interpreter of Maladies" read on NPR's short story program. A friend of mine who is an high school English teacher alerted me when "The Namesake" was released and I read it eagerly. I absolutely couldn't put it down. The prose is exquisite and the story is compelling, to me, a naturalized citizen (from the Caribbean). There are at least three different, interwoven storylines: the adaptation and assimilation of the Bengali parents and their children to "America"; the first generation-second generation immigrant conflict between the Bengali parents and the Bengali-American kids; and a coming-of-age story of Gogol Ganguli. Each thread is related to the other two (obviously) and Lahiri does an amazing job of subtly emphasizing each particular thread at different points while not allowing any single thread to dominate the novel. All the characters (even the "minor" characters) are so vividly drawn (with the curious exception of Gogol's sister) that they stay with you long after you have finished reading "The Namesake."
5 For better or worse, Jhumpa Lahiri has masterfully chronicled the lives and experiences of so many South Asians who have grown up in the US.  I have not spoken to any South Asian friends who did not feel that they did not appear in this book at least a little bit.  It's true that The Namesake is not always positive or happy or upbeat but this is the reality of our lives - a little bit sad, a little bit happy... and progressing ever so slowly.Quite simply - I have never read my life so beautifully expressed.
2 It is difficult to believe that the writer of "Interpreter of Maladies" is the same as the author of this novel. The book starts off interestingly enough, describing Gogol's(the main character)  parents, their arranged marriage in Calcutta, and their emigration to America. We then fly through his birth, school years and college years as if the author was in a race to get to the more "juicy" bits of the character's lives. The book then becomes sort of a soap opera, with the characters falling into one cliched scene after another. Hopefully Lahiri's next effort will return to the quality of her prize winning first book.
4 This is a good story but even better is the cultural information about the Bengalis who have come to America to live.
3 I would have preferred a different name for the book. I thought it a bit tiresome, but good subject matter.
3 This book was okay it was something I need for school.  It would not be a book I would pick on my own
5 So very real, and an excellent insight into another culture. As always, the younger generation takes a long time to appreciate the parents' choices.
5 I started listening to this book and couldn't stop. Her prose is so clear and her characters are touching. Gogol was a great character. His lack of a sense of belonging in either Bengali or America was so clearly delineated. I disagree with an earlier reviewer that secondary characters were not fully developed.This is a book I will long remember ane will read again.This is an entire new branch of literature, the American experience through Indian eyes.
5 Enjoyed peeking into another culture who in turn enters our culture.  I worked,with many families coming to America and tried to help the cope.  His story is familiar and beautifully described.
5 Very well written book, compelling characters and story. The author tells a tale about a family's upheaval in moving to a new country, leaving and missing their roots, adapting to the new country, and returning to those roots in some ways.
5 I received this book as a gift of thanks from a wonderful friend.  He always finds unique novels for me, ones that deal with reading and its value in our lives.  "The Namesake" is his penultimate reading theme gift to me.Gogol Ganguli's life is founded in reading, in its importance in Indian culture, and in the stories and characters found in literature.  His father's attachment to the Gogol's short story "The Overcoat" ("The Cloak") is the source of Gogol the son's name and cultural confusion.  His lack of cultural identity while living in a home founded on that identity make him seem hollow.  Gogol fleshes out in his thirties, at the end of the novel, where his story truly begins.I found the novel to be an enlightening view of new first-generation American issues, and a great opportunity to learn about the personal lives of immigrated Indian families.  I think Lahiri's characterizations were also commentaries about Bengali culture in America.
5 I'm not sure why I picked this book up to read, but I'm so glad I did.  The author provided a wonderful insightful look at new immigrants to this country and the tug between generations pulling it together with the conflict Gogol has with his name.  I know very little about the East Indian culture, but I do know something about how sons and daughters can look at the world in an entirely different light than parents.  The lack of understanding and the lack of communication between the parents and Gogal is not specific to East Indians; it is universal.  In short, I loved this book because I grew to love the people in spite of their shortcomings
4 "The Namesake" chronicles the life of two generations of the Ganguli family.  Ashoke Ganguli, born and raised in Calcutta, moves to America in the mid 1960s to complete his engineering studies at MIT.  Upon return to Calcutta during a semester break, he meets and weds Ashima, the marriage arranged by his and her parents.  The newly married couple returns to New England where Ashoke completes his engineering degree and Ashima settles into a life focused on caring for her husband and getting accustomed to life in a new country with traditions that are in stark contrast to hers.  The Ganguli family in America is expanded with the birth of their first child, Gogol.  It is with the introduction of this character that the reader learns of the Bengali tradition of pet names, a tradition in contrast to the American tendency to shorten names.  Throughout the novel Gogol struggles, at first, with having to abandon his pet name (the only name he has ever known himself by), then with having to accept a name he no longer feels attached to.  In this sense, naming serves as a metaphor for the trials experienced by Gogol as a first generation Indian-American trying to carve out an identity that is separate from that of his parents.I found "The Namesake" to be a very well written novel that provides good information on some aspects of Indian culture and the Indian immigrant experience in America.  The characters are realistically drawn and their struggles parallel those of many ethnic groups that arrive in America (or have survived being here) and try to immerse themselves in what it is to be "American" at the expense of the cultural and ethnic experiences from which they came.  The author captures this duality when she writes about the meaning of pet names - "Pet names are a persistent remnant of childhood, a reminder that life is not always so serious, so formal, so complicated.  They are a reminder, too, that one is not all things to all people."In addition to solid writing, interesting and fully realized characters, the novel has provided an excellent opportunity for me to get better acquainted with Indian co-workers.  As I asked them questions about the meaning of words and rituals mentioned in the novel, I found that we shared experiences that I once thought to be unique to my culture.  It is always refreshing to be reminded that the human race is as much alike as we are different.  This is a worthy read that will be of particular interest to those who have had to create a new life in a new place and  that should pretty much cover everyone at some point in life (if you're lucky!)  Enjoy.
3 I've never heard of Jhumpa Lahiri before a friend recommended this book to me.  So I read it with an open mind, not even knowing what the story was about.  It is not a bad book.  The first few chapters describe the live of a couple (Ashima and Ashoke) that move to the U.S. from India.  The plot continues following the live of their son (Gogol).  The chapters about the couple (Ashima and Ashoke) are worth reading; the chapters about Gogol are  there to fill pages -- a complete waste of time.  There might be hundreds of books about the lives of immigrants.  This is not a bad one, but well below Kundera's "Ignorance."(As a warning: pages and pages are spent on meticulous descriptions; this book is just too descriptive for my taste: the kind of cheesse the characters are eating, the brand of this, the color of that... It's easy to get used to Lahiri's way of writing, though.  So after a while, the descriptions are not that painful.)The first few chapters are fairly well developed, and the characters gain some depth as the reader goes into the cultural shock and the feeling of loliness are experienced by Ashima and Ashoke.  Both are likeable individuals, although I can not avoid wondering whether Indian stereotypes were abused by the writer.The plot moves then to follow Gogol's live.  Gogol is not a likeable character.  He is a smart but insecure and spoiled kid.  He experiences the difficulty that many second-generation immigrants may experience -- are they American or are they Indian?  To which Lahiri seems to have a very strong opinion: they are first, and foremost, American.  The character of Gogol, however, is not interesting (and again, it might be just full of stereotypes).  We know about his life just from a series of fortunate and infortunate events to which he just tags along.  The character is very pasive, seems to make no desicions by himself, and does not seem to think at all.  In fact, an astute reader could skip the majority of chapters about Gogol's life without losing any of the meat of the novel.  (It would actually make a great short story!!!).Which brings me to the well delivered end of the novel: it's not about Gogol's misadventures anymore.  At the end, Ashoke and Ashima reappear, and Lahiri delivers a powerful ending.  The character and strenght of Ashoke and Ashima give this book three stars.
5 This was a beautifully written book, captivating and mesmerizing. I was quickly swept into the world of Indian immigrants, of first generation Americans, of the struggle to find a balance between past and present, between tradition and building a future of your own. As a partial immigrant myself (having grown up both in America and Israel, and now moved back to America as an adult), I was fascinated by the author's detail of immigrant life and comments on America as seen by the eyes of foreigners.The only thing I felt lacking in this book was a certain depth to the characters - it seemed the author tried to encompass so many details and so many years into this book, that it came a little bit at the expense of getting to know the main character more deeply. At times it almost seemed like the merging of short stories. Still, I was captivated by the book and its characters, of whom I cannot stop thinking about long after I've finished reading. I anxiously anticipate the author's next novel.
4 I enjoyed getting to know the characters and their background, and grew to love the main character. I loved that the ending was not totally expected or typical. I would definitely recommend reading this!
5 more or less nonstop.  I have to say that I thought the ending kind of had a "let's wrap it up" feel to it, but I think that's kind of a problem with family sagas.This book tells the story of a Bengali man and woman who enter into an arranged marriage in India and immediately move to Boston.  The wife is cut off from her family and because she's not working (her husband is working on a PhD), she is particularly lonely and struggles to adjust to the culture.  The book covers a 30 plus year period, and tells the story of their oldest child, a boy who ends up named Gogol -- a name that was meant as a nickname but ends up on his birth certificate, in part because of cultural differences.  Gogol faces 2nd generation issues of identity, at first trying to distance himself completely from Bengali culture and values and then coming to understand that to do this would isolate him from his family and be psychologically difficult.  Although he marries for love, one can't escape thinking that his parents' marriage worked out much better in the long run.Lahiri is a great story teller (she won a Pulitzer for an earlier collection of short stories, Interpreter of Maladies, which is well worth reading).  As the daughter of an immigrant from Britain, I sympathized with much of what Gogol experiences, living with a parent who regards "home" as being in another country.  At one point in this book, the acronym ABCD is used -- American-born Confused/Conflicted Desh (Indian).  And that is what much of this book is about -- the conflicts of both first and second generation Indian immigrants.
5 Let me preface this review by saying that I am not normally drawn to fiction of any sort. By chance, I picked up Lahiri's "The Namesake" at the airport a few days ago and found myself unexpectedly moved by her prose.  Lahiri's writing is uncomplicated, yet detailed, making the reader feel like a fly on the wall, observing family intimacy and individual growth.  The context is a young immigrant couple acclimating to American culture, but their experiences draw upon more universal themes that resonate with anyone.  Romance, family love and strife, coming of age, sacrifice and growth, life and death are some of the major chords in this gripping story.  Beautifully written and a quick read may make me a fan of fiction yet.
4 This book started out really well but lost it's momentum 3/4's of the way thru otherwise I would have rated it higher.All in all I did enjoy reading it but thinks this author should stick to short stories. I read &#34;The Interpreter of Maladies&#34; and really enjoyed that book of short stories by this same author.
3 Like every book, getting through the first chapter of this one was quite the task -- one must really, truly, try to get through it; in the beginning pages, it just seems like nothing is happening... sure the author's words are being read but it's just huge blocks of text describing every, little, minute detail and that can be a hassle. However, after getting over the hump you realize that this writing style is essential to the thematic statements this book makes and how it notes that this is life: just a lot of details and nothing more. Great book full of just life moments, chronicling the life of an Indian boy struggling between two cultures and how he deals with it into manhood.
5 I really had no idea what I was getting into, but I ended up engrossed. For me it brought to my memory a trip to India and the various cultural differences. Actually it was more tha that. It explained some previous questions I had no specific knowledge of - even though I live with the Bahranians.
3 I just finished reading "The Namesake" by Jhumpa Lahiri and I am still trying to figure out if I liked it or not. There was no story, per say. There was no mysterie to solve, no one to really root for, no hero. The story is a 30 year slice of life of the Ganguli family - how the husband and wife married, how the wife joined her husband in America while he was in school, them having children and the children growing up. The book was slow, sometimes even boring and it was easy for me to not like the main character, Gogol (the son), because he was never happy about anything and he was always whining to himself about something. But through all this, Lahiri is illustrating the importance of traditions and how they can be simultaneously comforting, necessary, burdening and sometimes hated. This, I believe, is what Lahiri is trying to show her readers. I ended up really liking this book, but it didn't move fast enough for me and at times felt like a chore. The content of traditions and family values and relations is in there - in fact it is quite strong at times, however the way that Lahiri presented it was too slow for me to want to seek out her other works. One thing that stood out for me with this book though, was the food. Lahiri made me so hungry in the way she described the food in how it was prepared and what was in it, describing how it tasted and what it looked like. I wrote down some of the foods so that I can look them up and try them out.
5 "The Namesake" is the story of Gogol Ganguli, a man born to Indian parents who moved to America shortly after they were married. Gogol's name has always been a source of deep resentment for him, as it is neither Indian or American. Eventually Gogol opts to have his name legally changed before he leaves for college. In addition to adjusting to his new name, Gogol continues with a struggle he's faced his entire life: How to relate to and maintain his Indian culture while living on American soil. Gogol rejects most things about his heritage, preferring to lead a more "Americanized" lifestyle. His choices create a barrier between him and his family, but try as he might, Gogol never feels completely at ease within the American culture, either. He establishes a successful career for himself and has has several serious relationships, but Gogol never really finds a comfortable place for himself in this world. Eventually he finds happiness with an Indian woman, of all people, who relates to him on so many levels. However, Moushumi has her own way of rebelling, and at the end of the novel we find Gogol back at the very place his life began, where he begins to rediscover himself.I fell in love with this book after reading the first few pages, and I couldn't put it down. I enjoyed it even more than author Jhumpa Lahiri's collection of short stories, "Interpreter of Maladies." Lahiri writes in a simple yet emotional style that is rich in detail. Although the novel revolves around Gogol, Lahiri occasionally shifts perspective and gives the reader a glimpse of the story from the eyes of Gogol's parents and Moushumi. All of the characters make a lot of mistakes, but I was able to easily relate to and empathize with each of them.This is a book about family, identity, heritage, and self-discovery. You don't have to be the child of immigrants in order to relate to the process of pulling apart from your family and discovering the person you're destined to become. I think this book has something to offer everyone, and it also happens to be a beautiful, poignant story. "The Namesake" is a must-read.
5 What happens when a couple from India moves to the US and starts a family of their own?  Acculturation in its many different forms is highlighted in this highly readable "snapshot" of Indian-American culture.  The story follows a couple from their arranged marriage to the US where they have children and form their own family.  The children acculturate much faster than the parents (one even changing his name) and the story follows their lives as well.  Lahiri is an amazing writer who can make a long book seem like an enjoyable film.
5 I love books that deal with immigrant experiences and cultural interfaces, and this was an excellent example of one.  The novel introduces you to Gogol and his parents, explaining their natures, feelings, and experiences with immense clarity and gentleness.  While the plot was intriguing, the primary driver of the novel was the characters and the sometimes peculiar and uncomfortable circumstances they encounter as new Americans.  I would recommend this book to anyone.
4 With anything but the thickest of prose on many of the pages which are complete with the littlest of details,  we traverse 30+ years of the life of the namesake -- a boy then a man) of  Indian descent named Gogol who is born and raised in the educational affluence of New England. We learn that Gogol -- as different from us as most anyone -- lives through much of what we would think is experienced (or could be experienced) by anyone we know.Sometimes, I marvel at just how sharp a woman Lahiri is.  She beautifully depicts  a young man's thoughts, etc. Sometimes, I loved how she displayed his lack of emotions or inappropriate emotions -- and how they intruded upon his social life.Baby Gogol and Adult Gogol are sad -- they culminate to be the tragic character which would often have been the subject of  his namesake -- Nikolav Gogol.  Maybe sadder. He is like the Portnoy of the Indian clan. In a life of extraordinary achievement, he achieves little in family or other personal relationships over the span of 30+ years.  He feels inconsequential in contrast to the famous writing career of  Nikolav whose life spanned the same period of time as  his own -- about 30 years.This is not the masterpiece of "Interpreter of Maladies."  It is not -- in short -- another masterpiece.  But, it is fun reading. Easy reading.  The author deserved the Pulitzer for her "Interterpreter"  and this book is not a work to which she should not also be proud.The end of the book is timed to equal the end of the life of the original to the name Gogol.  In his 30's, we can only hope that the Namesake's life kickstarts out of the doldrums he experienced in his past and that he emerges to be a more complete human being.  If I had to wager on this point, I would bet on the Namesake winning.
4 I really liked this book. I picked this up after reading Interpreter of Maladies because I liked Lahiri's writing style. This was a good book with everything you look for in a story. Great characters, a writing style that keeps you engaged, and enough conflict and successes that you get caught up in the world that the author has laid out for you.
4 The Bengali culture of the Ganguli family and its assimilation to life in the United States is central to this work. The Namesake, through intriguing and well-drawn characters, succeeds at raising questions about what it is truly like to be both a visible immigrant in this country and, more pointedly, a first generation American--offspring of Indian immigrants.The primary focus, and the reason it's called The Namesake, is because of the main character, Gogol, and his obsession with his name. Like the author herself, "Jhumpa," this boy is unwilling to give up his traditional, "pet" name, when he becomes school-aged and is suddenly expected to use a "good name," Nikhil. Thus begins the conflict of the generations.Gogol develops into a brooding, selfish character and in spite of his confusing upbringing, this reader found little reason to find him sympathetic. Thankfully, the storytelling alternates perspectives, going beyond the young boy sulking over his odd name, to that of his parents, Ashimi and Ashoke, together by way of arranged marriage, and includes Gogol's various love interests, not the least being his ultimate wife, the very unlikable Moushumi. Each of these characters is fleshed-out, arousing interest and empathy, and make the story absolutely readable. Additionally, there's a lot of focus on food, and the author described the meals and specialties so well, I could almost taste them.To use Gogol's own conclusion (that appears a mere five pages from the end) "his family's life feels like a string of accidents, unforeseen, unintended, one incident begetting another." It begins in the 1960s, is written in present tense, and jumps across chunks of time until it comes to its conclusion in the year 2000. This story left me with a feeling of empathy for Indian immigrants and made me truly wonder what it was like to walk in their sandals.Michele Cozzens, Author of A Line Between Friends and The Things I Wish I'd Said.
5 I LOVED this book! It was very interesting and kept me reading far into the night! I would definitely recommend it to a friend!
4 Really 4 1/2 stars - it's a wonderful book that sort of stays with you...you find yourself wondering about the family...missing them a little!  You won't regret taking a chance on this book.
4 You've heard this story before. Junot Diaz, Julia Alvarez, Anzia Yezierska, and Edwidge Danticat are just a few of the authors who have told their own versions. The story they all have in common: The immigrant experience in the United States. Each of the above authors tackles this subject from a different enthnographic perspective, but the pull between the old (native) culture and the new (immigrant) one is always present.Pulitzer prize winning author Jhumpa Lahiri adds to this conversation with "The Namesake" (her first novel which was a follow up to her short story collection "Interpreter of Maladies" which won the Pulitzer): the epic story of the Ganguli family's arrival and assimilation into the world of the United States.The story begins when Ashoke and his wife (of an arranged marriage), Ashima, come to Massachusetts where Ashoke is a graduate student at MIT. The year is 1968. At the beginning of the novel Ashima is pregnant with her first child, a son.In Bengali culture, it is common for people to have a formal name and a pet name (nickname). Ashoke has no problem coming up with a nickname for their son: Gogol. Unfortunately, due to a variety of mishaps and misunderstandings, the formal name proves harder to settle on and even harder to enforce. So Gogol Ganguli grows up with only a pet name--one that is not American, or Indian, or a first name.No one really cares that Gogol's name is so unique, except Gogol whose anxiety over his name is bothersome enough that no external taunts are necessary. Gogol eventually resolves to rename himself, but not after learning the life-changing story that inspired his father give Gogol his name in the first place.Despite the vast period Lahiri writes about, the novel's focus remains narrowly focused on the characters, especially Ashima and her son. Despite the authenticity that Lahiri brings to her main characters, certain scenes remain naggingly artificial--feeling simultaneously improbable and contrived.Lahiri's writing here (I've yet to read her short stories) is beautiful without being pretentious or overly self-aware. The story feels authentic and compelling despite the fact that so many of the cultural references remain worlds away.Even more interesting is the fact that I enjoyed almost the entire novel despite having a strong dislike of Gogol and several of the secondary characters. (I'd say more about what this means in terms of the writing style/skill but I still haven't figured out how that happened.) Despite my misgivings throughout the novel, Gogol does work toward redeeming himself by the end of the story.Regardless of my nitpicks, "The Namesake" remains a must for anyone interested in the immigrant experience in America. Lahiri's narrative hearkens back to Jeffrey Eugenides' "Middlesex" which has a similar scope, tracing three generation's relationship with Detroit."The Namesake" deals with common themes but, as any good book should, Lahiri makes these subjects new and original with her unique characters and wonderful writing.
2 Jhumpa Lahiri's "The Namesake" contains some wonderful prose, excellent description, and her characterizations are generally good. Sadly, there is little else to compliment.For a writer who recently won the Pulitzer Prize, it is surprising that Lahiri fails on the most basic level of any story: there is no real conflict in "The Namesake." The only attempt at conflict is the main character's occasional problems with his first name, "Gogol." (Gogol's father decides to name his son after the Russian author, Nikolai Gogol.) This is hardly enough of a conflict to carry a 300 page novel. Besides his first name, Gogol's only experiences with adversity are the death of his father, which Lahiri fails to explore with any detail, and the break up of a relationship. (Poor Gogol finds himself a new girlfriend a chapter later.)While Lahiri tends to know her characters well, she does very little with Gogol's only sister, Sonia. We barely know her.  Gogol's father dies suddenly mid-way through the novel, but Lahiri doesn't use this life altering event to add any significance to the novel.The reader will find very little story here. As a writer, Jhumpa Lahiri is simply capable of much more.
5 I'm glad I didn't read the reviews before reading the book, because I would have known the outcome of Gogol's relationships with women.  Since the book has a strict chronology with few digressions, it moves forward as life does: we don't know where it's headed and don't really want to know.Lahiri is a terrific writer, as every review attests.  Her greatest talent is in drawing her characters.  The reader feels like one of the gang at the endless string of parties that take place in this book. What's Gogol's email address? I want to find out how his mother's doing and wish him well.If you like Namesake, try Brick Lane by Monica Ali.  It's another Bengali family saga, set in London, with political resonance.  And Lahiri's short stories are gems.
4 The Namesake is a compelling examination of the immigrant experience, but it's more than that. Lahiri does a beautiful job of letting her characters slowly unfold over the course of the story. The characters and the overall feel of the story stayed with me for a long time afterwards. I would definitely read more of Lahiri's work.
5 Imaginative, human, complex and rich-Lahiri is a gifted writer whom I pray will keep producing new work. Gogol's suburban outsider experience has left all clich&eacute;s by the wayside, and we, the reader,  are introduced to an experience we want to stick with for a long time.
4 This is one of the few books that I have read that did not have to tie the title back into the story as it was inter woven all throughout the book. Its a effortless read and provides quite a bit of insight into struggles of immigrants and provides a very good perspective of understanding completely different priorities through the eyes of 3 completely different persons that share a very strong blood bond.If you have liked the Kite Runner, Shantaram, The Bee Keepers Daughter, you will definitely appreciate this book.I would recommend the book, but not the movie, the screenplay does not do justice to the literary content of the book.
4 The Namesake tells the story of a family who starts out in Calcutta and ends up in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Ashoke and Ashima Ganguli - married in an arranged marriage - come to Cambridge for Ashoke's faculty position at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).  He tries his best to adapt to the United States, but Ashima really misses India.  Soon, they have a son, and their difficulty in naming him becomes the basis of the novel's title.  In India people have a "good" name - a formal name - and a pet name used by close family and friends.  The Gangulis write to family in India to ask the grandmother to determine their baby's good name.  Unfortunately, the American hospital where their son is born demands a name immediately, and they have to use their son's pet name, Gogol - named after Ashoke's favorite Russian writer - as his given name.The story initially focuses on Ashoke & Ashima's struggle to adapt to the US, but then quickly changes to look at Gogol and his experience as a second-generation Indian-American.  Gogol's naming experience seems to serve as a metaphor for his life, as he is never entirely clear of his identity or how he fits into the world.  The Namesake continues into his high school years, college and life as an adult living on his own.I initially picked up The Namesake because I had so much enjoyed Interpreter of Maladies, Jhumpa Lahiri's other work (although Interpreter of Maladies is a collection of short stories rather than a novel).  I did enjoy The Namesake, but it didn't have quite the oomph and emotional power of Interpreter of Maladies.  That said, I found it worth the read.
3 I really liked the "Interpreter of Maladies" and did not like this book so much. I am a south asian living in the States and was sorry to see the book typecasting all indians in a particular light. There was nothing new for me.A typical south asian story ....
1 Having read Lahiri's short stories, I was expecting another example of insightful and poignant prose by the author.  I was disappointed.  After a few pages, I was able to surmise that neither the style, nor the development of her characters was in any way satisfying.  This piece of writing was an endless recitation of events in a life of an Indian family in the U.S.  Lahiri does not bother developing any of the characters sufficiently for the reader to care about them; instead she focuses on describing every minute detail of their mundane life.  As I forced myself to finish reading this book, I had to remind myself that this author was awarded the Pulitzer prize in literature.
5 This book is very similar in style and structure to the "The Amateur Marriage" by Anne Tyler which I also recently read. Both jump through time, go across the generations, start in the city and end in the suburbs. Both are written often as vignettes describing details and what people do as if by a hidden observer on the scene. This one is set mainly later in time starting at the midpoint in time of the Amateur Marriage (1968) with a new set of immigrants to America.I can relate to a lot of the experiences in the book, though I am not Indian and didn't grow up in the US. I have had a lot of Indian friends including Bengalis so I guess that helps. I grew up in modern orthodox Judaism in England which is as exotic as being Indian in America. Both my parents were immigrants to the UK. Now I live in America (have also lived in Israel and Australia) and am not religious now.  There is very much a shared experience. The book is very accurate about lots of things at the emotional and cultural level. The book is fairly accurate in describing academia (I am a professor - another reviewer said it is much less accurate about architecture).I often found myself in environments of very different cultural and social millieu where I am not quite in place just as Gogol finds himself. With different partners of different ethnic backgrounds... In fact I am never in place, a perpetual voluntary refugee.I was struck by going through the reviews that the people who seemed more likely to be immigrants mostly liked it a lot whereas the others varied more some loving it and some hating it. So I think the author must have got things right!
4 The story, in general, was about the lives of Bengali migrants, how they fit in their new surroundings, and how their children reacted to Bengali traditions and customs. It is quite similar to a few other books before it. But The Namesake is written well and reading it is every bit as enjoyable as watching a movie. It is a little "chick-lit" but I liked it.
5 I love this book. I love all of this author's books; she is so engaging with her writing. Please write another one!
5 Jhumpa's incredible attention to detail brings to life what would otherwise be a rather plaid tale. The premise is not new - but the presentation, characters and tone certainly is. Being a Bengali, I know what "Desh" means to one from Calcutta - and I am glad that Jhumpa has been able to amply capture it in words.
5 I was totally drawn into this story.  I enjoy reading about people of different cultures.  It describes not just cultural clashes experienced by two generations at work, in the community, and at school it talks about adaptation and how keeping the old and incorporating the new (or not) forms character and shapes lives.  Highly recommended.
5 A wonderful view of what it might be like to be brought up by parents from a different culture than the country you are living in.  Well written, clear and accessible.  A little slow for those used to thrillers or mysteries but worth reading.
4 Lahiri has created an evocative masterpiece, a minutely detailed world that the reader can imagine tasting, smelling and hearing.  The description begins in the first paragraph with a vivid account of a heavily pregnant woman and her unusual cravings.  Other reviews cite Lahiri's gift for chronicling the outsider experience; I have never lived anywhere other than the US but I think everyone has felt slightly different at times, and she captures that sentiment perfectly.  It is remarkable that the more specific a piece of writing is, the more universal it can feel.  On the whole, lovely description of a family's experience; the reader should expect no cliffhangers here.
4 loved this book...well written, loved the characters...good discussion book for book clubs....read it!!
5 The story was very good, I truly enjoy reading the book was not able to put it down. As a foreigner the story feels like true.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  It is a fairly easy read, with several thought-provoking themes.  The book has a pervasive sense of melancholy, which can be at times overwhelming.  Even the "happy" events, like Gogol's wedding, are somehow sad.  I enjoyed this book enough that I will now take on Lahiri's Pulitizer-winning Interpreter of Maladies.  Perhaps there's a happy story or two in there!
4 I had seen the movie in time passed.  Story was well developed, keeping my attention.  The story line got a little too long after the death of the father.  Still worth a read
4 In a word, wonderful!  Lahiri is a master storyteller who has an eye for detail and quirky observations.  The story of Gogol Ganguli feels very real because it mixes the right amount of humor, heartache and cultural confusion.  I highly recommend The Namesake, which is Lahiri's only full-length novel (her other books are collections of short stories).  The film version staring Kal Penn is quite good, but not as great as the novel.
5 This is the story of a Bengali woman, recently moved to the United States to be with her husband.  It follows her life and once born, also follows the life of her son.  The story is more summary than actual events, describing what's happening rather than telling it as it's happening.  That usually annoys me, but the author is an excellent writer and I couldn't put the book down.I felt a strong connection with both the mother and son, understand their frustrations with one another and their lives even though they are very different people.  This book was deeply moving and definitely worth the read.
3 But on the whole, it was just okay. I really loved the cultural background, seeing the relationship of Gogol to his parents, hearing about Calcutta. But the coming of age story itself was sadly pretty bland. Ultimately I was more interested in the culture than the characters.
2 Jhumpa Lahiri met with much acclaim following her debut collection of short stories " The Interpreter of Maladies". I was greatly impressed with her stories and that led me to read her new novel. Unfortunately I must disagree with the rave reviews this novel has received. I found the entire premise on which this novel is based, the oddity of a person's name and how it appears to effect his entire his life all the way to adulthood rather contrived and implausible. The characters in this novel are only mildly interesting. The premise may have worked as a short story but as a novel it seems to drag, gathering  as it goes along, a humdrum collection of tedious details of the life of an immigrant Indian couple and their children none of which are interesting enough to hold any attention. I beleive that the story of Indian immigrants in the US has not been adequately told. There are some other writers such as Bharati Mukherjee who have tackled the same territory but often with their own prejudices and biases. Jhumpa Lahiri has a more refreshing and immediate style but this novel stays only in a half-lit and somewhat subdued state leaving the reader with a vague sense of dissatisfaction. Sarita Chaudhary's narration in the audio version of this book is not upto par. She seems to narrate the story with the speech inflections of a 12 year old shoolgirl and with little variance for different characters.
5 Jhumpa Lahiri is a great author. Her depiction of immigrant life in the U.S. compares favorably with her Pulitzer prize winning novel-Interpreter of Maladies. I look forward to reading more of her works,
5 The Namesake by Jhumpa Lahiri is a stunningly well-written fiction that delves into the repercussions of a Bengali couple who moves to American and raises their children in the greater Boston area. In the pages of this excellent work we bear witness to culture clash, generational gap, the stress of living half a world away from your family, as well as the normal trials and tribulations experienced by people of all cultures. The Namesake is a striking look into this, and Lahiri paints a wonderful collage on the pages of this book. To say the least, I was blown away by this emotionally wrenching tale that the author spins here.That may sound like a promo, but it's absolutely accurate. When I picked up the book I wasn't expecting much, maybe because it resembled Tara Bahrampour's To See and See Again. Both authors are women, from the East, raised in America, and living in NYC. After having read Bahrampour's decent yet whining novel about a life torn across the globe, I wasn't in the mindset this would offer much more than that. Added to this was that slew of accommodation on the cover of the book, as the vast majority of books on the best seller list are collections of unreadable tripe.Much to my surprise, Lahiri's book takes off from page one, in a slow and embracing narrative, and never looks back. The book, despite the absence of many light reading pages (dialog, in general) took me 3 days to read. It was so embracing I literally had difficulties putting it down. Lahiri writes in the same slow & methodical, yet brilliantly effective way that John Updike does. The initial pages are somewhat thick, resplendent with the literary glue that serves as the base of the story. Once snared in that thickness it's impossible to come out until the book dumps you on its own accord.The subject matter is also much like what Updike writes about: real life. It doesn't need to be Updike's middle America or Lahiri's cross-world transplants that tell the story. Both authors deal with what they know, and each of them has a firm grasp of real life and the so-called trials and tribulations inherent there. Lahiri's story takes on a more modern approach, where Updike tends to favor a sort of coal miner's town setting.Regardless, they're both excellent at writing this style. For me, I find more resonance with Lahiri since I'm more familiar with the city life than the blue collar worker, as well as more familiar with the time period she grew up in than Updike. But that's neither here nor there. The point is that Lahiri compares very favorably with Updike, if you like one you're bound to like the other.The story itself is about a Bengali couple from Calcutta that is married by arrangement then moves to Massachusetts. They have 2 children and experience life as you might expect a pair of displaced Bengalis raising children in America might. They struggle with the solitary existence in America, as opposed to the family based life they knew in Calcutta. They struggle with American children raised with American culture and adopting American values. It is a common story in real life, something many of us know too well.The result is a life-like account, dazzling in it's ability to draw you in. The main character, Gogol, is the entry point in the story but it could have been any of the characters and the narrative wouldn't have lost it's potency. Mostly through his eyes you see how the story transpires, though at times the narrative takes place in the life of another character, briefly shedding light on some other perspective in the book.In short, this is an extremely well-written and emotionally potent book. All the praise that I see author Jhumpa Lahiri getting is well deserved, and I look forward to reading more from her in the future. This is an excellent way to get to know the workings of this writer. Extremely well done and highly recommended.
5 A great read and one that floes smoothly.  I really enjoyed this novelan would reccommend it to all.  Thumbs up
5 I'm a fan. Lahiri has a wonderful delicate touch when writing about issues of assimilation, culture clash and sensitivities between first generation immigrants and their American-born children. Very well done.
4 The consequences of an unusual name given at birth  can  effect the child going through school and even into his adult years.
3 This book has been sitting on my shelf for quite a while... probably well over a year. But every time I picked it up, I got sidetracked and found something else to read. I finally decided that I was going to start - and finish - it. I read it within about 4-5 days, which may seem pretty fast, but lately, that's somewhat slow for me. I'm not entirely sure how I feel about this book. I think it's a good read, but it's not something that I would pick up and read again.I really liked learning about the lives of Ashoke and Ashima; how they grew up in India, traveled to the US, and adjusted to the American lifestyle. I like learning and reading about different cultures, how they live and how being emerged in a new life can be incredibly challenging. The struggles they faced while attempting to adjust and while trying to name Gogol were very well portrayed. They really wanted to keep the tradition of having a grandmother name the baby, but when that wasn't possible, they had to choose something else.We mostly follow Ashoke, Ashima and Gogol's life throughout this book, and I wish I could have read about Sonia's perspective growing up as an Indian-American. I found it fascinating getting the perspective if Gogol, how he felt about his name, and how he almost felt ashamed about his parents and their culture. It seems as though the older he got, the more he came to accept his culture, his background and him family, but it must be incredibly difficult feeling like that as you grow up and being a parent watching your child stray from his culture. Overall, I thought this book was good, but like I said, nothing that I would probably reread.Pagesofcomfort.blogspot.com
4 I enjoy reading stories about India and the far east. The author writes beautifully and I felt I truly got to know each character. I will read all the other books by this author because I enjoy her style of writing. Amy Tan is an author who writes similarly
2 Maybe this book should have been half as long.  By the end of the book, I really had no interest in what Gogol was thinking or doing.  The initial descriptions of the Ganguli family's struggles to adapt to life in the United States was interesting both between generations and genders.  I particularly liked the food adaptions.  I felt more sympathy for Gogol's parents and their struggles than for him.For those readers interested in a book for young people about a young girl and her family from India and her cultural adaption to Iowa, I recommend Blue Jasmine by Kashmira Sheth.
1 Honestly, I hated this book.  The reviewer who said Lahiri is a short story writer who tried to stretch one (short story) into a novel is correct.  Right on the money.  While Lahiri's prose is cool and controlled in "The Namesake," it is also flat and the book is just plain boring, trite and so cliched.  I hated every minute I spent reading it.  Everything was flat, everything was so...blah.I hated this book from the first page to the last and I won't be reading Lahiri again.  I think she's just a boring writer with very little to say.  If any of her characters really do resemble real people, I don't want to know them.Blah.
4 I bought this book because I enjoyed Interpreter of Maladies.  What I love most about Lahiri's writing is her ability to incorporate details in an economical way.  Some say that she spends too much time with the details - what one ate, wore, etc. - but I disagree.  In fact, the way she writes is what I love most about her fiction, and as an aspiring writer, I hope to one day write as well as she.  With some writers, less is more, and more is too much.  Not so with Lahiri.  Everything that she writes needs to be there.  Rarely is any detail superfluous.  If a reader says he is turned off by the detail of the lifestyles of the people Gogol socializes with, I think that would be Lahiri's intention.Though I found Gogol's story to be a bit cynical and predictable at times, I did enjoy this book overall.  The parts of the book that involved Gogol's father, Ashoke, were the most touching to me.  There were a couple of moments involving Ashoke that had me wiping tears from my face.One caveat: the paperback's back mentioned that there were "comical" moments in Gogol's life.  I think this is a little misleading; it's not dry or heavy reading, but just don't expect to laugh out loud at any point in the book.Overall, if you're a fan of Interpreter of Maladies, I recommend The Namesake.
4 I read this book because my daughter's freshman college class was asked  to read it, so I knew it must be something pretty special. It's not a book I would have been likely to pick up otherwise.Though my grandfather was a first generation Italian, I think the book was so unique to me because I knew very little about the Indian culture.It was a beautifully told story and portrayed well the tension that a first generation American feels, wanting to fit in and sometimes ashamed of his parents' eccentricities, yet grateful for the sacrifices they've made to provide for their children.Worth the read!
4 Gogol, born to Indian immigrant parents in Cambridge, MA, is officially an American. But as he grows into uneasy adulthood, he comes to hate his odd nickname, legally changes it to Nikhil, moves into the NY home of typical American WASPs and begins to live what he hopes is the Good Life. But he cannot transcend his roots, and the pains of being somehow different continue to haunt him.Not as good as Lahiri's Interpreter of Maladies, her first book which won the Pulitzer, but a worthy follow-up and a worthy read.
5 I'm a first-generation American myself, and found I could relate so strongly to the situations and choices confronting the characters in Lahiri's little gem of a novel. She captures well the subtle--but not painless--shifts a family makes over the years as it moves toward assimilation.And she does so in a thousand ways. One of the images that has stayed with me long after I read the book is in the opening scene, of the pregnant young women trying to concoct from incredients she bought in a US supermarket a spicy snack she had enjoyed in Indian that was sold on the streets of Calcutta.It's the accumulation of these small details that makes this novel ring so true.  All of us have felt some sort of cultural disconnect at some point in our lives. So it is very easy to identify with Lahiri's characters.I'm eagerly waiting for more titles from this author.
4 When I first tried, I could not get into it.  On a second attempt, I became totally hooked.  It is a truly interesting window into a lifestyle I know nothing about.
5 This is an elegant, descriptive, charming study of the struggle for personal and cultural identity for a young Bengali man, from his birth to his thirtieth birthday."Stuck" with a name he feels hard to understand or to explain, Gogol Ganguli is the somewhat gifted offspring of a first-generation couple from Calcutta. Through and arranged marriage and another arranged scholarship, Gogol's parents find themselves the parents of a son in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1971. Struggling for a name that will allow the couple some sense of cultural identity and independence in this vast, cold, western country, Gogol's dad reaches into his past to informally name his son, thinking that they will have a chance to give him a more formal name at a less stressful, later time. But that is not to be.The family adds a daughter, the son prospers well enough to attend Yale, and the children slowly reject many of the ways of their parents, assimilating rather than embracing American culture as their own. The parents move the family to the suburbs; the son goes off to college and then to graduate school in New York, accumulating one significant romantic episode. In New York, Gogol experiences the rich texture of American economic and social elitism, easily falling in with an upscale crowd and a glamorous new flame. Tragedy kills that relationship but allows Gogol to move on with his life for perhaps one last chance at love. Again, Gogol falls in quickly with a gorgeous woman. Let's not spoil the ending other than to say it is not implausible, predictable or unpleasant.Without simplifying the obvious, Lahiri writes very, very well. The words, images, scenes, thoughts and episodes flow smoothly, with color and clarity. The book draws in the reader, brings a smile to your face, and adds a warm sense of acknowledgement as to the authenticity of characters and the culture. The reader experiences Boston, New Hampshire, Manhattan and Brooklyn and Calcutta in enjoyable detail. The Russian connection adds a point of revelation for Gogol when he learns the origin of his name as well as third dimension to the rich palate, as does Lahiri's attention to food, taste, color, temperature, trains, and seasons.
5 Jhumpa Lahiri weaves a genuine tale of a Bengali family in Boston. This novel depicts the clash of old world family traditions and contemporary American life.As a fellow author I can appreciate her talent.Writer Interruptus and Other Stories
5 The book is a fast paced kind of book. It zooms through life over a period of 30 years in the whole book. A bit dry in the beginning but picks up after the first half.
4 When this book was first released 4 years ago, I was in Bombay. I had dismissed the book after cursorily reading a few scattered pages. I was intrigued that one of my favorite Indian directors, Mira Nair was filming this book. I did not remember the book to lend itself to a movie. But then, recently, i watched the preview of the film on itunes and then picked up this book again.As i have been living in the United States for the past couple of years, the immigrant experiences, which the lead characters, Ashima and Ashoke Ganguli go through, resonated loud and clear with meAshima's irritation at not having mustard oil to complete her snack or her observation of the American people, or her gradual, but definite acceptance of the "american way of life", is poignantly etched out by the author. The experience which binds Ashima to the U.S (of being devastated at leaving all her gifts which she has shopped for, back in the train but getting it all back the next day from the lost and found department, without as much as a "teaspoon" missing), or her calls to her son who is etching out his American life in New York, are moments which i am sure will be effortlessly translated to the screen under Ms Nair's deft direction.But the book falters when it talks about its lead character, "The Namesake", Gogol (Ashima's son) and his experiences, be it his love affairs or his world. It is almost as if nothing is happening, the pace slackens, the character lives out his confusion, but the only thing which keeps it going is the luminous prose, describing his "in-between" world.But it is in describing Ashima's frailties and confidences, in her maternal instincts and love, that this book comes alive.Read this for the namesake's mother...Ashima!
4 Not only was the story interesting but I learned a great deal about Bengalese culture andf practices.  It also gave me a greater understanding of the difficulties of coming from a foreign land to the United States.  I had (much earlier) fund a difference between my east coast upbringing and the California lifestyle, so I could empathize somewhat.
5 I read this book as soon as it came out, having loved Jhumpra Lahiri's collection of short stories, and I was not disappointed.  I re-read it not long ago, and was just as enraptured as I was the first time.  No wonder Ms. Lahiri has won a pulitzer.  She's one heck of a writer.
5 This was one of the best books I have read recently.  After reading Ms.  Lahiri's first book, Interpreter of Maladies, I was looking forward to reading this book.  If her first book was deserving of the pulitzer prize then this book certainly meets those expectations and deserves many accolades.  The author uses the same short story flare to create a capturing and turnpaging novel.  The characters are developed so quickly, and the reader gets to know so much about them within a short time.  I got connected to all the characters in some manner as soon as I encountered them.  It is a touching novel with a lot of twists and turns.  I just could not wait to find out what would happen next with the main character Gogol.  The ending is surprising and also made me think about the whole story.  I am not going to give it away, so you have to read it in order to find out what happens :)I look forward to her next book.
4 There have been many novels about identity problems of immigrants and about how this adds to the traditional tensions between young people and their parents, when the young grow up in one culture while their parents retain behaviour patterns of the country they came from; but this novel is an exceptionally subtle treatment of this subject.  The central figure, Gogol Ganguli, born in America to Bengali immigrant parents, has all these difficulties, in addition to labouring under a first name he dislikes, (and we learn how he came to be given that name).  But he has another name, Nikhil, which he uses to distance himself from his family.All the characters are beautifully and often tenderly drawn, and we learn a lot about Bengali customs. The book is mostly about Gogol' relationships during his first 32 years - with his parents and with a succession of young women.  Those with the young women all end disappointingly for Gogol, and there is a wistful, melancholic, slightly depressing air about the book.  There are long passages describing the surroundings of the characters in minute and evocative detail - whether it is the landscape, the weather or domestic interiors.  The same detailed treatment is given to small every-day actions of the characters, although they often have little to do with the plot - almost as if they are as important as the emotional journeys that are at the heart of the book.  In fact, I think, it distracts attention from that journey;  and,  together with Lahiri's use of the Historic Present throughout the novel (an irritating device for which I can see no particular reason), I felt just a little weary of the details and the style towards the end.  But I still found it a book of considerable quality, which I am glad to have read.
2 Jhumpa Lahiri's greatest strength is her characterization, and that is evident in this, her first novel.  But, Lahiri forgot to write a plot.  The Namesake, in essence, is a chronicle of the failed relationships of the protagonist.  There is no tension, there is no climax.  Lahiri's descriptions of the quirky family Gogol Ganguli comes from are what makes the book possible to get through.  Lahiri makes Nikolai Gogol an overriding theme of the novel, the main character is named after him, and his work is sporadically referenced, but no seminal assertion about Gogol is made.  Just like Gogol's mother's saris, he is just part of the setting, nothing more.  The writer Gogol is the namesake in the title, but the book would have been essentially the same if references to Gogol the author had been omitted.  The Namesake has glimpses of greatness, and Lahiri's description and characterization paired with a gripping plot would make a great novel.  But, The Namesake is not that novel.  It is just long, and flat.
5 THE NAMESAKE by Jhumpa LahiriMarch 10, 2007Rating ***** (5 Stars)Pulitzer Prize-winning author Jhumpa Lahiri's THE NAMESAKE is the tale of immigrants who come from India and raise their family in America, a country they adopt, all the while keeping their own traditions intact. "The Namesake" refers to Gogol, their first born, who grows up at first accepting his name, but later rejecting it to the point where he changes it legally as an adult. Gogol's name represents his father's hopes for a bright future, stemming from a massive train wreck that Gogol's father survived. A turning point in Ashoke Ganguli's life, it is this tragedy that shapes his future family's life, taking him to America and a few years later, bringing back with him to this foreign land his new wife Ashima.While the book starts with Ashoke and Ashima's early life, it is really Gogol that becomes the main focus as he grows up as an American, but is constantly reminded that he is of Indian descent, thus in some ways setting him apart from his peers. But as an adult, he makes it clear that he rejects his name and his family ways as he renames himself Nikhil, (Russian author Gogol's first name), and rarely sees his family, as he says he's too busy with work.What really is occupying Gogol's time and thoughts are his girlfriend Max (Maxine) and her family, spending weekends with them in the country, and living with them during the week. His parents know nothing about them for quite a long time, and he wants it that way. Gogol does his best to keep his family separate from his new life as Nikhil.THE NAMESAKE I felt was the perfectly written book, a story which encompassed the immigrant experience from the first generation (Ashoke and Ashima) and the second (Gogol and his sister Sonia). By the end of the book, Gogol will truly begin to understand his father, his family background, and the importance of his name. But it takes several decades before Gogol reaches that point in his life. I felt the book was perfect from beginning to end, and will most likely put this book in my top 5 books read for 2007.
5 Although this book can appeal to all 1st generation Americans (no matter ethnicity), as a Bengali boy myself, I felt as though I was reading a book that hits 90% of my life. Lahiri really captures the relationships, conflicts, and unspoken feelings - real life is usually very hard describe. In the end, I was very moved by this book - it makes you appreciate many things, including your family.
5 Jhumpra Lahiri takes us into the home of a Bengali couple as it emigrates from Calcutta to Cambridge Mass., leaving behind--and taking with them-- parts of their culture and religion. Lahiri creates a family portrait that is strikingly familiar to anyone, of any culture, who has left one land for another.  She has a gift of detail, evoking the colors and smells of Benghali ex-patriate life.  She describes the ABCD, the "American Born Conflicted Deshi (Indian), the marginalized American children of a Benghali couples who must live in the fading world of their parents, while making their way in a new one.  The reader is invited to their parties, along with gaggles of honorary Benghali aunts and uncles, to sit cross-legged, eating pungent foods with our fingers.  Lahiri brings us to their weddings.  We learn of their funereal practices, and come to understand what makes these people distinctive.  But there's so much more than that to this book. There is a story, lovingly told, about a young man who, after having been educated at top Ivy League schools and having become a working architect, is about to learn who he really is.  Lahiri's, The Namesake, is an exquisite and stunning read, rich in detail and wisdom.
3 this novel bears the unfortunate burden of living up to expectations created by its pullitzer prize winning predecessor. i did not read the previous book, to be clear, but knowing Lahiri won a pullitzer for it, made me give this a try when a friend lent it to me.from this readers' perspective, it is a perfectly good novel -- interesting, thoughtful, well-written. but nor is it great, in my view. certainly not pullitzer calibre. perhaps the previous book was much better or maybe lahiri, a beginning author, is getting overhyped. the writing is good, but not good enough to stand out among other top novelists. equally, the immigrant/generational story is interesting but i did not gain any great insight here or find myself moved the way i am by my favorite novels.in fairness to lahiri, this is her first novel and i think the hype has done her a disservice.
3 I regard Lahiri as a worthy successor to R.K.Narayan for her fluency and talent as Interpretor of Maladies so wonderfully said. I was wondering how she would do in a novel, I was not disappointed but not delighted either. The story of a Bengali immigrant family transplanted from their roots into big bad America is absorbing, and true to life (I am a first generation child myself so could relate to Gogol's adventures really personally) - particularly the first half. After Gogol the hero meets his rather idealistic white girl date and her parents, the story slows down considerably. A lot of pages are devoted to Gogol's comparisons between his traditional bengali background and his date's 'cultured' white american family (that accepts a brown immigrant man into their midst completely unconditionally!!) - often times leaning favorably towards the latter and leaving the reader puzzled and confused. Gogol's father's death brings him back into his family of origin, with again, little explanation on why. Then follows a rather rushed marriage to a bengali girl with french connections and a rather unrealistic blending into french/american/bengali cultures, a quick divorce after an adulterous affair (what else) and back home to mommy again. Almost like the rushed ending  of a hindi movie that has developed well but the director does not know what to do and has only 20 minutes left.Definitely entertaining and worth a read but hope for better stuff from an author like Lahiri.
5 The Namesake is one of my favorite books. The author writes prose that are lyrical and the words touch your heart. The main characters, Ashoke and Ashima and the beginnings of an arranged marriage are fascinating. They come to America so the husband can finish his doctorate degree. The immigrant experiences, clash of cultures, conflicts of assimilation and then the tangle tof ties betwen generations are strong themes. The most deeply felt theme is of identity. They have a son Gogol, whom they name after the Russian writer. Gogol dislikes his name and changes as soon as he can. His father feels a connection to Gogol, the author as he feels reading the book saved his life. I related to this book in many ways as a daughter of a foreign born mother, not of Indian descent but there are similarities when a parent is of a different culture. This is a thought provoking book on many levels and would be an excellent choice for a book club discussion.
5 This is a sensitive, insightful review of the life of an Indian (Bengali) family, their customs, philosophies, relationships, and an account of the impact of their past upon their new lives in the United States. The naming of their first infant, a son, is the sentinel event in the novel and its impact pervades its entire  duration. This was a consuming, enlightening book.
5 Some of the best prose by a living author I have ever read. Yes I am giving it 5 stars.....but....Pulitzer Prize? I guess 'ethnic' fiction is fashionable these days, but I think some people might suffer from diminished expectations as a result of it.I am not Indian nor an Immigrant, nor the son of one, nor the grandson (well you get the picture) but found this book engrossing and compelling. At the end of the day its not really about being an Indian or Immigrant, but a deep, real portrayal of a character. Lahri's style of prose is one of the few I have read that creates such strong imagery I forget I am reading words.Writing of course is very personal - and if that style clicks with you then you'll be hooked from page 1, if not you'll probably shrug and say 'what's all the fuss about?"
4 This is a great story of culture, family, and identity which are some important elements to most human beings and Lahiri brought that to this book. Novel centers around a family who lives in a different culture than their own and is forced to accept something different and apply to their lives. Good writing from the author and very entertaining story.
4 You can't love a book as much as I loved Interpreter of Maladies and not seek out anything else by the author. Lahiri's new book, published in 2003 and now available in paperback, is a novel rather than a collection of short stories, and I can't help but note that despite my preference for the novel form, Lahiri was in the right line of work before. The Namesake has moments of breathtaking beauty, and I enjoyed it--very much, in fact. Indeed, it feels like one of Lahiri's short stories about an Indian immigrant expanded to fill a novel, or even like a series of short stories about the same people, but disjointed. Rather than following a plot, Lahiri follows a life; this is a brave and admirable choice that causes the novel to meander just as a life does. My fear is that some readers will find it unexciting; Lahiri's stories each pack a punch within pages, but this is a slow burn. Still, well worth the time; you'll care deeply about "the namesake" by the time you're through.
4 Jhumpa Lahiri wrote the highly praised story collection Interpreter of Maladies, and now The Namesake is her first novel. It is in the main the story of the life (through early adulthood) of Gogol Ganguli, who is born in 1968 in Boston, to Ashoke and Ashima Ganguli. Ashoke is a Ph.D. student in Electrical Engineering at MIT. He and Ashima are Bengalis from Calcutta, and their marriage was arranged in traditional fashion. They have been in the US only a year or so when their child is born. His unusual first name is intended to be a nickname -- taken from Ashoke's favorite author. His grandmother is expected to suggest his real name, but her letter gets lost between India and the US, and they are forced to put Gogol on their boy's birth certificate.The novel then takes several jumps to describe Gogol's life: his childhood, spent mostly in the US, with occasional long trips to India; his college career, at Yale and Columbia, where he becomes an architect; several love affairs -- in college with an American girl, then a strange sort of affair, including living together, with a very privileged American; then an affair with a married woman; and finally a semi-arranged relationship followed by marriage to another Indian -- a girl he had met as a child. Gogol -- who eventually does take a "real" name, Nikhil (related of course to Nikolai Gogol's first name) -- is a fully realized character, and very much an American born in the US with an identity split between his Indian heritage and his American life.I liked it quite a bit, with as I have said a bit of reservation about the overall structure. I also felt at times that some of the middle of the book, in particular, was a bit pat -- convenient -- things seemed to happen in Gogol's life to help the author make a point at times. And as others have suggested, at times the book reads more like a series of stories than a fully integrated novel. But the ending is well done, and quite moving. Gogol himself is a wonderfully realized character, as are a couple others -- his mother, Ashima, for example, and also his eventual wife. Some of the other characters are a bit thin, not wholly convincing. The prose is excellent -- Lahiri is a very fine writer qua writer. And the general theme is well conveyed -- the conflicted desire, as I see it, of someone like Gogol to be fully American (as he surely is) but not to lose his heritage (a desire sometimes expressed more as rebellion tinged with guilt). And this is nicely contrasted with Ashima's situation -- she is really reluctant to move from India, and misses her home her whole life -- then by the end she is herself, we realize, as American as she is Indian.
5 I enjoyed The Namesake very much.  Jhumpa Lahiri writes with such detail in a rather short novel just under 300 pages.  The significance of names, the process of making a life in the United States after living in India, and trying to preserve the native Indian culture are just some of the important and interesting themes in this book.The main character in the novel is a young man named Gogol.  The book covers Gogol's life from birth to age 32.  Gogol gets into romantic relationships and out of them very quickly.  I think this pattern of people falling in and out of love is something not only myself but others can relate to.Gogol is named after the Russian writer Nikolai Gogol whom his father admires very much. The reason his son  is named Gogol is because when his father survives a  bad train accident, he is holding a page of the author by the same name which helps him get rescued.  This is a very emotional moment told in the first pages of this book It  really hooked and sparked my interest in the powerful way Jhumpa Lahiri writes.I enjoyed reading the transformation Gogol's mother Ashima makes.  She is a young, scared, jobless, dependent woman at the beginning of the novel.  She becomes a strong, self reliant, employed woman at the end of the book.I loved the names of the characters the author uses in this novel.  Each Indian name in this novel has a interesting meaning to it.  I loved reading about the different names in this book.  Ashoke, Gogol's father's name means he who transcends grief.  Gogol mother is named Ashima which means limitless without borders.  Gogol takes a formal name when he starts school.  He is named Nikhil which means he who is entire, emcompassing all.The author describes an India where people boil rice and shampoo their hair on the sidewalk.  Commuters in India. threaten to committ suicide by jumping from buses and trams too.  The Namesake is a very entertaining book by a talented writer.
5 Jhumpa Lahiri writes about a very interesting and commonly neglected new American phenomenon: the rise of the Indian-American middle class.This book is about cultures, values, life and death, love and misery. It is about America. It is about India. It is also universal.Lahiri writes with style and elegance. Despite the verbose, I was engaged in the story and how it unfolded. "Namesake" is a great reading.
5 In this novel, as in the short-story collectionINTERPRETER OF MALADIES, Jhumpa Lahiri continues her study of Indian immigrants to America, their attempts to retain a national identity in their new world, and their bewilderment at their own children who know no other. In particular, she maps the course of love, from the joy of discovery to the sadness of loss, a trajectory that both mirrors the experience of the immigrant and is shaped by it. The novel traces the first thirty years of Gogol Ganguli, stuck with an almost accidental given name that belongs neither to his adopted country nor to his heritage, and whose significance he only belatedly comes to understand; it is a perfect symbol of his displacement.Lahiri describes the early experience of Gogol's parents in America in a series of relatively brief images, managing to convey their ethnic identity in such a way as to make them simply human, rather than exotic. But she succeeds best in the second half of the book, which portrays experience common to most of us, as it follows Gogol's attempts to make his own life through college and young adulthood. In particular, he passes through a series of love affairs, each helping him to new discoveries, all intensely real at the time, yet none the answer to his quest for selfhood.While Lahiri's style is lucid and sensitive throughout, I still feel that she is more effective on the story or chapter level than with an entire novel. What made INTERPRETER OF MALADIES so magnificent was her ability to focus on a single moment or facet of a relationship, and yet to imply a longer span of heritage and possibility extending beyond the bounds of the story itself. The novel medium lets her extend this span even further, to three decades and beyond, and yet it risks losing the intense focus of her earlier work. In fact, though, she writes almost as a sequence of linked stories, skipping several years at a time then concentrating each chapter within a manageable span. At first, this makes the book seem diffuse, but once the novel gathers momentum its emotional power is extraordinary. The three chapters (8-10) dealing with Gogol's relationship with a Bengali-American woman are a masterpiece of narrative control, especially the knife-edge balance of the middle one. The author awakens the reader's empathy with both her characters, then leads it inexorably in a different direction without sacrificing either emotional logic or human sympathy. These sections, together with the appropriately quiet ending, are testament to Lahiri's miraculous ability to treat all her people with tolerance and understanding, which makes her not only a joy to read, but an even greater joy to know.
4 In The Namesake, by Jhumpa Lahiri, Gogol Ganguli is born of Bengali parents in America, grows up immersed in two worlds (his parents and his own),  attends college at Yale and changes his name to Nikhil, has various relationships, deals with grief within his own family, and (repeat last two issues over and over).That's the story.  As a tale, it really isn't exciting, a page-turner, nor very enlightening.  Gogol doesn't like his name very much, and he resents it throughout his life:  "'I hate the name Gogol,' he says. 'I've always hated it'" (p. 102). It's origin is Russian, not Indian or Bengali.  Too bad it wasn't "Google".What it is is beautiful, descriptive prose:"He is eleven years old, in the sixth grade, on a school field trip of some historical intent.  They set off in their school bus, two classes, two teachers, two chaperones along for the ride, driving straight through the town and onto the highway.  It is a chilly, spectacular November day, the blue sky cloudless, the trees shedding bright yellow leaves that blanket the ground.  The children scream and sing and drink cans of soda wrapped in aluminum foil" (p. 68)."It is the day before Christmas.  Asima Ganguli sits at her kitchen table, making mincemeat croquettes for a party she is throwing that evening.  They are one of her specialties, something her guests have come to expect, handed to them on small plates within minutes of their arrival.  Alone, she manages an assembly line of preparation.  First she forces warm boiled potatoes through a ricer.  Carefully she shapes a bit of potato around a spoonful of cooked ground lamb, as uniformly as the white of a hard-boiled egg encases its yolk.  She dips each of the croquettes, about the size and shape of a billiard ball, into a bowl of beaten eggs, then coats them on a plate of bread crumbs, shaking off the excess in her cupped palms.  Finally she stacks the croquettes on a large circular tray, a sheet of wax paper between each layer.  She stops to count how many she's made so far.  She estimates three for each adult, one or two for each of the children.  Counting the lines on the backs of her fingers, she reviews, once more, the exact number of her guests.  Another dozen to be safe, she decides" (p. 174).This novel is about Gogol's journey, and the people he meets and interacts with along the way.  His father and mother reflected constantly on their journeys as well.  His father once told Gogol during a visit to Cape Cod: "'Try to remember it always,' he said once Gogol had reached him, leading him slowly back across the breakwater, to where his mother and Sonia [his sister] stood waiting.  'Remember that you and I made this journey, that we went together to a place where there was nowhere left to go'" (p. 187).In the end, as Gogol reflects on his life, "In so many ways, his family's life feels like a string of accidents, unforeseen, unintended, one incident begetting another.  It had started with his father's train wreck, paralyzing him at first, later inspiring him to move as far as possible, to make a new life on the other side of the world.  There was the disappearance of the name Gogol's great-grandmother had chosen for him, lost in the mail somewhere between Calcutta and Cambridge.  This had led, in turn, to the accident of his being named Gogol, defining and distressing him for so many years.  He had tried to correct that randomness, that error.  And yet it had not been possible to reinvent himself fully, to break from that mismatched name.  His marriage had been something of a misstep as well.  And the way his father had slipped away from them, that had been the worse accident of all, as if the preparatory work of death had been done long ago, the night he was nearly killed, and all that was left for him was one day, quietly, to go.  And yet these events have formed Gogol. shaped him, determined who he is.  They were things for which it was impossible to prepare but which one spent a lifetime looking back at, trying to accept, interpret, comprehend.  Things that should never have happened, that seemed out of place and wrong, these were what prevailed, what endured, in the end" (p. 286-7).Intriguing.
4 I really enjoyed reading Namesake.  Lahiri's exceptional writing style, and descriptive, rich and imaginative prose helped me live through the plot alongside the characters.  Lahiri's careful attention to cultural and psychological details made the story even more appealing to me.  Namesake tells the story of a diasporan Indian family in the United States.  Through her authentic familiarity with the diasporan culture, Lahiri sheds light onto the lonely lives of the characters, their emotional struggles, their longing for their origins, and the customs and views through which they interpret the world.  Lahiri also emphasizes the differences between generations and the power of time in adapting to change.  It is amazing to see how characters hold on to their values despite the distance and time.  For readers who have come from similar backgrounds, I think it is interesting to see how one starts judging what "home" means for them.  I think this is a great novel enlightening the readers about the Indian culture, and presenting them an intimate famility portrait closely tied to social, cultural and psychological elements.
3 Had heard a lot about this book, so decided to read it. But was really monotonous and too much simple and predictable. Perhaps it was because I had too much expectations out of it or maybe perhaps as I was Indian. Yeah, if you are Indian you may tend to relate urself. I guess females might like this book better. There was one touching moment in the book which I do not want to reveal, but that was the best. This was related to Gogols father, whose character is just around, but gives a emotional moment towards the end where you really like him. Other than that I did not find the book worth more than 3 stars good.
3 This book was perfect in many ways. It provided the reader an insight on how the people coming to the US from different countries, such as, India, may feel and how hard it is, as a child, to grow up in two different cultures. In that sense, I thoroughly enjoyed the book. The message of the book was a great life lesson, but as I read through the novel, the message seemed to be disappearing. Since the book follows the life of Gogol, the reader goes through all of his experiences, and along the way, learns about India's culture. But, gradually, the lessons of the book turned into the devastating events that occur to the main character. At that point of the novel, I was becoming a little bored of the book. The message was gone and now the story was just about the character's unfortunate experiences. I trudged through the rest of the book, and was actually content to see it end.On a more positive note, I would like to say that the writing of the author was great and interesting to read in that sense. The ending, though I will not give it away, also summed up the book fantastically.
3 I closed this book and exclaimed, "What a disappointment!"  Ms. Lahiri's book of short stories was simply outstanding.  To give her and "The Namesake" its due, this book is well-written and the characters of Gogol and his parents, Asoke and Ashima, are well-developed, and Ms. Lahiri is great at atmospheric detail.  However, the book is like a story without a meaning or a point - that may be OK in short stories but in a novel it should be suicidal.  Granted, you needn't write with a meaning or to have a point, but it is sad to see so little inner life and reflection in her characters, especially in Gogol who is 32 years old by the end of the book...  He has been through three extended romances and affairs including one failed marriage.  The way that he and Moushoumi slip so easily in and out of bed with others, i.e. how they sleep around, I find not to be representative of or a norm in second generation Indian American life.  So much sex and never an an unintended pregnancy!...  But I return, what is really disappointing is how shallow and superficial the inner life of Gogol is, something I don't feel is representative of people born between two cultures and two worlds...
3 The book is about an Indian boy, born and brought up in America, albeit with a weird name.His name is Gogol and he doesn't like it. He revolts against his name and wants to change it, his parents don't want him to.The book talks about the repercussions his name has in his life.The book covers two generations - Gogol's and his parents' - and  shifts focus between the two.As my friend puts it, the book would have been better as a short story. It could have fitted well in Lahiri's first book "Interpreter of Maladies'.The ending is good. The book ends with the right note, although a little late. It could have ended a few pages earlier.It's a typical Lahiri story with an American-settled-NRI-family. The same smooth writing style follows. The book is like a short story stretched (too far) to convert it into a novel.If you have already read her first book and didn't like it, then don't even try `The Namesake'. If you liked it and if you think you will like a lengthier version, this book is for you.This might not suit the taste of fantasy book readers and lovers of thriller books
5 A quick glimpse into the immigrant experience from a coupel of perspectives and generations. I found myself thinking about the characters when I put the book down. It was just a lovely book and Iw as lucky to get a Kindle Daily Deal...simple as that
3 A bookgroup choice that I am not sure I would have picked up on my own. It was an interesting read although not a "you have to read this" book. I felt (and my bookgroup concurred) that the story started well but got a bit lost and wandering in the middle. It went off it what I felt was the wrong direction of all the directions it could have gone.It made an interesting discussion because of all the time periods and subject matter that was covered but this was also one of the faults of the book, as it kept wandering off the path of the most interesting part of the story.The author got bogged down at times at what a lot of us felt were unnecessarily detailed descriptions of the scenery.I would really give this a 3.5 but not quite a 4, as it was a worthwhile read but could have been a lot better.
5 I didn't think I would like this book, I really didn't expect much of it. I saw it on sale for Kindle and ordered it without reading the description. When I finally did, I shrugged thinking maybe I would make it through one or two chapters but that would be it. It's been about a week and I've already finished the book. I even had tears in my eyes at the end. This is one of the most impressive books I have read that concerns itself with a person's identity. It has such depth to it and comes completely full circle at the end. If you have the chance to read this, just go for it. It's well worthwhile.
4 After reading an interview with Jhumpa Lahiri in the current issue of Book Magazine I quickly pre-ordered a copy of her debut novel, THE NAMESAKE. Because I enjoyed other books geared towards the lived experiences of individuals from India I was sure I would enjoy it. Overall, I wasn't disappointed. Lahiri's prose is certainly admirable as I constantly found myself getting lost in her words.At the center of THE NAMESAKE is Gogol, a second generation Bengali-American growing up in New England. His intended good name given by his great grandmother is somehow lost in the mail between Calcutta and Boston and as a result his pet name, Gogol, becomes his good name. But Gogol hates his name, especially when he discovers that he is named after a Russian writer who has lived a failed life. The NAMESAKE follows the life of Gogol and his feelings towards his name as he strives to find his true identity on the cultural bridge between Calcutta and Boston.THE NAMESAKE is a good, but not great, book. The premise adds much light to the unique Bengali culture, although I found the final section to be somewhat dull and drawn out.
4 Having thoroughly enjoyed Ms. Lahirhi's Pulitzer winner "Interpreter of Maladies," I eagerly awaited her 2nd book. After finishing it, I must say that it is both different than her previous work and very much its own work of art. Indian displacement is still very much apparent, though this time its trapped inside the symbolism of Gogol/Nikhil Ganguli's sense of alienation due to his name. Not much happens here in terms of plot- it is essentially about a man living out a quiet life and how is influenced by those around him- but Lahiri's amazing prose and empathy for her characters make it a very entertaining read. My only complaint is that I did not sometimes understand why certain events in the story were mentioned. *Spoiler alert* Why was there such an emphasis on the affair the wife had? An emphasis on the mother's loneliness? I think a deeper probe into the mind of Gogol himself would have made me understand his "Namesake" a little more completely. Nonetheless, this novel is great stuff.
5 This story was beautifully written.The chapters just flowed.I was so involved in the lives of Gogol, Ashima, Ashoke and Gogol's female friends that I read well into the night.Lahiri describes New England beautifully.It was with a sense of loss that I came to the end of this touching tale.I also loved finding out about the naming custom.
5 I did enjoy Interpreter of Maladies (especially the last story, something about living in 3 continents?), however, it didn't imprint in my mind as much as this book. I thought it was an incredible story of someone's life and the lives of generations. It is written in mostly present-tense and there are very few conversations, but she writes with a calm, sympathetic style, not too poetic or too plain. It is hard to make a story interesting with so little conversation but I enjoyed her way with words and finished the book in one evening. In fact I feel like I can remember almost every detail of the book because of the memorable way that she writes.The main character is Gogol, who is in the book from the time he is inside his mother until he is in his mid-30's. It describes him at different stages- one chapter he's in elementary school, the next he's 14, etc but although it skips a few years in between, it also describes a lot of details. He goes through a lot of trials and tribulations, many of which are because of his name and the cultural expectations put on him, but he also goes through the usual ones, especially love.His name is a recurring theme in this book. His name is given to him for a special reason which has meaning to his father, but for most of the book he doesn't know the reason for his atypical name and he hates it. His name and its origin are small things which have a lot of significance, and an unspoken misunderstanding for most of the book. In the middle of the book he learns why his name is Gogol, but the end is where he comes to understand it (and his father) completely.He spends a lot of time ignoring his culture. He is bored or finds fault with it since he was brought up with it. With friends and girlfriends he observes the details of other cultures and compares them to his own (for example, the dinner party his girlfriends parents have, vs his own family parties). At first he thinks the ways others live is a better way than the way his parents live, especially when it comes to relationships (being arranged vs falling in love). As he grows older I think he finds peace with his own culture, particularly with the death of his father, and he admires his parents in some ways. He starts to appreciate the traditions he was brought up with, while still being part of the larger American mainstream.I was really rooting for him throughout the entire story, feeling for him when things weren't working out- especially his wife, who didn't appreciate him even though he did everything he could for her. This book is a tear-jerker in some places (though I didn't cry, I think someone could), for instance the time his father almost told him the reason for his name, the time he finally did tell him, every time he falls in love, and the ending...well I don't want to give that away but it was a little sad and sweet at the same time.This book has sadness in it, but it doesn't have anything that is over-the-top tragic either, and that's another thing I like. The family has some disagreements but they still love each other and are close. The generations have things they don't understand about each other but there are also no door-slamming arguments, no one gets disowned, and no one gets in a fight right before someone dies either. In that way I think it was a realistic portrayal of intergenerational relationships in a lot of families - in fact it reminds me a lot of my own family.
4 Loved the characters and how brilliantly the author described their lives entertwining with each others. How devoted the parents were to their Bengali heritage and the children so immersed in being American. It was easy to embrace their story and understand each's feelings and how the communication was not so easy between them. I just really did not like the ending!! I felt it stopped at the edge of a cliff. I like things to end in neat llttle packages even if they are not pretty. This one felt like it just abruptly stopped. Like I said I thoroughly enjoyed the book, the ending.....ehhh not so much. I would have given it 5 stars had the ending been in tact. Great history facts, ornately detailed loved the writing style. Captured my attention right away. I would read it again someday just to bring the characters back to life for me.
5 Author Jhumpa Lahiri is a gifted storyteller, and in "The Namesake", she uses this keen eye to deftly explore family life, relationships, the immigrant experience, finding ones true identity, culture clashing, and the nature of love. The novel explores the roots and path of the Ganguli family. Newlyweds by arranged marriage, Ashoke and Ashima Ganguli, leave their extended family and life behind in Calcutta to move to America in the late 1960's. Soon she gives birth to a son, and tradition and the new world, as it were, begin to clash. Their son, Gogol, named after the Russian writer, holds a great burden, and responsibility with this name. But as a teen he is embarrassed by it, and eventually turns his back on his given name. But years will pass before he truly understands the import and history it carries. As his parents navigate their life in the US, keeping a strong sense of their culture and past, it conflicts with Gogol and his sister who identify as American. There is conflict, triumph, tragedy, discovery, comedy, love, lust, and above all, very beautiful and true moments that define family and self...in all cultures. With exceptional writing this novel is both an engaging story and a beautifully written novel that touches the reader with a powerful and authentic voice.
4 Lahiri's characters come alive in her simple yet moving language, almost like Italio Calvino's.If you read "Interpreter of Maladies," you need no introduction to this brilliant writer. Get this book and savor it. The fluid style, an undercurrent of the vagaries of cultural dislocation, and the worldliness of her characters are almost in continuation of her touching yarns from "Interpreter.."If you are considering this author for the first time, Lahiri has a way of getting under the skin of her characters and painting a wonderful web of life's simple moments. The lead character, Gogol, is vintage Lahiri: a man baffled by split national identities. We follow a trail of his life as he grows up in an alien environs, with different people and mores. But Lahiri, with her seamless literary skills, cuts through life's usual messiness to reveal some fundamental themes - about how people cope with love, adaptation, family, and the perpetual quest for a mooring.To allow myself a "harsh critic" moment, perhaps some of the non-protagonist characters get a short shrift in terms of ink-time -- the parents and the sister of Gogol, for instance, never really transcend their cardboard descriptions. The novel overall left me with a feeling of not having taken any risks other than what her stories in "Interpreter.." had already embraced. But these are trivial, subjective quibbles.This is a highly recommended gem of a read.
3 Perhaps I had my expectations built up so high before I ever bought this book.  Several folks in my book chat room told me it was their favorite read of 2004.  These are people who read vast quantities of books every year--many more than I--so I figured this book must really be something.  Well, frankly, I was underwhelmed.  That's not to say it's a BAD book...not at all.  I just didn't find it that impressive.In January 2004, I started keeping a book journal.  In the journal, I not only write how I felt about a book (and give it a grade based on how well I liked it) but I also note some of my favorite passages.  To do this, I mark favorite passages with small tape tags as I read.  The last book I finished (Four Spirits by Sena Jeter Naslund) had probably close to two dozen tape tags when I finished.  Other books I enjoyed in 2004 like the Time Traveler's Wife, The Secret Life of Bees and Middlesex all had at least a handful of tape tags.  The Namesake had none.Perhaps it just wasn't the book for me.  Perhaps the story just didn't capture me.  Perhaps the writing wasn't the kind that catches my attention.  I can't really say WHY it didn't impress me.  At least, by the end of the book, I was much more impressed than I was in the first 20 pages (after reading the first 20 pages, I said "This CAN'T be the book people told me about--I must have bought the wrong book!").  I kind of miss Gogol and the family now that I'm done...so clearly, it DID have an impact on me.  Just not the one I was expecting.
5 Jhumpa Lahiri's book is an all-too familiar tale for all of us who immigrated into this country. The book captures the struggles, challenges and joys of raising a family in a foreign land armed only with tools from your own upbringing. Told from the viewpoint of the half American/half Indian, it is a powerful story, only because Indian immigration for the most part was by educated professionals who carved out a full suburban, middle-American dream as their educations propelled them into better paying jobs. Their children inherited the milieu of upper middle class America. Not for them the streets of Brooklyn or the Bowery or the projects of Cabrini Green in Chicago.A beautiful and poignant read. I recommend the book whole-heartedly.
5 I highly recommend. Lahiri has this amazing ability to comment and report on human nature and interactions with an almost scientific precision and accuracy. Almost like Morrison, you feel as though she truly understands people on a far deeper level than most. While not a particularly fast read you will actually enjoy taking your time with this one, as you gradually learn more about the Ganguli family and eventually become very invested in their hopes and dreams. Few books have evoked such empathy for the immigrant experience as this one. I truly began to understand how "foreign" this country can seem to someone from a totally different culture, and I am a person who has a great number of friends and close family acquaintances from different countries. You also get a keen sense of the internal struggle that a child who is American-born but has immigrant parents must face. While truly familiar and comfortable with American culture, Gogol struggles with trying to understand and respect a culture which while is foreign to him, is so dear to the parents that he loves. It seems as though there are a never ending amount of subplots and commentaries weaving throughout this narrative. Highly textured. I truly look forward to the forthcoming movie.
5 Beautiful, lyrical, insightful, tender, poignant--one of the most touching books I've read in a long time.  Jhumpa Lahiri is a literary force...
5 Our entire book club really enjoyed and admired The Namesake.  It's a well written story, showing the difficulties of coming of age of both the immigrant and the first generation, haunted both by their cultures and their personal pasts.  I have read this book twice and found even more to enjoy and admire the second time.
2 I was disappointed. I enjoyed her intimate glimpses into a character's life in her book of short stories and many images stay with me from that reading of several years ago - a young husband imagining his wife testing the water pressure in apartments as she tells him she is moving out... However, even with more words, she says less about Gogol. It is a distant sketch of his life. Many of the emotional turning points are clumsily foreshadowed. As an architect, I found her poor research of the profession distracting.
3 Why were there no happy moments in this book?  Everything was told in a bland--two-dimensional emotional framework.  No one was every shown to be that happy, and most of the time they moped around and lamented the course their lives (and their decisions) had taken them.As a South Asian myself, I can attest to her telling of the story as being quite spot on in terms of the adjustments immigrants and their families make when coming to the US.  I sympathized with the parents, and it helped me see my own parents in a new light.  That being said however--resemblance to my parents stopped there.  My parents went through an adjustment, but the happy days outnumbered the others, and Lahiri's novel is full of depressive dialogue and angst.Can't wait for an uplifting, funny South Asian novel to come out.  I may just write it myself.
5 Lahiri is probably one of the best new writers around.  Her writing style, both vivid and fluid, can transport a reader to feel another's realm.  She makes the most basic elements of life into mesmerizing pieces of literature.This book revolves around the first thirty years of a young Indian growing up in America.  A simple novel revolving around him and his immediate family, this book delves both with his family's trials moving to a new country along with a new child discovering the world.  Mixed in are tragedies, first loves, ceremonies, and a whole lot more.  This book does a remarkable job in what is a book so real that at times it felt that it truly reflected my own life.All in all, a masterful novel.
2 I have to admit I was surprised at the accolades heaped on this book...it is simply a bland but well-written  description of an immigrant family experience in America, a theme previously touched by numerous Indian-American authors (such as Bharati Mukerjee). I felt that the writing was very passive and disinterested, as if the author didnt feel the need to engage the reader with a more compelling storyline, and who instead felt that a quaint description of an exotic cultural experience would suffice to make it a worthwhile read.And I couldnt help comparing this book to another novel released at the same time which also delves into immigrant experience but within the context of a gripping, heartwrenching story--The Kite Runner (which has received over 200 reviews in Amazon). There, the reader was able to appreciate the Afghani culture and historical context as the author deftly combines it with his storytelling. In the Namesake, the reader is put in the position of an anthropologist, curiously observing a culture from outside. An Indian friend of mine, majoring in Sociology, jokingly referred to the Namesake as a dissertation in immigrant experience. Interestingly, none of my Indian-American friends thought highly of the book!
3 well-my cousin recommended this book. i didn't paticularly  relate with the charachters and their internal struggles,but the story it self was pretty ok. read it only a night when u have nothing else to do, there is no dfinate plot-but the novel moves fast enough.
4 "What's in a name?  Everything, if you find to whom it belongs." - Jonathan GardnerFrom Nikolai Gogol's short story "The Overcoat":"The reader should realize himself that it could not have happened otherwise, and that to give him any other name was quite out of the question."The second quote, seemingly simplistic, is yet prophetic to "The Namesake" and only when one reads the entire novel can one derive the pleasure of knowing what it truly means in relativity to the story.  It is a befitting quotation that is included in the first few pages of author Jhumpa Lahiri's second novel.The beginning chapters pit Ashoke Ganguli in the frigid Northeast of Boston, MA, the young Bengali man having survived a horrible train wreck and seeking a clean slate in the Americas with his young bride Ashima.  After discovering they are expecting their first child, Ashima eagerly anticipates a letter from her grandmother, who has indicated that she will choose a name for their baby.  When her letter never arrives and Ashima receives word from her family back in Calcutta of her grandmother's failing health, she is beside herself and with no name in the wings for their new son, Ashoke dubs his firstborn Gogol after a favored Russian author (Nikolai Gogol).  Gogol soon resents his father's choice once he is of school age and he will not even begin to understand the reason behind it for many years, the utter significance and emotional attachment his namesake holds.In having just finished the book this very day that I write my critique, I take from Lahiri's tale of Gogol is that no matter whether we abandon or embrace tradition, it will not guarantee our happiness.  I also believe that it forewarns that when we wage a constant war against ourselves, no relationship we have - be it familial or romantic - will endure.  However it comes across to those who read it, Lahiri's writing style is simplistic yet thought provoking.  Sometimes one cannot be sure of the motivation of certain characters, but in the end all will be seen as either victims or victors of their own circumstance.(WARNING: HERE BE SPOILERS) Gogol experiences both the American way and the Indian way to equal degrees and has romantic relationships which at first ignore Bengali tradition and values and predictably disintegrate, particularly when cultures begin to clash in unexpected ways.  But even when he falls in love with and marries a fellow Indian-American and childhood acquaintance, the commonality of their cultures and families still cannot placate their bewildered and embittered souls.  (END SPOILERS)Lahiri, now 40 and married with two children, (who was 36 at the time "The Namesake" was first published) can now be proud of her "pet name"; this name not only adorns her publications but also her 2000 Pulitzer Prize for her debut novel Interpreter of Maladies.  Her inspiration for Gogol was found in her own childhood when her teacher decided to use her "pet name" for its easier pronunciation instead of her "good name" (an event that she relives through Gogol when he first goes to school).  Good names and pet names are a Bengali tradition that is difficult to understand.  Good names are your given name, the one that appears on your birth certificate and other documents of importance, such as driver's license, social security card and college degrees (Lahiri's good name is Nilanjana Sudeshna).  Pet names are names spoken only by those who know you best - your family. She is quoted as saying about her teacher's decision: "I always felt so embarrassed by my name; you feel like you're causing someone pain just by being who you are." Her struggle with her identity would be the brainchild for "The Namesake" and Gogol Ganguli a portrayal of Lahiri herself and her inner turmoil.Gogol spends the entirety of the novel resisting his identity and his name, even going so far as to legally change it to demonstrate his distaste for not only his strange moniker but also the life his parents chose for him.  It is only when he discovers the reason behind it and embraces it that he experiences the inner peace he has been seeking all along.  Perhaps this is a message to Lahiri herself and others who have felt the same inner conflict.  To quote once again in the words of a renowned Indian author and erstwhile philosopher:"Happiness is a continuation of happenings which are not resisted."  - Deepak Chopra
5 When I finished reading Namesake I turned to Amazon to read the reviews.  I loved this book and was absolutely undone to see so many negative reviews.  So I called a friend in Cambridge, Mass., where the whole town read and discussed the book in small groups.  I asked her how it was received there and she said everyone, including herself, thought it was wonderful!  Why the disparity??I'm not sure.  For one thing, I have not read her book of short stories, which most people thought was the better work.  That may be so.  Nevertheless, I think we all agree that the author writes beautifully, whatever else you may think of the book.  Her writing flows effortlessly but with such clarity of detail and restraint of words that it imbues her incidents with a special warmth and depth.I guess that is what I found remarkable.  That this simple story told so much in so few words about the search for one's uniqueness, for the need in that process to have family and the need to distance oneself from family, to create on's own name.  Lovingly told, it spoke to the notion that as much as we try to shape our own destiny, much of what we are is the result of accidents; much of what we even choose for ourselves is not so much a decision for as a decision against and therein lies the rub.Forgive me, but I loved this book.  It had a lot to say to me.
5 Like many other commenters, I picked this book up after I had read Jhumpa Lahiri's excellent collection of short stories, THE INTERPRETER OF MALADIES. I don't usually read short stories, actually, so I was glad to see the author move into the novel form that I tend to prefer.THE NAMESAKE is the story of the Ganguli family, beginning with young Ashima and Ashoke as they get married and move from Calcutta to America to begin a new life in an unknown world. They surround themselves with fellow Bengalis in their new life, but they do slowly find themselves adapting to American culture. This assimilation process becomes even clearer once they have children, as their American-born son Gogol and daughter Sonia want to blend in and enjoy all of the same things their friends and eventually their lovers do. There's a particularly touching explanation about the Gangulis' decision to start having a Christmas tree at the insistence of young Gogol.The novel unfolds chronologically, and the focus shifts to young Gogol as a teenager, student, and then young professional as he experiences the identity crisis of a first-generation Indian-American. Gogol doesn't always make the easy choices, and he often hurts his parents in his pursuit of a more "American" way of life, but Lahiri makes him a very sympathetic main character. As the reader, I really wanted Gogol to find what it is that would make him happy, with the world, with his family, and most of all with himself.While the overriding theme of the novel is cultural identity, at its heart THE NAMESAKE is also about the relationship between a father and a son. As Gogol grows older, he begins to learn just what he represents to his father, and as a result how much more gratitude and love he feels for the man he has lost. It is this central relationship that has its culmination in the novel's bittersweet final chapter. After a lifetime of looking, Gogol realizes that he had always had the love that he needed, he just hadn't looked for it in the right place.
3 Life in the American northeast is gray, cold and colorless comparedto the world in India filled with family, color and heat. Thestruggle to make an insular world of family and friends in thisremote world is the story of a million immigrants. The hopelies with the second generation who are American.
4 "The Namesake" is smooth and elegant and a quick read, but somewhat unsatisfying. Ashima, and particularly Ashoke,the parents of the title character, Gogol(later called Nikhil)are depicted stereotypically as a couple born in India that choose to come to America in the 1970's. They are not sufficiently fleshed out as individuals.Gogol is given his unique name because his father was reading Gogol's "Overcoat" instead of sleeping, during a horrible night train crash in India, and this fact saved his life. As a form of tribute to Gogol, the author, Ashoke, waiting with his wife for a prospective name to arrive from her grandmother for their newborn son, put Gogol's name on the birth certificateThe main character being a few years older than his sister, Sonia, experiences most of the frustrations and difficulties his parents have of trying to adjust to life in America and equivocates in all of his personal relationships between the life he is rebelling against and the life his parents would like him to live. He is, in effect, stymied by his Indian heritage and cannot live comfortably in either world.At the end, he tries to reconcile his dilemma as he begins to read Gogol's "Overcoat" which he found among his mother's boxes as she prepares to sell her house. We are left with the author's hope for a better life for Gogol/Nikhil.The writing is full of beautiful descriptive passages and the author persistently turns a gorgeous phrase, but the story feels pat and predictable.
5 For a country like India which has witnessed the worst of times---and so inevitably the best of times---and is striving to stamp its mark on the world map in parameters pertaining to economic,social and cultural development,Jhumpa Lahiri's "The Namesake" arrives with a fair portrayal of the transition period this nation has been,and perhaps is still,going through since its Independence in 1947. The novel commences in August,1968 when a young Ashoke Ganguli's wife Ashima,both Bengali,living in Cambridge,USA is rushed to the hospital to give birth. Composed in present tense narrative punctuated by retrospection of various characters,"The Namesake" traces thirty-two years in the life of this Bengali family residing in the States,a family caught between two worlds on the extreme ends of the scale,a family enceavouring to be a paradox,a family urging itself to retain its rooted culture in parallel to imbibing some foreign features.This novel is the tale of a set of Bengali immigrants in America who're forever cahsed by a typical.and at times naively ideal,Indian culture and always lured by American fast-paced and unpolioshed,disquiet lifestyle. This is their story of their self-denial,of self-assertion and of finding the right dooting in a land where relationships terminate faster than the blow of the West Wind. Finding one own's space in aworld is never the easiest of tasks and ekeing out a private,restricted area in a foreign nation is a burden always tempting to let go. Jhumpa Lahiri's principle characters in herr novel,Ashoke,Ashima and their children Gogol and Sonali,all try to cope with the magnanimous demands that a cultural shift asks for and in doing so,whilst a couple refuses to accept the new environ in a hush mitigated tone,the other is oblivious of their roots until it's too late to reform.Ashoke Gabguli is in the engineering department at MIT and has been there since he was 23. He almost got killed in a train journey in India and this return from the jaws of Death had given him a rejuvenated impetus to leave his home in Calcutta and study abroad in the US. But Ashoke doesn't shun off his own culture and marries a typical,quiet,sombre,dignified Bengali girl Ashima. But Ashima is disinclined to embrace the new and outlandish customs she perceives in America and follows her own way of living. Or rather tries to follow her own way of living. Whilst Ashoke busies himself at the University,Ashima stays alone at their 67 Pemberton Road house with her old Bengali books and reflections. Ashima realises that she now abodes in "a country where she is related to no one,where she knows so little,where life seems so tentative and spare" and "cannot bring herself to refer to Pemberton Road as home".But the second generation of the Ganguli family in America are diammetrically opposite to the first. Gogol is their son,the elder child,and Sonali their daughter and both mirror the American culture. Both are reluctant to visit their true family in Calcutta once a year,can;t accept their parents's traditionalism---and indeed Gogol even feels of this attribute when he brings his second girlfriend Maxina to his house---and see themselves as American citizens. This influence is most vividly deciphered in Gogol who hates his "petname" and takes up "Nikhil" when he turns eighteen but realises that changing names don't help at all. On thec contrary this deceptive notion makes life all the more disruptive. It's changing the personality and accepting as well as enduring the truth that accelerate the endearing of life to us. As the cultural,social and familial responsibility in transferred from Ahoke to "the namesake",Gogol,named after the famous Russian writer Nikolai Gogol for a reason that he comes to know years later from his father in a situation that is a fantastic exemplar of melodrama,realises in introspective glances at his past that he has previously been ignoring."The Mamesake" is a fantastic novel steeped in emotions,implied feelings and stark relations. Jhumpa Lahiri spuns a familial story against a backdrop of cultural shift in which her smooth narration occasioned with reflections and broodings of Ashoke,Ashima and Gogol lends a touch of novelty to the central idea. The plot revolves around a very much contemporary theme,that of the plight and indecision of Bengali immigrants in America and the dramatic turn of events accentuate the sensationalism of the book. The reader cannot help but feel the abrupt and sudden pang of death when he stumbles upon AShoke's demise and in capturing the human emotions and intricate feelings in the darkest of hours does the sorcery of the authoress reveal itself.Nevertheless the reader is bound to find the language invoked in the novel a bit too regular,if not ordinary. Jhumpa Lahiri's narration is pretty straightforward,plain and not exceptional and the strength in her language in this book is far from that in her Pulitzer Prize winning novel "Interpreter of Maladies". There are flashes of elaboration of sentimentality in "The Namesake" and though the book evokes a compact and heartening idea,the structure of the plot is scantily dressed in decoratiuve language despite the telling psychological foray into the characters. Moreover,a Bengali reader of this book would discern the blatant usage of Bengali terms "pradeep","chanachur" and "almari" in the book,an absurdity capped by this hopeless translation:"Didi,I'm coming",Ashima had said. For this was the phrase BEngalis always used in place of good-bye". That Lahiri is trying to present Bengali culture to the outside world is laudable enough but that presentation just falls short of the idea.Indeed these defects do mar the quality of the book to a certain degree but such blights are somewhat overshadowed by the authoress's intension of revealing a subtle truth in an equally poigant style. The writer makes a stupendous and measured calculation of the contrast between the Indian and the American lifestyles without attempting to judge them on preconceived parameters. In Ashoke and Ashima's relation,Lahiri illustrates an ideal test-book typical Bengali husband-wife relation with excellent,vibrant and correct interpretation and understanding between them and side by side hangs the American version of the painting:Maxina's parents may be aged but they're flambuoyant,noble but daring,posh but messy. "The Namesake" provokes a rippling cry to revive the obsolete,to turn the tide and in this endeavour te authoress doesn;t keep even herself in the backstage:Jhumpa Lahiri is stubborn enough to rtefer Gogol as "Gogol" even when he has changed his name to "Nikhil". And these thoughts of Ashima would forever haunt the reader whoever and wherever he or she might be:"For being a foreigner,Ashimam is beginning to realise,is a sort of lifelong pregnancy---a perpetual wait,a constant burden,a continous feeling out of sorts. It is an ongoing responsibility,a parenthesis in what had once been ordinary life,only to discover that that previous life has vanished,replaced by something more complicated and demanding. Like pregnancy,being a foreigner,Ashima believes,is something that elicits the same curiosity from strangers,the same combibation of pity and respect".
4 A wonderful, easy read. Well-written and not too self-consciously poetic or exotic, it tells the simple and not too-heartwrenching tale of Gogol Gangali, born to Bengali parents in a suburb of Boston who grows up relatively happily, but eventually develops the usual insecurities about his heritage and his name. One odd thing about the book, which occasionally irritates, is how each part of the book seems to be "narrated" (although it's done in the third person) by a different character, by three of the four members of the family and then eventually also by an outsider. There they are, all the passions of young life, the hopes and the dreams, the ordinary conflicts, and the poetry of daily life. No aliens attack, there are no major catastrophes, just the rituals of preparing food, preparing for holidays such as Christmas and thanksgiving (although there are Bengali festivals as well), and the changing nature of family. Nice.
5 I really enjoyed this book and learning the culture of the Benghali's and how this child was named and why.I have Indian friends and this helped me a bit to understand their ways.
3 I was a little disappointed as I was expecting something as good as Interpreter of Maladies.The story of Gogol and his family is not that different, but the way J. Lahiri describes it, changes everything.
1 I was very disapointed in this book.  I expected a glimpse into the Indian culture and immigrants cultural struggles living in America.  Instead I got a very slow moving and uninteresting account of a young man not quite fitting in to the world of American academia.  There were no real family links, no experiences from the Indian point of view.  No feelings revealed from the parents, simply a short dull account of daily life in Mass. This book is like a very slow walk down a boring street.  Only occasionally does the reader even care about what's happening to Gogol.  The ending was extremely sad and quite a letdown.  Didn't Gogol's family teach him anything about life, about what to expect, about values, emotions, love?  Did they teach him anything at all?  I think not.  He is as a typical lost American teenager, cut off from his parents, possibly for different reasons, but with the same result.  As American children today, Gogol had to figure life out for himself, a task too daunting for a youth.  He needed guidance from his parents, even "old-fashioned" Indian guidance would have helped him to avoid the emptiness and aimlessness of his life.  The author cut his parents out of the picture after the first few chapters.  What a shame.
4 I enjoyed this book.  Kind of predictable in many ways.  It comes insecond to The Lowland but I'm glad I read it.
4 The strength of "The Namesake" is highest when the focus is not actually on the namesake Gogol. I preferred the early chapters on his parents, their move to the US, and the early immigrant experience. The author's observations about America are sharp, and their background as Bengalis, as opposed to other origin (Indian and non-Indian) was fresh (to me). Even when Gogol is young, the child is a vehicle for cultural and family topics.The novel has two relatively weak spots. The whole stretch with the rich, lefty, New Yorkers did not resonate. It was all too perfect. Part of the problem is that Gogol himself is not that interesting, or at least he isn't portrayed as particularly engaging or reflective. Why exactly do they like him so much? I suppose it was the author's point to show how easily the next generation can fall into luxury and forget its origins, and how American liberal-minded folks can accept an ethnic into the inner circle. The section offered little insight.The ending was also rather basic. A novel that is not plot-driven, and is more of a series of observations and themes that play out, can be difficult to wrap up, as there is no climax, nor are there loose ends to tie. Thus, the winding down was ok. Fortunately, the mother had returned to be other than a fading background character.
5 As a South Asian-American I thought this book was authentic, one of the truest books I've ever read. The passages that get a bit longish for some readers seemed eerily like my own life--descriptions of things found in bedrooms, of Bengali-American parties, of people's coping strategies of being first- or second-generation American. I found that I could relate to at least two of the characters, and knew a lot of the types of the other characters from people in my own life. I wish I'd written this book.I give a lot of credit to Lahiri for producing a work that is so emotionally authentic, universal, and resonant, while solving the problem of the guilt sometimes passed around in a family. Lahiri does so without putting any of the blame for anybody's existential or cultural unhappiness on any one character. Everybody is likeable and their situations and impulses are understandable. Ashoke and Ashima are not to blame for Gogol's name, since he picks it himself in a way and he has a problem with being distanced from it. Ashoke is not to blame for Ashima's estrangement from her family and country, because they were living poor in Calcutta and Ashima didn't find a better suitor. Just like in real life, there's often no better option in a situation, just a choice someone made a long time ago with the given inputs. No one is a villain, she just tells it like it is.Also, Lahiri wrote a book about some pretty nice people that are accepting and turn out to be good for each other in the end. If I were writing the book I'd have a lot less of this because sometimes things don't always get patched up, but I'm glad Lahiri does it differently, since with bad Bengali neighbors or children who marry outside the group and cut off ties with their family or what have you, the novel would collapse under its own weight, since there's already death and estrangement to deal with.The Mira Nair movie was also right-on.
5 It's always interesting learning about a new culture from books.  But reading a book about Bengali's written with such poetic language and detail makes the story all the much better.
4 "The Namesake"'s start was somewhat shaky--would this be another book about an unempowered immigrant woman seeking happiness through her children?  Thankfully, once Gogol entered his teens and the book centered more on him, it became much more readable.Somewhat magically, Lahiri manages to defy the "show not tell" rule of good prose; the book is almost all tell, with very little dialogue.  But in her skilled hands, it works.  She central motif of the book--the significance of names and naming--is conveyed well, not at all overdone or with a heavy hand.  And I wanted to hug Gogol and his family by the end--always a sign of a good book, for me!It's not a perfect book, and I can see why other reviewers prefer her short-story collection "Interpreter of Maladies" (which I haven't read), as at times "The Namesake"'s structure as a collection of time-encapsulated vignettes is slightly off-putting.  But Lahiri's prose is unrivaled--absolutely magical.
5 What more could I possibly add to the host of accolades, awards and critical praise that have already been heaped upon this writer, Jhumpa Lahiri, and her work? Just this: I found THE NAMESAKE to be one of the most absorbing novels I have read this year. Lahiri is a wordsmith and storyteller of the very first rank. Her realistic portrayal of Ashoke and Ashima Ganguli and their son, Gogol, the titular character, simply grabs you from page one and propels you along for the next 290 pages in such a way that you hate to put the book down. Their story of the Indian immigrant experience in America and the special dilemmas of their first-generation American children is a compelling one. And it is not any sugar-plum happily-ever-after kind of chick-lit either. This woman can WRITE! I predict she will still be read generations from now. This book was so damn good that I have just moved another of her books,Unaccustomed Earth (Vintage Contemporaries), to the top of my already teeteringly tall to-read pile. And I know I will also be joining the multitudes already reading her latest,The Lowland. THE NAMESAKE is the first Lahiri book I've read, but it certainly will not be the last. HIGHLY recommended.- Tim Bazzett, author of the memoir, BOOKLOVER
5 And the film is one I will watch over and over again.  I love the family, each character, and the rich story that unfolds.  I picked it up and couldn't put it down until I finished it.  It grabs you and doesn't let go long after you've turned the last page.  Buy it.  Then go get the movie.  You won't regret it.
4 Would that which we call a "Gogol" by any other name would smell as sweet? Yes, it is about immigrants, the melting pot, culture shock in novel form, much like Lahiri's short story collection the Interpreter of Maladies. However, it had one unique theme. The name is the theme. A person's name is never just a person's name - and this story tells us why. The history of the name, even before little Gogol was born in America, began in Russia and India. The name, "grows" with the main character, for in childhood, it is a thing of familiarity and comfort, and in his youth, a source of confusion and embarassment. As the protagonist becomes a man of his own, he then begins to realise the uniqueness of Gogol.I have to say, as a reader with an unusual name myself, I truly relate.
3 I loved the way this book was written.  But it went on and on and, try as I might, it was really boring. We follow the life of the &#34;namesake&#34; but he does nothing to earn it.
5 I had read Interpreter of Maladies several years ago and recall enjoying it. I did much more than just enjoy The Namesake. I was completely mesmerized by it. Lahiri&#8217;s writing style is deceptively complex. At first, there doesn&#8217;t seem to be anything particularly special about it, but the small details she works in throughout have a cumulative effect that would never be apparent looking at any particular page, paragraph or sentence.Lahiri writes in the third person present which simultaneously creates a sense of distance and a sense of immediacy as we watch the story unfold in the relentless now even though events date back to 1968 when we are introduced to the main character&#8217;s parents when he is still in the womb. We hear about how his parents first met, how their marriage was arranged, how the father swept his young wife away from her family in Calcutta for a new life in Boston.The main character, Gogol, so named after his father&#8217;s favorite author who he was reading at the time of a near fatal train crash, resents this odd name and eventually changes it to Nikhil. Lahiri traces his life from his birth until his early 30s. In many ways, Gogol/Nikhil&#8217;s life is unremarkable; he goes to school, falls in love, goes to college, marries, begins a career as an architect.However, two things make the novel special. One is that these events happen to a young man whose parents were both born and raised in Calcutta. Gogol/Nikhil struggles with creating his own identity in a country that remains mysterious to his parents. He often distances himself from them as he navigates his relationship with his heritage.The second is Lahiri&#8217;s precise use of details, every single one of which rings true and deftly provides insight into a character or situation. The Namesake feels real; nothing is jarring or false. And because it feels so real, The Namesake makes the reader care deeply for its characters, makes the reader eager to find out what happens next. It is a quick, compelling and satisfying read.
5 In her debut novel, Lahiri highlights the connections in families and our relationships with other people. It shines with a strenght and brilliance that comes through an in-depth exploration of characters and exploration of the world around you. Jhumpa Lahiri's voice is strong and detailed, giving us a lot of concreteness to help us discover the world of the book. In a day and age where the family is becoming less relevant, Lahiri shows us how important a family really is through Gogol, who at once forsakes his name and culture, but then realizes that our culture and family is the thing that makes us who we are. We should always embrace our namesake.
5 Asihma's greatest event in America happens in the Subway. She returns home exhausted after a long shopping trip in which she bought dozens of presents for all her Indian relatives. The train is crowded and when she manages to leap out she forgets all her bags. She weeps freely knowing that she can't possibly afford to go back and buy it all again. However, Ashoke, her husband calls the Lost and found and the following day the bags are returned, not a teaspoon missing. This small miracle causes Ashima to become attached to America in a way she has previously not thought possible. I mention this part in the book since it made me smile with a lot of identification. This is also an experience that American borne cannot feel as surprised about as people coming from other countries. Indeed this is a miracle.This is a book about life in between cultures.  A sort of experience which is no doubt similar to many houses across America. All sorts of everyday questions about what is right and what is wrong in your culture and in the new culture and what makes you feel comfortable. I guess a stronger word would be that this is a book about the question of identity. The in between feeling is most strongly felt by the second generation. Gogol, Ashima's and Ashoke's son is the main character of this story. In a certain stage of his life Gogol seems to turn away from his culture, from his heritage, then he seems to come back, but not in the "right way". By the end of the story he seems to have reached a certain acceptance with a true "Gogol" identity, with a private heritage unique to himself and his parents which is above American or Indian culture.This is a very good, very interesting book, mostly because it does not use any pompous language, vague metaphors or descriptions that are strange to the reader. This is a story about a family and its everyday life, coming from India and trying to adjust to America. Each part is seen from a different person's eyes. The story however centers on Gogol and his life in between, what he makes of his life and how much are his choices connected to how he sees and understands his parents and their past. What he wants to embrace and what he wants to get away from. A very enjoyable reading.
5 The Namesake is a well written story by Jhumpa Lahiri and wonderfully narrated by Sarita Choudhury.It is a story of an immigrant family, growing up in a culture clash. But there is a twist, a novel idea to this story. It is about the boy's name. The Ganguly family names their son by circumstances and how it evolves in the story is very well depicted. I especially love the ending of the story. Kudos to Lahiri who does a fine job of portraying every element of the story with finesse and warmth. Each character touches your heart and falls correctly in the story.A Bengali couple immigrating from India to Boston. MA. How they adjust to the new life in the US and the upbringing of their son GOGOL. Coming from a similar background, I could relate to the story quite a bit. It a warm and touching story and sure to delight everyone who comes across this book.This review is based on the audio book.- uday K
5 I looked forward to reading Jhumpa's second novel after having read her first one.  Jhumpa is able to write in simple lucid prose the many trials and tribulations the Asian Indian immigrants and their offsprings go through in the U.S.  Jhumpa is one of the rare writers who does not play with big words but her style is simple and endearing. It is like an adult telling a bed time story to another adult. I thoroughly enjoyed the book and all Asian Indian immigrants and their offsprings will be able to identify themselves with the characters in this book. All the characters are very well etched in this book and Jhumpa is able to bring out minute details in her characters. Well done Jhumpa.
3 Lahiri has painted a sad picture of an Indian family living in America. I, also an immigrant could not at all relate to the relationships in this family. The children seemed to be ashamed of their heritage and the parents seemed to be without any true emotions. It took failure and a great tragedy for the protagonist to start appreciating his heritage. Or was it that they were so proper that they hid their emotions even amongst themselves? And what is with these Indian women and extra marital affairs? This is a second book I have read about an Indian family, first "Brick Lane" and now this; in both stories women have lovers on the side when they have good loving husbands at home.The only reason I gave this book a three-star rating is because of her prose and the description of detail which gave volume to her short story.
5 This is my third read from Jhumpa Lahiri and I am throughly impressed. Like a fine painting, she layers her story with each stoke of her pen. I read this novel very slowly and allowed this story of love, culture, discover, loss, pain and self discovery to penetrate my soul. Wonderful read... Beautifully written and executed.
1 I had to read this book for my ENG101 class in college. To be fair, this wasn't a horrible book. The first two or three chapters of the book are perhaps the strongest passages in the novel. We get introduced to Ashima, who to me should have been the main focus of the book instead of her son, Gogol. Her experiences reflect what many foreigners feel when coming to America or any foreign country. Why the author had to focus on Gogol's life, which is ordinary and uneventful, instead of Ashima's life, which even long after he was born is filled with regret, sadness, hope, and desire, is beyond me.First of all, Gogol is a lackluster, tedious character. His story alone is not enough to carry a whole novel. A short story maybe, but not an almost 300 page novel. Apparently, the author wanted to show the difference between American and Bengali culture through the eyes of this character. But for some reason, the author barely makes a comparison, beyond the obvious reasons like food, family, marriage, and religion. There are some episodes where Gogol and his family go to India, but we get no insight about the culture, the people, or where Gogol's family came from. "The namesake" is the only thing that drives Gogol to think about his past and briefly over his culture. I found "the namesake" to be played out too much. He seems to dislike his name the most because it's inconvenient. Okay, so the name is Russian instead of Indian or American. What other reason does he hate his name? Can it go beyond the inconvenience and origin of the name? Why should we feel sorry for him? I could understand if the name caused conflict in his family back in India, or an even greater conflict in his social life, but all it does is make him dwell on it like some disease. When he changed his name, why did he change it to Nikhil, similar to Nikolai, the first name of the author he despised, the author who carried the origin of his namesake? What difference did it make that his new name is Nikhil instead of Gogol? Why even let this event happen at all if a chapter or two later the narrator is back to calling him Gogol?Another thing, I never really understood why the author, who had a strong grasp of the plot by letting it focus on a few Bengali characters, suddenly lets the whole plot fall into the most boring route as possible. When Gogol is in his thirties, the author tends to put way too much detail on the insignificant, daily activities and routines of the characters, with no insight at all about their emotions or reactions towards the day. As for Gogl's love affairs, why did they end so quickly with no explanation? Why did that one relationship had to be the main focus on the plot for nearly one or two chapters? Who were these women? What were they like? What were their goals or ambitions? Why did they like Gogol? At times I felt as if Gogol's girlfriends were there for no other reason than for the predictable questions to be asked (does your family want you to marry an Indian woman? what's India like?) and for the obvious situations to arise (Gogol telling his mother about being with an American girl after hiding his "secret" for awhile). If the author wanted to focus on Gogol's love affairs, they could have at least been more exciting, interesting, and adventurous. A little bit of character development wouldn't hurt.To be honest, I felt like the main flaw of this entire book was the author's style of writing. It's boring. It's not driven. It tends to ramble on tediously, making even the tragic and touching moments of the book very dry and dispassionate. I think another downfall was the author's overabundance of generic detail. We get vivid detail of places, environs, and daily routines that don't add anything to the plot. We get to know what college a character has been to, the degree they pursued, the job or career they earned, and houses they live in and the restaurants they go to, a hint to how much money they make and the upper-class lifestyle they lead. None of this speaks volumes about the heart of the character, let alone does it really say what kind of people they are. This makes the narration the bit more tedious and the plot more lackluster. At that point, it makes Gogol's namesake dilema ridiculous and childish. It's just insecurity, not a cry for help. I don't sympathize with this character because of his name, or because he won't get over it. To me i think the author's intention of making "the namesake" the main theme and focus on the character's life is what made Gogol a very superficial, one-dimensional character.I think if the author put more focus on Gogol's mother and father, whose lives, for very little we know of it, is far more in depth and interesting than that of Gogol's, this would have been a more exciting read. Maybe the author underlooked the great potential that her minor characters had. Gogol's mother married a man she barely knew, and was swept into a country that she still doesn't understand long after her two children were born, children who know the country more than they know their own. Gogol's father nearly died in a tragic train accident, naming his son after the author of the book that saved his life. How about their Bengali friends in America, who seem to keep their Indian culture and customs intact. How do they do it? How are they raising their children in America? What about Gogol's sister? What's it like for her being an Indian-American female? How does it affect her later in life? All the possibilities were there. So many characters with great stories to tell, many thoughts to be unraveled. Instead, the author just focuses on Gogol's whiney attitude about his namesake and his unexciting love affairs, while letting the other characters fade as if their stories are not important. I think that's such a shame. I was kind of surprised to know that this book is going to be a movie. As I said, if the book focused more on Gogol's family and their Bengali friends, it would have been a more exciting idea for a movie, but since the book focuses on Gogol's boring life and over the top obsession with his namesake, I'm not sure if i would be that interested in watching it on  the big screen.
4 Jhumpa Lahiri, - This is a depressing novel; almost well written, but depressing nonetheless. It should have been subtitled "The worst things that can happen to you if you emigrate". It permeates your consciousness especially if you identify with the protagonists Ashima and Ashoke who left their homeland to strike out a life in the US. That they succeeded is vastly overshadowed by the events that happen to them when their kids grow. About 2/3rd of the book is dedicated to Gogol, the namesake. Gogol is Ashima and Ashoke's first born. Despite the attempts -- or maybe because of them -- of the first generation immigrant parents to inculcate the native culture in their offsprings, things inevitably go wrong. The father faces an untimely death, the son faces growing up and fitting in two cultures, neither of which can lay a claim on him completely. The mother faces life without a husband and grown children who have their own agendas. The ending is somewhat contrived and long overdue. The novel appears to be stretched out at the end; an end that was not quite fruitful. Compared to her first book consisting of short stories (Interpreter of Maladies) of Indian diaspora, this book appears somewhat cumbersome and overdone. I liked her first offering much better.
3 Lahiri in the follow up for "Interpreter of Maladies" has a sophmore effort. As always she writes binding the reader's interest in her characters. She really gets into the hearts and minds of her characters. You get to hear their deepest thoughts,aspirations,motivations and fears. A good novel, but sometimes really seems a bit restrained. If you liked her prose, i would recommend reading another Indian author ArundhatiRoy's " The God of small Things" which has even more beautiful language.
5 Jhumpa Lahiri is nearly as brilliant in Namesake as she was in the Interpretor of Maladies. Namesake is the story of Gogol, son on Ashoke and Ashima Ganguly. The Gangulies hail from Bengal and throughout their life try to reconcile with their alienated existence in a foreign homeland. The son, Gogol, a namesake of a Russian writer, struggles to come to terms with his love and life. He is born American, flesh and blood Indian and named Russian. The name was given to him as Gangulies never received the letter sent by an aged grandmother carrying the name for Gogol. It was Gogol's book that Ashoke was reading, when he nearly died in a train accident, so the name is forever dear to him. What Gogol does not understand during Ashoke's life, becomes partially apparent to him after his father's death (an extremely moving description).The novel is about misplaced homelands, about misunderstandings between generations, about the pain and pining of an immigrant, about family values and about an individual who learns from a series of engaging events and conversations the significance of everything he considered meaningless and perhaps, foreign. Namesake is a novel that is brilliant in the description of typical immigrant Bengali families, and does commendable job in capturing the essential conflicts within and among the family members of immigrant families.
4 This book made me think of the way some Americans criticize immigrants -- in this case Indian immigrants -- for clinging to their own culture and not learning the language.  Keeping an open mind, I tried to identify with an Indian woman, transported to America because of her arranged marriage, having her first baby in an American hospital, with &#34;strangers&#34; rather than family tending her.  Throughout this book, I watched her trying to re-create the culture she had left behind by hosting gatherings of other Indian transplants.  I saw her trying and failing to keep from losing her children to the American culture.  I came to understand the terrible loneliness of those who leave family.  At the same time, I came to understand the necessity of adapting to a new culture and for not keeping one's children torn between two worlds.  This is a good book for someone who has the ability to empathize and feel compassion.
5 I really enjoyed Jhumpa Lahiri's novel, "The Namesake."  The book is extremely easy to read and would appeal to anyone interested in social issues faced by immigrants, historical fiction, and/or Bengali history and customs.The book opens with the story of Ashima Gaguli, a young bride, who is about to deliver her first child in Massachusetts.  Her husband, Ashoke, is a post-doctoral candidate at MIT.  They recently wed in Calcutta, India after only meeting for a few minutes in the home of Ashima's parents.  Ashima brings her son, Gogol, into the world alone, while her family waits for news in India and her husband paces in the waiting room.  The story develops as Lahiri sheds light on why Gogol was given his name.  We also see Ahoke and Ashima begin to develop a loving relationship and come to grips with raising two children, Gogol and his future sister, Sonia, in a foreign country.  Mostly, they begin to develop strong with other Bengalis living in the Northeast United States.As Gogol matures, he feels more comfortable with the American way of life and less tied to the Bengali customs than his parents would like.  He develops relationships, becomes educated, and leads his life in a stereotypical American fashion until tragedy strikes his family.  At that time, Gogol begins to mature intellecutally rather than just physically and reevaluates his estragement from his family and heritage.  Lahiri creates a believable story that weaves together many of the conflicts and decisions that Gogol must face.  Unlike with other books, Lahiri does not create a typical happy story or a book that has an obvious right or wrong conclusion.Thus, while written in a very readable and sometimes simple fashion, the book explores many difficulty issues.  Lahiri creates realistic, complex characters that don't let the reader guess the turns that the book will take and keep the reader thinking of the paths that the characters should or should not take.
5 A very well written life story of a woman's sacrifice when she marries, then moves to London and then to the United States. The story fluidly moves tot he life of the son and how he deals with list as a 1st generation Indian-American. The story is both tragic and celebratory.
4 I loved this realistic and seemingly simple story told through the perspectives of various vividly realized characters. Who cannot identify with resentment of parents and customs as a child, and the longing and appreciation of them later (sometimes too late)? I enjoyed the insights into Bengali culture and the perspectives of expatriates especially as I begin my own journey away from my family and home.
1 This book is nothing special. The writing is uninspired and unimaginative. Half the book consists of the writer going into detail about what the clients are eating. Great, she can list off a random bunch of unknown and sufficiently sophisticated sounding menu items.Most of the characters are as deep as tissue paper and they have no personality or emotion. And Lahiri's random rambling on about the minute details of the character's surroundings does nothing to advance the story, except perhaps to pad on some pages.The other major flaw in this book is that characters make huge life altering decisions without any reason behind why they are doing it. Or for that matter, when something life altering does happen to a character, instead of showing to us how the character deals with this, Lahiri skips a year forward and assumes everything is back to normal. Where are the internal struggles that they are going through? How are they coping? Apparently that is not as important to explore as is their dietary needs. What a waste of my time.
4 This is a touching and gripping account of the life of a boy born in America, to parents born in and strongly attached to India. It is very well-written, and clear to follow.The story is particularly strong as it details the early childhood and youth of the boy, nicknamed &#34;Gogol.&#34;  Although I am a third-generation person born to parents whose own parents immigrated from Eastern Europe, Gogol's parents' experience rang true to what I know and imagine of my own parents' lives. So The Namesake is illuminating about the immigrant experience in general, as well as about some aspects of life and culture in the Bengal that Gogol's parents left.The book loses a little steam as Gogol enters adulthood, establishes a career and attempts unsuccessfully to create his own married life. In this section I feel that the author may have been trying to make a point, without fully inhabiting the life of her character, as she does so successfully in the earlier sections.All in all, though, it is well worth reading.
2 Ms. Lahiri is great at describing a room, food, and one's inner chatter.  Very nice narrative.  You can picture her sitting in a room and typing a detailed description of the couch, the drapes, the walls -- but this is not very good writing if that's all there is and pretty much that is as good as it gets.  She does a nice job of capturing immigrant and first-generation American angst and how Americans can be culturally insensitive, but it seems tired and whiny rather than engaging.There's nothing much going on in this novel.  Even when the reader approaches the upcoming climax of the story and she teases the reader into thinking finally there will be some conflict, some emotion, some drama, some dialogue... the author just drops it, moves on to a sort of epilogue and backstories and narrates the would-be climax which diminishes it further. It's as if she's afraid to have her characters really face each other.  The important scenes seem hidden.Which is not surprising, given the protagonist, Gogol Ganguli. He is a passive, bored and boring person who never grows, never learns anything about life, always sees the cloud in every silver lining.  He is ashamed of his Indian background, takes no joy in things American or anything else in his upscale yuppie life.  He never leads life, he lets life lead him.  So others are always calling the shots.  This might work if he finally took charge of his life in the end, but even that doesn't change. Why should we care much about this man?The author milks the title, regarding how Gogol got his name, for all its worth and much too much more, which further drags the story.  Like the climax, this sub-plot gives the reader anticipation of bigger things, but there's no there there.  It just peters out into descriptive depression like most of the setups in the book.
5 I've fallen in love with Lahiri's writing. She manages to say so much without overstating what she has to say through her characters and plots; that's a delicate, difficult balance. Its stunning how a story that feels like it is so flawlessly shared with the reader is actually weaving an intricate plot. Her characters, whose transformation can be vivid and full, never seem unbelievable.  You'll really begin to feel yourself in the shoes of these characters and (even if you are not an immigrant) will come to understand how complex the journey is and how it effects generations over time.
4 Jhumpa Lahiri's "The Namesake" begins with the birth of Gogol Ganguli, the son of young Indian parents recently immigrated to Boston. The novel follows the life of Gogol and his identity as a second generation Indian living in the United States with a Russian name, from his childhood to middle age. The life of Gogol, and especially the viewpoint of his parents, are presented in a wonderfully poignant way that is all the more effective for its subtlety - although it is written in a somewhat detached third person form, the powerful way in which the feelings of the characters resonate off the page makes it hard to put down - I went through the life of Gogol in two days and couldn't stop thinking about it for a week afterwards. I would highly recommend this book, especially to other second generation Indians, who may find that they can relate strongly to Gogol's point of view and circumstances.
5 I watched this movie a couple of years ago and never realized it was a book as well. I finally got the book to read, and I'm happily surprised that the movie went right along with the book. Having a strange name myself, I feel Gogol's pain at having a name nobody can pronounce, but now am proud to bear the name chosen for me. I highly recommend it to everyone!
4 Each story which tells about the struggle of man in order to know and determine who he really is, always excites to me.Such is the story about Miriam (http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00BXEO1A2  )  which my daughter read. Y.L-G
3 Benjamin Woolley have written a non-sensationalist, almost boring, biography of John Dee, one of the more spectacular characters of British and European history.John Dee (1527 - 1609) was a British scientist and mathematician who became notorious for his involvement in the occult. Together with a medium named Edward Kelley, Dee conjured up spirits and angels, who gave him "the secrets of the universe" and a magic "Enochian" language, still being used by self-proclaimed magicians. Astrology and alchemy were among his other interests. Dee was also connected with the court of Queen Elizabeth I, as a scientific advisor. Indeed, Dee was one of the first to propose English imperial expansion, coined the phrase "British Empire", and played a certain role in the search for the famed Northwest passage to China.Dee's occult interests eventually made him leave England. Together with Kelley, he travelled to Germany, Poland and Bohemia. During this period, he regularly kept in touch with the "spirits" and "angels", organizing s&eacute;ances with the help of Kelley, crystal balls and a magical seer stone. After a fall-out with Kelley, who had claimed that the spirits wanted him and Dee to share their wives in common, Dee returned to England, only to find that his house had been plundered on all books and scientific instruments. Kelley stayed behind in Bohemia, became a nobleman, but was later thrown in jail. His ultimate fate is unknown. Dee died in relative obscurity in 1608 or 1609 (nobody knows for sure!), but his magical books where found decades later, published and...the rest is history.I first heard of John Dee as a teenager, reading about him in an otherwise reliable encyclopaedia of matters occult. It turns out that the entry on Dee got most things wrong: it claimed that Dee was imprisoned by Queen Elizabeth, and that he toured Europe with a "magic show". Well, not exactly, LOL.Benjamin Woolley has attempted to disentangle fact and fiction, and come up with a Dee who is surprisingly rational, honest and even somewhat boring. Dee's mixture of science and the occult wasn't strange for his time. Dee apparently didn't see himself as a conjuror or magician, but rather as a scientist exploring the unknown realms of the universe. To him, the "nature magician" was simply using unknown, natural forces. Nor was there anything strange about combining astronomy and astrology. Woolley seconds Dame Frances Yates description of Dee as a true Renaissance man.So why did Dee constantly get himself in trouble, then? One reason was the widespread belief that the spirits he communicated with were evil, another was his unclear religious sympathies in an age when Catholics and Protestants were deadly enemies. In other words, Dee was too tolerant! Also, his assistant Kelley was a notoriously unstable person. Kelley actually converted to Catholicism, right under Dee's nose, during their protracted stay in Bohemia.Several things struck me when reading the book. One was that the relationship between Kelley and Dee was very complex. Usually, Kelley is depicted as manipulating the gullible Dee. From "The Queen's Conjuror", I rather got the impression that the two men were manipulating each other. Yes, Kelley must have made it all up (unless you believe in spirits). Very often, however, Kelley wanted the s&eacute;ances to stop, even to the point of arguing that the spirits he called upon were evil, but Dee would force him to continue.Another thing that struck me were the similarities between the two men and the Mormon prophet Joseph Smith (not mentioned by the author). Today, non-Mormon scholars agree that Smith was a treasure-hunter, a scryer and that he communicated with angels through a seer-stone. Smith also introduced polygamy through a divine revelation, was interested in the Qabalah, and had an obsession with Enoch. The Book of Mormon was supposedly found by Smith when digging in a hill. Compare this to Dee and Kelley: they communicated with spirits and angels through a seer-stone, Kelley claimed to have found ancient documents buried in a hill, Kelley demanded "the sharing of wives" after an angelic revelation, both men attempted to search for buried treasure with the help of magic, Dee was a Qabalist, and his magic language is called "Enochian". An almost perfect match! Did the Mormon prophet had access to John Dee's writings?"The Queen's Conjuror" isn't a perfect book. Woolley have attempted a fast-paced, popularized study, but Dee's life is so complicated, that the story (perhaps inevitably) gets bogged down in messy details. Sometimes, Woolley looses the red thread.Still, I found the book interesting, and I recommend it as an introduction to Doctor John Dee, boring conjuror and ultimate Renaissance man.
5 John Dee, was so fascinating, and this book gives us but a taste, as most of the great John Dee's work has not survived the passage of time, nor the assaults by religious zealots who claim to have known better. So we are left with but a handful of documents to tell us of his contacts with spirits, demons and angels. His partner Edward Kelley deserves equal billing, but again all were against these great men who made company with kings, queens, emperors, poets, writers, sorcerers, priests, and God himself. The author has done a lot with very little, and I strongly recommend this book for anyone who looks beyond the veil for more in this life.
5 Dr. John Dee is now considered to be the English Renaissance man. This was not always the case, however, because his first biographers, as the author of this fine biography points out, were either `hard-headed rationalist or muddle-headed mystics.' In present time, researchers and historians agree that Dee was a true Renaissance man because he sought to connect or reconcile rationalism with magic, science and the supernatural. This was not unusual for the time. Copernicus cited the mystic Hermes Trismegistus in his Magnum Opus, proposing the heliocentric universe. Isaac Newton began his career as an alchemist, before moving on to modern methods of pure science. John Dee was the most important scientists of the Elizabethan age. But this is only a somewhat recent recognition because throughout the ages he was considered a charlatan, crook, blockhead and "companion of hellhounds". Benjamin Woolley's fine biography combines history, science, espionage and common sense and attempts to answer how a man of genius that had such a major influence in mathematics, astronomy, cartography, navigation and science in general, could die a pauper and in obscurity.In 1659, a scholar by the name of Meric Casaubon copied and published a collection of Dee's documents, which contained the recordings of spiritual conversations with angels and archangels, and other dialogues, which could be interpreted dubious at best. After the publication Dee's reputation as a credible philosopher went steadily down hill and has taken centuries to recover. Woolley has done some fine research, using Dee's actual diaries, and has painstakingly pieced together his life and career.The Elizabethan age was a turning point in Western history. The Reformation was essentially a battle for power and knowledge and a bloody war in the name of religion. But it also set the stage for the Enlightenment, and Dr. John Dee was a precursor to the Age of Reason. He was a man of `science', collecting and studying every ancient text he could get his hands on, (his library is the stuff of legend) but rational knowledge, he truly believed, would only take him so far - he desired heavenly knowledge and wisdom. And it is possible that his spiritual researches into the divine nature could have been the cause of his downfall. Dee did not seek worldly gain, riches and material pleasure; his only desire was to attain the secrets of the Holy. Did he pay the ultimate price for this activity?~The Queen's Conjurer~ is not a dense historical text, but an informative and enlightening piece of research. It casts some light on an intriguing figure, removing him from modern occult history and in to the mainstream.
5 A most comprehensive and enjoyable book on the life of the mythical Dr John Dee. The relationship of Dee with Kelly is fascinating. The Elizabethan era is one of the most interesting in history and Dee was certainly one of its most eccentric characters. Mr Woolley writes is an easy and flowing style that results in a most enjoyable book. Highly recommended.
5 I have always found Dr. John Dee to be one of the most intriguing characters of Elizabethan times. Yet, there seemed to be so little information available about him, only bits and pieces and rumors- often spread by his enemies. Here is a most satisfying biography that not only gives you a complete look at the Doctor's life, but is also supplemented with a wealth of associated detail and historical background. This book turns Dee from a shadowy character to a real man, a great man.What comes across is the amazing breadth and depth of Dee's interests and scholarship. He was already famed for his remarkable intellect and ability as a student at Cambridge. At a time when most scholars barely possessed a reading knowledge of bad Latin, he mastered classical Greek to be able to read the forgotten works of Plato and Pythagoras. He was a personal friend and correspondent to the great men of the age such as Tycho Brahe and Mercator. Dee himself was famed as a great mathematician in Europe (at a time when simple trigonometry was almost unknown in England.) He was offered high positions at the great courts of Europe, but turned these offers down out of a deep seated desire to raise up his country of birth to be their eventual global equal (at this time England was a poor, backward, weak backwater.) Indeed, the first conception of a British Empire, founded upon a strong Royal Navy, was first expounded by Dee.John Dee was as close to modern scientist as existed in the 16th century. He independently came to the conclusion that bodies of unequal weight fall at the same rate- before Galileo. He was recognized as England's top expert on optics and lenses. He was recognized as one of the top experts on navigation and chart making of his day. He kept detailed astronomical observations that even Tycho Brahe admired. He based his astrological work upon the heliocentric "heresy" of Copernicus. He was an expert in geology and ores and leased his own tin mine. He also collected the biggest research library of the age in Mortlake, which was a gathering place of the greatest minds of England and the continent. In short- Dee was a competent expert in several areas of natural philosophy and applied technology. He believed in detailed observation and record keeping- in both natural, and supernatural, phenomena.The thing is, Dee believed his accomplishments in the more material and practical sciences to be among his lesser accomplishments. Like Newton after him, his real passion was with the deepest cosmic and spiritual secrets. This led to his fame as an astrologer, and an alchemist, and a cabalist. Dee's passion was to discover the ancient, true, original religion of mankind, the "prisci theology." That is why he could walk easily among both Protestants and Catholics- he ultimately considered both of their dogma's to be equally absurd. Dee had a much more open mind that the "scientists" of later centuries- he studied all unknown forces, natural or supernatural. This was why be studied and practiced natural magic (Agrippa's three books were always open upon his desk for quick reference.) He knew that hidden currents influenced the day-to-day world, and he documented his observations even if he couldn't explain them in terms of material cause and effect. This also led to his interest is scrying and the use of natural sensitives to communicate with spirits. It should be noted, that no one at this time doubted the existence of such spirits- it was as self evident as the existence of God. In fact, many powerful lords of the day employed seers and scryers, including the earls of Leicester, Pembroke, and Northumberland.All in all, you come away with a renewed respect for Dee. You realize that his only fault was to be born in a society of petty, ignorant, lesser men. It was they that libeled and slandered his image and painted him as a superstitious conjuror. Indeed, the only real mistake that the good Doctor made was to outlive his beloved queen and protector.
5 This was a satisfying, informative, entertaining and thought provoking read. Having lived in New Zealand and Australia most of my adult life, I have never paddled up to the Coral Sea. I have been to other parts of Polynesia and Melanesia but what is described in this book is a series of cultures different from what I have encountered. Part history, biography and travel story it works on all those levels. It is clear on the legacy of European colonisation and the missionairies role in subverting existing beliefs and traditional tribal structures. Unsuprising many Europeans came to a bad end without quite realising why. The dangerous currents then are still in force today and Mr Moran encounters some of them in his travels. Yet what emerges is the richness of differences, even in short distances-these can often be baffling when on the surface there may be a sameness about the environment, the people and what they appera to do and beleive in. It is a book I shall long treasure.
3 An informative and at times entertaining read about Papua New Guinea and it's surrounding islands. The author interweaves his story of travel with the history of various explorers, missionaries, and local personages. He describes the various impacts modernization has had on the islands and discusses the effects missionaries, colonization, and the world wars have wrought. The book provides good insight to places rarely written about and the author colorfully describes various festivals, arts, and customs. I enjoyed the book although at times it slowed and a sense of sanctimony occasionally pervades the work. The book whetted my appetite to learn more about the region's history and art and an extensive bibliography is provided.
3 Australian travel writer Michael Moran boned up, so to speak, before his leisurely sweep through the cannibal islands. The cannibals are mostly Christians now, of somewhat puritanical bent, but not so strait-laced that they do not tease tourists about who's for dinner.Nevertheless, this is more ambitious than the usual drool of travelogues, and consequently somewhat disappointing in that it shoots high but hits low too often.Moran has lived in Poland and knows Polish and German, useful because he wants to explore the present in the context of the recent past -- the colonial era of Germany, Russia, Japan and Australia. Polish comes in because Poles did, especially the anthropologists Bronislaw Malinowski and the Russian Nikolai Miklouho-Maclay, who introduced the concept of living at length among one's subjects. Moran has unlimited admiration for him.For the missionaries, his feelings are mixed, as they should be.Having packed his boxes of 19th century books, Moran then visits Port Moresby, in 2000 and still one of most dangerous places. Moran explains he will not visit the Highlands, even more dangerous, and he is glad to get out of Moresby for the eastern or island provinces: Massim, New Ireland, New Britain, Buka, (very briefly) Bougainville, the Trobriands.It was hot.Moran tries, not too successfully, to keep three balls in the air: flashbacks to the early years of white contact, meetings with Melanesians, meetings with `expatriates.'The theme of the book becomes, "the beautiful children of Melanesia." These are contrasted with the fierce (but usually amiable once introduced) older men and the sullen, resentful young ones.These, in turn, are contrasted with expats, who are either like Moran or, more often, western rejects, drunks, liars, con artists.It's all a little too pat and somewhat skimpy on the Melanesians.The attempt to analyze Papua New Guinea politics is interesting and may even, who knows?, be fairly accurate.  That trying to impose parliamentary democracy on the sons of headhunters, people so poor that even the chiefs buy cigarettes one at a time, was a mistake seems obvious. But parliamentary democracy has failed in places with much stronger claims to be part of the modern world than Melanesia.Melanesia is a violent place these days. But it always was. Whether it is more violent is a question Moran does not ask."Beyond the Coral Sea" is beautifully written; no other contemporary travel writer I know is in the same league. (I would have to go back more than half a century to Vincent Cronin's "The Golden Honeycomb" to find its equal.)
5 The isolated islands of the Coral, Solomon and Bismarck Seas were the last to be explored by Europeans, leading author Michael Moran to delve into the magic of these largely unspoiled colonies. BEYOND THE CORAL SEA travels the footsteps of some of the early explorers of the Coral Sea islands, considering history, cultural changes, and anthropological facts.
3 OBSERVATIONS:- Covers the brief German colonialist period- Investigates issues of poverty, cultural dislocation and crime (the "raskols")- Not so much on cannibalism per se, but it is disconcerting to read how relatively frequently uppity missionaries were eaten!- The Manus Island dances give new meaning to the term "Members Only"PROS- Well-researched- Multiple sets of great photos- Stories of adventurous missionaries and misfits such as Count D'Albertis, the Cambridge Seven, Bronislaw Malinowski, Baron Miklouho-Maclay and of course Errol Flynn- Good exploration of cultural concepts and artifacts such as malagan masks, tubuans, dukduks etc.- Best book chapter is the Essay on Kwato Island - very poignant, poetic and melancholyCONThe balance of memoir, travelogue, history and essay is good but not as good as other travel writers such as Robert D. Kaplan or Bruce Chatwin. Moran has all the right ingredients, but the proportions need tweaking.Great line: "once the tropics infects your blood, it enslaves you like a terminal illness"
5 What a fun book! Animal sounds are a perfect way to help your child's speech development and this book is full of animal sounds. My son loves reading this together. This is one of our staples for daily reading. I loved this book so well, that we checked out What Do You Do from our local library. I did not like that one as well, but perhaps that will change as my son matures and can better connect that cows make milk and birds build nests, etc.
5 This is one of my 10 month old daughter's absolute favorites. She has a ton of books, but this (alond with a couple others) are the ones she always grabs off her bookcase. She will sit and pay close attention to this book and she gets so excited at every animal noise. She will laugh and clap her hands. I think it's very cute too and love the bright, bold pictures (and the random ending that I wasn't expecting, haha). I'm hoping reading this book will help her learn her animal noises in the near future. Lord knows we read it enough!
5 This book is wonderful for teaching different animal sounds to kids.  The pictures are big and bright which makes it fun to look at.  There are different pictures for different animals asking what each says which is a great interactive book for kids.  Wonderful book!
5 This is a cute book with great pictures of animals.  The ending is funny and though my 9 month old doesnt get it yet I laugh whenever I read it to her.Sturdy.  A little bit bigger than some board books but not too big for baby.
5 We had this book for my older daughter and read it many times a day when she was a baby/toddler.  She really learned her animal sounds from this book--she loved it!  I had forgotten about it until I saw it in a picture that showed me reading it to her.  When I went to look for it, I couldn't find it.  So, I am buying it again for our youngest to enjoy.  I know it will be a favorite for her, too.
5 I read the first of these back in fifth grade, and it's a series I still pull out to read from time to time 30 years later. Alexander's writing is subtle, deft, almost poetic, painting each picture and setting each scene with an economy of words. Though the books were intended for a young audience, they're suitable for anyone between 10 and 100.Taran is a well-realized and likable take on the farm-boy-turned-hero archetype. Fflewddur, Doli, Prince Gwydion and the rest are each wonderful characters. And Eilonwy? Well, she's among my favorite characters in all of fiction. Just as the Chronicles of Prydain is among my favorite works of fiction - it belongs on the same shelf as such masterpieces as the Lord of the Rings.Come to think of it, it's been too long. I think it's about time I took another journey across Prydain with my dear friends the Companions.
5 I've bought a copy of the series for each of my children when they hit the same age I did when first reading this.These books didn't change my life in a dramatic way.  There was no, ZOMG I read these and then my cancerous tumor ran away!  However, they did change my life, just in subtle and long term ways.  I've found myself, 30 years after reading them, thinking about Taran's struggles during his Wandering.  I try to find the same wisdom he gained, that let him succeed so well in the High King.  And I've kept Cole, and Dalbin in mind, while raising my own Assistant Pig-Keepers.One of those fundamental series of books for me, that made me who I am, and that I want everyone to have a chance to enjoy as much as I did.
4 Very nice! I'm giving it as a gift. I hope I can borrow them sometime to read them also. The end
4 Finally, books I remember enjoying as a kid that still stand up to re-reading as an adult!They are sometimes described as coming-of-age stories, and that is true in the best sense of the term.  Alexander is deeply concerned with growing up, and he examines many of its central, deepest, and most profound aspects, such as discovering one's personal identity, and responsibility.  Each book in the series looks at these themes in different ways and builds on them a little more.  My favorite in the series, Taran Wanderer (which I had expected to enjoy the least), deals with these issues so simply and directly that it acquires an almost allegorical quality.  He teaches many important life lessons that are every bit as relevant to us grown-ups as to young adolescents just beginning to struggle with these issues.  And he does so through engaging stories and a memorable cast of characters.  From now on, whenever I find myself in a situation that tests my courage or integrity, all I have to do is think to myself, "A Fflam never falters!"Some people like to complain about the supposed similarities between these books and those of Tolkein, but apart from some basic structural features stemming from their common mythological roots, there really isn't a lot of similarity in the details.  Even in the most obviously similar part---the ending---what is really interesting is how it differs.  I can't say much without giving it away, but let's  just say that Alexander, to his credit, ultimately says almost the exact opposite of Tolkein.  No, Alexander's fantasy world isn't as complex and well-developed as Tolkein's, but these books were written for a younger audience, and let's face it, nobody can stand up to a comparison with Tolkein as far as that goes.  I think if people, of whatever age, take these books on their own terms, they will find them to be a rewarding experience.
5 Belongs on the shelf next to Chronicles of Narnia and all things Roald Dahl.  Just a great set of books with a WONDERFUL main female character.
5 I purchased this for my 13 year old boy because I grew up reading the series 1000 times. Tried and true. Loved by all. This is one of the original celtic fantasy masterpieces.
5 this is the most wonderful &#34;lost&#34; treasure I have happened upon in a long time.....both my 13 year old son and I couldn't read them fast enough....highly recommended for those who love knights, sorcery, and a flawed hero who only grows into the man he should be as he goes through trials and quests to save his homeland from evil
5 Had read most of the other books by Lloyd Alexander  but never got around to reading this series ... Great reads for those who love fantasy. Lloyd A. was such a great writer. Anyone who likes the Chronicles of Prydain should read his other books.
5 Excellent set of books! Children and adults can both enjoy these books. I have read thousands of books and rate well written sword and sorcery among the best. The stories are well written and fun to read. Good moral lessons for the reader along with adventure and colorful characters.
4 I bought these for my son, but he didn't enjoy them. I re-read them having read them around his age of 10-12. An OK story. These arrived in a timely fashion and very nice condition.
5 Lloyd Alexander's "Chronicles of Prydain" have become a classic staple of fantasy literature, a few rungs below "Lord of the Rings." In this volume, all six books in his series are brought together, showing all of Prydain's beauty, richness, humor and sorrow as one big book."The Book of Three" opens with Assistant Pig-Keeper Taran yearning for adventure -- and getting more than he bargains for when he chases the pig into the woods, and is nearly run down by a sinister horned rider. Soon he teams up with a wandering king-minstrel, a sharp-tongued princess and a furry creature called Gurgi to save Prydain from the power of the Horned King."The Black Cauldron" has Taran and the others setting out to destroy Arawn Deathlord's evil cauldron, which turns dead men into unkillable zombies. But other forces are after the cauldron, including three peculiar witches who insist on trading something for the cauldron. What is worse, the company faces treachery from someone in their own camp..."The Castle of Llyr" ties up some loose ends from the first book, as Princess Eilonwy is sent to the isle of Mona to become a fine lady. But she has barely arrived when she is kidnapped by a minion of the evil enchantress Achren, her "aunt." Taran sets out to save her, but must team up with the young man who wishes to marry Eilonwy -- even though Taran is rapidly falling in love with her."Taran Wanderer" has Taran setting out to discover his past, since he feels he can't ask Eilonwy to marry him if he is lowborn. With only Gurgi at his side, he encounters evil wizards, malevolent bandits, and finally learns that his father just might be a shepherd... until a new revelation leads him to learn of his true worth."The High King" wraps up the saga, with Taran returning home. But no sooner has he arrived than he learns that noble Prince Gwydion has been half-killed -- and the magical sword Dyrnwyn has been stolen by Arawn Deathlord. Now the heroes set out one and for all to attack Arawn's stronghold and get back the sword -- but how can they defeat a deathless army and a shapeshifting enemy?Finally, "The Foundling" fills in a few of the gaps with short stories that illustrate the backstory of the Prydain novels. Among the stories are the tragic history of Dyrnwyn, how the wizard Dallben was reared by the three witches (and where he got the Book of Three), and the love story of Eilonwy's parents.Take two parts "Lord of the Rings," add a bit more humor and comedy, and stir in some Welsh mythology. That pretty much sums up the Prydain Chronicles, which is one of the rare series that is meant for kids, but is as rich an experience for adults. Even better, if they know the origins of the old legends and myths.In a sense, the whole series is a coming-of-age story, where Taran learns wisdom, maturity, loss and love. Oh yeah, and that that Chinese curse about interesting times is quite correct. Princess Eilonwy and the bard-king Fflewddur Fflam add a bit of comic relief, but they are also strong characters in their own right, as is the fuzzy sidekick Gurgi, who goes from being an annoyance to a loyal and lovable friend."The Chronicles of Prydain" are fantasy at its best, mingling myth and legend with a fast-paced plot and endearingly quirky characters. Definitely not something to miss.
3 Our favorite fantasy series by far is Stanek's "Elves of the Reaches." This is another set I decided to try with my middle schooler who likes fantasy, but isn't quite old enough for some of the others. Given how praised Prydain is I expected it to be so much more than it was. The writing is good, though often plain. The plots are simple and mostly about life values though you never get a true sense of the characters. Mostly it's because there's not much depth or description, not even for Taran, the hero. Okay overall for kids.
5 I loved these books I thought the characters were wonderful smart and true to life. The plot is thrilling and hooks you in. The setting is haunting and delightful. I reccomend them to all who are looking for a good exciting read!
5 I fell in love with these books when they were first read aloud to me as a child, and they remain just as wonderful now that I'm an adult. The tale is of adventure and daring, of finding oneself and coming-of-age. But the best thing about these books are their truly unforgettable characters.The story unfolds in the fantasy realm of Prydain, a world steeped in Welsh mythology. Taran, a young Assistant Pig Keeper (to a very special pig) longs to be a hero,  but finds heroism to be quite different than he expected when he is caught up in the strange deeds of his time. He is joined in his adventures by Eilonwy (a loquacious princess), Fflewddur Fflam (a bard whose harp strings break when his tales stray out of the realms of truth), and Gurgi (a loyal though scruffy creature who takes delight in his "crunchings and munchings"). One comes to expect the unexpected: deathless warriors, talking crows, invisible dwarves, melancholy giants, evil enchantresses, giant cats, and prophetic pigs.Full of adventure and charm, this series will captivate young and old alike. They're wonderful books to read aloud as a family. I'm delighted to see them re-issued in a beautiful boxed set.
4 This was the series that literally started my entire life long love of fantasy book series.  I'm enjoying reading it again and definitely recommend it for kids around 10 or so.  It's admittedly a little hamfisted at times, and some of the parallels to other common fantasy elements such as Lord of the Rings are so blatant it's hard to ignore them... but... as a kid I didn't pick up on it, and my daughter is just starting these things herself, so I know she won't either.
5 I have not read all of these just yet. I read the Black Cauldron as a child (love the Disney movie too) and for some reason never knew it was a series.
5 I remember reading Lloyd Alexander's five volume "The Chronicles of Prydain"  as a young teen back in the early 1970s, shortly after they were published.  I enjoyed them but since I was already a hard-core Tolkien addict I never felt Prydain quite measured up to Middle-earth, and I let the tales of Taran the Assistant Pig-Keeper recede to the back of my mind.  Just recently I reread the tales (The Book of Three, The Black Cauldron, The Castle of Llyrr, Taran Wanderer, and The High King)and was transfixed.Alexander based Prydain and his tales loosely on Wales and the legends he found in the Mabinogian.  Elements of other myths crept in as well, as many readers will realize when they come across characters like the witches, for example.  The main characters are delightfully original, beginning with the hero Taran, who starts out as a farm boy and matures into a great leader.  Then there's Princess Eilonwy, who refuses to sit around the castle but insists on taking part in every adventure (often saving the day.) There are wizards and mighty warriors, but lots of farmers and fishermen as well.  Humor is everywhere, along with plenty of gentle satire (i.e. Prince Rhun as the archetypal upper class twit.)  Best of all is the gentle philosophy, similar to that of Tolkien and C.S. Lewis: friendship, love, and kindness are essential; valor is great but common sense is better; rebuilding and healing are always possible; and so on.The stories are beautifully written with a vocabulary which will intrigue and  help expand the imaginations of their fortunate young readers.  And those adults who, like me, return to Prydain after a long absence will find it just as beautiful and perilous as it was on their first journey there.
5 As far as kids series go, this one also keeps adults attention. Super for the kids to read and a great way to get started on series.
5 I haven't read this series since I was a teenager (Quite a number of years ago...) but it is has great as I remember! I highly recommend these books.
5 I've probably read these books a hundred times. I discovered them when I was in high school and even though they're meant for a younger audience, they can be enjoyed by people of all ages.  Taran is a great character and Lloyd does a good job of showing his coming of age throughout all the books. Eilonwy is one of my favorite female characters of all time and I love the dynamic between her and Taran.  I've seen other reviews say that this series is a rip off of "Lord of the Rings", but I personally like "Prydain" better.
5 This is a great set. I just had to have them. I remember them when I was in high school and it was a great read from my experience. Thank you for this product.
5 THIS IS THE BEST SERIES OF BOOKS ever written for children. There is more wisdom, adventure, and life-lessons contained in these books than any other series, including Harry Potter and/or The Hunger Games. The Prydain series is best for a good reader, grades 5-7....While based on Welsh Mythology,the lessons are those applicable to anyones growing up. I taught this series of books in my &#34;gifted reading&#34; classes for over 35 years....the series was loved by all.BTW, 2 of the 5 books won major awards for children's literature. Mr Alexander died only several years ago. He based this series on some of his &#34;lessons&#34; learned while fighting in WWII. This is classic good vs evil at it's best.
5 I bought this for my 9 year old to read, and have found myself entranced once again with a series that is both exciting, dark, and heroic.  My son has taken to reading it aloud to me while i cook so we can share the adventure together.
5 This is one of the few books/series that I read after watching the movie and liked better than the movie. The Disney film, The Black Cauldron, is based loosely on the first two books in this series, The Book of Three and The Black Cauldron. It's a bit of a mashup of the two, as the majority of the characters introduced in the movie (including the flashing sword) are from the first book. That makes sense, and they reworked it so it's a little more of a kid-friendly story (or something).Anyway, I watched the movie first and was like, &#34;Whoa, they got BOOKS!?&#34; and read the books, which I think are awesomer. I would say that the movie stands on its own, and I liked it enough to read the books, but I really think the books are much better. And, actually, there's a lot of things written by Lloyd Alexander that were good books (Though I feel like he basically just reskinned his characters a lot; Vesper Holly and Mickle are a lot like Eilonwy, which is totally fine).
5 I read these when I was in middle school and absolutely fell in love with them. I read them multiple times throughout the years, until the covers fell off. I saw this omnibus edition on my Kindle and remembered just how good they were and I had to buy it.Kids will love them and adults who read them as kids need to go back and relive the adventures of Taran, Eilonwy, Fflewddur and the rest!
5 This series is one of the best I've ever read in my life, and most people don't even know it exists (unless they've seen that Disney movie I never saw, THE BLACK CAULDRON, named after the second book). It deserves to be named a classic, a piece of high literature. Eilonwy was simply hilarious (but brave and proud, too) Fflewddur Fflam was -- perfect, Gurgi was adorable, and Taran went from ridiculously overeager to self-denying and accepting of fates he didn't deserve.Favorite line:"Pig-boy!" Eilonwy cried indignantly. "Don't ever speak of yourself that way, Taran of Caer Dallben. No matter what has happened, you're not a pig-boy; you're an Assistant Pig-Keeper! That's honor in itself! Not that they don't mean the same thing, when you come right down to it," she said, "but one is proud and the other isn't. Since you have a choice, take the proud one!"P.S. I recently saw the Black Cauldron. Good kids movie as it goes, but nothing compared to the true greatness of the Prydain Chronicles. I always thought Taran's name was pronounced TARE-an, not TAR-an, anyway. And Eilonwy wouldn't be hiding and crying for Taran to save her from the Horned King's henchmen -- she'd be grabbing a sword and fighting, all the while lecturing them on how it wasn't nice to attack them like that. :-)Rating: Masterpiece
5 I just finished reading the whole 5 books in sequence. Each book itself is not long. One book contains between 100-200 pages only. But the journey inside the land of Prydain was certainly a long one.It began withThe Book of Three (The Chronicles of Prydain Book 1), where Taran was still a teenage boy, eager to see the world, to become a hero, with his prideful attitude. Along the way, inThe Black Cauldron (The Chronicles of Prydain),The Castle of Llyr (Chronicles of Prydain (Henry Holt and Company)),Taran Wanderer (Chronicles of Prydain (Henry Holt and Company)), with all the journeys and events, Taran grew up to become a man, kind, compassionate, and humble. And it ended inThe High King (Chronicles of Prydain (Henry Holt and Company)), where Taran finally chose the tougher choice, and thus, fulfilled the prophecy.I like the chronicles, because of its simple plot, and yet, deep in life values lesson. Noble character, didn't just build into a person when he was born, but because of the choices made during one's journey through life. And through every journey in the books, the characters grew these noble life values.But the books' language wasn't always heavy. In fact, there were many funny remarks, and witty bantering, coming from Fflewddur Flam, the Bard, and Eilonwy, the princess of Llyr. Don't be misled, though, all the witty and funny remarks, are also part of a whole deep life lessons, when one takes time to do the munching and crunching, as Gurgi would say. I was sad when their journey ended.This is the kind of book, that I would reread many times over later, as the characters already felt like old friends, and their life lessons are necessary to nurture me. My thanks to Mr. Alexander who had written such a beautiful journey into books.
5 This was one of the only pure fantasy books I read in high school, but it was captivating and very enjoyable. I couldn't put this series down. Looking back on it, this ranks up there with Tolkien and other fantasy greats. This is a must read for fantasy lovers.
5 The books arrived on time and in good condition.Our previous copies were worn out and we had duplicates of some and had misplaced others.  This boxed set is nicer than our previous mixed size collection.I have read these numerous times with pleasure.  I have read them out loud to boys age 4-8 who really enjoyed them.  I am pretty sure they have all read the books themselves, from age 10 on.  Lloyd Alexander uses accessible vocabulary and delivers a lot of plot and description in short, well worded novels.  This makes these books ideal to read aloud or for growing readers.
5 I read an re-read this series throughout my youth. I'm now reading them to my son (who is not named Taran since my wife was not familiar with the books). The books are exciting, intricate, fun, and well written. They're a good precursor to The Lord of the Rings trilogy.
5 These are great books and a way better story than what was told in the movie, &#34;The Black Cauldrun.&#34;  I have loved these books ever since I read them as a kid.
5 I remembered this series from my school days.  It follows the adventures of an orphaned boy fostered by a wizard on his farm as he grows up.  Of course, as this is a fantasy fiction series, his growing up involves many adventures dealing with the forces of evil in the land.  This series is in the same vein as The Lord of the Rings of The Chronicles of Narnia, and while this series isn't quite to their levels, it is a quite enjoyable read.
5 My 8 year old loved the audiobooks, so we purchased this set for his birthday. He can read them over and over...
5 This magical series is one of my all-time favorites.  I recommend it for all middle school children. The action should be especially engaging for children who usually complain that books are boring.
5 My son was thrilled with this book set!  It was reasonably priced, perfect quality, and came quickly.(The series is very good for a tween-aged kid who is into fantasy.)
5 I first read this series in 6th grade (1981) - and I recently re-read the series -it is every bit as fun, lighthearted and enchanting today as it was back then.The daunting labor of the pig keeper, the damsel in distress (or not so distressed due to being the product of her own unfortunate making!), a wicked queen, a wizard, dwarves, evil nasties, a Royal family, an ongoing quest for good, and the mighty hero!  Think of this series as a kids prerequisite to reading LOTR - it will prep their minds for that adventure.I have just started reading the first book to my 5 and 6 year olds (with a lot of explaining) and they are hooked!  Every night they can't wait to hear what mess Taran has gotten into next. I am so excited to share this fun series with them.This was the first series I ever read that delved into the magical, pseudo sci-fi realm and I have always treasured it.  As I mentioned, it is a bit advanced for a 6 year old, and probably too basic for a 15 year old, but those in between will enjoy the mischief and adventure the characters "fall" into.p.s.Don't bother with the Disney animated version - it is a waste of time.
5 I had to read this book back when I was in elementary school.  I love it as much now as I did back then.In a nut shell, a little boy gets a plastic Indian for his birthday.  He also gets an old cupboard.  Add a "magic" key into the picture and the Indian, along with others!, comes to life.  This is where the adventure begins!
5 I bought this book after my 9 year old son watched the movie and loved it.  He loved the book just as much.
5 This is a must reading for anyone over the age of eight.  Either read it to your child or get your child to read it by themselves.  It soars the imagination and every child can relate to the immensity that this caretaker takes on.  It is really funny in places and sad in others, but the theme is wonderful.  It will go down as a children's classic.  I read it to both my two children (who are now 32 and 34) and all my classes (5th and 6th graders) and it was loved by all.
5 Came in good condition, item as expected. Nice paperback including three novels.Nice stories for young readers. One two three
5 I bought this book for my children in hopes that they would enjoy it as much as I did when I was younger. My 9 year old loves it and reads it during his 30 minutes of free reading time in the evening. If your son or daughter is interested in fantasty adventure stories then they will enjoy this book.
4 After reading War Horse I wanted to read more by the author.  I ordered the ones he said were his personal favorites.  Been pleased with all three that I ordered.
5 An emotional story..well written with believable characters...very good story..I would recommend reading this book. The story of a boy living in Africa with his parents. He is later sent to school where he proceeds to run away. He meets an older woman who tells him a story of a boy who had a pet lion cub, and this boy also runs away from his school when he was young. The story has a good ending.
5 Michael Morpurgo's books have always captured my imagination, and the butterfly lion sucked me straight into it. I always look out for his books, and I'm glad I spotted this one.
5 I loved it - had my grand daughter read it to me.
5 I am 35 yrs old and did read this book in a few hours but, I thought it was very heart warming nice easy going book. A pleasurableread, highly recomend it.
5 I grew up with this series, I was given Silver Brumby Kingdom for my seventh birthday. It is a good series for all horse lovers.
5 I have been thinking about this book for months now....looking at it longingly on my book shelf while reading my current titles on the Kindle. Overall, fantastic book/series that I am trying to pass on to my neice and nephew. It is one of the best narrative's I have ever read told from an animal's perspective. Strongly recommend this for kids and adults alike!
5 After reading this over and over again as a child I have just revisited this old classic. It was just as thrilling and lovely as an adult. Have just bought the rest of the series.
5 I read the Silver Brumby & The Silver Brumby's Daughter in the early 70's, The Silver Brumbie being first published in 1959. I read & reread it several times, reading it again in late 1990's, sharing the stories with my children. I have never forgotten The Silver Brumby and i think I will take a few days and read the books all over again! The launch of the Internet & a computer in 1996 allowed me to search the world for a copy to purchase from a bookstore in Austrailia where I found first edition hardcovers before the books were being published again. The Silver Brumby books are some of the most wonderful young reader books ever written. I am so glad there has been a resurgence in their popularity.Previous reviewers have described the stories so I won't repeat what has already been stated. Elyne Mitchell does a fabulous job of setting the scene, describing the landscape, the horses, their lives as wild horses in the Austrailian landscape and the animals they come in contact with. Elyne Mitchell is a fabulous storyteller! Readers not only enjoy a fictional story, they also gain an education of Austraila.Sadly the Brumbies are hunted and killed, just as our wild Mustangs are hunted and killed here in the US. Maybe someday the persecution of our wild horses and the beloved Brumbies will stop.
3 As far as girly horse books go, this is definitely one of them. However, the horses are the characters, in the Watership Down tradition.Like Kimba, the good white, well, silver in the case horse is a manly horse, and he leads his herd around and defends them from the horse supervillain, etc.
5 I first read this book when I was nine years old and I remember loving it. I read all the other books addictively for a few months then totally forgot about them. A week ago I was at the public library and, for some reason, I suddenly remembered those books I remembered loving so much. I decided to read the first one again.Once more I was swept up in brumby country where stallions fight to the death over mares and where man is an enamy. I found myself immersed in the world of Thowra, the magnificent silver horse who ran with the wind. The scenery is so well described you can picture it and you can really see through Thowra's eyes as he gallops away with the men on horseback at his heals.You don't need to be a horse-lover to enjoy these books. I'm not. All you need is an appreciation of seeing through the eyes of a character who isn't human and a love of animals in general. I recommend this book to those who liked Watership Down and to those who wish to be transported to a world that is totally different than any you have ever read about before.
3 An orphan kid gets sent to live with some relatives, because he needs a guardian.They don't really give a crap about him, but have ulterior motives, so it is not a fun time for him.He tries a curse, and gets quite a bit more than he bargained for. Some up close and personal time with some Norse mythology is in store for David as his slip of the tongue.
5 I love visiting bookstores when I'm on vacation.  First of all: books!  And second, I've already given myself permission to relax, eat, drink and be merry, and reading for fun and on a whim is certainly part of the process.  So when I went to Ireland for ten days with my friends last month, I did a little advance research and found some bookshops in my path.  The Gutter Bookshop in Dublin is a delightful, airy place, and while I was perusing the children's and YA section there I came across a staff recommendation slip for Diana Wynne Jones' Eight Days of Luke.  I bought it immediately and read it the same evening.  It added such fun to one of the last days of my trip!David is a young man with a horrid family.  His parents are dead, and most of the time he's at school, which is alright because he's rather good at cricket.  It's the breaks from school, when he's shunted off somewhere away from his relations, Great Uncle Bernard and Great Aunt Dot (and Cousin Ronald and his whiny wife Astrid), that are a reminder of his orphan status.  On this occasion, they haven't arranged anything at all and are very put out by that fact.  David can't help thinking that it's bound to be the worst school vacation ever.  But then an odd, charming young man named Luke appears, and interesting things start to happen.  David is in for an adventure and a half!The setting is a house in some undetermined part of England.  David is sports-mad, grubby, hungry and, his older relatives think, ungrateful.  The thing is that he IS grateful, but living with a passel of adults is quite a lot to put up with for a boy, especially as he's growing out of all of his clothes and would just like to be off with some other kids his age.  Just when things seem as if they're about to spiral out of control into unmitigated boredom and misery, a likeable, clever sort of boy named Luke joins the scene.  It all gets even more complicated when a Mr. Wedding begins asking pointed questions about Luke.  David is in for an unforgettable and life-changing vacation.I've begun to think that the best way to start a Diana Wynne Jones book is with no pre-conceived ideas or introduction at all.  Her writing always moves you - to laughter, or tears, or some other profound feeling - but part of the fun is the mystery of `what will it be this time?'  With Eight Days of Luke Diana has written middle grade fantasy with an inspired and Puck-ish character in Luke, and gobs of mischief and mayhem.  It's funny and brief, with just the right amount of depth to round out the adventures.  I'd recommend it to anyone.In all, Eight Days of Luke is full of both overt and subtle fun, literary allusions that fit seamlessly in with the narrative, and a mix of characters that transform in various ways throughout the tale.Recommended for: readers of all shapes and sizes, fans of light fantasy, those who liked Rick Riordan's Percy Jackson series, and anyone who enjoys humor, mischief and myth.(review originally posted at: [...]
5 In the surge of fantasy books being reprinted, the formerly unavailable works of Diana Wynne-Jones are becoming available. "Eight Days of Luke" is a delight for fantasy and mythology buffs alike.David dreads coming home for vacation. As his parents are dead, he lives with his horrible relatives: Uncle Bernard, Aunt Dot, Cousin Ronald and his wife Astrid, and the sinister housekeeper, all of whom insist that he be grateful to them. They tell him what to wear, how to speak, what to do, constantly talk about what a burden and a pain he is, and spend the rest of the time listening to Astrid and Bernard compare imaginary ailments.While out doing yardwork, David utters a gibberish curse -- only to have a nearby wall erupt in a shower of snakes. Another boy named Luke appears, and offers to help David. Why? He says that David freed him, and David goes along with this. Luke charms David's nasty family, and as a result Astrid slowly begins to befriend David.But Luke quickly displays that he can be dangerous as well as helpful. And he is strangely wary of the new people in the neighborhood: the Frys, one-eyed Mr. Wedding, and sinister gardener Mr. Chew. He claims that he was framed for something he didn't do -- but how is David going to help him?Perhaps the only drawback of this book is that you need some basic knowledge of Norse mythology to know who people like the Frys, Mr. Wedding and Luke are; those who are not familiar with the myths may be hopelessly lost. So brush up on the basics before reading. As for the finale -- well, you'll definitely need to know about Norse myths. Jones doesn't tell us too much, but she doesn't tell us a lot either. The three old women will be recognizable easily, though: Similar characters have been featured in many other works of fantasy.David is a completely realistic young boy, and I was pleased to see the "conversion" of one of his annoying relatives. Luke manages to be sympathetic and interesting despite the fact that he's a little amoral and has a perilous sense of fun. I was also glad that the "nasty relatives" didn't fall into the Roald Dahl/Harry Potter trap of being cartoonishly bad. They're bad because they are rigid and disdainful -- nasty in ways that are almost hilariously realistic. (The scene where David keeps score as Astrid and Bernard compare psychosomatic problems is a hoot!)Soon to be reprinted, this is a lesser-known gem that is often overshadowed by Jones's other more popular works. Though shorter than many of her other books, this is a great read for adults and kids alike..
2 This book was great when i read it long time ago, but now its just...boring. Well i guess that you can't love a book more than one. Our i just had a different taste of books back then. Well i learned my"lesson".LoL
4 This is not, in my opinion, the best story Diana Wynne Jones has ever written, but it is still a good story, and a fun read. The one thing I think would help it out would be to put the postscript at the beginning, so readers could understand more about the characters and the meaning of the escapades. Even with a classical education, and eight years at university resulting in three degrees, I found myself not always up on what the Norse gods were up to.And it helped to know.
5 Meeting the Norse gods in the clear light of day, each on their own days. A mortal boy is friends with the bad boy, Luke (Loki), and things get out of hand.
3 This isn't the best of Jones' work, but it is a fun story.  Well worth a few dollars and an afternoon of your time.
5 Diana Wynne Jones work is always delightful, and this book is no exception. If you're familiar with Nordic legend, you'll recognize characters as they are introduced. If not, you'll find out by the end!David is really only interested in cricket and avoiding his disagreeable relatives. (He's orphaned, and forced to live with them. For which they expect him to be grateful, since they would rather he wasn't.) Normally, he lives away at school; but holidays happen, and this time his guardians misread the schedule and haven't set up a camp or tour to keep him away. Unpleasantness ensues. In despair, David retreats to the foot of the garden, and shouts out a nonsense curse, using words he makes up on the spot, to relieve his feelings.But words have power, and saying things when you don't know what you're saying can be dangerous. The &#34;curse&#34; turns out not to be nonsense after all, but words that release a prisoner from long bondage, and start a series of adventures that teach David a number of valuable lessons, and change his life completely.
5 This was an interesting book because Luke is someone that could get you into some interesting situations.  And it happened
5 With Mrs. Wynne Jones' full permission of course (they're great friends).  This is a very entertaining book with a story featuring events not unlike those of the children in A Series Of Unfortunate Events, or probably more to the point, all of Dickens' hapless child protagonists.  Still, it has all the hallmarks of the best DWJ stories: a feisty, resourceful hero, other characters who are, somewhat frighteningly, not what they seem, and sudden trips to magical landscapes which appear just around the corner from one's otherwise normal town.  It's a wonderful book to read aloud.
4 Aside the the fact that Loki is *not* a fire god (mistranslation by Wagner and confusion with the Norse personification of fire...LOGI) it was a great read.I can see how Gaiman used it as his inspiration for American Gods.  Read them both.
5 Eight Days of Luke was definitely a fun book to read. As usual, Ms. Jones has used much of her creativity in this book. She has strongly portrayed characters: David, a true cricket fan; Luke, mischief-maker; cranky Aunt Dot; frugal Cousin Ronald; the list goes on. Each character seems to play off one another, making the book almost seem like a live play unfolding before you.Ms. Jones has also incorporated some of her wit into this book. I was laughing out loud at some of the jokes. She also does a good job of making you feel the emotions of the characters.The absolute best part of this book is the twists and turns of the plot. Everything about this book is unusual and unique, which made me love it all the more. The story is constantly moving - there isn't a spot where the storyline slows down and lags. The conclusion was amazing; I was glued to the book trying to read faster and faster to see what would happen to David and Luke and Astrid. By the end, all the elements of plot fit together, like an intricate and well-made puzzle.I highly recommend this book to all age groups. There is something in here for everyone. Brava, Ms. Jones!(If you want a synopsis of this book, look above. Amazon.com does a great job of telling you the storyline.)
5 I would rate this book even more highly than "The Russian Revolution."  It is obviously subject matter dear to Pipes' heart, and as such it gives him a chance to do what the one- and two-star reviewers say he should not do and to make them even angrier with him, namely to render moral judgment on the Utopian experiment known as Communism.  The book could have been improved if Pipes had given us short biographical summaries of the members of the Communist hierarchy:  Lenin, Trotsky, Stalin, etc.  Both books are superbly footnoted on leaders' biographies, but readers are not going there midstream nor will they follow up unless their interest has an unusually long Boltzmann tail.  The most endearing thing about the book to me was how the terrorist leadership reminded me of a University faculty which normally might ostracize a colleague for heresy regarding some piece of quaint and forgotten lore instead of killing him.  A faculty with a Head instead of an elected Chairman, I might add.  The fit even extends to Stalin's assignment of party hiring and firing which no one else wanted and which gave him a power base to rule Russia once Lenin was out of the way, hilariously so because it has not been unknown for a faculty member who didn't like his assignment to do a bad job so that the Chairman or Head wouldn't call on him again.  Yes the leadership, excepting Stalin, was bookish and inclined toward dogma and might have died on the vine on some obscure faculty had the peculiar fatefulness of Russia not set the scene. Pipes tells us that Stalin came to Lenin's attention through an essay Stalin had written.  Funny that this is how J-.J Rousseau got his start, by winning an essay contest.  It is not easy for someone who is not a member of the gentry to rise.  Rousseau tells us how he had to tip a society hostess' coachman more than his fare on a public conveyance but what to do since his hostess didn't want him showing up at her place in a public cab.  The rise by essay may be the closest likeness of the French and Russian Revolutions yet to be found.
4 Pipes' book is good as an objective history of the Russian Revolution not only for restating the well known crimes of Bolshevism but also for describing the not so well known-and more egregious- crimes of the Bolsheviks' antagonists in the Russian Civil War, the "Whites" who increasingly took on a monarchist and proto-fascist character. They were virulently antisemitic committing many "pogroms" or massacres of Jewish people, causing not only sections of the peasantry but certain liberal anti-communists to view them as the greater menace to Russia. Kerensky himself, a victim of an attempted right wing coup three months before the ascension of the Bolsheviks to power, was said to have voiced such sentiments from his exile in the United States. He felt that the Soviets ("councils") were unstable and sure to collapse before too long but that if the forces of the old regime represented by the Whites got back in power, Russia would be in an even worse predicament. These concerns were shared by many other moderate and liberal anti-communists, particularly after the "Kolchak coup" resulted in the removal of the liberals and moderate socialists, elected by the Consituent Assembly the Bolsheviks had dispersed, from the White "Omsk Government."
5 Dr. Richard Pipes is the Baird Professor of History at Harvard University. Pipes is a much published and revered expert on the Soviet Union. "Russia Under the Boshevik Regime" is the third volume in his trilogy on Russia. The other two books are"Russia Under the Old Regime" and "The Russian Revolution." Pipes gives the reader thousands of pages to assess the rise to power of the Bolsheviks under Lenin. The cruel totalitarian society which emerges from this material makes Western readers shiver with man's inhumanity to man and how cruelty, greed and the quest for power dominated a great but tragic country.Pipes book is 514 small printed pages in which is learned:a. The true horror and mass slaughter which occurred during the Russian Civil War in the aftermath of World War I. The Bolsheviks had murdered Czar Nicholas II and made a separate peace with Germany. The White were led by Admiral Kolchak and General Denison. Their purpose was to overthrow the Soviets. They were greatly outnumbered by the Soviet forces who won the war.b. The Bolsheviks under Lenin were a party of intellectual atheistic radicals whose chief purpose was the possession of power. They cared nothing about the peasantry (80%) of Russia's population. They instituted mass murder and the population starved in the worst European famine since the Black Death. Millions died from hunger, murder and disease.c. Stalin and Trotsky fought over Lenin's empty seat. The cruel Stalin defeated Trotksy. Trotsky was murdered in Mexico in 1940 by a Soviet agent. Millons would die in the great Stalin purges of the 1930s. Russia suffered millions of casualties in World War II against Germany.d.The Reds defeated several large peasant revolts to hold on to their power base.e. Cultural activities such as painting, music, drama, opera and literary output was strictly under the control of the repressive Communist Party regime.f. Lenin's efforts to interest powerful Western nations to follow Communist teaching in France, Germany, Great Britain and the United States was largely a failed effort.g. The Communist government had many affnities with the repressive czarist regime hich had ruled Russia for three hundred years.h. The Soviet Union was made up of many ethnic and religious groups who had no sense of loyalty to the Moscow government. This lack of common religion, language and loyalty would lead to the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1989.i. The Communist government was atheistic and overtly hostile to religion from anti-semitism pograms to persecution and murder of Russian Orthodox believers, Roman Catholics and Muslims.j. The Nazis and Fascists movement studied Communism and used many of its lessons on how to run a dictatorship.Dr. Pipes magisterial volume reads like an excellent textbok. It is lavishly illustrated; includes a glossary of useful Russian words  and includes copious notes. It is not an easy or light read but for anyone who wishes to see Communism revealed in all its garishly brutal and cruel reality will not want to miss reading it from start to finish! Excellent and essential to the scholar of Communism.
3 Dr. Pipes's series of books on Russian history, with emphasis on the Bolshevik coup d'etat, is excellent - especially his revelations of Lenin's character and actions, for those who would blame it all only on Stalin.Unfortunately, this volume came out just as Hermann Rauschning's "memoires,"most often entited "Hitler's Speaks" or "The Voice of Destruction," were conclusively shown to be concocted (their author admitted as much before he died in Oregon in the early 1990's - see articles in Der Spiegel). Rauschning is the source of quotations from Hitler cited in the fifth chapter to bolster Dr. Pipes' very valid contention that Bolshevism was the spiritual basis for National Socialism.The chapter should be rewritten - but only that chapter.Towards the end of "Russia Under the Bolshevik Regime" comes this memorable statement:  "Communism failed because it proceeded from the erroneous doctrine of the Enlightenment, perhaps the most pernicious idea in the history of thought, that man is merely a material compound, devoid of either soul or innate ideas, and as such a passive product of an infinitely malleable social environment. . .he cannot pass on the lessons he has been forced to learn to his children, who come into this world ever fresh, asking questions that are supposed to have been settled once and for all."
4 This is an extraordinary book. It is an extremely important companion to Conquest's "The Great Terror", for it sets the table.  And what a feast it is.  Many of the people reading this will have grown up like I did in a cold war household.  In those days, in Canada anyway, I actually had friends who ardently espoused communism.  Who extolled Lenin and even Stalin.  Who saw the western democracies as weak, rotten to the core and on their last legs.  We all knew people like that.It was the western media, more than anything else that we had to thank for that.  It was dominated by leftists, many of them (as hard as this is the believe) actually in the pay of, or beholden to, Russia.  Those who weren't were hopelessly and wilfully blind.  For me, one of the greatest mysteries of the 20th Century was how so many people came to be so thoroughly duped by a murderous gang of thugs who had hijacked the Russian people and sought to take over the world.  How was it possible?  Pipes tells this story.And he pulls no punches.  He comes from the Thucydidean school of  history.  He is absolutely unafraid to pass judgement.  The first part of the book covers the Russian Civil war from 1918 - 1920.  This strange, complex struggle still has yet to have a book length study devoted to it.  But Pipes provides the reader with more than enough.Like Conquest, Pipes is at pains to point out that there was nothing at all organic about the Russian Revolution. It was more of a coup d'etat, stage managed by a tiny cadre of Bolsheviks who had the army on their side. The workers and the peasants, and this is CRUCIAL for our understanding of what happened, had literally NOTHING to do with it.Once Lenin and his gang were in control (and I use the term "gang" advisedly because they behaved and operated very like a criminal gang), they turned their attention to the rest of the world.  They actually believed that their "revolution" was to be followed by a world revolution - which they would supervise. Pipes chapter entitled "Communism for Export" will have you shaking your head in disbelief.The Russians knew they couldn't control what was written about them unless they controlled WHO did the writing.  They did this by refusing the major press agencies access to Russia until Moscow had approved the journalist.  The Sunday Times famously stood up to this bullying for decades.  Not the New York Times.  They sent a pre-approved journalist by the name of Walter Duranty.  Ironically, Duranty was an out spoken anti-Communist.  But he quickly realised that if he wrote what the Russians wanted, he would have access to inside information - with that would come influence and fame.  Better yet for Duranty, he very early on identified Stalin as Lenin's likely successor (at a time which  this was not at ALL obvious).  He began to eulogise Stalin.  He praised collectivisation, denied the Ukrainian famine - and resorted to lie upon lie upon lie.  Such was the credulity of the western public and press that he was rewarded for his infamy with the Pulitzer Prize.He was not alone.  Muggeridge reports that all the correspondents voluntarily took their wire stories to the censors to be censored.  John Reed, virtually canonised  by the movie Reds (a movie which is in and of itself largely a shocking lie), was nothing more than a fellow-traveller blind to every excess of the Bolsheviks.  The portrait of him in these pages will have your blood boiling.  Randolph Hearst in a signed editorial in 1918 described Lenin's regime as the "truest democracy in Europe."The point needs to be made bluntly.  All of these journalists and fellow travellers have blood on their hands.  Had the world stood up to first Lenin and later Stalin, millions, COUNTLESS millions could have been saved.I have so little room to extol this book.  I can only hope that my enthusiasm will in some way prove infectious and draw you to read it. I have focused on one aspect of this book. There is so much more.  For example.  Pipes makes persuasive case that Communism, Fascism and National Socialism have common roots.  That Russian communism was eerily similar to Tsarism (only the Tsarists were more compassionate!)Very importantly, Lenin comes in for the thrashing that he has so richly deserved all these long years.  This zealot has escaped scrutiny for decades - largely because what came after him was so nightmarish.  People for some reason like to think of Lenin as a benign philosopher - idealistic and pure - whose dreams were shattered by the evil that was to follow.  Nothing, and I mean NOTHING could be farther from the truth.  He was a murderer, a mass murderer, just like Stalin.  The only difference was one of scale. The fact was that Lenin hated democracy - stamped it out - built a totalitarian dictatorship - and paved the way for one of the greatest monsters of all time.  And it is small solace to know that Lenin and his gang of thugs reaped what they sowed.  That years later Stalin would literally exterminate them with their own weapons.Read this Book.  It is one of the most important books about the 20th Century you will ever read - and it is filled with lessons that we must take to heart.  We CAN learn from history.  History teaches us to see patterns - it helps us to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past.
4 Pipes is a distinguished historian for Harvard.  This is his third book about the evolution of the autocratic regime in Russia.  As Pipes states, the similarities between the Bolshevik Regime and its predesscor is ominous.  Both were built on an autocratic regime where a father figure administered the country's resources and manpower.  Whether this was Lenin or Nicholas II, it was very similar.  Pipes also makes short shift on the nature of Lenin.  Lenin had blood on his hands.  Whereas Nicholar II stepped aside for the good of the country, Lenin would have none of that.  He wanted and needed power.  He cared little for humans either, since he actually had many people executed.  Stalin was Lenin's true successor, even though Stalin was much more terrible in consequences.This is a great read for those trying to understand the early Communist Regime.  Pipes is anti-Communist, and finds no redeeming qualities in this philosophy, so his viewpoint is from the right.  However, I think he aquits his viewpoint very well and shows the Bolsheviks for who they really were.
4 You can't beat Richard Pipes for dealing out the information in a clear, organized way. He cuts nobody any slack--Bolsheviks are criminals and that's that. For students of the Revolution this book is essential.
5 The question I had before I picked up this volume, was &#34;How could the Bolsheviks prevail after their Moscow-centric revolution when they held so little land, there were so many internal and foreign elements working against them, AND the new government was rather chaotic and filled with rivalries?&#34; Pipes explained. Good book!
2 The second volume of Richard Pipes' history of the Russian Revolution shares many of the flaws as the first volume:  a refusal to contemplate much recent scholarship, a correspondingly shallow sociological framework, and a complete lack of sympathy not merely for the Bolsheviks, but for the Russians as a whole.  Only when they serve as victims of the Bolsheviks does Pipes profess any sympathy.  Pipes devotes a whole chapter to Lenin's vicious persecution of religion.  Yet one cannot forget Pipes' own comment in Russia Under the Old Regime that Russian Orthodoxy was the most sycophantic and callous of the Christian churches.In discussing this book's weaknesses, three come to mind most strongly.  The first is Pipes' explanation of the Civil War.  According to Pipes although the Bolsheviks had virtually no popularity they were able to maintain control of Russia because they were fortunately centered in the heartlands of Russia's industrial might.  With this centre under control they were able to conquer the rest of what would become the Soviet Union, which they did with appalling cruelty.  Indeed, Pipes goes on to sneer at the Bolsheviks for taking so long and at Trotsky's skill as a military commander.  But this is clearly flawed.  After all, Mao Tse-Tung, Ho Chi Minh, Fidel Castro and no doubt many others had been heavily outnumbered and outgunned.  Yet they still managed to triumph and win.  The Whites were never able to create their own Yenan.  Despite mass poverty, famine and economic collapse within the Red zone, they were never able to create a real war economy in their own areas and appeal to the rest of the country.  The simple fact was that the Whites were too autocratic and dictatorial to mobilize the popular support they needed to win.  Reading Jon Smele's monograph on the fate of Admiral Kolchak brings out their own cruelty and incompetence.  Likewise Geoffrey Swain has lucidly argued that the anti-Bolshevik cause suffered a fatal defeat when the populist SRs were betrayed by the quasi-monarchist whites.  I'm  also not pleased at Pipes' treatment of atrocities.  Pipes of course agrees that they were responsible for most of the pogroms committed against Jews.  But one should point out that they could be quite vicious against Gentiles as well.  And as one might expect from a Commentary contributor Pipes tries to show Woodrow Wilson as unduly soft-hearted and sympathetic towards the Reds.  One should read David Foglesong's book on American intervention to find out what really happened.Second, as a Polish refugee from the Nazi-Soviet pact, Pipes want to show as much as possible the identity of the two dictatorships, and how Leninism was the key inspiration of later totalitarian regimes.  The key flaw in Pipes's approach is his tendentious and partial use of the literature.  He relies on conservative scholars like Renzo De Felice, Ernest Nolte and James Gregor to help argue, among other things, that Mussolini was in many ways a socialist.  By contrast Adrian Lyttleton's seminal work on the Fascist dictatorship and Denis Mack Smith's portrayal of Mussolini's breathtaking opportunism go by completely unmentioned.  In order to emphasize Hitler's radicalism he often cites Herman Rauschning's &quot;memoirs,&quot; yet recent scholars find him unreliable and inaccurate.  Ian Kershaw's recent biography of Hitler does not cite him at all, and in turn Pipes ignores Kershaw's invaluable The Nazi Dictatorship.  Pipes also relies heavily on David Schoenbaum's Hitler's Social Revolution, yet he makes no mention of the many scholars who have heavily qualified Schoenbaum's argument that there was one.  Finally, Pipes quotes Domenico Settimbrini's suggestion that if Russia had been neutral in 1914, Lenin would have been as &quot;interventionist&quot; and militarist as Mussolini was in successfully agitating against Italian neutrality.  In response one should point out that if Russia had been neutral in 1914, there would not have been a world war and there would have been no war for Lenin to intervene in.  Second, if Lenin had supported intervention he would no doubt have been treated by Pipes with much more indulgence.Finally, I can't help but object to Pipes's counter-revolutionary sententiousness.  How else can one explain such fatuous statements that in Marxism, &quot;social antagonism was for the first time accorded moral legitimacy:  hatred...was made into a virtue.&quot;  This incidentally occurs in a chapter where Pipes, while ostentatiously asserting the identity of right and left &quot;extremism,&quot; cites against the Jacobins Pierre Gaxotte, anti-semite, member of Action Francaise, and Vichy's official historian of the French Revolution.  And really one must object to Pipes quote of Karl Popper on the final page:  &quot;Everyone has the right to sacrifice himself for a cause he deems deserving.  No one has the right to sacrifice others or to encite others to sacrifice themselves for an ideal.&quot;  Is it too much to point out that Pipes and Popper cannot believe this?  For a start it would forbid conscription, while &quot;encitement&quot; is an inseparable part of democratic debate.  And from El Salvador to Palestine to Vietnam there has no been end of sacrifices the men of Commentary and Encounter have demanded from desperately poor and miserable people.  Pipes' reputation reflects less on his skill as a historian than on the lock step mentality of conservative journals, and the unwillingness of the New Yorker and the New York Review of Books to challenge them.  One should really turn instead to Catherine Merridale's recent work on Russian mourning and upcoming work by Lars Lih.
5 This was a nice finale to Pipes' trilogy on the Russian Revolution. Among this book's most interesting chapters was the chapter dealing with the Russian Civil War.  Here, he takes the readers through the "White" movement, which though commanding a considerable amount of resources (including a measure of foreign support) was totally unsuccessful in trying to dislodge the Bolsheviks (who, by Lenin's own admission, were a tiny fringe group).  Pipes goes to lengths to discuss how the Whites were poorly organized in terms of administration.  Moreover, he points to their ridiculous insistence on restoring a unitary state within Russia.  This alienated anti-Bolshevik elements among Russia's "national minorities."  He also looks at often-repeated accusations that the Whites were a heavily anti-Semitic movement.  While conceding that the Whites definitely had more than a few anti-Semites in high places, he argues that many of the pogroms that were conducted against Jews at this time were carried out by vigilante groups only loosely associated with the Whites (i.e., certain Cossack groups).  Another interesting chapter deals with the connection between Communism and "Fascism."  Here, Pipes goes far toward debunking the cherished myth that these 2 ideologies were polar opposites.  Rather, he argues, Fascists (especially Hitler) borrowed many of their organizational strategies from the Bolsheviks,  and had a similar view of the "revolutionary totalitarian state".  Finally, Pipes continues a running argument that Bolshevik (and Stalinist) totalitarianism had very deep roots in Russian soil, something that is critical toward understanding the development of the Soviet Union.
5 This book presented a lot of information that I was unaware of. Although written in a scholarly style, the evidence of Communist bloody drive to power scared me.
5 Having just read Richard Pipes' trilogy on the buildup and development of the Russian Revolution, I highly recommend them all and thoroughly enjoyed this closing edition.  I certainly hope that Mr. Pipes continues the series  into the Stalin era at some point.
5 I, now 34 years old, like most of the other reviewers for this book grew up reading the series and believe them to be great stories for both the young reader and the adult reader.  A few years ago I began wondering if the THREE INVESTIGATORS (TI) were available for purchase today.  I have an 11 year old son and thought he might enjoy reading them.  I also thought I might like re-reading them again.  I found that indeed some of the books were available but to my surprise the Alfred Hitchcock introductions and conclusions had been removed from the books.  This put me off so that I decided not to purchase them.Around this time I also became familiar with Amazon.com's auction site ... .  Suffice it to say I was able to find almost all the orginal mysteries with the Hitchock material and references included as well as the artwork by Harry Kane.  I also was able to purchase them in the 1960's hardback form.  These books have been read before and show some light wear but that's a fair trade off if it means I can have the original hardback versions with all the original content.I began my collection with THE SECRET OF TERROR CASTLE.  I think that this is a great intro into the series and as other readers have indicated the mystery follows a logical pattern so that if you pay attention you may be able to piece the ending together.  As for me I almost figured the mystery out.  I had guessed the Whisperer had a role in the events going on at Terror Castle but had not guessed the full extent.For the adult reader I might suggest reading this book while at work.  I have recently read adult authors such as Clancy, Cussler and Brooks at work and find that such concentration is required for this heavier reading and that the work enviornment slows my reading pace down.  I found that while reading TI at work I was able to move at a quick pace and the lighter reading lent itself nicely to the busy work enviornment. I have just about completed collecting all the Robert Arthur TI books in hardback and will probably stop there as I like his writing the best.  ...
5 This was not the first &quot;Three Investigators&quot; book I read.  The first was back in 1983, when I was ten years old, &quot;Mystery of the Scar-Faced Beggar,&quot; which seemed to me at the time to be a wonderfully  complex political thriller.  My all-time faves of the series are, for  anyone who cares, Terror Castle, Fiery Eye, Creepshow Horrors, Wrecking  Rock, Stuttering Parrot, Whispering Mummy, and geez, there are so many now  that I think of them!  My least favorites were the Breathing Dragon one,  the Silver Spider was terrible, and the Magic Circle and Flaming  Footprints.  But about this book.  It is a fantastic, haunted house book!  Wondrous, glorious, the spectral fog, the Blue Phantom, this one is my  favorite 3 Investigator books!  Yeah!  Read it, just for silly fun if you  are skeptical!
5 This book is so much more than a kids book. It was my first introduction to the Three Investigators, and quite possibly the best book in the entire series. The plot is quite intricate, and very intelligent. Adults can read this story and be thrilled and caught up as well, and to be honest, I get out my copy every now and then and visit with Jupiter, Bob, and Pete. The setting in California in the fifties, with Alfred Hitchcock as their mentor, is just perfect. I've read the later updated versions, with all refences to Alfred Hitchcock removed and rewritten, and I just think the original stories worked so much better. There was more of an air of mystery to them, although the stories themselves didn't change. In this book, the setting of an old movie star castle is just right. The writing is sharp, the characters already developed. Everybody at time in their life has encountered a super-smart kid, the one who knew everything. Sadly, the ones I met weren't as likeable as Jupiter Jones. This series is always clever, with strong plots, strong characters. Get these books and enjoy them. Many books aren't this well-written nowadays, especially for the teen-to-adult age range.
5 All of the Three Investigators books are much more than children's books.  Reading this book brought back all kinds of memories from my childhood years, and I enjoyed it almost as much now as I did twenty years ago.  The biggest danger of adulthood is forgetting your childhood, and I am somewhat surprised to realize that I have forgotten as much as I have already.  How could I have forgotten Jupiter Jones?  When I was young, I wanted to be Jupe--the brains, the adventurous spirit, the dauntless courage, the determination and drive to know everything.  He was my hero.  I dreamed of having my own secret headquarters, with all of those great hidden entrances.  I should add here that I was a nerd, and that accounts for some of the admiration I had for the stocky sleuth.  Maybe athletes by nature aren't as drawn to these boys as I was, but I always felt as if I knew these guys.  Pete Crenshaw and Bob Andrews are great all-American guys in their own right. All three are very different individuals, but together they do form a powerful team and serve as a wonderful model of the power of friendship.  The only thing I can't figure out is why Bob spends so much time working at the library.  At one point in this book, he has the task of reorganizing the whole catalogue--I work at a library now, so I know this is a pretty big task to be assigning to a kid.This book, while eminently readable by youngsters, is more than satisfying to me as an adult.  The story is suspenseful and well-contrived.  Robert Arthur does a masterful job of allowing the reader to &quot;investigate&quot; the mystery along with the Three Investigators.  The boys come across as extraordinary but very real.  I can't imagine any youngster, girl or boy, who would not be drawn in to these adventures, and I can think of no better way to introduce a child to the enjoyment of reading than to give him/her one of these books.  The Secret of Terror Castle is the first one, so I would start with it.  If you are an adult who loved these books as a youngster, don't be afraid to pick this book up and reintroduce yourself to your old friends.  If you happen to be an adult who has never immersed himself in the world of the Three Investigators, do yourself a favor and pick one up--it may be about as close as you can come to recapturing the magic of your youth.???
5 This is simply a great book - to me, this is probably the best book in the whole series.  The movie made in 2010 is also good, but not as great as the book.  What is awesome is to read this book, and to think about how advanced this book was for its time - how the sleuths intelligently used what they had available to make great detective tools - and used their powers of observation!
5 I used to love this books. Recently I bought all the books (used) for my kids. The PROBLEM: they don't understand why the boys don't use a cell phone, why the go to the library to lookup information and so on... I was the one who is reading all the books... still loving them...
5 I remember these books from when I was in Junior High.  Great stories and a good read.  Granted there is some innocence there that has been lost (sad to say) but these are great reads for young adults and even those who want to recapture their youth sometimes.
5 Well, I see that the Three Investigator books have been broughtback to print. This is good news! I read about 20 of the books in thisseries when I was a child during the late 1970s and early 1980s. They really helped me to exercise my imagination, and I always had a lot of fun reading them. Now another generation of kids will get to enjoy these books.
5 I remember reading this book when I was young and loved it.  Great plotline with great characters and humorous dialogue at times.  I started my 7 year old son on it.  The first two chapters were slow going for him, but he slogged through it.  The fourth chapter hooked him.  He wouldn't put the book down for another 6 chapters.  Recommended for ages 7 and older.
5 The Three Investigators have their first case: to find an authentic haunted house.  Jupiter Jones, the intelligent leader, and Pete Crenshaw and Bob Andrews set out to see if an old castle nearby is truly haunted or not.  Built by a silent film star, Stephen Terrell, no one has been able to spend the night in the castle since his untimely death many years earlier.I first read this book about 30 years ago when I was a kid, and loved reading all the adventures of the Three Investigators, and they quickly became a favorite of mine.  Now my 10 year old son and I have just finished "The Secret of Terror Castle," and he loved it, too.  We especially noticed how the adventure and excitement was kept up throughout the story.  We both agreed that the Three Investigators were much more exciting than the Hardy Boys, having tried to read one of that series without sucess.  Instead, we found Jupiter Jones to be far more intelligent and we enjoyed the cleverness of the plot and story.  We read the version with Alfred Hitchcock, which I'm sad to see has been changed in most of the books now available.This is a good series we can recommend for kids who are sometimes reluctant to read, but who enjoy an intelligent mystery.
5 This is the first book in the Three Investigators juvenile series. This book, being the first of the series, has more setup than most of the books. It is here that the boys relationship with Alfred Hitchcock is explained. It should be pointed out that the Hitchcock connection is largely a marketing ploy and Hitchcock plays almost no role in the stories themselves. Indeed, it was easy to replace Hitchcock with an entirely fictional character in later editions after his death.The main protagonists are introduced in this book. Jupiter Jones, the "stocky" and intelligent one, is the natural leader of the group. Pete Crenshaw is the athletic one of the group. Bob Andrews is the studious one with the leg brace. Although, stereotypical in the beginning as the series progresses the boys are progressively more realistically portrayed. We are also introduced to Worthington, the likable chauffeur.The plot is the classic haunted house story. There are mysterious goings on at Terror Castle and the boys have to get to the bottom of it. There are enough twists and turns to keep even an adult interested.If you have a 10-15 year old reader you could do a lot worse than this series. The only possible drawback is that most of the stories are dated; they are set firmly in the 1960s. But the charm of the books are timeless. The illustrations by Harry Kane are worth the additional effort of tracking down earlier printings.
5 What a great series of books this is.  I remember first reading this series when I was in Fourth Grade in 1974.  I was introduced to the series by going to my grade school library and reading "The Mystery of the Talking Skull".  I was hooked on the series right there and then.Many years later (2002) I was re-introduced to the series and have been collecting the 1st edition hardbacks of the series that was published in the mid 1960's.  Having the legendary Alfred Hitchcock introduce and become involved in the storylines of these mystery's was a stroke of genius by the contributing authors.  I think it is neat that Hitchcock gave his own personal approval to the series.This first book finds the three teenage investigators trying to solve "The Secret of Terror Castle"!  Will Jupiter, Bob, and Pete be able to solve the secret without being harmed?  Well, I won't give away any secrets...However, I can tell readers that they will NOT be dissapointed with the storyline and mystery!!HIGHLY Recommended!
5 First published in the mid 1960's, this mystery/adventure series of approximately 40 books was written for 8-15 years olds and is similar to the Hardy Boys Mystery Series books but the stories (and illustrations) are much more thrilling and original.  Some of the plots pertain to ghosts, whispering mummies, talking skulls and other spooky or eerie themes although the stories always climax in some scheme in which a band of thieves, rustlers, con men or other non-supernatural element are attempting to snatch a lost or hidden treasure.  I loved reading them as a kid and found that after all these years, they are still entertaining and packed with adventure.The first book in the series, The Secret of Terror Castle introduces the reader to the three teenage sleuths, Jupiter Jones, Bob Crenshaw and Pete Andrews, collectively known as the "Three Investigators" and how they made the acquaintance of Alfred Hitchcock, who wrote the forward for most of the books until his death (actually he lent his name only and had nothing to do with the content of the books).If you're a parent, educator or in some way choose reading material for young children, give The Three Investigator books a try.
5 The Three Investigators series has probably had more of an effect on my adult mind than I realize.  Having first read their stories in Junior High, I quickly developed a thirst for reading and haven't stopped in the last 19 years.  I credit this series for instilling within me a love for reading and imagination that many do not possess.Recently, I've grown nostalgic and purchased several of these books online in their original hardback format.  I've found that I still love them.  I wanted to be like Jupiter Jones when I was a child.  Having still not attained that level of deductory ability, I am again striving to retain as much knowledge as possible like I did in Jr. High in order to remedy this.  I find that I still want to be like Jupiter after all these years.The fact that these books were popular throughout the 60's and 70's does not hinder the readability of these books.  There are few, if any, portions of these books that date them to the point of being unreal to the new reader.  To the adult reader, any dated concepts and language only add to the overall charm and character of the books.I am going to continue to collect this series until I have at least all of the books that I originally read.  Maybe I'll even try out some stories I haven't read yet.
5 I first read this book as a boy and I loved it. My 10 year old just finished it and says it is the best book that he has ever read. We read this together and I noticed some details date the story. For example, the Investigators use film cameras and do their research at the library, not on the Internet. Times have changed!! Still, this is a great detective story for boys, may not appeal as much to girls.
4 Originally published in 1964, "The Secret of Terror Castle" by Robert Arthur is the first installment in The Three Investigators books, a young adult mystery series reminiscent of The Hardy Boys. The trio is comprised of Bob Andrews, a bookish youth who works part-time at the local library and is in charge of records and research for the Three Investigators; Pete Crenshaw, an athletic type who serves as Second Investigator; and Jupiter Jones, the erudite First Investigator. Jupiter is a young teenage Sherlock Holmes who employs an extensive vocabulary and is able to deduce information from seemingly trivial facts, and he has fortuitously just won a contest permitting him the use of a chauffeured Rolls Royce for one month. Determined to establish the Three Investigators detective agency, he contacts Reginald Clarke, an English director who is seeking a haunted house to use in his next movie and who reluctantly agrees to allow the boys to aid his search.Their first investigation takes them to Terror Castle, home of the deceased horror-movie legend, Stephen Terrill. As they attempt to probe the formidable estate and its secrets, they may find more than they bargained for as they realize that something has been frightening people away for years, and with good reason! Their exploration leads them on an exciting adventure that becomes dangerous when they begin receiving warnings to stay away from Terror Castle and then encounter various mishaps. Someone or something doesn't want them to uncover whatever mysteries are lurking in the old building, and their skills and courage will be put to the test."The Secret of Terror Castle" is a fun and light mystery for teenagers and for anyone who enjoys detective fiction and a trip down memory lane to a somewhat simpler time in which the closest thing to a cell phone is a bulky car phone. The adventure is entertaining but relatively anodyne, and there are no cliffhangers, but it remains an amusing jaunt for a rainy afternoon.
5 Quite a few children's mystery book series have become classics.  Most people are familiar with Nancy Drew, the Hardy Boys, and Tom Swift.  Even the Boxcar Children are relatively well-known.  However, Alfred Hitchcock and the Three Investigators were well-written books that offered an intelligent, interesting and more contemporary alternative to many of the earlier classic series.  Many people recall the earlier series well, but the Three Investigators series, which Robert Arthur wrote and debuted in 1964, has, for now, largely been overshadowed by the other series and generally forgotten.  Fortunately, all of these books are available either from Amazon or from other internet sources.In this book, the first book in the series, we meet Jupiter Jones, Pete Crenshaw and Bob Andrews.  Jupiter is the intelligent, often arrogant member of the group who has a tendency to be condescending.  Pete Crenshaw is typically the muscle of the group.  Pete is usually quite fearless.  Bob Andrews, who begins the series with a broken leg, works at the library is handles records and research for the group.In this debut story, Jupiter Jones has won the use of a Rolls Royce for 30 days of 24 hours each.  Jupiter has also created business cards for the trio with the auspicious title "The Three Investigators," "We Investigate Anything," and three question marks.  Jupiter Jones learns that Alfred Hitchcock is seeking a haunted house for use in his next film.  The boys offer to find a house for Mr. Hitchcock if he will introduce their first story; thus the reason the title includes Mr. Hitchcock's name.Soon Jupiter Jones is on the trail of a home owned by silent movie star Stephen Terrill.  When the boys visit the late Mr. Terrill's home, strange phenomena in the house causes the boys to go running from the home, scared to their very bones!  The mystery continues to deepen as the boys investigate Mr. Terrill's past the history of the strange house that appears to be haunted for real.I wondered whether I would like these books as much as an adult as I did when I was a child.  My answer is yes.  Robert Arthur wrote these stories in a way that treated these three young boys as young adults rather than children.  The three boys approach their mysteries with creativity, logic and more than a little bravery.  The result is stories that continue to captivate readers.If you are looking for mystery books for children and you are looking for an alternative to the stories I listed earlier, I highly recommend the Three Investigator series, and the best starting place for this series is absolutely with this book.Enjoy!
5 Being a middle school teacher I try to keep up to date on books aimed for younger readers.  As I was browsing through the bookstore I came across The Three Investigaors series.  WOW! TALK ABOUT A BLAST FROM THE PAST!I recalled (back in the late 70's) reading a few of these stories involving the three teens and their mystery solving cases dealing with mummies, sharks, and scarecrows.  Of their partnership with Alfred Hitchcock and their secret headquarters buried in a salavage yard.  But, would their adventures be as fascinating to a grown up?The answer (as I briefly pinch my lip) is - YES!  I'm happy to say that Jupiter Jones, Pete Crenshaw, and Bob Andrews have held up remarkably well over the years.  Granted Mr. Hitchcock is now referred to as Reginald Clarke, but everything else remains the same just a fun-filled mystery.  The Secret of Terror Castle does a nice job of starting off the series and introducing readers to the characters and their exploits.Anyone who grew up with Scooby Doo will love these books.  As an educator I also strongly recommend them for parents who are looking for books to get their young boys interested in reading.For anyone (of any age) that is looking for more to young-literature than Harry Potter, the Hardy Boys, or the Wolrds of Narnia...then The Three Investigaors series will be a great discovery!
5 It has been decades since reading the Three Investigators series of books. I read these books when they were available at the library. I think the series must be over fifty years old since reading them as a kid in the 1960's. I hope these books become Kindle Books I would love to download them to my device and start reading them anytime. Anyway the locale for just about all these stories takes place in Los Angeles, California. I would especially like to see the series of books made into a compilation file. Just think of it, all The Three Investigators series of books in one single download. One can dream can't he. Also for not too much money. I hope the price can be at least kept under forty dollars.
5 I loved the Three Investigator books as a kid! I used to borrow my brothers' books and read them. Now I am rebuilding my own collection of them. The Terror Castle version I have does not have Alfred Hitchcock-it has a fictitious English director who later will tell the boys to see Hector Sebastian who has a Stuttering Parrot problem (but that's another story)The thing about these books is that while people suspect paranormal things (like ghosts and such) they are ALWAYS humans pretending (so don't worry about spiritistic practices-i want to warn parents so they don't think divination is involved)This book is about a supposedly haunted house of a reportedly long-dead silent movie actor (remember, this was written in the 60s, so silent films went south only 40 years previous), and how our heroes prove that it isn't really haunted (the film director wants a haunted house for his next movie, and Jupiter (the leader and brains of the group) promises to find him one if he introduces their book.A little aside about Jupiter (or Jupe): not only is he the brains, but he is the heavyweight of the trio. This is interesting because obesity has reached the point where to us, Jupe (as he is depicted on the book covers) is barely above average size, not the rotund figure that the other characters see him as.The gang is rounded out (hehe-excuse the pun) by Pete & Bob. Pete is the athletic member. I wouldn't call him the brawn because he doesn't really use his strength much in the book, just stamina and speed. He is also kind of a coward (sorry, Pete, but I call 'em as I see 'em), trying to back out of the situations and challenges that arise.Bob is more bookish, but while his head holds a lot of facts, it is Jupe that can connect the dots. In the early books, he had a leg cast.These books are fun, and clean! Which can't be said for a lot of the immoral filth that is nowadays published for the child and teen market.There is no swearing, sex or violence (besides the slapstick, "G" rated kind, or near-misses with such things as falling rocks). I think the mysteries are fresh, and not recycled like some other book series (cough, Hardy Boys, ahem! Nancy Drew)If you like mysteries, then I recommend the Three Investigators to all ages. If it seems beyond your youngster, perhaps try E.W. Hildick's McGurk series until they are a bit more advanced. Both series are page-turners!Happy reading!
5 I *loved* this series as a young girl. I have a 5-year old son, and I was thinking I'd start buying now, so he'd have the whole series by the time he'd be ready to read them - and they are SO hard to find! Maybe some letters to Random House would help...
5 Kind of like the Hardy Boys, but much more fun to read. When I discovered this series in the fourth grade, it really jump-started my interest in reading. I'd read other mystery tales, but none kept my interest like the Three Investigators. It might have had something to do with their secret headquarters with it's hidden entrances and periscope and other spy stuff hidden in the salvage yard...or it could be the spooky cases they often stumbled upon, but they were simply more fun than The Hardy Boys or any similar young detective series. The Secret of Terror Castle is one of the best, and scariest stories I remember from the 10 or so books I've read in the series. I was looking for books for my kids and came across these familiar titles. It's a shame many of the books are so hard to find/purchase, I think they hold up well even though they were written before computers, cell pones and ipods took over children's lives. I found a complete version of The Secret of Terror Castle posted on a blog and re-read it last week. It was as good as many of the grown-up novels I read now and convinced me to buy some of the other books for my kids, and maybe for me to revisit my youth as well. Here's hoping they Kindle the series soon. This and The Mad Scientists Club are my fondest memories of childhood reading.
5 While I know the very first book I read in the series was, oddly, number 29 ("Sinister Scarecrow") and I don't recall what order I read the others, I am fairly sure I read #1 very early, as soon as I could find it. In those days of course the books were much easier to locate (even if it was still the late '70s-early '80s), and I suspect I found this one, like many others, through my school's Weekly Reader book club. I do know that reading how the boys first got together very much intrigued and entertained me, hooking me permanently to the series.I have so many fond memories of reading these books, and while I never found every one (even today, despite Amazon, I haven't managed to read them all, though I hope to change that!), I loved the ones I did find. "Terror Castle" was no exception. I really have nothing to add that hasn't been repeated many times. I agree the illustrations do add a special something to the books--this one in particular. I loved Worthington, I loved each of the boys, their distinctive personalities, and how they interacted, and I loved the mysterious, spine-tinging feel of the "ghostly" events and how convoluted and complex the mystery was. Later entries in the series tended to focus on less overtly supernatural things, more commonly using the loot from bank robberies or lost treasures and heirlooms, and they were just as good in my opinion. But if you want atmospherics and chills, you can't do better than this first entry in the series. Others approached this, or had moments of it, particularly "Green Ghost", "Laughing Shadow", "Phantom Lake", and "Haunted Mirror", but "Terror Castle" is the absolute best--and therefore a wonderful way to start the series and hook young readers!Incidentally, it's also one of the most satisfying examples of a "Scooby-Doo hoax" done right, where the logic and motives behind it make perfect sense and are even extremely sympathetic, the "villain" turns out not to be bad at all, and yet you don't feel cheated to find out what the truth is. Again, this is not to detract from later books where the bad guys were exactly what they seemed to be, but it does set a nice precedent for villains who start off seeming to be heroes or innocents, and sometimes still end up getting forgiven or redeemed somewhat--again, an improvement over Nancy Drew and the Hardy Boys where the villains were usually cookie-cutter, flat characters. With the Three Investigators you never quite know what you'll get--except for ingenious puzzles and riddles, excitement, action, and yes, a lot of humor that IMO at least still remains quite funny, if not in a laugh-out-loud kind of way. Certainly better than a lot of what's marketed to children these days.
4 I find this to be a very good mystery that was intriguing. It is for the young but I think any age would appreciate the mystery.
4 What I liked about this series:1. The way the cases always have such neat and clever endings (with the possible exception of the flaming footprints).2. The very original and inventive plots.3. The occasional twists: the person you thought was bad suddenly turns good.4. The ghost-to-ghost hook up.  I think that's really clever.What I didn't like about this series:1. I find it very annoying that the 3 main characters are boys.  All right, I know that it was written in the sixties, but being a next generation female, this is the greatest problem. I can't think of any girl that is involved in any of their cases.2. The club house.  Kind of cliched, don't you think?  Also, the secret passageways into the junkyard.  How did those come about?  How did they fix up the printer and the darkroom and all that?  None of them seem to show any kind of electrical prowess.3. The way the boys always have everything they need at their disposal, through the junkyard, thecompetition in which Jupiter won the Rolls, etc, etc.4. Why is Bob always stuck in records and research? it's infuriating the way he never does anything exciting.5. Jupiter's pompous and know-it-all manner.  How can his friends stand it?  How can he have friends?6. Skinny Norris is another stereotype.  The bully who gets in the hero's way.As you can see, there's a lot more bad than good, but seriously, I do like these books.  They're so original and imaginitive.I do think that kids these days aren't really going to get into these books.  They're too old fashioned.  Hey, I only read them because I have the weirdest and most varied taste in books I've ever come across.
3 I bought this book because it was advertised as Abarat days of magic, nights of war (BK 2). This led me to believe that Clive Barker had made a sequel to the 2nd Abarat book, not the case. This is book 2 not an addition to book 2. I do not understand why people who write description of book would add the (bk2) it is book 2 ! I bought it for nothing already own it. Book is in great shape clean jacket. Ordered it on April 25 got it May 7th very slow shipping.Please take off the (bk2) on your book description it is misleading all Barker fans kow this is book 2 , he writes so much I thought I had missed abook, happy with book other than that and its a first edition right next to my other first edition lol.
5 Ok, I'm not going to lie, i'm 23.  and I absoutly love the Abarat books.  They take you completly out of your current setting and make you feel like you're in a completly different world.  If you want to escape reality for a little bit, this is the book for you.
4 Now that the Harry Potter saga's come to a conclusion, there may be a little void left for the reader - child or adult - who enjoyed the type of fantasy that J.K. Rowling did so well:  complex in plot but simple enough in language to be accessible to younger readers as well.  Certainly, the best in the bunch would be The Lord of the Rings (and The Hobbit) by Tolkien, but there are other choices out there, with probably the best of the rest being Philip Pullman's His Dark Materials trilogy.  Then there is Clive Barker's Abarat.With the popularity of Harry Potter, a number of "adult" writers took their shot at writing for a younger audience with mixed success.  Barker, one of the great horror fantasists around today, was not one of these bandwagon jumpers, having already written one good "juvenile" novel, The Thief of Always, long before anyone knew who Harry Potter was.  With Abarat, he starts a series of books with a similar young-and-adult-alike audience in mind.Abarat uses one of the standard fantasy plot devices involving a youngish girl named Candy Quackenbush who discovers a world beyond her mundane existence, one in which she has a great destiny.  For Candy, the mundane world is her life in Chickentown, a dull town with one industry (poultry, of course), where she lives with her family that may not be at a Dursley-level of nastiness, but is nonetheless a rather unpleasant one (due, in large part, to an alcoholic, abusive father).Candy's life changes when she encounters the master thief, Mischief.  It doesn't take long for Candy to realize he's something extraordinary:  after all, he has seven other heads at the end of antlers.  Mischief is being pursued by another strange creature named Shape, and in the process of helping Mischief escape, Candy is transported to another world called the Abarat.  This is a set of twenty-five islands, one for each hour of the day plus a mysterious extra island.  This is no mere figure of speech:  each island sits in a certain block of time, so the noon island is always in bright sunshine, while others under different states of night, day or twilight.The ruler of the midnight island, Christopher Carrion, has a sinister agenda that involves bringing night to all the Arabat.  His opponent, Rojo Pixler, is no good guy either, but is a relentless capitalist intent on a monopoly on all magic and converting the whole world (and Candy's world, known to the locals as the Hereafter) into his own marketplace.  In the middle is Candy who has adventures as she goes from place-to-place as both Carrion and Pixler seek her, aware that she is something special.Abarat is not a self-contained novel, but the first in a series (which I believe to date has only one other book published).  As such, it is hard to judge the novel on its plot, which is obviously incomplete.  Barker does do a good job at creating a truly bizarre world, one that at times is almost too bizarre.  With humor, drama and danger throughout the book, this is a nice read, even if it not a perfect one.  For Harry Potter fans who are looking for something new (but at the same time not just a pale Potter imitation), this is a good choice.
5 Clive Barker has done an incredible job in writing this book. This book is more imaginative and fantastic than the Harry Potter series. It has everything from wild fantasy, friendship, love, evil, the typical war between good and evil, fairy tale, deception, drama, comedy, etc. I would have given the book 10 stars if that was possible. It is a book which is not to be missed. It grabs you from the start and it is hard to put down. There were supposed to be a number of books to follow this first one and I think he only came out with one sequel. I hope for the sake of the future generations that Mr. Barker will come out with at least a few more sequels.
5 I LOVE LOVE LOVE Clive Barker and I LOVE this series!  I still need to purchase the Absolute Midnight book because they are soooo good.  Highly recommend the books.  He explains his stories so well that it makes you feel like your apart of the story while reading it.  Thanks Clive for your well written stories!
3 I really enjoyed Peril's Gate.  Wurts demonstrates a genius for writing and imagery that makes it easy to become engrossed and totally consumed into her worlds.  Her descriptions of the stuff of what reality really is beyond what we can physically see is inspired and thought-provoking.  I did, however, like so many others, have to gloss over the last part where Arithon is in Davien's cave.  I agree about the rehashing, and was thoroughly annoyed.  I was enjoying the book immensly right up to the climax, which turned out to be anti-climatic.  I love what she does with the story and all it's twists and turns, but the imagery and description become boring and slows the pace of the book to a standstill.  It's a shame such a wonderful story is finally undone by the over-long and arduous rehashing and self-examination.  How much can one man suffer?  Again, I love the story, the characters, the places, etc.  Hopefully, the next book will have more story and less words.
1 If you're reading this you have made it through book five and, like myself, are here hoping to read that this is a great book with some resolution- and some hope!I suppose we are given hope since Elaira finally gets her feet out of the pity pot and seeks help through Ath's adepts at Whitehaven hostel and Damien has stopped sulking underground but, otherwise, this novel is so bogged down with overly slick description and Arithon's pathos that I found myself constantly having to read a paragraph over and over and over in order to grasp the action(s) of the characters.At page 251, having just read Earl Jieret's suicidal resolve to die with his king...  I quit.  I have had five books of misery, reading of slaughtered clansmen and mad-dog townspeople and headhunters. And here, in this novel, we have whole clans, a mountain trapper, and generally, most people who come into contact with Arithon, Master Of Shadow, being brutally killed, while the members of the fellowship are in a frenzy to save the planet from a variety of monstrous demonic spirits from other worlds!Lastly, Janny Wurts continues to rely heavily on Dakar for comic relief. Poor Dakar never loses his weight, nor his burlesque crudity. For Ath's sake, the poor man should have lost a little weight and gained some dignity by now!The best thing that could happen is if both princes blew each other off the planet. I know I know. Without Arathon, the planet will self-destruct and so on. Well, since the clans are almost wiped out, I say good riddance to those towns people! Enough already! I am now going to go read something that, compared to this novel, will be inspiring; like the history of the Great War, or World War Two...
5 The 6th book in The Wars of Light and Shadow series continues the saga of two half-brothers turned against each other by a curse.  By this time, both men have supporters and followers;  one man has dedicated himself to a Cause, complete with propaganda and proselytizing;  and the balance of existence on an entire planet is at stake.  While each volume in the series layers more depth into the main characters of the tale, more is revealed about the magical, non-human players in the planetary drama.  For example, the dragons are a law unto themselves, so chaotic that they have produced creatures over which they have no control;  and the presence on the planet of humans, unicorns, and centaurs is required to right the imbalance created by the dragons.In Peril's Gate, the dragons remain in the background, but the centaurs come forward, one at a time.  Each of the two half-brothers is confronted separately by a massive centaur (not the same one I think), and judged by his alignment with the Law of the Major Balance on life on the planet Athera.  One half-brother is offered absolution; the other is given a warning.This is probably not the best volume to read first, should the scarcity of these books force the reader to read the volumes out of sequence;  the book literally begins with characters in headlong flight from the cliff-hanger ending of the previous installment (Grand Conspiracy).  Safe to say, however, that within the series itself, Peril's Gate, centaurs and all, is pivotal.  Anyone who is attracted to any of the other books in The Wars of Light and Shadow -- nine in print, with a tenth in progress -- will, sooner or later, absolutely have to read Peril's Gate -- and, even in the parts the reader doesn't much like, will be unable to put the thing down.  It keeps you guessing to the final chapter.
4 What I like about Janny Wurts's writing is how beautifully textured and rich the world and characters are.  While I wouldn't recommend starting with this book, I would highly recommend starting with Curse of the Mistwraith, the first book in The Wars of Light and Shadow.  Wurts creates characters who grow, make mistakes, change, and sometimes do amazing things.  Arithon, the hero, draws readers in from the first book.  I also like that the world of Athera is itself almost a character in the book.  The characters affect the land and the land affects the characters.  I can never predict where Wurts will take her characters next; I do know that I enjoyed this book and am looking forward to the next.
5 Peril's Gate probably exceeds the might of the first books. This is a book of wonder. The pace seems to bog down at points, but overall, the evolution of Arithon's character is masterfully articulated, which it turns out is very likely the centerpiece of the entire series.I enjoyed this book thoroughly. I recommened this series to people with only a warning that Grand Conspiracy is not up to par. Otherwise, this is equal to Thomas Covenant, Dune, and possibly even Tolkien.Thanks Janny for holding my faith in whom I deem to be the torchbearer of modern epic fantasy.
4 Combined the two siblings were a power like none the world has ever seen before. However, after defeating an invincible evil, the duo turns towards each other. The Prince of Light Lysaer demanding justice wants to kill his brother Prince of Rathain Arithon just as the Curse predicted they would. However, in spite of some powerful allies, Lysaer has found Arithon living up to his birth born Master of Shadow abilities as the latter escapes perfect traps.Both brothers use magic to survive as their rivalry leads each into separate adventures. However, Arithon knows that Lysaer is coming closer so he needs an ally to counterbalance his sibling's magical associates. Reluctantly, Arithon turns to the enchanter Davien the Betrayer who has also lived up to his name, having betrayed and killed Arithon's kin and could just as likely do the same to the Master of Shadow.PERIL'S GATE is an exhilarating sword and sorcery thriller, but feels bloated as Janny Wurts adds filler material. Still the adventures of the siblings are exciting when the subplots remain steady and not filled with sidebars. Sub-genre fans will enjoy the events that seem to slowly bring the siblings closer to the final confrontation, leaving the latest entry in the Wars of Light and Shadow clearly for the S&amp;S crowd.Harriet Klausner
3 Buried in this massive volume is an outstanding story with engaging characters shackled by painfully executed prose. In many ways Ms. Wurt's descriptions of magic remind me of the metaphysical diarrheic prose David Brin can sink in to as read in "Earth" and "Kiln People". After so many paragraphs of "elevated harmonics" "polarities" and "magnetics" you start to wonder if you are reading epic fantasy or a "Star Trek" novel and ultimately it all translates into "blah blah blah." But you keep reading, skimming most of the magic babble much like skimming the parts of "Moby Dick" that relate to the technical aspects of whaling. You keep going because there is a rousing good yarn in there and you are determined to liberate it from the pages no matter the cost. The characters are great, if a bit over-wrought and self-tortured. Even manly-men in this series practically break down in tears when they have to kill someone or are faced with the unknown mysteries of ancient magic. After a while it starts to wear thin. Finally, the reader does not learn the meaning of "Peril's Gate" until almost the very end of the novel and while the rite of passage our protagonist wades through is epic, brutal and appropriate, it takes far too many pages most of which rehash things we already know. In the end this novel has wonderful characters, convincing emotion and moments of brilliance separated by gulfs of ponderous magical prose. I will buy the next volume but not in hard cover.
4 In Peril's Gate, Janny Wurts manages to regain some of her momentum.  Arithon is literally chased through-out the book. Wurts manages to convey that sense of urgency and panic throughout the book.  Usually by book six, most of the zing is gone, and I usually reading it because I almost feel obligated to finish it, not so with this book, she does a really good job of picking up the pace, and introducing a bad/boy mystery character.  Overall a good book.
4 very important, nonetheless.  This book had me in tears at times due to the very emotional way Ms. Wurts has in writing about some of the characters' relationships--Arithon &amp; Jieret's for example.  Sure the text is a little wordy, but I think that without all the descriptions, we may not have as good a grasp on the landscape &amp; world as possible.Some of the best sub-plots, I thought were the ones with Lirenda.  Sure, she's annoying and a complete witch, but at least she got what she deserved.  I loved the increase of Ath's adepts in this book.  I think they add something to the life of the book--I mean, they can disappear into thin air!  How cool is that? Most annoying character in this book has to be Elaira.  She was really interesting at one point, but then about 1/3 of the way through, she got really boring and annoying.The most entertaining characters in this book awards have to go to our favorite discorporate sorcerers--Luhaine and Karamandon (?).  With mediation by Sethvir and Dakar, the interplay between these two surely show their talent.  Add to that mix the introduction of Davien, and the players are all there.As for Davien, I think the best part of the book, where we really got to see into Arithon's mind, was when he is with Davien.  But I don't want to spoil that...I think this is a great series, and many things happen in this book alone to change the way the rest of the series may run.  I can't wait for the next book!
1 Stilted language, scant action, nothing new. The hero Arithon has been rendered by the author as a whining cry baby who, despite his magical abilities, cannot seem to get it together and save himself. This story describes his struggle to get from point A to point B throughout nearly 700 pages. This reader estimates that 400 pages are scenery descriptions.The excuse for Arithon's misery is that he is being driven by the geas of the Mistwraith Curse. Arithon's girlfriend, Elaira, while safe at Whitehaven,is in a dream state far removed from Arithon's trial while he undergoes imaginary deaths and struggles and moans, whimpers, sobs, cries, weeps and so on. She is "remote viewing" and snivveling right along with him. An example of the overworked prose is as follows:'"Oh, cry mercy!" whispered Elaira. Ribbons of tears coursed down her dreaming cheeks.' Dreaming cheeks? All the characters talk in the same convoluted stilted high toned language style, including the illiterate goatherd forced to look like Arithon through magical mean.  This  puts him in the same "class" as the educated Arithon and Lysaer, Sethvir and others and is simply unbelievable. They are all reduced to one dimensional beings as a result of such pretentious prose. Every one of the characters from high Mage Sethvir to Dakkar are all dying or near death and this grim saga offers no light at the end of the tunnel. It is this reader's opinion that Peril's Gate could have been left out of the story arc entirely.
5 Peril's Gate continues Janny Wurts' tradition of realistic characters and engaging plotlines.  Major events happen in this volume of the Wars of Light and Shadow series, and the series' momentum builds.  To fully appreciate the book, one should start the series from its first volume, Curse of the Mistwraith.
5 Peril's gate book three of Alliance and light (a volume of the wars of light and shadow), exceeded and surpassed all expectations once again as this epic saga continues. I was blown away by the sheer originality and creativity that was on a par with JRR Tolkien in regards to its uniqueness and vastly detailed plot that was a delight to behold. This compelling book I was unable to put down as I lost myself within its pages that were full of outstanding individuality, on such an epic scale as to overwhelm one entirely. This striking volume stands out on any bookshelf with a cover illustrated by the author herself who brings her own creation to life in full, vivid color before your very eyes. If you enjoy bloodthirsty, atmospheric battle scenes mixed with sorcery and powerful magic then the wars of light and shadow will impress you, being a concoction of Kate Elliot and Robin Hobb; it really is sword and sorcery at its very best.Lysaer and Arithon are half-brothers brought up by mages in a world that is harsh, bloody and quite cruel. One bears the power of the light whilst the other commands the darkness; hence together they defeated the Mistwraith but at a terrible price. Now Lysaer must bring down Arithon the master of shadow, who received a curse by the deadly mistwraith all that time ago. With intense, thrilling battles the dispute between both brothers deepens as one tries to save the delicate balance of the world and keep the fellowship of sorcerer's in tact. Elaira the enchantress holds Arithon's heart in her hands hence she has to make the ultimate sacrifice; to betray the one whom she loves to Koriani Prime for their own gain or to rebel against her own order.Full of passion, energy and fast-paced thrilling action this tale gets better and better with each new volume, where the drama and narrative grows in intensity with every page. The truly unique, original storyline is so unpredictable as to make you want to read on, leaving you sat on the edge of your seat whilst it builds up to a striking and magnificent climax that astonishes. This is an exhilarating, thrilling read that is full of electric tension and suspense evoking the fantasy genre brilliantly with the added mixture of sorcery, magic and myth as to spark your imagination. I did not want this tale to end hence I went to then read book two of the series and continue on the journey, delving back into Janny's world feeling as if I was back home with something so familiar and memorable. This really is a remarkable read that has left a very large hole in my heart, being something that I shall now treasure. Outstanding and origional this series is so distinctive and unique, that is a truly timeless tale. Absorbing and beautifully written many fans of other reconizable works of fiction within this genre will love the wars of light and shadow, especially those readers like myself who enjoy Raymond E Feist's work some of which Janny Wurts is co-author of. I cannot enthuse enough about an author who shall remain one of my favorites, being full of creative vision and depth of feeling that is quite incredible. Here is a writer who puts herself into her work, which when reading it is like seeing into her very soul that is full of emotion and inventiveness that is truly inspiring.
5 For the uninitiated, I would recommend reading the first in the series, Curse of the Mistwraith, and continue on through the set. The tragedy, however, is that most of the series is out of print. Further, the latest one, Traitor's Knot, had to be ordered through Amazon, as my local bookstore never seems to have any books by Janny Wurts. I'd recommend buying just the first one, or check your local library first, rather than buying the entire set at once. For many, Janny Wurts is incredibly wordy. True, her books are long (my hardcover copy of this book runs to about 700 pages), yet in truth she challenges the reader to understand and visualize her well-crafted fantasy world, empathize with her complex characters, and follow the twists of her far-reaching plots.Peril's Gate continues the tale of two half-brothers, Lysaer and Arithon, having drunk from a fountain which sustains life for 500 years, then held in thrall of a curse which binds them to enmity, as heirs to two royal lines they plunge the world of Athera into war. As a backdrop, the lands have been split for centuries - the ancient royal lines had been ousted from power, persecuted and hunted like wild animals by the narrow-minded townborn people, they become clans living in the wilds, forests and mountains. Through deceptive statesmanship, wholly in thrall by the curse, Lysaer rallies the townborn to destroy Arithon, who is supported by the clan lines. Worse, each brother has an inherent gift - Lysaer has the gift to summon light, Arithon that of darkness...and as people naturally associate light with good, dark with evil, it takes little persuasion to convince others that Arithon is demonspawn, dubbed the Spinner of Darkness. Never mind that Arithon is Athera's Masterbard, trained to mastery of magic, and sanctioned by the mysterious group of Sorcerers dedicated to the protection of Athera known as the Fellowship of Seven.In this latest installment, we see Arithon hounded on all sides by Lysaer and his allies, through harsh mountains in winter, until he finally seeks sanctuary in Kewar Tunnel, known as Davien's Maze. This Maze is the gate to peril which the title refers to. It was created by a rogue member of the Fellowship of Seven, a Sorcerer of brilliant artistry, who had instigated the rebellion which overthrew the royal lines. For that act, he gained the title of Davien the Betrayer. The Maze is a complex series of tests, not the least of which is to examine the traveler's guilty past and conscience. Each death caused by a person's hand is experienced through the eyes of the victim, their widow, their children. No memory, no matter how far back in a person's past, is exempt from blistering reexamination. Those who have trod the Maze before have been rendered mad with guilt, trapped in their minds by unending rings of compassion for their victims. This is the danger into which Arithon treads, fully aware that his ancestor died as a result of entering the Maze, and that upon his gifts as Masterbard, master of magic and shadow, and last heir of the High Kings, rests the possibility of healing the division between the townborn and clans, the return of the Paravians (centaurs, unicorns and elves) and the safety of all Athera against the wraiths which are crossing space to invade the world.I cannot speak highly enough of Janny Wurts - her works put most authors to shame. Rather than clothing her characters in drab descriptions, she understands them, highlights their flaws and strengths. This Maze that she devised lets the reader truly understand the character of Arithon to dizzying depths. This then, is her strength, while she deftly weaves disparate plot threads with seeming ease, and brings the reader to understand the mythical fundamentals of spellcraft.I highly recommend this book.
4 Like many I found Grand Conspiracy to be below the bar set by her other books. This book though wordy at times is much better. I could have done without much of the reflection of past crimes that Arithon does in the last 1/3 of the book but it did give me a good refresher on the past books. The whole issue of Arithon's Mage sense is also settled which is good because I for one was tired of reading about all his self-pity and and guilt. A few new characters are brought in which should make matters more interesting and some older ones are dealt with in ingenous ways. Bravo now I have to wait another 18 months for the next book
2 I'm actually a fan of Wurts, ever since I read her Empire series collaboration with Feist (whom I don't much like). However, I disliked this book, primarily for the following 3 reasons:The pace of the book is awful. From the first page we are told that Arithon  is in the worst danger possible; the kind of danger that would threaten Athera itself....and the Fellowship is threatened...and Arithon really, really, this time must break down and destroy the world... well, no this time he will break down and destroy the world... ok, this time he is really, really stretched and a catastrophe must happen... no? Get the picture? Dangers pile on dangers, and throughout the book, Wurts wants us to believe that we're balancing on the very edge of disaster. The only thing is, this is pretty hard to believe in as a reader - especially when you know you've got 600 more pages to go before the end of this book (and God knows how many volumes left in the series).Another example of the bad pace are the multiple times in the story where we are told some character must make a split-second decision; upon which we are then treated with 2-3 pages of the character intensely contemplating what s/he should do in the next second. Doh!Secondly (and perhaps I am a minority here), I am finding it increasingly difficult to emphatize with the characters in these books. The reason is that every one of them is painted as either black or white; every character in the book can be considered either divinely good (Arithon and his bunch), diabolically evil with no redeeming attributes (Lysaer, the Witches and a few of his henchmen), or good but fighting in an evil cause (most of Lysaer's henchmen). Also, every character in the books are described as being brave, unbowed, giving their all for their cause though harried to the end of their endurance, etc. No ordinary humans on Athera, that's for sure (the only one, Dakar, has now converted to join the divinely good fraternity).Finally, the flowery prose. This is the reason I love Wurt's writing, but unfortunately also the reason why I am beginning to dislike it. After 100 pages describing how beat up, worn out, on the edge of endurance, unwashed, etc. Arithon is, I'm sure we know how he looks. This book could be half its current size and it would be much better.IMO, this book should never have been written (it was, incidentally not in the original publishing plans either). All it does is blow up the size of a series which is looking increasingly unmanageable, and though a few important plot developments occur, I fail to see why they should require 700 pages!! As a long time fan of the series, I plan on buying the next (and hopefully the final in the Alliance of Light cycle) book, but if there are no significant improvements in this story, I doubt that I will continue reading it.So why 2 stars? Well, there are a few wonderfully evocative passages in the book. There is no doubt that Wurts knows her stuff, and can write like few others. Just a pity she overdoes it.If you're a new reader, my suggestion is that you try some of her other work. If you're an old reader of her work and getting tired of it; stay away from this one (unless you're really wanting to punish yourself).
5 I love this whole series.  One of my favorites.  I find the characters engaging.  I can't put these books down.
5 If you want a quick, easy, throwaway read, stop now. This epic of Ms. Wurts' is quite complex, and compelling. There are points in the previous books that could bring you to ribs aching with laughter, fury at injustices perpetrated in the name of justice, or even tears of sorrow. But the main aspects of this series, above all others that has me drooling with anticipation for the next book the moment I am finished with the current one, is Janny's ability to provoke thought, and challenge dearly held views.There are some who complain of her use of big words, or wordy sentences. I see this "flaw" as a tribute from an author who does not need to talk down to or patronize her readers by "dumbing down" her prose. Janny trusts her readers to be intelligent people, who, while they may or may not agree with her viewpoints on justice, compassion or non-violence, are, nonetheless, intelligent people. I find myself reaching for the dictionary, but I find that fun, since I like "collecting" new words.Arithon, her protagonist, is a man tormented by the violence and ugliness perpetrated not only against himself, but against his liegemen, his enemies, and even against the natural world itself. He serves as a kind of metaphor for people like Mahatma Gandhi [one of Ms. Wurts' own heroes] or Martin Luther King... people who stand, non-violently, for profound change and justice, while being subjected to unspeakable violence and injustice.You will laugh, or cry, or perhaps react in another way altogether. But you will THINK. That, above all, is Ms. Wurts' gift in this series.
5 Wurts'latest book in the Wars of Light and Shadow series is, in a word, magnificent.After a somewhat repetitive period in the last few books that focused on the exile of Arithon and pursuit of his half brother, Lysear, Wurts has in &quot;Peril's Gate&quot; created a new scenario. This time, Arithon is not successful in his attempt to seek solace on the wide blue ocean. Instead, due to circumstances beyond his control, he is forced to stay on dry land. As such, Lysear is able to feel the pull of his half brother through the curse they share, and orders a relentless pursuit of Arithon.Peril's Gate moves paces ahead in the story of the two half-brothers. Wurts draws readers deeper into the troubles of the world and the roles the magicians play in saving it. In &quot;Peril's Gate&quot;, we experience the growth of Dakar the Prophet, soul-searching of Arithon, a renewed love for Arithon by Elaira, mysterious events that occur around Lysear's wife and son, and we learn more of Davien the Betrayer.The book is brilliant, pace-y and brings renewed interest and focus to Wurts' world. It is a step up and forward from previous dallying. It is darker, heavier, more serious; but all the more pleasurable to read.I can't wait for the next book, as we reach a pinnacle and pivotal point of the story of the Master of Shadow.
4 surprising end but we'll worth the long read about five chapters too long.less descriptions with more action would definitely help
5 A brilliant scintillating climax of a book as each battle Arithon must face, whether with his half brother, or with the Koriani, or with the myriad of characters and forces along the way stops my heart in fear that he will be killed or destroyed. His beloved Elaira is with him in spirit as he faces the most grueling trial ever - Kewar's Maze. Here he faces the most his fearsome enemy -- himself and his deeds -- and finally comes face to face with a mighty centaur. All others have died in this maze.I repeat - Mistwraith is an incredibly compelling, action filled, gut wrenching, heart stopping adventure with one of the most incredible love stories I've read in a long time.
5 Peril's Gate picks up right where Grand Conspiracy  left off: Arithon is once again on the run, pursued by an Alliance of Light army led by its Lord Commander, Sulfin Evend, and his half-brother Lysaer. The Koriani enchantresses are also still trying to capture Arithon, with Elaira forced to walk a precarious line between betraying her order and helping her beloved. In Arithon's desperate bid to stay ahead and stay alive, he receives help from Earl Jieret's war band, an elite force but one surely not strong enough to prevail against the vast forces of the Alliance of Light. The Fellowship of Seven is unable to lend much assistance, as they are scrambling to keep Athera from falling apart... but help may still reach Arithon from an unexpected -- and maybe unwelcome -- direction...Parts of Peril's Gate have the same level of suspense as the second half of To Ride Hell's Chasm, which is one of my favorite standalone fantasies. In one sense, this book is one big chase scene similar to the end of Hell's Chasm, but because these characters and this world have by now, after five previous novels in the WARS OF LIGHT AND SHADOW series, acquired so much depth and so many layers, the wild chase in Peril's Gate has much more impact than you'd expect and may just be the most dramatic chase scene I've ever encountered in any medium.Still, while the chase takes center stage, there are several sub-chapters offering glimpses of other events taking place on Athera, so the story continues to deepen even as you're pulled along in the whirlwind of Arithon's desperation. Most significantly, Janny Wurts describes the Fellowship's desperate efforts to protect the planet after Morriel's misguided actions at the end of Grand Conspiracy, but you'll also read about the actions of Prince Kevor, Dakar and Fionn Areth, the machinations of the Koriani enchantresses, and several others.The final quarter of the book contains one of the most grueling scenes in the series so far, as Arithon is forced to relive the most traumatizing events in his past, this time experiencing them from more than just his own perspective. Janny Wurts doesn't pull any punches describing this truly harrowing experience, which at times is so intense it may give readers a visceral reaction. At the same time, this unforgettable finale shows Arithon growing and transcending his suffering in an almost mystical way, giving Peril's Gate a spiritual dimension that's quite unlike anything I've encountered in fantasy before.There are other chapters and scenes in this book that are simply unforgettable, making Peril's Gate one of the strongest installments in the series so far. You'll find true heroism and heartbreaking sacrifice in the chapters focusing on the Companions as they try to protect their liege Arithon. You'll also learn much more about Athera and its history. Finally, even though you won't find an "Ars Arcanum" section at the back of these books, there are several highly intricate magic systems displayed in these novels, and Peril's Gate begins to show their differences as well the real depth behind them for the first time.While the first two novels in the Alliance of Light arc of this series contained a bit more set-up, all the pieces are now firmly in place in Peril's Gate, resulting in a more rewarding novel that doesn't let up in pace or intensity until you've turned the final page. Not only is this one of the strongest books in the series so far, it's also one of the most memorable fantasy novels I've ever read. Highly recommended.
2 I was actually very disappointed . Why ?For the first time I suddenly became aware of the lurking danger that Wurtz becomes a second Jordan and her novels will tend to get watered down like the Wheel of Time does .For Wurtz repeats herself , has little inspiration and fills (can you imagine 60 pages about fevered Arithon in a cave ?) .Well she is not and has never been an epic writer but in Peril's Gate there happens even less then usual .600 pages to show us basically a running wounded unwashed smelling Arithon with half the world behind him ... not really original , we had it already 3 times .The 2 times before he escaped to sea , this time his escape borders on ridiculous .400 pages of running over hundreds of leagues and when his ennemies are already on him (actually shooting crossbows) he happens to be on the EXACT only one point where he can escape .All that of course with much dismay (Ooooh Arithon you don't dare to go there . It is certain death . You have no chance etc) .Besides nothing new with the Koriani , with the Fellowship and Lysaer is still his old shining self .Ah yes , Lysaer's son more or less dies - we'll see in the next 1000 pages if it is good or bad news .
1 Having been captivated by the Janny Wurts of the Empire Trilogy(although, with Raymond E. Feist), the Cycle of Fire, and "That Way Lies Camelot," I came to the Wars of Light and Shadow/Alliance of Light with high hopes; they were dashed.To begin - and as many have pointed out - it's a struggle to follow the narrative with such tangled prose. Just because it's an exotic, different world we're reading of doesn't mean it needs a narration to match - and then there are the all the lines, either quotes or just sentence-ends, which are italicized in a melodramatic way, and if you were as lost in the text as I was for so much of these novels, you think, "So what?" because it seems meaningless - unless they were put at such regular intervals to snap us back into awareness by making us think something groundbreakingly important has happened, so we should pay attention again (rather than thinking, "What the hell just happened? God, this is BORING!...").Now, as for "Peril's Gate," we go on with the garbled words - this time, more depressed than usual - for about 700 pages, but expecting at any time for some massive twist/denouement to occur, if you're thinking that this is the end of the series, as I (going by the concluding-sounding remarks Wurts makes in the acknowledgements, and the non-association of the new one, "To Ride Hell's Chasm") did. And then, nothing of the kind happens...just a fizzled ending which only considers Arithon - oh, and Elaira, who punctuates the proceedings with about 30-odd "Cry Mercy"s as if it meant something important. The final section, "Closures," doesn't really close at all, because Lysaer says something for the first time in about 200 pages, and it ends in a "dot-dot-dot"(ellipsis points?) as if there's more to come.In short, there's just too many loose ends to consider this an end. (I may, however, proceed with a continuing novel[s] to get rid of the cheated feeling "Peril's Gate" left me with, and after all, Stephen Donaldson's "Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant" were better than the first. Unless it's more of the same, in which case, forget it.)Oh, and one more thing - remember how, at the start of "Curse of the Mistwraith," it said something like "the proceeding is the assemblage of historical documents pertaining to these major events in the history of Athera[or whatever it is]"? Well, what kind of florid historians does this land have, to account for the narration? It's a wasted premise, because these are _far too subjective_(not to mention personal - unless the historians of the land are also channelers) for historical documents, and it might have run better as being from first person, or at least something _not_ a "history."UPDATE - 10/18/03: Okay, so, this isn't the ending. A 7th (STORMED FORTRESS) is coming out July 2004. Having spent so much time reading the other books and finding needlessly-used big words in several dictionaries while doing so, I may read this one. Unless there's better stuff available then - which, if the trends of books 1-6 continue, there probably will be.
4 This is a quality book for the reasons given amply by other reviewers.  However it lost a star from me for two reasons: the ending is rushed, and I got sick of how the main character, crippled almost to immobility early in the book, suffers a continual unrelenting onslaught for most of the rest of the book, without ceasing to be an amazing killing machine.  It was just too much!  As the cliche goes, sometimes less is more.Having said that, it's still a better fantasy book than many so buy it, read it and enjoy it!
5 To Ride Hell's Chasm is a singleton fantasy novel.  The Kingdom of Sessalie is a quiet highland realm that longs for an outlet to the sea.  The King and Chancellors have arranged a marriage for Princess Anja with the High Prince of Devall to gain treaty access to their seaport and the two royals have fallen deeply in love.  The High Prince has returned to Sessalie for the upcoming betrothal ceremony and the town has become a madhouse of wild and drunken celebration.In this novel, Captain Mykkael and his Garrison troopers have had busy  days and busier nights.  Mykkael hasn't slept in twenty hours and barely has the energy to tend to his lame knee.  His sword shows use and needs a good cleaning if he can find time.  The rumors have been varied and fantastic, including a new one that Princess Anja has disappeared.  Then he is summoned to appear before the King.The rumor doesn't have the half of it.  The princess has apparently fled on her own and is no longer anywhere in the castle, town or environs.  The Seneshal is frantically worried that the betrothal will be rejected by the High Prince, but the prince seems only to be deeply concerned for the princess, urging all possible measures to find her.  Commander Taskin of the Palace Guard has men searching all of the princess's old childhood hiding places within the castle, but soon has to agree with Mykkael that the princess is no longer there.A sorcerer's mark has been found in the castle cellars, but Mykkael knows that it is false, having had experience with the real thing.  In fact, Mykkael is almost the only man in Sessalie who knows anything about sorcery and demons, having fought against them on several occasions, and is one of the few survivors of the futile defense of Efandi before it was overwhelmed by sorcery.Another sorcerer's mark is only too real, killing one of the few other men in the kingdom with the knowledge to defend against sorcery.  Other deaths also seem to have been caused by sorcery, even though some of the nobles blame Mykkael and try to force his trial for these deaths.  However, the King is well aware of the captain's history and charges him with responsibility for finding and protecting the princess.This story is a study of a man with heavy responsibilities, horrific experiences, and sorrowful memories.  It is also a tale of the love that can develop between a man and woman enduring exhausting and terrible tests of stamina and perseverance.  Underlying it all is the threat of demons, bound sorcerers, and their minions.Highly recommended for Wurts fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of loyalty, persistence, and competence in the midst of great trials.-Arthur W. Jordin
5 Though it starts off somewhat slowly, TRHC builds up to a peak and never lets go. This is certainly not a light read, but one that takes time and diligence to properly absorb. Richly told in a beautiful language, the imagery is fantastic. The characters will have readers aching for their plight.The world is very well detailed, and I really like the connection from demon to sorcerer to minion. The shapeshifters are pretty ominous too.Don't want to give away too much and spoil, but will say that this is one of those stories that sticks with you long after you're done reading it.Bravo...
2 This seemed to me like a book trying to cross genres, combining an Austen-like novel of manners with swords and sorcery. Though I always admire an author who tries to bring new things into the fantasy genre, I'm afraid this approach didn't work for me.My first major problem was the point of view, an omnicient third person which slipped all over the place, from person to person, without warning. By its nature, this POV keeps readers at a distance, and I found it really hampered me trying to connect with the characters.Often, the omniscient third person is used to keep important information from the readers -- in this case, the identity of a traitor. Sad to say, I figured it out anyhow.I found that the Austen-like narrative voice only amplified the POV's distancing effect. It seemed remote in itself, a good example of why authors are always being told to "show, not tell." In addition, every verb had an adverb and every noun had an adjective (sometimes more than one). This word buildup slowed the sentences down, blunting the impact of even the most exciting and dramatic passages.I was also disappointed with the plot. Some of the characters came off as deliberately obtuse, perhaps because the plot required everyone to gang up on Mykkael. Although the first half of the novel focused on the rivalry/friendship of Taskin and Mykkael, Taskin pretty much disappeared in the second half. To me this was disappointing, as I did like Taskin in his anal way.Again, I enjoy it when an author tries something new. Wurtz is good enough to keep trying, perhaps teamed with a more demanding editor. I'll look for more of her work in the future.Deby FredericksAuthor of "The Magister's Mask"
5 Due to its remoteness, the kingdom of Sessalie has enjoyed generations of peace while other parts of the world have been ravaged by war with sorcerers. That tranquility is shattered when their beloved Princess Anja goes missing on the night on her betrothal. Now her fate, and the kingdom's, rests on two men. Dealing with unfamiliar evils, Taskin, the iron-disciplined commander of the Royal Guard, must depend on the worldly experience and unfathomable character of a foreigner and sell-sword: garrison captain Mykkael, who could just as likely be involved in Anja's disappearance as her sole chance of rescue.This was my first time reading Janny Wurts, and I now understand her very dictated and enthusiastic following. To Ride Hell's Chasm is the perfect fantasy story. It contains some traditional fantasy elements like an endangered princess in a far-away land where gryphons roam the skies and sorcery is a terrifying and mysterious force. But it also has the political intrigue and multi-person-point-of-view of believable and intensely interesting characters that's prevalent in modern fantasy. It's brimming with cliff-hanging suspense and pulse-pounding action. Mysteries unfold in tantalizing bread-crumb paths toward explosive resolution, and the characters become so endearing it's hard to accept them as being only fictional.Those things alone make TRHC a grand adventure to read, but what takes it to an even higher level is that Janny Wurts is a natural-born story-teller. Her gift as a talented artist allows her to enhance her books with her own illustrations, whereas other authors must leave it up to another's interpretation. Her knowledge of what she is writing about is extensive to the point that it almost seems closer to reality than story.Best of all, Ms. Wurts writes with a prose that is pure genius. It has a Shakespearean quality that only a handful of other authors are capable of. Done with just the slightest degree less of talent, her style would easily become too melodramatic. But with the perfection exemplified in THRC, Wurts creates a tale that is both so exciting and uniquely fantasy; it re-enforces this reader's enjoyment of the genre.
4 This is the first fantasy book that I've read - I picked it out of the library having read the back and thought I'd give it a go. Not sure what to expect, I was pleasantly surprised.The basic story is that of Mykkael, a former mercenary who is now a soldier in the peaceful kingdom of Sessalie. He is from the far south of the country and his skin is much darker in colour, thus he suffers comments from the citizens of Sessalie for his difference. He is mistrusted by many of the people and is the first on whom suspicion falls when anything goes wrong.And it does go wrong. Princess Anja is about to receive her future husband at her betrothal ceremony when she disappears. Mykkael is tasked to find her, although he seems to spend the first half of the book doing nothing but getting involved in kingdom politics and rubbing people up the wrong way. I found the first half of the book a little hard going.However, when he finally sets out to track Princess Anja the story comes to life. He finds the Princess with her six horses and the two of them have to cross "Hell's Chasm", a long deep valley, in order to find safety in another kingdom. The descriptions of their hardships and the battles they have to fight against evil creatures is gripping and keeps you turning the pages.The reason they are endangered is that Anja's Bridegroom has bought demons and sorcery with him from his home country - he isn't in fact her bridegroom, he has been possessed by an evil sorcerer. Various other members of the Royal Household are endangered and there's quite a lot of bloodshed - Mykkael having his fair share in that before he leaves to track the princess.The characterisation is good, with Mykkael as a tortured hero - tortured by the fact that although he is usually successful in his mission, there is always a heavy price to pay. Anja understands her duty as Princess and does her utmost to fulfil them, although she is somewhat hampered by tender feelings for her horses. Warning - if you can't bear the thought of horses or dogs being killed, this book isn't for you.The kingdom of Sessalie and the other places mentioned are well drawn and I felt that I understood the society and the peoples - rather like mediaval Britain. It worked well for me and was different enough to be interesting.I did enjoy this book although I was a little disappointed by the ending, and I also think that the first half was a bit slow - thus the four stars. Otherwise I would have given it five.
5 Wow!  Janny told me the story got really exciting during the last half.  Wrong!  It was really exciting all the way through.  If there is any fault at all in the book, it is that the excitement NEVER slacks off & it's really hard to put down.  That's not really fair when it is so long - yet seems not long enough.  I'd love to read more about this world & its characters.The plot is beautifully crafted, lovingly revealed & the resolution left me gasping (& a bit teary eyed).  The characters are amazingly human, yet heroic, each in their own way.  The prose is a bit dense at times.  Each word was obviously chosen with professional care, so be warned if you like to quickly skim a novel - don't do it.  You might get away with it with this one, but you don't want to.  The description is too acute, the world perfectly formed & a quick read will simply dim it.My highest praise is reserved for her handling of the horses.  Obviously, she KNOWS horses.  She knows their strengths, weaknesses & personalities.  Yes, each horse has a personality.  They're not simply hooved cars.  They're not cutsey, caricatures, either.  There is no anthropomorphism here.  They're every bit as 'real' as the fictionalized humans.  If you don't know horses, there may be a few terms that could use some definition, but not many.  Most are well enough described.  The 'near' side of a horse is the left side, for instance.  It is a proper equestrian term.Anyway, it's a fantastic read & I highly recommend it.  I've yet to be disappointed by one of her books & this one just raised my esteem for her writing another notch.
5 To Ride Hell's Chasm was my first Wurts novel. I actually have a copy of the first book of The Wars of Light and Shadow saga which I started (and liked so far), but I got a bit intimidated by the time commitment (and the fact that WoLaS is unfinished...), so I decided to try this stand-alone first to get a feel for Janny Wurts' style before I leapt into a mega-epic. Along that line, I was also interested to see how she would affect an actual ending, since WoLaS doesn't actually have one yet (at least not in print).It took me a while to get used to Ms Wurts' style. I haven't had a lot of reading time lately, so the last several things I've chosen to read have purposely been a bit...light. Like chocolate mousse. Wurts is not light. The prose is, in fact, heavy:"Only small details bespoke the grave trouble slipped in through the well-guarded gates. Taskin's patrols came and went, double-file rows of neat lancers threading through the carriage traffic in the broad avenues above Highgate. In the queen's formal gardens, amid lawns like set emeralds, two dozen tiny surcoated figures enacted the midday change of the guard.The sun, angle shifting, sparkled off the polished glove of a flag spire. The slate and lead roofs of the palace precinct dropped in gabled steps downwards, in cool contrast to the terracotta tile of the merchants' mansions, crowded in rows like boxed gingerbread above the arched turrets of Middlegate. There, the tree-lined streets ran like seams in patchwork, jammed by the colors of private house guards helping to search for the princess. Their industry seethed past the courtyard gardens, scattered like squares of dropped silk, and stitched with rosettes where the flowering shrubs adorned the pillared gazebos.Farthest down, hemmed by the jagged embrasures of stone battlements, the lower town hugged the slope like a rickle of frayed burlap, the roofs there a welter of weathered thatch, and craftsmen's sheds shingled with pine shakes. Mykkael's garrison troops kept their watch on the outermost walls, the men reduced as toys, bearing pins and needles for weaponry."When I first started reading, I felt like my dainty dish of chocolate mousse had suddenly been replaced by a 20 oz sirloin, and I had some initial trouble digesting it. It probably didn't help that I wasn't finding the time to sit down with the book before midnight. By the time I got to it, I was about as alert as if I actually had consumed that 20 oz sirloin. But, I liked the story and characters immediately, so I started reading earlier in the day, and by the time I was about 1/3 of the way through the book, my pace had picked up significantly. By the time I was 1/2 way through, the language was no longer a barrier and the story was so gripping that I actually could stay up past midnight and read. In fact, I stayed up reading until 2 am for the last two nights without any trouble at all. I actually had to force myself to go to bed. At first I thought that as the pace of the story got faster (it flies for the second half of the book), Ms Wurts writing had become more succinct. But, I went back and read some of the first half again to check my theory: No. It hadn't changed -- it was me. I just got used to the writing style and had learned to appreciate it. Ms Wurts is an artist (she does her own cover art and maps) and she uses words like she uses her paint. They put us in the scene; they show rather than tell.This book is finely crafted in other respects, too. The plot is interesting, original, and tight. There are moments of horror, grief, and humor. There are no clich&eacute;s, unbelievable romances, plot holes, stereotyped characters, or deux ex machina. The plot is unpredictable, too. In fact, there were a few times that I thought "how are they going to get out of this mess?" and I had no clue, and even if I'd had a clue, I would have been wrong. The ending, also, is unexpected, realistic (realistic for a fantasy novel, that is), and satisfying. And, importantly, Ms. Wurts writes knowledgeably about all those little details of ancient lifestyles that we love to read about in high fantasy -- sword fighting, horses, war strategies, servants, weird food, boiling laundry, dressing wounds -- at no time did I suspect that she was bluffing.The system of magic that Janny Wurts creates is unique and fascinating. There's an explanation of it at the back of the book that I wish I had seen before I finished the novel. And, speaking of the actual physical book, it was well-crafted, too. There's a glossary and maps, nice cover and interior art, and I found NO spelling or other editorial errors in this edition. It's too bad the publisher -- Meisha Merlin -- has gone under. (And too bad I dropped this copy in a puddle when I jumped up to pull my 2 year old out of the pool.)So, now that I've finished To Ride Hell's Chasm, I think I have a small idea of what I've been missing by not reading The Wars of Light and Shadow. A long epic by Janny Wurts sounds like a very good thing.
4 The author is adept at creating incredible worlds of fantasy. She creates characters that are real and vivid. The plots are excellent, convoluted and compelling.This book's hero is exactly like Prince Arithon in her other books, most recently Peril's Gate, and the Princess Anja of Sessalie is almost identical to Arithon's girlfriend,such that I found myself confusing the characters at times.The following objective comments detail a few problems that I have with this book:1. Unrealistic, overblown prose. All the characters dialog is in a backward type of stilted high style language. This is true of the hero, the princess, the pig farmer turned soldier, the king, courtiers, drunken trappers and shamans of desert tribes of other lands.2. Metaphors such as this on p. 198 &quot;smooth as butter left on a plate, the seneschal found himself cooling his heels on the carpet in the front hall&quot;.  Say What?3. The use of past tense verbs in front of adjectives or nouns that overstate and/or stall ongoing action, impact and meaning. Ex: p.510 &quot;..He's still acting on Mykkael's left orders?&quot;  Is this vs right orders?4. Through the entire book the term &quot;desert-bred&quot; is used on nearly every page to describe Mykkael.5. The hero, like Prince Arithon is weepy, tormented, abused, hated and reviled.6. The story's tone is negative in extremis. Speaking only for myself, it presents a bit of a trial to read. The ending was the only ray of light for the salvation of Mykkael.What is excellent is the high magic of the shamans and the mystical elements that this author weaves throughout her stories.  Overall the book is very engaging despite the excessively ornate, stilted prose.  The beautifully spirited horses in the story were the champions. I felt them mostdeeply of all.
1 Okay, of course I'm probably going to get like 40 no helpfuls for this, but what the heck?Are you people insane?  This was about the most unrealistic novel I have ever read.  Granted it is fantasy, but hey, that's all I read.  What is the point of a great fantasy if you can't fall into the unrealistic?  This novel leaves me no opening.  The characters are unloveable, unrelatable, unwanted.  The narrator's voice, as well as the dialogue, was stilted and highhanded regardless of their status in society.  I think the author was trying to be proseful (but prose has everything to do with flow and little to do with 10 syllable words).What was with all the horses?  I mean here is this princess that goes all blubbery over a horse, but doesn't blink an eye for her brother or fiance'?  How realistic is that?  And don't give me it was a breakdown.  What?  She breaks down for EVERY horse, but never for her supposed love ones?And by God, what kind of ending was that?  It was so beyond far fetched and against the description of the characters she gave that I almost trashed the novel, then I realized it belonged to the library and thanked my lucky stars that I didn't actually spend money on this rubbish.
4 So use to reading fantasy novels with three or more books making up the story arc.  Unfortunatley to me this is a stand alone novel.  The two books I have read by this author that are stand alone leave you wishing for more.
5 To ride Hell's Chasm is simply spellbinding. The plot is there and definitely the novelty, the magic and the excitement. The myriad characters of  humans, sorcerers, demons and of course the horses and the world they live in are brilliantly conceived. My salute to Wurts for her vivid imagination. However for me, it is the protagonist, the warrior Mykkael who truly shines. I find myself engrossed with his purpose, his sorrows, his die-hard loyalty, his dignity, his courage and finally his emotional triumph.My only regret is that this splendid fantasy has not been crafted into a trilogy. The references to Mykkael's past life definitely justify this approach. The first of the trilogy could have been about Mykkael's birth, youth, ostracism from his tribe, the second concerning his life as a mercenary tormented by the horror of fighting sorcery culminating to his loss and finally the third, the story &quot;To ride Hell's Chasm&quot; itself. However with the ending Wurts has weaved I guess I have to say goodbye to Mykkael. I will definitely miss this amazingly intriguing and enigmatic character and the world he lives in. Still the conclusion is satisfying as Mykkael finally gets his just rewards. Truly an amazing read.
3 This action packed story uses several unusual premises to move the story forward.  The otherworldly demon moving through space, devouring world populations as it goes was a nice touch.  The princess hides out with 6 highly trained horses and they are used imaginatively many times during her journey to seek aid for her people.  Without the horses, I might not have finished the book.  Mykkael the paragon of virtue and strength began to wear on me by the end of the story.  I was relieved to see something good happen for him at last.  The strangely formal language was heavily burdened with useless adjectives , many of them used again and again(if I ever see the words "desert bred" in print again, I may burn the book).  In spite of my problems with the writing style, I enjoyed the book immensely and will probably keep an eye out for more by this author.
5 At the start of To Ride Hell's Chasm, an outstanding standalone fantasy by Janny Wurts, Princess Anja of the tiny isolated kingdom of Sessalie has gone missing on the eve of the ceremony for her betrothal to the Crown Prince of Devall.  Since Anja is beloved by her people, and the alliance with Devall represents potentially big trade increases, it doesn't take long for many people to be involved in the search, from Mykkael, a foreign-born former mercenary now in charge of the city's garrison, to Taskin, the military commander for the kingdom.Over 650 pages covering about 5 days, Janny Wurts delivers a story filled with almost non-stop action that's at times impossible to put down.  One of the odd and wonderful things about this novel is the contrast between the tight pacing and the lush language.  Again, that's 650 pages cover just a handful of days - the first day alone takes about 200 pages, because every emotion, every visual detail, every nuance of meaning is hammered down in the most meticulous, rich prose you could hope find in the genre.  As a result, one moment of realization can be dissected over several paragraphs, but amazingly, there's rarely an unnecessary word in those descriptions.  It all works together to drive the full experience of the characters home in unmistakable clarity.  To Ride Hell's Chasm never feels like a slow book - just a very intense one.The novel is filled with several fascinating characters, but the most memorable one has to Mykkael, the "desert-bred" foreigner, reviled by many, always placing honor first, and simply unstoppable.  One of the highest compliments I can give a fantasy character: he wouldn't look amiss in one of Guy Gavriel Kay's books.  From the moment he is first introduced, through the heart-pounding conclusion of the adventure, to the emotionally gripping wrap-up, this is an unforgettable character.It's hard for me to express accurately how much I enjoyed and admire To Ride Hell's Chasm.  Standalone fantasies are already a rare beast in this time of endlessly meandering series.  To read a story so meticulously crafted, contained in one cover, is a real pleasure.  This novel is easily going on my all-time favorite list of fantasy novels.
3 Janny has a way of sucking you into her stories.  I thought that the rescue of the Princess was too drawn out, and the ending was way too short.  I loved diving in and immersing myself into a different world.  I struggled giving this a 3 or a 4 rating, but gave it a 3 because of too many chapters to do the rescue and thought more could have been given to the ending and resolution with the different characters.What I like most about Janny's books is her character development. OK she lets her heros take a lot of abuse, but you get to know her characters, all of them.  I bought this on my Kindle and have bought a few of Janny's books in paperback here at Amazon.
3 I had high hopes for this novel.  Hopes that it would leave off the epic fantasy/quest trail and break new ground in the genre.  But, alas, it was not to be.The story starts well enough with the disappearance of a princess.  Two men, both guard commanders, are charged to find her: one a stalwart of an ancient noble line and the other a foreigner.  At first the two men seem well matched: they're both skilled swordsmen and extremely competent at their duties.  Both men are feared and admired by their subordinates.Then, the true reason for the princess' disappearance is revealed.  And it becomes a quest.  And one of the guard commanders turns out to be, in true to fantasy form, &quot;THE MOST DANGEROUS MAN ALIVE&quot;; a hero in realms throughout the world, a doer of great deeds, and yet somehow his name is not known in this sleepy backwater kingdom.  I couldn't understand that given how much praise is heaped on his courage, ability, and accomplishments later on.  This man should have had minstrels singing the praises of his adventures all over the world.  There were a few other issues that bothered me but that would be giving away too much of the plot.  Suffice to say, that the ending seems contrived and rushed.
4 Longtime and new fans alike will not be disappointed in Janny Wurts' newest novel of magic and intrigue. To Ride Hell's Chasm starts off innocently enough with the disappearance of Sessalie's independent and feisty princess on her wedding day. (Well I guess innocent is relevant, teehee)  It soon turns into a headlong race to save not just the Princess and her tiny kingdom but the entire world.King Isendon sets the task of recovering his missing daughter to two men: Commander Taskin, commander of the royal guard and Mykkael, former mercenary and captain of the Lowergate Garrison. As different as night and day, these two men must find a common ground or else they shall find the evil which they think they fight is by far less dangerous than the more ancient evil which hides in the shadows.I received an interesting challenge which was to try and guess the ending, and I must say although in some respects I had some guesses which were close I failed. I totally expected to be left hanging with a long wait for a sequel and I was pleasantly surprised to find the tale complete with the possibility of a return to the most interesting new world created within the mind of one of fantasy's most talented authors.A quick flowing tale with plenty of twists and turns.
4 I liked the book it moved the story along nicely not earth moving but good and I am looking forward to the next book in NOV
5 This is one of the more demanding volumes of the epic fantasy &#34;The Wars of Light and Shadow,&#34; although this reader finds &#34;Traitor's Knot&#34;  a read so rewarding that the book compels one to return to re-read it time after time.  Must admit, sheepishly, that one reason I had to read it more than once is because I was too squeamish to really take it all in the first time.If &#34;Traitor's Knot&#34; has a big stand-alone message of its own, it must be that of bondage.  Blood, spilled blood, becomes a binding element in the most grisly scenes, of which there are several.  The sex scene, unusually explicit for this author, uncovers another means of bondage.  And there is not one, rather there are two, bone knives, involved in the bloodletting; and the two knives are like flip sides of one coin, in which one knife must be decontaminated and buried, while the other knife has a redemptive purpose and is part of an ancient prophecy.  So what is the message about bondage?  There are worse, far worse, things than death and dying.Since the book takes place on Athera, ruled by the Law of Major Balance, before book's end the plot provides several opportunities for the release of those who have been enslaved against their own free will.  The book's ending is a fairly spectacular -- yes, climactic -- example.
5 Fans of the series should enjoy this latest installment as it leaves off at a reasonable end point and has a little something for everyone.First off, Arithon's transformation after surviving Kewar unfolds in this story.  He is no longer helpless or suffering from massive guilt like in previous books.  This is his turning point. Friends, foes, and readers alike will definitely learn to respect his growing abilities and ingenious strategies.Davien returns to further his own interests.  At one point you get a glimpse into his reasoning for past decisions and how he differs from the other Fellowship members, but any more detail on this character's real motivations are left maddeningly well hidden, a mystery to unravel in future books.Sulfin Evend grows into a beloved three dimensional character, full of courage, fears, and doubts.  He begins to understand the curse's effects as he stands in its way to stop Lysaer's dangerous curse-driven self-destructive actions.The reader also gets a window into Lysaer's soul showing that he's starting to realize he has problems.  Like all of Janny's 'bad guys', you can't help but sympathize and hope Lysaer can be salvaged.Arithon's various friends all undergo some development and get some good story time ranging from stuff to make you laugh, bite your teeth, or wail in anguish.  And Elaira... wow... better just read that part yourself!Selidie Prime has a couple good snares and one good reap what you sow that will leave you chuckling.Finally, a new enemy is introduced that threatens both Lysaer and Athera, and is chillingly entrenched.  The final resolution scene will leave you with sweaty palms.  Though it wraps up by the end of this book, you can't help but feel that this particular evil may be lurking in other dark places of the world.
3 ...I waited for paperback on this one. "Traitor's Knot" moves at a brisk pace compared to the previous volume where the trial at Kewar was as brutal to the reader as it was to Arithon. Still the reader must really wrok to rescue a great tale from some silly circumstances.I felt this was a fairly well crafted tale that was, at points, burdened with contrived scenes of conflict that served no other purpose than to inject conflict or illustrate the protagonists already well established quirks and flaws without really advancing the story. While conflict is the fuel of drama if it makes you put down the book and just say "what the..." then the author has failed. In this case I refer to two instances. The first is the chapter titled "Vixen" which IMHO was totally disposable. What was the point? For the sake of spoilers I won't get in to it. The second was "Confluence" which seemed to me to be shock for shock's sake, or just plain silly; I'm not sure which. Nonetheless, it felt wholly contrived. I read the section twice to make sure I did not miss-read it. It seems to me that Elira could have HANDled this situation herself. If you get my drift. Ahem.Ok, now that I got that out of the way let's move on. The plot surrounding necromancy and the corruption within the Alliance was great. One thing that really bugs me (and in a good way) is how Arithon gets to keep most of his autonomy while Lysaer is reduced to a spouting zealot, rendering him a far more tragic victim of the curse that Arithon ever was. It is unfortunate that we don't spend a lot of time with the Alliance.Finally, I will get the next volume, again in paperback. Not worth it in hardcover.
4 I love the overall storyline about the Paravians and the people who inhabit their land. The very appealing wild clansmen, high magic, Socerers, Koriani witches, the bungling Dakkar and a few others. Thankfully the obnoxious Fionn Areth was turfed about halfway through the book. The rounded out characterizations of Sorcerer Davien and Captain Sulfin Evend vastly enhanced their respective roles making each more interesting and sympathetic.  For this I give the story 4 stars.The saga continues with Lysaer and Arithon still locked in their endlessly boring struggle with the geas of the Mistwraith.  And once again, the story is paralyzed from the start with the puzzling use of many, many past tense words placed in front of nearly every verb. They totally arrest the action before it ever begins.  Additionally, the over the top, overblown verbosity, disjointed, baffling prose, endless descriptions of scenery, repetitive, tasteless details that have zero impact on the story line along with the hilarious mangled metaphors make it a veritable feast of a highly amusing read.Being a fan of less is more philosophy trying to slug through this book of dire crisis after dire crisis brought to orgasmic intensity where at the VERY last moment/instant/second the hero in the of-cosmic-importance struggle survives against all odds, I would think that better crisis management by the Sorcerers is required. Why waste their only resources?  Sulfin, Lysaer, Dakkar, Arithon, Elaira are brought to the edge of reason and collapse - all in the past tense - so there is never any story tension thus you never get to enjoy the ride so to speak.I personally enjoyed the power mad Iyat blowing up the great Koriani Amethyst and being trapped in it as a fossil forever despoiling the witches greatest tool. HA! Pay back is such a kick. I hope that Prime Selide gets hers too for being a body snatcher.And I am always eager to read more about the Socerers. However, I do wish Sethvir would recover. His death door saga is boring after 3 volumes of it. Sorcerers should be able to self renew with a thought shouldn't they? Hmmm?The sex scene between Arithon and Elaira was downright cruel,  demeaning and typical of the drowning negativity of this entire saga. I consider it an unrecoverable mistake.  Apart from that there is little else to remember of this story, because it is more of the same doom and gloom of Peril's Gate, etc.To me, it feels time to close this story with a real positive ending. Let Arithon and Elaira become new Fellowship Sorcerers, kick all the people off of the continent and let the Paravians Rule!
5 This is definitely Ms. Wurts' best novel to date.  The Wars of Light and Shadow series takes a major turn in this book, with a lot of character development.  The thing I like most about this series is how the characters all continue to evolve, not just the main few.  Even those we could consider the villains change over time, not necessarily to good guys, but to more complex personalities.  There is little worse than a generic villain, and Ms. Wurts makes sure that we don't get one.I definitely recommend that you read this book, but, if you do, you should start at the beginning of the series (Curse of the Mistwraith) because that way you can see the development of the characters.
5 This is the next installment of the Mistwraith series. As stated in my reviews of the other books in the series, I would strongly urge the potential buyer/reader to read the series in order, to make the most sense. Some people find her works rather..."wordy"...to say the least, so don't say I didn't warn you. Personally, rather than off-putting, I find her work refreshing and absorbing.In this book, we see Arithon, Prince of Rathain, return from Davien the Betrayer's refuge. Crippled no longer, Arithon has regained full access to his mastery of magic. As Athera's Masterbard, gifted with command of Shadow, and now also with access to his s'Helas ancestral trait of farsight, Arithon is a force to be reckoned with. Despite this, he remains committed to shed no blood with his use of magic. So, with cunning and guile, he sets out to sully the name of Lysaer's Alliance for Light, while handing Prime Sildie and her Koriani Order another setback. Ironically, he is asked by the Fellowship Sorcerers to root out an evil nest of necromancers who pose a threat to Lysaer, as they have the potential to infiltrate the Alliance for Light, and ultimately destroy the Compact which the Fellowship is sworn to uphold.We delve deeper into Arithon's soul in this novel, and explore the beauty and connection of the boundless love between Arithon and Elaira, a Koriani enchantress. Further, the book clearly spells out the sacrifice which Arithon is making, both for the Fellowship and for Athera.I highly recommend this brilliant and well-crafted book.
1 I used to be a great fan of this series. I am no longer. Either Ms. Wurts' writing style has changed over the years, or my standards have. At any rate, this has got to be one of the worst fantasy novels I've ever read.First, the plot: the first half has Arithon mucking around in Davien's library. One might expect this would be a relaxing interlude for him, but it isn't, because Davien likes to jump out at him unexpectedly from time to time and start whaling away, just to keep Our Hero from going soft. It's like something out of the Pink Panther movies, except that it's all deadly serious. Lysaer, for his part, is still spending all his time being self-righteous and irritating. Because of his stupidity when it comes to dealing with necromancers, his friend and right-hand-man Sulfin Evend frequently finds it necessary to knee the Blessed Prince in the groin.The second half of the book almost succeeds in presenting us with a plot: Arithon is trying to reconcile the clans and towns, believing that a moratorium on bloodshed will give Lysaer and the Alliance no excuse to keep marching armies around the countryside and attacking things. This effort gets short-circuited when the Fellowship, which still can't get its act together, has to send the Spinner of Darkness after the necromancers. If he doesn't stop them RIGHT NOW, they will take over the world. Arithon accordingly saves the world once again, which has the usual effect of making Lysaer desperate to kill him. There the book ends.So much for the plot. I could almost forgive the story its weaknesses, if only Wurts didn't mangle the English language so badly in the process of telling it. Tedious hyperbole characterizes almost every sentence, and the misuse of adjectives makes me want to chew my arm off. Some examples:"He learned to frame lines of intent by clear thought and to bind his innate autonomy through affirmations."What?"`If he ever hears of your slanging remark, you'll become dropped meat under his bludgeoning fist.'"Dropped meat?"Here walked a contained self-awareness to freeze heat, or stun silence from kindled aggression."Argh.Combine all this with stilted dialogue, excessive use of exclamation marks!!, and one of the yuckiest sex scenes ever (imagine a handful of clan members crashing through the brush to find you, while a drunken sorcerer spies on the intimate details of the encounter using his magical powers), and you've got one bad, bad novel. The only novel, in fact, I've ever felt compelled to return to Amazon. It's awful. Save your money.
4 Much to my chagrin, I discovered this latest installment of the War of Light and Shadow whilst passing (depressingly) through Heathrow airport (where my discovery of this book was the one and only high point). I was dismayed. How was it possible that this book was on display - in paperback, mind you - when I'd been scanning New York bookshops for months in the desperate hope that Wurts' latest piece of art might be on display? I'm much enlightened by another reviewer's comments that some artwork discrepancy is holding off publication in the US; hence the discrepancy. I was worried that perhaps the popularity of Ms. Wurts' books are declining. Or maybe they are?Many of my feelings about Traitor's Knot mirror that of other reviewers. The writing itself was the biggest obstacle. The language throughout the book is so complex and the sentence structure so archaic that it takes away from depth of the plot and intrigue of the story. I often had to re-read passages not just twice but three or four times to figure out what exactly had just happened. I will admit that perhaps the fault lies partly with me for not concentrating hard enough on the reading, but it appears I wasn't alone in this battle.Yet, this installment of the series had some very strong plus points. It's not merely a reworking of the same plot that leads to warfare and mass murder, with Arithon feeling profoundly saddened and guilty and Lysaer feeling only rage through misguided judgment. Rather, this version has a true forward momentum in character development and plot. The characters grow, and twist. Arithon re-awakens to his gift and learns to manipulate his skills more finely and control the curse that affect him and his half-brother. Lysaer awakens to the reality of necromancers, but remains unable to shake the Mistwraith Curse. Arithon merrily evades Koriani traps by learning to control iyats that he later uses for his own amusement.And perhaps most widely anticipated: Arithon and Elaira are finally encounter each other in an-almost-sex-scene. The latter, in all honesty, is quite painful and embarrassing but also, in my mind, the most brilliantly written part of the book.Not only that, but we learn a bit more about the worlds of sorcerers, Davien the Betrayer and the deeper mysteries of Athera. Still, many loose ends remain: the roles of the clans, Fionn Areth, Elaira, the twins and Sulfin Evend are left open for future volumes.Wurts teeters on the dangerous edge of losing her audience amongst the sheer number of plots and characters, and overly verbose writing. I felt like I was blundering through the book with a blindfold on, that occasionally slipped off and lent me a peek of current events. Instead of wrapping her audience in shadow, Ms. Wurts might better lead us with an elegantly crisp melody. For it would be a shame to lose a dedicated audience when, after all, Wurts has a talent for both plot and character development strengthened with a strong sense of comedic timing. And, judging from her other books, a palpable gift for writing.
5 I've read several reviews complaining of Janny's prose being overdone and convoluted.  I see where this is coming from, and I have on occasion 'rested' from reading this heavy series by reading something light.  And yet, when I do, I truly miss this world and hurry back to it as fast as possible.  When you are in the midst of it, the words almost create an aura of magic such that I could die happy wrapped in its beauty. :)In this book, Arithon heals from one trauma only to plunge himself into the middle of another. His doofus brother, Lysaer, has gotten himself wrapped up with some necromancers and Arithon has to try to save the world (and his brother, btw) from their dark and nefarious crutches. Elaira is shut off from their empathic connection during this process and she (and I) nearly die of fear for his life. More of the heart stopping action, the beautiful soaring prose, and the gradual revelation of the mystery that weaves the world of Athera into such a magical and beautiful place. The only drawback is that one more book read brings me one book closer to the ending of this bewitching, compelling, and marvelous tale.
5 With every new book in the WARS OF LIGHT AND SHADOW series by Janny Wurts, it gets harder and harder to write a review without either including massive spoilers for previous volumes or simply repeating the praise already heaped on it in earlier reviews. There are only so many variations on "gorgeous prose," "intricate world-building," "deep characterization," "the books are consistently excellent" and so on. It's especially hard to avoid spoilers for Traitor's Knot, given that it's the fourth book in a five book "arc", and that arc itself is the third of five such arcs within the series.Previous volumes in the WARS OF LIGHT AND SHADOW series often included a subtle way to review past events woven into the actual story, often seen from a new perspective or with an added new twist. Traitor's Knot is different in that it instead starts off with a separate "Story Time Line -- What Has Gone Before" section, summarizing the main events in the series from the start of The Curse of the Mistwraith right up to the end of Peril's Gate. While this is a departure from previous volumes, it's also perfectly understandable because, by now, Janny Wurts has ratcheted up the tension so high that pausing the story to look back at the past would break the inexorable momentum she has been building up throughout this arc. If it's been a while since you read the previous books, definitely check out the time line; if not, dive right into the story, which picks up right where Peril's Gate left off.As a middle book in a series, Traitor's Knot is almost flawless: it advances the story significantly, reveals meaningful new details and hidden layers, contains a few unforgettable scenes, and has an ending that will have you screaming for the next book. Regarding those unforgettable scenes: I don't want to go into too much detail to avoid spoilers, but two specific sub-chapters towards the end of this novel are so harrowing that it's almost impossible to appreciate them fully on the first reading. If you're a reader who's been following these characters closely, you're in for a wild ride that will push you past the boundaries of comfort.After all, despite being the story of a world (not to say, several worlds) and its past and future, on another level this series is also a most private tale of familial strife, love and friendship. The players between them may hold the keys to the future of this world, but they're still very human, and Janny Wurts never lets you forget this. Both dimensions are balanced throughout the series, but maybe never more so than in the breathless finale of Traitor's Knot.Having now read seven books in the WARS OF LIGHT AND SHADOW, I consider it one of my favorite fantasy series ever, and Traitor's Knot is yet another brilliant part of it. If you're not reading these books yet, you're missing out on one of the most well-rounded fantasy epics ever.
1 If by "loved" you mean "loathed" and if by "this book" you mean "this piece of garbage."  I would say the characterization comes off as flat, but that would be an insult to flat characterization.  This book has NO characterization.  None.  Nada.  Zilch.  Zero.  You don't give one rip about the characters or their lives.  Ditto for the tepid plot.  Ditto for the awkward, wooden dialogue.  Ugh, it makes me hurt just thinking about it.  I've read bad books before that nonetheless drew me in, affording the opportunity to at least suspend my disbelief even if the story still stunk in the end.  The Sky Is Falling is not one of those novels.  Buy this if you're a writer and need a primer on how NOT to craft your fiction.  Otherwise, steer clear.
3 Dana Evans is a television anchorwoman who is investigating the killing of Gary Winthrop, the last surviving member of the Winthrop clan. This family was considered America's royal family. Unfortunately, all five members died in tragic accidents within the last year. Dana thinks that all of this is too coincidental and she uses her resources to learn the truth.Mr. Sheldon does a good job creating several character dynamics with Dana by including Kemal. Kemal is an eleven-year-old she rescued from Sarajevo who lost his arm during the war. Kemal is afraid that Dana is going to reject him and send him back; Dana is afraid that she is doing a bad job as a mother to Kemal and is afraid that Children Services is going to whisk him away. This is the only good subplot in the novel; everything else in the story was superfluous. Nobody is willing to talk bad about the Winthrops and those who do wind up dead... The motives came out of left field making something complicated out of something simple. It made me feel that the more complicated the story line, the more plausible it can be. This book is a quick read. I have read two other novels by this author and none of them have really satisfied me. The book is only good if you need time to kill.
5 With rare exception -- most notably 1998's Tell Me Your Dreams -- best-selling author Sidney Sheldon doesn't ask more of us as readers than to sit back and enjoy the tale he tells.  The Sky Is Falling, his newest suspense thriller, is particularly enjoyable from the first page to the last.  The novel's heroine is Dana Evans, whom we first met in Sheldon's 1997 book, The Best Laid Plans.  She, you might recall, was one of the more appealing and sympathetic characters in The Best Laid Plans, and she was crying out for a story of her own.  The story she gets is one of Sheldon's best.  In the opening pages, Dana has been back from Sarajevo for only three months and is still, understandably, traumatized by her experiences there.  Nevertheless, she is already back at work as a journalist for Washington Tribune Enterprises, where she is a reluctant celebrity not only to those who watch her compelling news broadcasts, but to her co-workers as well.  One of her first interviewees is a man by the name of Gary Winthrop.  Winthrop is, as Sheldon describes him, &quot;...America's Prince Charming.  A member of one of the country's most prominent families, he was young, handsome, charismatic.&quot;  While it is obvious what real life family was the source of inspiration for Sheldon in his creation of the Winthrops, the similarities really do end there.  The Winthrops are most definitely a fictional clan -- no more, no less.  At any rate, Gary Winthrop is murdered just hours after Dana Evans interviews him.  Dana soon learns not only that Gary was the last of the Winthrops, but that the other four members of his family all died violently within the last year.  She wakes in the middle of the night thinking:  &quot;Five members of the same family killed in less than a year?  What are the odds?&quot;  So begins her quest to find out who might have wanted to wipe out the entire Winthrop family and why.  Her unofficial investigation takes her (and the reader) on a race across the United States, through much of Western Europe, and finally to the city of Moscow in the depths of a winter the likes of which Dana has never experienced.  Along the way, Sheldon expertly keeps us guessing about what is going to happen next in a narrative as gleefully suspenseful as any I've read in some time.  Does Dana find anything sinister behind the deaths of the Winthrop family?  You'll have to read the book to find out, and it will be well worth your time doing so.  I thought the end of the novel was a little too contrived, but no less exciting because of that, and I felt that, at times, Sheldon's dialogue strained credibility -- who in the world calls their significant other &quot;darling&quot; these days? -- but these are minor quibbles in comparison to the excellence of the whole.  If you're already a fan of Sheldon's, you'll definitely enjoy The Sky Is Falling.  If you've never read one of his books before, it's not at all a bad place to start.  Then get yourself copies of his previous novels including:  Bloodline, Rage of Angels, Master of the Game, If Tomorrow Comes and The Best Laid Plans for further enjoyable reading.
3 I typically love Sidney Sheldon -- for his consistently fast, compelling reads, but this one was not quite up to par. I admit, I had trouble putting it down to the very end, but it was more because I was hoping my hunches were wrong and that a twist would be thrown in somewhere. But, it was predictable, and the less then interesting characters (aside from Dana and Jeff who were interesting), were exactly what they seemed to be. If it were possible, I might have given this book 3.5 stars because it kept me hooked. An interesting factor was the underground city Dana uncovered in Russia -- especially because as far fetched as it seemed, it is somewhat reality. Dana Evans is a great character, and I would like to see Shelodn pick up with her again in his old style. He certainly left the ending open to do so. This is the story of a reporter who stops at nothing to get to the bottom of her hunch that a family of five high powered people who were all killed, were actually murdered. There are a lot of twists Dana must go through to get to the conclusion, but not a lot of turns, because the reader can see what is going to happen. However, it is Sheldon style in that you will not want to put it down until the end --
1 I know Mr. Sheldon has written a gazillion books, and I am certain that I once read one by him that I really liked, but I cannot remember which one, and it is MOST DEFINITELY not this one. This book is boring, slow-paced, and dull. Dana Evans, for one, starts out as a least likely mom type, which is how she is dropped into the plot, and true to form, turns out to be an awful Mom. Right away I didn't like her because of this and couldn't feel for her. She runs around the globe leaving her &quot;son&quot; with a lady she just met, but she does call once in awhile. Dana Evans' next sin is to tolerate the unheard of relationship between her fiance, Jeff, and his ex-wife, who just happens to be a perfect ten in every way. Dana questions in her mind, to her credit, but she sure is a whole lot more patient than any American woman I know. As Dana chases a murder story that winds up getting top government officials to tell her things that they have never told anyone (and this while she is a Star Reporter!), her son is first a troublemaker and then neglected at home. Nonetheless, our heroine plunges forth, reveals all, and there is a nice, homey, happy ending that - well, that left me nauseated. Don't waste your time on this one, I imagine Sidney Sheldon fans are pretty disappointed, because I would hate to think this is a sample of his work.
2 I'll admit, this is the first Sheldon book I have ever read. That could be considered a mistake in itself, I suppose. My mother is obsessed with dear old Sidney, so I finally caved and decided to see what all the hype is about. But as I started reading, I was terribly let down.The story is fast paced and the mysteries quickly draw you in, but that is all this book really has going for it. We don't really get to meet Dana, or Jeff, or anyone really. Details are sparse, if there are any given in the first place. Dana jet-sets around the world, but we never actually get to enjoy it, and in the end seems pretty useless. The questions she asks these people she goes to 'interview' could have easily just been asked over the phone. She misses a lot of works and spends an awful lot of time and money just to get a few simple questions answered. The whole Jeff and Rachel side story seemed pretty useless. And don't even get me started about Kemal... Sure he had a tough background, but he was such a brat that I wanted to reach through the book and slap him!Anyways, the ending to the book is alright, if not predictable. If you read any sort of thriller, you pretty much know how it's going to go. Nothing new or exciting here. The only thing really interesting about this book was finding out Krasnoyarsk-26 is an actual place. Spent hours on Google looking that one up!The Sky is Falling is a quick read, but nothing spectacular. I'll probably have to go back into Sheldon's earlier catalog to really understand what all the hoopla is about, because going by this book, I just didn't see 'It'.
3 This was definitely not up to Sheldon's usual standards.  The book had too many coincidences (like how Dana kept getting interviews with all the people she needed at just the right time and how she spent zero time in the office and all her time out chasing down a theory on company time and expense).  Characters were introduced, described and then never seen nor heard from again.  And the intensity of this book just never reached a point where I felt really interested in what was going to happen in the end.  I didn't become attached to the characters and didn't feel like I knew enough about them to care.  An easy read, but not one that kept me up all night.
1 &quot;Rage of Angels&quot; was one of my favorite books and when I seen this one also written my Sidney Sheldon I decided to read it.  I found it a very quick book to read, but I was extremely dissapointed with it.  The storyline was flat, I didn't care about any of the character (with the exception of Kemal) and most of the plot twist were predictable.The main character Dana Evans travels to all ends of the earth to investigate the &quot;accidental deaths of all 5 members of the Winthrop family.  Meanwhile she leaves her troubled son for long periods of time with anyone she can hire and she never even questions why he is sleeping all the time.  Nor does she ever question why so many people that she has just met are extremely helpful to her.  Plus I don't know any woman who would just let her boyfriend take care of his ailing supermodel ex-wife, when the ex-wife probaly had enough money to hire a whole nursing staff.The better story would have been the relationship between Dana and Kemal.  Kemal is an 11 year old orphan who lost his arm during the war and Dana decides to adopt him.  He is always afraid that she will send him back and I can not blame him for thinking that because she never spends any time with him.If you want to read a 5 star book from Sidney Sheldon pick up &quot;Rage of Angels&quot; and skip this one.
3 SIDNEY SHELDON has won over a legion of fans with the ingenious twists and turns in the plot and the trademark exotic locations. His earlier works, If Tomorrow Comes and Rage of Angels showcases the prime of his career as a master of story-telling, and in his latest offering, THE SKY IS FALLING, one cannot help but feel that the riveting suspense is diluted and his narrative unfocused.No doubt that Sheldon manages to churn out a tale of chilling suspense and plutonic warheads with the charismatic Dana Evans as the tenacious reporter peeling the shrouding mystery of the demise of Winthrop family, but one cannot help to feel the suspense is defused by the presence of too many unnecessary characters and the jetsetting to many places confuses the readers without giving much exotic details and distinct traits. The twist and turns are much too predictible and snowballed into a monotonous read in the middle section of the book. The finale - too overblown and incredible - and it would be better if Sheldon has sustained a more persistent dig at the hounding media.The romance and relationship between Jeff and Dana, the emotional quandary between Kemal and Dana was much to be left explored - but Sheldon stopped short. There is certainly substance, but it fails to sustain and captivate like his earlier works. Give me any other book by Sheldon, and you will see why THE SKY IS FALLING is failing readers.
4 My fellow reviewers are brutal in their attacks on this, the 17th novel, that best-selling author Sidney Sheldon has offered to a more than accepting (judging by his book sales) public.  Let's face it Sheldon isn't pretending to be Tolstoy here; the only reason that one of his earlier books, say "The Other Side of Midnight" or "The Master of the Game", seems more acceptable than "The Sky is Falling" is because it was written during the Harold Robbins/Jaqueline Suzanne blitz where such fictional characters clearly reflecting their wealthy Hollywood/Washington/Eurotrash/Captains-of-Industry prototypes in all their tinsely glory were considered fresh and honest representations of the ruthless moguls that ran the world and ate in the finest and trendiest restaurants. Such honesty had not been depicted in such a blatant fashion before . . . and readers loved it.  Hunkering down with such a book on the subway, on the beach or in bed on a rainy day was akin to eating forbidden fruit.  Mention of the sex scenes alone most likely turned the hair of the members of the Legion of Catholic Decency gray and for those of us who grew up during this time period, so much the better.  This sinless bird's eye look into a world I was never going to see first-hand, began a whole new genre that has been cloned the world over.  Sheldon hasn't become a tired writer, we, the readers, constantly barraged by this type of escapism, have become almost immune.  But not quite . . .I found the further adventures of Dana Evans, television journalist extraordinaire introduced in Sheldon's earlier novel, "The Best Laid Plans", entertaining, there is too much action in too many different world cities to be that predictable.  But I wasn't expecting Tolstoy, I was expecting Sheldon.  I purchased the book on tape to listen to while I exercised and I got what I paid for---a great campfire story that was easy to listen to and with enough excitement to extend my exercise time to yet another mile.  Yes, some of novel's conclusions are reached by the reader before they are reached by the protagonist and some of the international scenes are unnecessary and are clearly set up to give the reader a second-hand look at the globe.  But again, this is why a Sheldon novel is purchased:  its quick, its fun and it doesn't take place on your grandmother's farm. The characters are drapped in Harry Winston and D&G;, not last year's dungarees.Bottom line:  If you want a breeze of a read from a reknowned storyteller or need a great book on tape to get your mind off the pain of your long-distance run, this tale of investigative reporting intermingled with the realities of adopting a disabled child from war-torn Bosnia while dealing with a boyfriend's dedication to his ex-wife, just might fill the bill.  Just don't expect Booker prize literature.
3 The world's dimmest newswoman sets out to prove that the deaths of a prominent political family are the result of conspiracy. With typical restraint the rest of the media, not to mention law enforcement, have chosen to ignore the red flags waving all over this potential scoop, so she's pretty much on her own.Along the way she meets several highly suspicious people in whom she instantly places all her considerable trust. (It's hard to imagine this innocent navigating the local mall, much less a war zone in Sarajevo.) In her favor she has really nice bosses at the network who don't mind if she blows off her duties as a news anchor to stumble around the world interviewing highly placed officials, all of whom seem eager to answer her nave queries. (The exotic locales are established by a few lines of travel-guide dialogue in genuine foreign languages.)Her boyfriend (we know they're in love cause they call each other &quot;darling&quot;) is supposed to be covering sports on the same TV show, but he's too busy helping his Supermodel ex-wife race through history's fastest cancer treatment. There must be a lot of dead air on that newscast.Our heroine has also &quot;rescued&quot; a one-armed war orphan upon whom she bestows much benign neglect. (Can't help thinking this kid would have been better off on his own. And has anybody asked where he was the night the fugitive's wife got killed?) Anyhow, it turns out intelligent people worldwide have all been fooled into thinking that the personification of Satan was a saint, and it's up to our heroine to set them straight and save the world.Sheldon keeps the plot twists coming and the pages turning into a compulsive one-night read, even if I was giggling all the way.
5 I have read everything Sidney Sheldon has written. I found this story to  be interesting and provocative. A subject that is a bit different for  Sheldon. Meeting old friends again ; Dana, Kemal and Jeff was fun. I could  certainly see a spin-off of this plot, but in Sheldons style that would be  far to predictable. The sky is falling wasn't my all time favorite, but a  good can't put it down read. Thanks again Sidney Sheldon
5 This is a quick and easy read. I gobbled it up happily in one sitting, because it was very quick to grab my attention, and once it was grabbed, it held me till the very end.  I don't need to and I won't tell the plot line of this story...read the blurb above.  Once again, Sheldon like the true magician he is, pulls the rabbit out of the hat in a way only he can, when you least expect it. Just when you think there couldn't be any more surprises, the story veers off into a new and unexpected direction. That's what makes Sidney Sheldon, Sidney Sheldon! Cute details that most readers will probably not have been aware.1) The principal in Kemal's school, Vera Kostoff, is obviously a homage to Sheldon's wife Alexandra, (n&eacute;e Kostoff) 2) The character of Anastasia Mann is Alexandra's sister in real life. 3) Rowana Trott I believe is his niece. (I must check on that) 4) Armand Deutsch worked alongside Sheldon when he was working for MGM.I believe that's all there is. I think it's a cute way to pay tribute to people who influenced his life.This wasn't a classic like Master of the Game (and a novel of that caliber I believe will be VERY hard to reach) but, nevertheless it was compulsively readable, and just to contradict the nay-sayers: &quot;Predictable? This is anything BUT predictable!&quot;I now eagerly await for more! Will we see Dana, Jeff and Kemal again? Give us more, sir! Keep up the good work!!!
5 I finished this book in 3 hours. Once you start it you would want to finish it in one sitting.  It is a thrilling,  gripping novel  delivered to us by sydney sheldon after a long gap.Dana Evans is a Tv newsreader.  In her profession she trips over the winthrop family's sudden deaths within a year.  She suspects a conspiracy theory in the total washout of a much loved family.  She decideds to do a story for Television and goes in search of the reasons for the winthrops deaths.What follows is a series of obstacles she faces like the adopted son Kemal's problems at school and the need for a sitter to look after the boy while she is away with the winthrops case.  How she unfolds the whole conspiracy and the involvement of the some of her trusted people in the &quot;bad boys gang&quot;...  is a great suspense.The note at the end of book,  makes me wonder is this a fiction or was this real?  Only sydney sheldon knows....Dana Evans reminded me of chritina Amanpour of CNN
2 This book has too many twists and turns. The book goes on and on, from country to country. Dana travels throughout the world, but the book never tells how she paid for it. Leaves her son and fiance to run after a killer that had absolutely nothing to do with her. I'm glad it's over!!
3 I loved Master of the Game, Memories of Midnight and the Otherside of Midnight.  This book was not the same quality.  Sheldon is a terrific story teller.  I have not read one of his books that I did not like.  I was surprised to learn the city in Russia that Sheldon refers to is actually a real city. I felt that part of the book was a little &quot;corny&quot;, but apparently the city is a real place, even today.
3 Sheldon is improbable, silly and sometimes frustrating.  One of the lines that made me laugh out loud was "she warmed herself in the summer of his arms."  This does not mean that I don't enjoy reading the books, however.When I'm in an airport, or stuck in a hotel room, these are perfect.  The Sky is Falling requires no deeper thought than "hm" as the pages effortlessly turn.  The members of an entire family are killed, and it is too much of a coincidence for the protagonist, a television reporter, to accept.  She sets out to see if she can determine what really happened, and many cliffhangers ensue.Don't expect Proust, but it's a fun read, and great when you need something that demands nothing of you but your eyes.
5 TV journalist Dana Evans looks forward to returning to the DC beat after a harrowing time spent reporting on the atrocities in Sarajevo. Accompanying her back to the States is her newly adopted adolescent son Kemal whose family died during the war in Serbia. Dana knows Kemal psychologically suffers from the horrors of his recent life and feels she must spend quality time with him.Upon her return, Dana interviews charismatic senatorial candidate Gary Winthrop, but the next day he is found murdered. Dana quickly realizes that he is the fifth member of the wealthy Winthrop scion to die in the last year. Unable to resist such a powerful story of either a vendetta or a conspiracy, Kate begins to investigate. The story takes her around the world leaving her no time for Kemal. As she learns the source of the Winthrop millions, the killers targets Kate and Kemal as future victims.Best-selling author Sidney Sheldon has another numero uno novel with the exciting THE SKY IS FALLING. The story line never slows down for the audience to catch its breath as Mr. Sheldon sends his heroine careening down one dangerous event after another as Kate travels throughout Europe. The audience will need to believe that in this era of the Internet and cable TV, Kate is the only individual who sees a link between the Winthrop murders. That aside, the plot retains all the tension and excitement that has made Mr. Sheldon a master of entertainment as proven by his being the only person to win an Oscar, a Tony, an Edgar, and a zillion writing awards.Harriet Klausner
5 This book is fast paced, moving quicker than you can blink the eye. Set in Washington, this book is perfect for those suspense readers out there.Lovely American journalist Dana Evans has just returned home from covering the war in Bosnia with her adopted twelve year old son Kemal. She has not settled in good before she understands that her good friend Gary Winthrop has been shot point blank when surprising burgulars intent on stealing his preciousartwork.What seems suspicious in this case is that the burgulars did nottake the most expensive paintings, neither did they touch any of the jewellery or money in the house.Dana decides that she must investigate what has happened to the Winthrops who were considered the equivalent of American royalty.For isn't it strange that within one year five members of that family should loose their lives in a series of incidents? It started with Gary's parents whose deaths were caused when their house was burned to the ground as a result of an electrical fault. A couple months after their daughter Julia is taken to her death in a ski-ing accident followed closely by her brother Paul who was killed in a motor accident in France. What a coincidence and now her friend Gary!! No way was Dana Andrews taking this as coincidental and she decides to put her two big feet in. She sets off to Europe to do some investigations, leaving her adopted son in the charge of a baby sitter and her fiance Jeff, a sports caster to look after his ex wife who has become a victim of cancer. Dana plunges headlong into her investigation. In this cat and mouse game she confronts betrayal and horriffic shocks as she tries to outdo the group of men and women who are trying to stop her from learning anything about the Winthrop vendetta. This is Sidney Sheldon at his best. Highly recommended!!! Do not miss it.Heather MarshallSeptember 24th, 2001
2 This book is OKAY.  I'm closer to  2.8 stars but not quite 3. The plot is simple and its easy to follow. It lacks the suspense of Sheldon's earlier books though.  All in all its not bad if you are looking for a quick uncomplicated read.
5 I bought this book on Amazon and I enjoyed as much as any other Sidney Sheldon Book.!!  I'm so very sad that he is no longer with us.!!
1 To the people who gave this book one star, you were overly generous. I've always been intrigued by Sheldon's books but this one was obviously written by an impostor.The dialog was trite and ridiculous. We have a supposedly great anchorwoman who is known for her reporting skills flying all over the globe to share about 2 lines of conversation before going to the next city. She has no idea what she's looking for, does no investigative reporting and shows surprising naivete for someone so worldly. I found the whole book to be a big disappointment. Sorry Sid, your cookie cutter approach ain't cuttin' it no more.
5 If you are looking for a classic Sidney Sheldon book, then this book is for you...it has so many twists and turns...he makes you anticipate the next plot twist
1 Nothing like making money off the Sheldon name.  I would have been ashamed to write this book.  All those 'darlings' made you want to throw up!  The plot is trite and predictable, you could punch holes in it with your fist!  Terrible book.
1 I finished this book and pretty much immediately forgot what it was about. Carboard characters and a lack of energy make this Sheldon novel one to pass on. Usually I read Sheldon on an airplane-- guaranteed to finish it before I land. And usually his stories are fun diversions. But his latest lacks his better touches-- a fast, twisty-curvy plot.
5 A friend of mine told me to read it. I did, only took five days to finish it. One of the best mind spinning suspense I've read in a long time. The ending leaves you smiling. I would recommend this to anyone who likes a fast book.
3 This is my first Sheldon book and I have to start off with the fact that I loved this fast paced murder mystery.  Again not something I would normally read, but this is the great thing about getting dollar books from the library.Who wouldn&#8217;t love a story loosely based on the Soros family or similar ultra rich family that all end up mysteriously dying in a short amount of time.Interestingly the main investigator was not police or government agency, but a news reporter.  I felt like I could easily relate to the characters and the story kept me engaged and guess what might come next.Sheldon&#8217;s story took you on a ride across the globe while the reported follows the trail of evidence with what seems like an endless supply of cash, time and resources.  As she follows the trail it becomes dangerous for herself and her loved ones and the climax will surprise you.You may say that the book is over the top and I will agree, but I&#8217;m not always looking for reality when reading fiction.  I enjoyed the over the top format and somewhat predictable format because it kept the story moving along.  I would never call this literature, but still this helped enjoyably pass the day.
3 In a shocking series of tragic events, all five members of the Winthrop family are killed within a year; however, Dana Evans, a Washington television network news anchor, doesn&#65533;t believe that the deaths are coincidental. She starts an investigation that causes her to traipse around the globe following the business dealings of the rich and powerful Winthrops.The subplot of the novel is Dana&#65533;s difficulty in raising the traumatized one-armed boy she adopted from Bosnia during her coverage of that brutal war, and her faltering romantic relationship with co-worker Jeff. The intent of the subplot is to humanize and flesh out the main characters, but the dialogue and narrative do little to bring these characters to life. The dialogue is sparse and wooden, and it&#65533;s difficult to get a feeling for the personalities of the characters or to empathize with them.Long before the plot to kill the Winthrops is revealed, the reader figures out who is behind the whole ugly conspiracy, so there&#65533;s not much to look forward to in the waning pages of the novel other than getting it over with.However, the conspiracy is awesome (if not particularly realistic) in its complexity, and the manner in which Dna eventually unravels all of the clues is interesting and entertaining. &#65533;The Sky is Falling&#65533; is not one of Sheldon&#65533;s best novel, but fairly entertaining and interesting.
5 This is a great book as expected because the author always write interesting books.  My husband and I both enjoyed it very much.
3 I just finished reading The Sky is Falling by one of my fav authors and I must say that I was disappointed.  This book was good, but it was not one of Sheldon's better novels.  The heroine's actions were predictable and the character development lacked Sheldon's usual depth.  I have read every book that Sheldon wrote and really expected another suspense thriller from this master storyteller.  But alas, it was not.  Everything about this story line was predictable and the reader was just not held in suspense as they usually when caught up in one of Sheldon's novels.Not one of Sheldon's better books, but I still look forward to his next book!
2 The Sky is Falling, the latest of Sidney Sheldon's books, is one of his worst.  Sheldon found his formula for writing a best seller some books ago and...he's consistent. Sex, drama, wealth, power...and the shallowist of characters and most fantastic of motives.  Then add some travel, an exotic place or two, and a heroine with enough money and a dearth of brainpower. Bingo! Another best seller.Don't fall for it. It's not a very good book.
1 If you picked up "The Sky is Falling" because it was written by the famous Sidney Sheldon, you will be grossly disappointed in what you find between its covers.  Like other reviews here it is: flat, tepid, and extremely predictable.  It would not be so horrible if it were written by a first-time author but this is S. Sheldon, for Pete's sake, not a newcomer.  The sad part about this read is that now I don't want to read another Sheldon book.  I do realize that this is not fair to his ability.  However, he set this piece of fluff in motion and William Morrow HarperCollins printed it.  Where are the good editors when you need them?  If an unknown author wrote this book, it would never have found a publisher.
4 This fast-paced book centers on heroine, Dana Evans who is a news anchor for a TV station in Washington D.C.  She interviews the last remaining member of a prominent, philanthropic, political family.  Thoroughly charmed by him, she is horrified when he dies shortly after the interview.  She decides that it is highly unlikely that his death or the deaths of his family members were accidental, although they were designed to look that way.  She begins investigating and flies all over the world, becoming embroiled in international intrigue and being betrayed by people she considers her closest friends and allies. She is in the process of adopting a 12-year-old son and one wonders about a woman who would abandon him to a new nanny as often as she does in the book.  Also, it seems unlikely that she would so generously encourage her handsome fiance to tend to his ex-wife during her bout with breast cancer.  Despite some obvious flaws, this is an entertaining book with attractive characters and exotic settings.
5 Sidney Sheldon has done it again.  He has written another great novel.  It was hard to put down.  It was spellbinding and mesmerizing.  The characters are real and the dialogue is well written.  I was not disappointed when I finished it, except that it was over.  I highly recommend this to everyone!!!
5 He writes such great books. I have read just about all of his books. Each is better tan the last!
2 I hope someone will set me straight. This is my first and may be my last sidney sheldon. I have heard many wonderful things about  sheldon, but after reading &quot;sky is falling&quot; I will utter looking back. Who's who..is the downfall in this story.A paper and pen is needed to keep track of the very dull, bleed you dry characters I kept asking myself where's the glamour, where's the sex, the twists the turns?..As I reached quarter left of this book I realized I was outta luck. the story moves very fast. That Dale sure gets around!! Must be nice to have a job that lets you take that much time off!!
4 See storyline above.As far as the story goes, it is a real page turner. I must admit this is my first Sheldon novel. I'm a little disappointed in the brevity of his writing style. It reads somewhat like cliff notes. It is, no doubt, fast paced, but written in the summary style that it is, it would be hard to be slow paced. If you just want a fun read, and really quick, this is the book for you.Recommended...For younger readers and older readers who like thrills.
2 A well known anchorwoman turns into an international sleuth. It goes from the sublime to the ridiculous in it's super hero main character. It also goes past the improbable. Wasted space in her fiance's relationship with his ex-wife. It's so unbelievable it's almost laughable. The good thing is it's a very quick book to read....and forget
4 Book was binding from start to finish. Could NOT put it down!!! Ended a bit fast and blunt, but the story and story line makes up for the quick ending. Would recommend it to any other Sidney Sheldon fans
3 Usually Sidney Sheldon books are real page turners.  This book was not nearly as interesting as his previous books.  I didn't like Jeff because his ex was more important to him than his fiance.  The main character was unbelievable.  The romance didn't work.  It certainly wasn't boring, but not very exciting either.
3 If some of you haven't noticed, this book's characters comes from his other book &quot;The Best Laid Plans.&quot;  You don't need to read that book to know who the characters are, but it helps because it will give you more background information.  Anyhow, I thought the plot was interesting, and no doubt a page-turner (especially since I finished it the same day I bought it) however I'm sorry to say that this book was not all that great compared to his other books.  In my opinion, it seems like he's losing his touch.  I can't exactly figure out what it is, but the book seems to be missing something.. and I guess I didn't get the &quot;fullfilment&quot; at the end that I usually get when reading his books.  Anyhow, Sidney Sheldon is one of my favorite authors, so if this is the first book you've read from him, check out his other books, they're awesome! =)
1 ---so said People Magazine. Well, at least they got the steaming bowlful part right, but I'm not sure you'd want to dip your spoon into this toilet of a book. Typical Sheldon in his later years, THE SKY IS FALLING is a seemingly endless, series of paragraph-length scenes with zero character development, almost no scene building, and a plot so absurdly childish that towards the middle of the book, this reader had to stop and wonder if Sheldon was being deliberately obtuse. The heroine literally hops around the world gaining just the right info at each stop to lead her to the next clue, with minimal effort it must be said, and STILL never actually figures out what's at the bottom of her murder mystery until the whole thing is handed to her (hook, line and sinker) by a very minor character. Then for the grand finale, all of the supporting cast---who had hereto ignored her efforts---suddenly and inexplicably discover that she is right at the last possible moment, and come to her rescue.Perhaps in his old age, Sheldon decided to have a bit of mean-spirited fun at the publisher's expense, knowing they would print anything with his name on it, and that fools like us would fork over bucketfuls of money to read it. That's the only explanation I can come up with for how the author of WINDMILL OF THE GODS could be the same person who wrote this gawd-awful pap!
1 I rented the CD book from the library. I do not write long reviews but instead like to point out the major flaws or good points.The storyline is OK. However the sheer banality of the diaglogue is almost staggering. The average emotional and mental IQ of the characters is extremely low. These people are not interesting!!!!!!!!
3 Sidney Sheldon is one of my favorite authors. A piece of the Sky must have hit him on the head for him to publish this sub-par novel.
4 We first meet Dana Evans, the feisty TV Anchorwoman in Sidney Sheldon's "The Best Laid Plan".  In that book, Dana is on the trail of the President of the United States who might be guilty of murder.  In "The Sky is Falling", Dana is racing the globe to find out who wiped out the entire Winthrop family.  The digger she deeps, the more she is determined to prove that the fairy tale Winthrops were the target of a conspiracy.As with any Sidney Sheldon book, you get a lovely young women who is ready to take on the world.  Most of his story lines are so unbelievable that you want to say "yeah right,,," but that is the reason I buy his books.  They are fast reads and no matter how many people are out to get the heroine, she is always one step ahead.  Reading his books are akin to seeing an action suspense movie where almost 99% of the time you know the good guys will win.
5 I highly recommend this book. The story was fast-pasing, you'll never get bored!
4 Almost 30 years ago, I stumbled upon a book by the new to me author, Sidney Sheldon.  The title of the book was The Other Side of Midnight and once I read it, the rest is history.  History in the sense that from that day forward Sheldon became one of those authors I just had to read as soon as a new book was published.  And while I fully acknowledge to others as well as myself that Sheldon never wrote highbrow literature, his books for the most part provided me with a fast paced escapist read.  Unfortunately, this hasn't been the case now for several years.  I became increasingly tired of Sheldon's books and while I continued to read most of them, some of that old fashioned pizazz was clearly missing.  Whne I first saw The Sky is Falling, on the shelves, I seriously thought, for one minute, of not reading his latest book.  And that would have been my mistake since this boosk is as intrigiung and page turning as Sheldons' other now vintage titles like If Tomorrow Comes, Rage of Angels, The Naked Face and The Other Side fo Midnight.  Part political thriller, part mystery with a dash of irony mixed in The Sky is Falling is a book in the old time tradition of the Sheldon novels many of us have come to enjoy.
5 great book with a very interesting plot. there are twists, although some of the 'unexpected' parts of the story could be guessed by readers. the character development is not there, but the intriguing plot fully compensates it. gripping can be a good word to decribe the book.well done, mr. sheldon.
5 World famous for their goverment service, the Winthrop's, are America's  royal family, but as the fifth death ends the family name, Washington  anchorwoman, Dana Evans, believes there is something strange surrounding  the deaths.As Dana begins her investigation she uncovers evidence that  is shocking, and on her quest to uncover the truth, she will enter into a  game of cat and mouse that will take her around the world, bringing her  closer to a diabolical killer.Dana must outwit her pursuers, to expose  the truth, and save the life of her son.&quot;The Sky Is Falling&quot;  is vintage Sheldon; fast-paced, exciting, well-written, and always  entertaining.Sidney Sheldon is praised as being the &quot;master of the  storytelling game&quot;, and deservedly so...he grabs the reader  immediately, and pulls them along for a ride they will hate to see  end.If you are looking for a novel you can't put down...grab this  one!A MUST read!Nick Gonnella
3 THE SKY IS FALLING BY Sidney SheldonHis standard book with a main character a female, this time a TV journalist who adopted a 12-year boy with one arm while in Sarajevo?  She spent the book unraveling a family murder mystery of a US family that took her from Germany, through France to Russia.  Of course, she became the hunted one during the adventures.  Another female with cancer gave a good support role in the book.  I like to read Sidney books, because you know what you will get and they don't stretch the mind-just good entertainment.
4 I don't know about everyone else. But I love this book I couldn't put it down. The ending was superb when the bad guys look like they about get away and then the plane explode. Boris looks away in the distance. was the ending to end all ending. Great job Sidney Sheldon.
4 Fast paced and a quick read from start to finish. Sheldon keeps you on the edge of your seat and does not disappoint!
2 Although this book has a somewhat interesting plot I feel the side stories weren't completely thought out.  Mr. Sheldon could have made this a more interesting story than he did.  Pick up one of his earlier works before this one.
4 Sheldon's books always seem to be fast paced, and he doesn't disappoint in his tendency to travel the globe in his stories with this book either.  But this novel seemed a little too predictable, a little too &quot;cut and dried&quot;, and the characters never fully developed into what they could have and should have been.  Plus there was no feeling of satisfaction at the end, no good follow ups to the leftover threads from incidents and even characters that were only partially developed in the story.However, I do love Sidney Sheldon, and all of his books do indeed offer up a quick, fast getaway that is enjoyable and easy to get into.  If you are a first time Sidney Sheldon reader, I recommend some of his better books, like Master Of The Game, Bloodline, and If Tomorrow Comes.
4 I HAVE BEEN A READER OF SIDNEY SHELDON SINCE THE OTHER SIDE OF MIDNIGHT AND HAVE ALWAYS ENJOYED THE TWISTS AND TURNS OF THE PLOTS.DANA WAS A BIT NAIVE TO TRUST THE HUDSONS SO READILY.I ALSO QUESTIONED THE CONVIENCE OF GETTING A SITTER SO QUICKLY SO SHE COULD GO RUNNING ALL OVER THE GLOBE TRYING TO SOLVE THE MURDERS.USUALLY, I DON'T PICK &quot;WHO DUN IT&quot; BUT IN THIS NOVEL I WAS CORRECT, I STILL LIKED THE BOOK AND FINISHED IT DURING THE COURSE OF 1 DAY.
1 "Hello darling.""Hi darling, I missed you today.""I missed you too darling, I love you so much. Have you had dinner?""No, would you like to eat darling?""Yes darling, I would love to eat with you""Oh darling--Let's go eat then"Seriously.This is a truly, deeply bad book.  I am embarrassed to say I read it but I really kept expecting Sheldon to grab it back from whatever robotic child was doing the writing.  The plot was ridiculous.  Imagine if five of the Kennedy clan died in one year and each (but the last) death was ruled an accident.Of course since you were overseas covering the war in Yugoslavia you didnt hear about it. The first was a house fire caused by 'an electrical problem'. Of course what KIND of electrical problem, we dont know, but we do know an electrician was there earlier in the week so that MUST be it. Well.. no one actually asked why he was there or what he did, or did an arson investigation but heck, you can go interview the guy if you have some crazy idea about murder. We didnt actually talk to him ourselves, or check out his address or place of work but...It gets worse from there.  The writing is atrocious.  It is always stilted, usually meaningless and used as padding. "I have Kemal's report card for you." "Thank You."...or for pointlessly obvious 'plot-twists'"Dear Sweet Jeff. I don't want to hurt your feelings, but now that I'm in remission, it means I can go back to work. It's my life. It's what I am. I'm going to call and see what jobs are available. I've felt trapped here with you. Thanks for helping me, Jeff. I really do appreciate it. But it's time to say goodbye." This is just one of the stupid subplots but the woman feels a lump, had a biopsy, then a mastectomy, then chemo, then an experimental treatment all within what...2-3 weeks?
2 Although Sidney Sheldon is a millionaire from this style of writing, I didn't think that he was such a bad writer. I tried a couple of his books when I was 17, thought they were ok, and tried this one 10 yrs later, what a waste of paper!I am aware that Sheldon has to put the gorgeous young bimbette as the heroine, but this one takes the cake. Dana Evans is a sensational TV journalist (she is probably all of 14) and has just recently acquired a young orphan boy from his war-torn country. Over the past few yrs, a very wealthy and famous family has had its members taken out, in different, but tragic circumstances and Dana, being the clever vixen that she is, is the first person to see that there might be a link.So Dana sets out with her man Jeff (equally as young, successful and gorgeous) and crosses different countries trying to figure out what is going on with the famous Winthrop family, meanwhile Jeff is playing doctor and nurse with his ex-wife (a model, of course!) who has fallen tragically ill and while Dana is jettsetting, she fails to realise that her poor orphan boy, who is a model for ADD kiddies everywhere, has suddenly become very placid, polite and downright lovely young man, when left in the hands of the babysitter!!!!!This is such a bad bad novel, but it would make a good made-for-TV thing that would be on a Tues night, but I don't think that I would be watching it!I am surprised that there are people out there that like this book and what is even more surprising is that Mr Sheldon has made squillions from writing crap like this, oh well, I suppose there is hope for all budding writers.
1 Dana, the goody two shoes reporter is back in from &quot;Best Laid Plans.&quot; She's a goody-goody who adopts a boy with one arm and ends up in a relationship you could see from chapter 1.  Naturally she rises in the journalism field and naturally she wins at everything.  From feeding orphans in Eastern Europe to battling Russian officials in an underground Russian village, goody-goody Dana wins every time as everybody knows she would.  Boo to this book!
5 I have read all of Sidney Sheldon's books, and this was by far worth the wait. I was out of books to read and this came along just in time. It's action-packed and suspenseful, very Sheldon-esque, and it took me on a trip around the world.Very, very, good book!
2 I have to agree with previous reviewers.  I read this book because of the author and was gravely disappointed.  Not only was the plot over-the-top ridiculous because of the numerous Winthrop family deaths and not one expert or not-so-expert investigator and/or political higher- up questioned it.  Dana Evans was just too much the expert policewoman/investigator who was "lucky" to an understated end (getting almost run down but actually run under a truck)!  Come on now, how often does someone get that lucky especially after a vehicle had just come between her and a round of bullets.  I also found errors in continuity as far as timelines in several places where Dana is globetrotting without a flight delay or a lack of cash to get her there.  The plot was predictable and the ending was way too "happily ever after" for a Sidney Sheldon story.  This book, I have to say, is my first real disappointment in Mr. Sheldon's talent.  However, like others before me, don't let this be your guide.  "Master of the Game" and "The Other Side of Midnight" were two of many outstanding novels by the "master."
5 When we first meet Dana Evans, she was reporting in war torn Sarajevo, now she is back home in Washington D.C., with an adopted boy Kemal and a new love Jeff.Suddenly Dana's life is turned upsidedown when Gary Winthrop is murdered. As Dana investigates she learns that Gary's father Taylor Winthrop was not not as perfect aseveryone believed himto be. In fact Taylor's greed may have lead to every member of his family &quot;accidents&quot;.Now as Dana search takes her from one country to the next, she must fight for her life and that of the people she loves. Howeve, who can Dana trust and what is it they are afraid of will surprise you. Sidney Sheldon once again proves why he is labeled the &quot;Master of Suspense&quot;.Dana is someone you will can cheer for and also feel her pain and depesration.Quick note Dana was first introduced in a previous novel called The Bet Laid Plans. You may want to read about her war experinces first.
4 In &quot;The Sky is Falling&quot;, Sidney Sheldon returns to the plot twisting mastery of his earlier books.  The last couple books seemed a little flat to me, but this one was a great read.  Leave it to Sidney to take us places the ordinary traveler can't go!
4 Sidney Sheldon is a fantastic writer and I enjoy all of his books.  They are intriguing.  Though, 'The Sky is Falling' is not one of his best, it is still interesting, suspenseful and fast paced.If you are new to Sidney Sheldon I recommend 'The Other Side of Midnight' and 'Memories of Midnight' for your first readings.For me, 'The Sky is Falling' was a little hard to keep up with. Also,I often wondered how Dana Evans could miss so much work and why these important people agree to see her just to tell her they have nothing to tell her about Taylor Winthrop!?  I also felt it was odd that Dana was so trusting!The good parts of the book were that I could not figure out who was the head of the conspiracy or why.  Also, I was interested to find out if Dana and Jeff and Kemal would all wind up alive and together in the end.Overall, it was a good book, though not quite as good as many of the author's other books.
1 If this book were written by a first time author it wouldn't have been published. Sydney Sheldon has too much talent for his editors to allow something as juvenile as this book to go to press. It's a major disappointment. The plot is telegraphed a mile out, the story itself is shallow, and there is no effort to develop the characters. This could have been the outline of an idea, but not a finished novel.
5 Great dictionary ! It explains in an incredibly simple way even the most complex words! Buy it and you will not regret it. Feel free to throw away your other dictionaries.
3 I bought this dictionary expecting clarity in the definitions.  In this area, I have no complaint.The feature I passionately dislike about this dictionary is the extra column with grammatical references.  This "Unique extra column" is supposed to make information easy to find and easy to understand. It does neither of those things.These notations serve only to add an unnecessary degree of complexity to otherwise easily understandable entries.  I do appreciate the need for an English learner to know precisely how each word is used, but nobody - least of all a non-native speaker - needs to be buried in these sorts of cryptic grammatical nuances.  Surely there must be a better way to communicate this information with the same clarity as the definitions.In my view, it detracts from the overall purpose of this type of dictionary - to be easily understood and applied.
5 I bought this book for my ESL teacher training course, but I'd recommend it to anyone interested in language and usage. Built up from a database of millions of examples of language in context, Collins Cobuild lists every usage of the most common words in English, both American and British, from slang to literary and formal usage. Much more than a mere dictionary, Collins Cobuild focuses on how the word is used in the real world. A great companion to a traditional dictionary.
5 If you are an English learner this dictionary is the best you can buy.  If you are looking to start using an English to English dictionary go here first.  This is the best laid out dictionary there is, there are no comparisons to this one.  Some features are examples, noun counting, usefulness, easy definitions, etc.  I have recommended this dictionary to all of my students and they love it and they use it daily!
5 This is without doubt the best English dictionary on the market. In fact, this book is the only reference you may need to enhance and improve your vocabulary. I would like to stress though that the book is intended primarily for advanced students of english language. I own a great number of dictionaries but none of them is nearly as good as this one. The greatest strength of this dictionary is the improved structure that facilitates retrieval of the target word. Moreover, the dictionary provides valuable examples as to how to use the words in various contexts. This feature will help you choose the correct word in any given context. I strongly recommend this book to all learners of english language, but especially to the advanced students!
4 This is a good book, full of humer and information. Great for beginners! Its not one of those Wicca books that when you look at it or read it, its scary. It really a fun read!
4 Interesting but like the first learned reviewer from Wilminton mentioned...wicca is more than just  5 simple steps. The author came out to defend her work, but I felt it was unnecessary simply because, &quot;to each his/her own&quot;. What may appeal to some may not others. The strength lies in the humour of her book. Initially, I found the section on attire of a witch to be more for Halloween wannabes, but felt that the book contains some relevant and empowering message for the uninitiated. Also, some of the spells are quite interesting.Overall, the book is a good read on a weekend and should be tempting enough to start one on a course of magic and wonder-just skip the witch makeup..:).
4 This is actually a pretty good little book with lots of &quot;basic&quot; information.  However, it will NOT make you a &quot;witch&quot;, but it will give you easy to understand information and some very simple spells.The title is deceiving IMO for the simple fact that it is not EASY to become a Witch in 5 simple steps, nor is it possible.  But it's a catchy title and I am sure that is why it was written so.  Just make sure you buy at least ONE book that will teach you more about Wicca and do not live by this book alone.  There are so many out there, ask around and see what people who have been in the craft for a long time recommend.Blessings...
5 This book is written by an author who really cares about the Craft of the Wise! She just happens to smile a bit while doing so. I suggest nasty reviewer get a sense of humor! There are many traditions of Witchcraft that stress spellwork before religious affiliation. This comes later if at all for some!On that note, this is an all ages text that can be used for fun and some insight for all, fluffy bunnies & fierce dragons included. Some things need to be taken with laughter and this is one of them! Witchcraft is alternative spirituality that is meant to allow you to follow your heart, no matter how silly these rantings may be.After all, there are not many books out there containing spells to make one beautiful on certain days! All of us could use this every once in awhile! These subjects are important to many a witch...
1 LIke I said, INSULTING!  Witchcraft and Wicca is not something that can be condensed into &quot;5 Steps.&quot;  It's a state of mind, a moral code, not just spells.  It's also a religion.  A true Christian would scoff at a book titled &quot;5 Easy Steps to Becoming a Christian.&quot;  Wiccans should do the same thing.  This book is insulting and dishonoring.  Don't even pick it up!  Save your money.  If you're really interseted in Wicca read Teen Witch, then the New Generation Witchcraft series (in order!), then Solitary Witch, then all of Cunningham's works starting with Wicca: a Guide for the Solitary Practitionor (I DON'T KNOW HOW TO SPELL IT!)  Then branch out into Ray Buckland's and the Farrar couple's work and many others.So MOte It BE!
5 I'd watched this movie so many times that I finally broke down and read the book (even though I'd had the book for a couple of years bought as a set from NBC - the videos, book and soundtrack).  I'd say the book is true to the movie.  I suppose it would be since the authors (Rusch & Wesley) were probably commissioned to write it from the screenplay.  I thought it humorous they changed Tony's swamp song from "A Whiter Shade of Pale" to "Dark Side of the Moon".  A few other small changes.  Nothing major.The movie is my "work" movie.  I work from home (selling books including lots of this one) and like to have some background noise which usually turns out to be this movie.  It's the perfect workday length at about 7 hours and I don't actually have to see the TV to know what's going on.  Like everyone else, I've got it memorized.  It's also the perfect movie to watch if you have to stay home sick *cough, cough*.  :-)I've noticed people wondering why they never wrote the other 5 books (the editorial review above talks about 6 books).  I'm pretty sure those 6 books are referring to the other TV movies released by Hallmark about that time (The Monkey King, Arabian Nights - both also written by the pseudonym Kathryn Wesley).BUT if you are looking for more stories about The 10th Kingdom, there are many fan writings available - some quite good even.  Look up "Culinary Disasters & Other Stories" (in the quotes) for a list of about 40 stories.
4 The 10th Kingdom is the story of a girl from New York City who gets lost in a world where the fairy tales are real, dragged there by a golden retriever, who is actually a prince, who needs help reclaiming his kingdom (and his human body). Along the way, our heroine collides with all sorts of folklore tropes, and has to synthesize into herself the virtues of some of the most famous fairy tale heroines of all time. Okay, admittedly, the whole thing is pretty silly, and it's a very easy read, but I love it anyway. There are a few additions that weren't in the miniseries, but it follows almost exactly apart from those. The interplay of the fairy tales is very clever. Recommended if you liked the miniseries, or if you like revisited versions of the stories from your childhood.
3 The book has some good points on things that weren't clear in the film,  but in my opinion is lacking a great deal. The author took liberties with  the story, changing scenes, dialog, even backgrounds that made me wonder  why she even bothered. I understand that when you novelize something you  have to make it book-size, but I think she could have done it better in  sticking to the movie's placement of things. It answers a few questions,  yes, but also has a lot more bad language than the film and is more  suggestive. I'd give the author a smile for trying, but stick to the movie.
5 What a book! What a movie! This book is based on The 10th Kingdom the TV  movie from NBC. I thought it was the best! It has a few missing parts that  the movie couldn't put all in. And it gives you a point of view of some of  the characters.
4 While initially I loved this fantasy, it became too long, throwing in too many, by far, obstacles to our heroes' and heroines' adventures.  I have seen the DVD film, and think it was cast perfectly, or vice versa actually, Wolf especially.  It was a fun read, but it would not resolve anything until almost the end of its 479 pages.  Since the book has pictures from the TV show, I could envision the characters.  The end was quite surprising, a plus.  Good descriptions, and I loved the three Trolls.  They were so dumb.  Lots of tongue-in-cheek here, adult stuff.  Manages to incorporate all the major fairy tales into one story, no mean feat.  In the movie, John LaRoquette was the dad and Dianne Weist the Queen, both perfect as was Rutgar Hauer as The Huntsman.  An awful lot of blood and gore though, but what else is new in American filmdom?  In real life, I don't think Tony could have been so energetic after all he suffered, lashings, axe wounds, etc.  Wolf, however, was the perfect lover, except of course for that tail.  Written on a 6th grade level, if that.
5 This book is based on a miniseries by NBC, but it would probably have been better if the miniseries had been based on the book.  It goes into the minds of the characters, showing you their personal thoughts.  If you're a fan of fairytales (or magic, or werewolves, talking dogs, or fantasy), you'll be in love with this book just like me.  You might even like it if you're a fan of romance novels.  It just goes to show you that even janitors and waitresses can be heroes.
5 This is such a cute story put in away for everybody to enjoy. Its has a  funny since of humor to me I enjoy reading it and planing to watch the series on TV. These stories are fun to read because its different and its  let you use your imagniation, its one of those fun stories to read.
4 This is a lovely adaptation of the miniseries The 10th Kingdom, mostly sticking to it quite well, and beyond that giving an excellent insight into why the characters did things a certain way.  For example: when watching the miniseries, I was annoyed that Wolf took time off from chasing Wendell to eat in the restaurant.  The book fleshed that out, telling how he had been denied meat for his entire stay in the prison (which I believe was fairly lengthy), and so the idea of a good dinner was just too much temptation to stand.However, the book is apparently a collaboration between two authors, and it does occasionally show.  In the beginning of the book, the Queen describes how Snow White had been long dead when she arrived at the castle (when Wendell was an infant), yet in the end Wendell gives Virginia a dried rose Snow White gave him when she left and he was seven years old.  His mother was dead by that point, I believe.  I did get a wee bit tangled in the narrative, and I believe the narrative got tangled in itself.  However, for a fast, lighthearted read, I do recommend it.
5 Have you or did you ever dream't that  you could climb into a fairytale? Dance with princes' and princessess? Fight the bad guy and win? See the house that Snow White lived in and the ballroom where Cinderella danced with the prince? What if these stories were real and these people really did live. Virginia and Tony live on the edge of Central Park, in a hotel tha Tony manages (not too well).Virginia works as resuarant as a waitress. In a separate country the Prince is awaitng his coronation as King but his stepmother has other plans. With a flick of her hand  Prince changes and escapes her evil cluthes to another land The !0th Kingdom- our land and our reality. To aid her evil pla the queen releases her trustworthy wolf to hunt done the Prince. The 10th Kingdom is a true fairytale with unrequited love (for most of the book),evil trolls and a walk down memory lane for anyone that read even one fairytale. The charcters may have obvious names but they don't discribe the true character or their form.  To be able to read this book, you would have to sit yourself down in a comfortable spot, relax  and just open your mind to the beauty of this well writen books. It deserves no less than full marks. Go read it and enter the magic that is : THE 10TH KINGDOM.
5 For those of you who were living under a rock or just too involved in your &quot;Gillian&quot; reruns here is a brief synopsis of 10th Kingdom. A wicked queen, evil trolls, a prince that has been turned into a dog, and magical mirrors are just some of the things you will find in this collection of modernized fairy tales. As Virginia and her father Tony stumble upon this magical land they meet up with Prince Wendell (the furry Golden Retriever), and Wolf, the odd but lovable wolf that has a crush on his fellow traveler Virginia. As Virginia and Tony search for the Mirror to return them home, they realize their true mission is to save the kingdom from the wicked queen who seems all too familiar.....Okay Not the best review but I didn't want to give away too much. It is quite enjoyable. If you haven't seen the mini series get that as well it is well worth it.As take note of the forward by Robert Halmi, Sr. It will make you feel like a kid again.
1 I love fantasy and saw the ads for the TV series and thought this was something I would enjoy, I picked up the book.  What a mistake!This book is so bad in some ways it is funny.  A dog who has turned into a man  recks havoc in an NY restraunt, please.  However I really gave up on this  book when the trolls with foot fetishs appeared.  When a bunch of trolls  stand around and say that when they have servants they are going to have  parties where they change there shoes 10 times an hour and anyone with  dirty shoes will have their mouths sewn shut, I threw the book in the trash  UGG!This could have been a funny charming novel, but sadly it wasn't.  I  really wanted to like this book but I just couldn't.
5 Based on the mini series in 2000, this book pretty much stays along the path of the movie, but with a few added scenes.  Basically a NY daughter in her 20's with her father get sucked into a fairytale land where things are not always happily ever after.  Leading them is a man named wolf, who has a wolf side. (Big surprise)  He falls in love with Virgina, the daughter, and she's reluctant.  But there are major problems in the fairytale land and it is Virgina's destiny along with her father, wolf, and faithful dog that's actually a prince, to save the 9 kingdoms. (The 10th Kingdom is NY, in case you wondered about the title)
4 A novelization of the vastly superior (and just plain wonderful) fantasy miniseries has all the benefits of a novelization: inner thoughts and added details (for instance that Virigina's mother was going to abort her). Though the book moves faster than the miniseries, it does leave some details out. At the end of the day, its just a fun read for fans that have seen the movie so many times they want to experience it in another way. Grade: B+
5 After starting several books and putting them back down in boredom -I picked up The Tenth Kingdom.  I had seen the advertisement for the mini-series and I figured I would give the book a chance. I was concerned because I just had 10 days to finish it before the mini-series started.  But I had no need to worry - I finished it in 3 days!  Simply put, this  book is just a wonderful story!  It's akin to the Harry Potter series, just  a great story that the whole family can enjoy!  I told my teenager  daughter, who hates to read, that she had to read this story.  After  convincing her to give it a 3 chapter &quot;trial run&quot; she is now  halfway through the book and I can't get her to put it down.  She loves the  story too! The mini-series has started, and as usual, TV is never as good  as the book that inspired it.  So, even if you saw the mini-series, don't  let that stop you from reading this timeless fairy tale book also!
3 You really want some meat to this story, but it seems it is based on the TV series and reads like a script. I'll have to find the series and compare the two. It's not too bad, some good mind candy when you want a quick read.
5 The novelization is based on the mini-series.  The show was good.  The book was good.  We're still sad that the sequel never materialized.
5 I picked this book up at the drug store because I had heard about the TV miniseries. I loved it. It was a mixture of all those fairy tales you were told as a kid but with an adult mix. You get to see what really happens  with Snow White, Cinderalla and Little Red Riding Hood a few years down the  line. Believe in &quot;happily ever after?&quot; Well it happens for all  those characters in the book: Wolf, Virginia and her father. I finished  reading this book with a good feeling. Now, the only thing I have to do is  wait for the series to come on video, since I didn't get to see the  episodes. But read the book in the meantime!
4 My main concern when considering purchasing this book was whether it was worth owning both the book and the movie. I think it is. The book is very faithful to characters and plot, and is a convenient, traveling version of the movie. Sometimes I think I read the book faster than I watched the movie!For comparisions, the book does have some variation in the plot: the swamp scene is much shorter in the book (for which I was glad, since it didn't have much Wolf), the Golden River Gold Fish adventure is longer in the book, and we hear a lot more of Virginia's and Wolf's thoughts.However, the descriptive power of the author is very dim compared to the expressive ability of the camera (the reason I didn't give 5 stars). The descriptions of the characters are sketches, the sweeping landscape is glossed over, and the mannerisms of the characters are not emphasized. Inflections in voice or expressions are skimped over. This is a danger in any written medium, of course, but to me it was particularly glaring having the book and the movie to contrast.
2 First: This is a novelization of a mini series (not the book it was based on).Second: I loved this mini-series! Unfortunately, the book was just okay. You get a few more tidbits here and there, and notice a couple of differences, but it's really missing the "life" that the actors gave the characters. I highly recommend the mini-series, book or no book...
5 Has a lot more description of each character's past that wasn't shown in the series, so you have more understanding of why they are like the way they are.
5 "I have to say I love this book and the movie as well. It is one of my favorite books about romance, magic, the unexpected, etc. It has everything in it from wolves, evil stepmothers, trolls, goblins, magic, etc. It is definitely a book I would recommend to others. I wish there had been a sequel to continue the story."
5 I was thrilled to learn that the book did indeed exist. After seeing the movie/mini-series (and, hence, buying it on DVD), I knew that I just HAD to find the book. While I agree with most others (I enjoyed the movie a bit better than the book), I still found the book to be good. I'm hoping to find it to give to our 12-year old for her to read (both the kids have seen the DVD already). My thoughts are around sequel(s) and when they might come about (both the book, and movie/mini-series).
5 I really liked this book.  It follows the movie pretty closely, with some changes that only improve on the plot.  It is a rather long book, but I never got bored while reading it.  This is a great story for persons of all ages and for people who like all types of books.  There's something about  the written word that just makes a story more magical than a movie could  ever be.  If you haven't seen the movie, the plot is something like  this:Virginia and her father live near Central Park in New York.  Virginia is a waitress at the Grill on the Green, and her father is a  handyman in the building where they live.  Their lives are normal and  somewhat monotonous until the Dog formerly known as Prince steps in, and  suddenly everything has gone haywire.  Virginia and Tony find themselves in  an enchanted kingdom where bumbling trolls, evil stepmothers, and  terrifying huntsmen are the least of their troubles.  This book is full to  the brim of action, adventure, and romance.  Try reading it, you won't  regret it.
4 This book is pretty good, especially since it is based on a TV movie.It's about a New York City waitress named Virginia who lives with her father in an apartment by Central Park and one day is befriended by a dog that was really a prince under a spell from the magical nine kingdoms. Very strange, but it gets a lot stranger and way more complicated.I would recommend reading this book if you liked the movie, because it is interesting to see what's going on in the characters' heads while they're playing their parts. If you didn't like the movie, though, or if you haven't seen it, I wouldn't recommend reading this.I would rate it PG-13 for the INCREDIBLE amount of cursing that happens and adult situations, but if you look past that, it's got a pretty decent plot.
5 This is an excellent story.  The book is very well written, the story is very well thought.  If you love fairy tales, you must read this book!
5 I wathced the movie before I read the book and it filled in some gaps.This book was really fun to read and made the movie even more enjoyable!Virgina Lewis lives in New York City and works at a cafe. She eventually wants to own her own resturant. Her Dad works as a janitor at an apartment builing near Central Park.On her way to work she takes a short cut through Central Park. (which her dad told her not to do! >.&lt;) She hits a dog which is auctually a prince who had been cursed. So Virgina takes the dog to the cafe where she works. There are trolls out looking for the dog and they happen to find Virgina's wallent and find out where she lives. Well to add on top off that there is a human who is part wolf out looking for the dog prince too!Then's there's the evil queen who cursed the princed in the first place and sent the trolls and the human wolf thingy after the prince doggling!Virgina and her father find the entrance to The Nine Kingdoms. There is Snow White's Kingdom, Cinderella's Kingdom (Who is rumored to still be alive altough that would make her three hundred years old!), Rupenzell's Kingdom, and so on and so forth.If you like fantasy and fairy tales then this book and the mini series is FOR YOU!!!! My mother watched the whole thing in one sitting and it is REALLY long!Anyways hoped this helped. I really enjoyed it!
3 The miniseries was a fun, frolicking romp through the land of Fairy Tales with some inspirational twists to the traditional plots of each tale.  The book provides a better in-depth twisting of each fairy tale, but is a faithful rendition of the mini-series.  While I certainly enjoyed the concepts with my own imagination far better than having it provided for me in a format on the screen - I fear that others will not find the novel quite as amusing as I did.
4 If you've seen and loved the movie you'll love the book.  Virginia, Tony, Wolf, and Prince, fight to save the 9 Kingdoms from the Queen, the trolls, and the Huntsman just like in the movie.  The book's plot is much the same, with the main characters visiting the kingdoms and meeting characters from  fairy tailes such as: Snow White, Cinderella, Jack 'n' the Beanstalk, etc.  There are slight differences between the book and movie in the plot, but  that, in my point of view, only makes it better.  The book also clears up a  few question left over from the movie, and gives you a better point of view  to understand why everything is happening.
3 I read many leadership books.  This one was okay.  I like many of his Ken's book.  He is a good writer with many insights.
4 This is a helpful book that explains the importance of leadership in management as applied to a hypothetical scenario.  Don't work harder - work smarter.  The four basic leadership styles are covered, including directing, coaching, supporting, and delegating.  There's a lot of common sense stuff in here, but on the other hand I've had some really terrible managers in my lifetime and I wish that would have read this.
5 I prefer this book to the One Minute Manger because it has the same basic concepts but deals with situational leadership, which is what most managers truly face.  There are three simple precepts, which the One Minute Manager establishes with his employees: One Minute Goal Setting, One Minute Praisings, and One Minute Reprimands (just as in the original One Minute Manager).1. Starting with goals that are clear to both the manager and the people who will help accomplish them. Goal setting is all about making sure employees understand perfectly what their duties are, what is expected of them and that there are no surprises.2. The manager should work with his/her people to diagnose their &quot;competence&quot; and &quot;commitment&quot; to accomplish those goals.3. Decide what management style is most appropriate for the individual4. Following through and provide reprimands or praisings based on that adopted style.  The Praisings and Reprimands are simply managers acknowledging that the employees are doing there jobs or not and how to deal with the situation and how to convey it to the employee.As always, I was quite stunned to find the content extremely useful and extremely simplistic.  For those seeking to find additional leadership books I recommend How to Become CEO by Jeffrey Fox and two books by John Maxwell, Power of Leadership and The 21 Indispensable Qualities of a Leader.
4 This entry in Ken Blanchard's One Minute Manager Library uses the narrative style that has for better or worse become standard in business literature to teach `situational leadership' in terms of flexibility, diagnosis, and partnering.Blanchard's style tends toward the simple rather than the complicated side of the leadership menu and so his popular books are short and broken into bite-sized chapters, usually based upon one of his trademark sayings.The `situational' in `situational leadership' means that Blanchard wants to coach a leader who can vary his style based upon the situation he encounters. The idea is not to produce an automaton of managerial efficiency, but rather a human being who is wise. This latter aspect of his program may have increased in recent years. The book under review dates from 1985, but wisdom under other names is already a desirable feature, even if it emerges at this early date more as a technical ability than a character virtue.I find this little entry to be a refreshing reminder to step back and understand the human being whom one is `managing' when much of my leadership reading focuses--properly, I think--on the person of the leader. Blanchard reminds us between the lines of Leadership and the One Minute Manager that we manage human beings and that we do so for some reason larger than ourselves. Their competence and attitude vary from week to week and from task and so, therefore, should our managerial interaction with them.That alone is worth the read.
5 Ken Blanchards work goes to the next level, I am looking forward to next book to advance my leadership style
3 I was asked to read this book for a Leadership Training that I'm currently attending through my employer.This is one of those books that is kind of easy to make fun of. It isn't high literature. It is short and written very simply. It only has one focus-- to provide a clear example illustration of the author's ideas about situational leadership. It reaches that goal, and it reaches it quickly and reasonably well. The concept itself is not revolutionary at this point, but it does bear repeating.I do think that it's kind of a racket that this 106 page book with very very big type somehow apparently retails in the hardback edition for $19.95-- this according to the dust cover on my copy. But--hey-- more power to them, right? And I'm guessing that it's mostly training firms and companies who actually pay the price.(My star rating actually was hurt by the value-for-money issue. Otherwise I probably even would have given it four stars.)Kind of useful. Have to admit.
4 Always a great fan of Ken Blanchard, I find this book with its Teaching Techniques to the Leaders who need to understand the basic style of 'Treat Right' to its employees and not walk blind to the belief 'Everyone should be treated Equally'. One Minute Manager hit the stands but this book has additional skills to increasing Effectiveness through situational leadership.The authors focus on enhanced motivation to individual employees and apply better management skills to get the most desired results from them. To begin with 'Goal Setting' brings in a commitment for accompliment and make the individual understand their duties to reach target goals. Written in a conversational manner, easy to read and understand, the book makes manager bring out the best by 'Be competitive and commited' motto. Like a stand-by Guide to Leaders, the contents help Leaders to derive best performance. How to delegate, support and direct them is the key factor that nevertheless motivates for better fruitful results. Apart from this book, I also recommend 'First Break All the Rules'. A good Pick for any Leader and to be used as quick reference and must to be on office-bookshelf. Nice Guide.
5 excellent series
5 I like the one minute manager book for situational management, and being a team lead, I found this book to build on those already effective techniques.It's also a good book for people who are reluctant to lead, when read in combination with the original OMM. It's short and sweet and presented in narrative form, so it's easy to digest.
5 Over the years I've read (and even taught in corporate environments) many leadership and management models. But there is only ONE that has endured in my repertoire: The Situational Leadership(R) II model described in Leadership & the One Minute Manager (Blanchard, Zigarmi, Zigarmi)! This one has staying power because of its basis in behaviors rather than traits, qualities, or attributes.The model describes two primary leadership behaviors (directive and supportive) and the four leadership styles created by varying levels of application of each. Each style points to specific behaviors the leader engages in. The impact of leadership style, however, depends on its appropriate application in situations based on the "development level" of the individual/team.The model also describes how to "diagnose" development level to determine which leadership style to apply. The four leadership styles provide the leader with "flexibility". Then, the leader can "partner for performance" with the individual/team.The skills necessary for successful leadership are offered by this simple little book, presented in a wonderful "parable" format.I recommend this to ALL leaders, at every level, from the board room to the front line. In my opinion, this book will endure as a leadership classic!
5 This is a step by step journey from Management to Situational Leadership. You will read it again and again as you move forward in your career and face new challenges with new teams, new direct reports and new bosses. This  is also an excellent present for some one that is facing a management  position for the first time.
5 A great book for the reader who likes to get to the point.  Now, I will get to the point reviewing this title!A leader needs to have 3 skills:1.  Flexibility - show different styles for different people.2.  Diagnosis - determine what a particular employee needs to become more effective.3.  Contracting - work with the employee to determine what the employee is responsible for and what the manager is responsible for.A leader needs to have 4 basic styles:1.  Directing - provide specific direction and close supervision.2.  Coaching - close supervision and encouragement.3.  Supporting - support employee's efforts and shares the decision-making.4.  Delegating - give responsibility to employee.There is more elaboration on the two above points and some areas but I do not want to give it all away.Read and enjoy.  Recommended. End of my 1-minute review!
5 Don't let the title or the number of pages fool you. This small volume packs substance. Situational management was not a fad. As recently as 1999, Peter Drucker (in his book &quot;Management Challengers for the 21st Century&quot;) emphasized that despite the apparent hunger for learning &quot;the one best way to manage, one such method does not exist.&quot; Producing desirable results is the goal of management; how to manage varies tremendously according to differences in situations.This book goes well beyond espousing the idea of &quot;different strokes for different folks.&quot; Becoming a situational leader involves:1. Starting with goals that are clear to both the manager and the people who will help accomplish them.2. Working with her people to diagnose their &quot;competence&quot; and &quot;commitment&quot; to accomplish those goals. Diagnosis preceds effective management methods.3. Contracting with each person on each of the tasks and jointly deciding which leadership style will likely be most effective.4. Following through to provide the agreed-upon leadership style until either (i) enough progress or (ii) lack of suitable progress warrants a change in leadership style.The book presents a practical model for diagnosing each person's level of development with regard to achieving each major goal.One other note: Despite its &quot;leadership&quot; title, the book addresses one-on-one supervision methods. If you're looking for a book that addresses how to create and sustain a &quot;vision&quot; that will drive your organization forward, this is not that book. It is, however, the most practical presentation of situational management that I've read.
4 The book was for a college class I am taking. The price was great, the delivery fast, and it was in excellent condition. Very happy with the seller &delivery. The book is another in the OMM series and in my case we applied it to teaching. Very helpful techniques and solid tips on getting results.
5 This is by far my favorite Blanchard book. Situational Leadership is now MY leadership style!
4 4 Stars.Leadership and the One Minute manager, by Ken Blanchard, Patricia Zigarmi, and Drea Zigarmi, is a great book on leadership methods.  In particular, Blanchard's "Situational Leadership 2"(tm) model is an outstanding description of effective leadership approaches.  The idea that your approach to leadership should depend not only on the individual(s) you're leading, but also on the context (i.e. - the situation) of leadership is sadly overlooked by many other theories/philosophies on leadership.Admittedly, Blanchard's parable style approach to the matter is a little hokey, and some of the dialogue is contrived.  Nonetheless, this book sends a message that many of today's leaders and managers would do well to pay attention to.Also recomended are Blanchard's other One Minute Manager books, particularly:-The One Minute Manager, with Spencer Johnson, and-The One Minute Manager Builds High Performance Teams, with Donald Carew and Eunice Parisi Carew.
5 As a performer, manager or leader we all must have have basic skills.  Situational leadership has stood the test of time (Hersey and Blanchard).  Situations vary by the degree of people versus task emphasis required.  Don't let the classic 2x2 consultant's grid of lo-lo, hi-hi, hi-lo and lo-hi turn you off.  This time its a helpful tool.  In addition to the obvious notion that some people respond better to direct versus indirect management styles, Situational Leadership also lays out a developmental model that guides the best use of people and task emphasis.For any new task, be hands-on and directive.  Once someone has the basics, keep monitoring the performance in detail, but add some emotional support.  Once they have mastered the area, back away on the details and provide some empathy.  If they don't relish the interpersonal stuff, back away to low support and low direction.The book is about 100 pages.  Quick reading.  Adequate depth.  Enough examples and repetition to get the points across.  A good book for a quick 2-3 hour training session.  However, as with most "managing" books, the key is to apply the principles and develop new habits.  Good luck.
4 Leadership is the key trait of any manager to handle the business of managing. Lots of theories were proposed and lot of literature has been produced on leadership styles. Here is a refreshing and down to earth proposal of situational leadership. It is a synthesis of major leadership styles already proposed. Use right leadership style with right people - different strokes to different people is the key proposal of this book. This book also proposes evolutionary nature of people at work and thus change of leadership style with the same person at different situations and evolutionary levels. The proposal of not treating unequals as equals for any reason is very sound and practical and thus makes this theory adoptable in any situation.  Written in simple but very clear style, this book is a must read for everybody - whether in the business of managing or not because it can be adopted to any basic human interaction for getting right responses. It is of great help anyway for those people who are in the business of managing.
4 The style of the book is great, it's a story. Someone discovers the method just like we would do it.It's fiction (I suppose) but the situations are clear and the lessons are clear.This makes the methods usefull, you understand them immediately.Putting it into practice will require some thinking and self-training, but the principles are sound.It's all too obvious, but in practice I see that not doing this is very unproductive.
1 Her books seem more often about her, skipping crucial points. Just as we can have fun with magick and be really hip, we must be discerning and understand it is a life path not a part time hobby you call on when ever your prospects dim, or to get what you want 'just because' without any effort. Ms Horne seems to put across a message that no real effort is required. We must respect the art and actual authors of the texts we intially learn and practise from if we are going to function ethically and to our potential. Having read her books, I would not use them as a foundation for my magickal introduction if available to me all those years ago. After careful investigation I also found her work may well be ripped from the work of others left unpaid by her and uncredited in her books. Even though she credits plenty of other people along the way.Some of the founding practises of magick are valuing ethics and also Ego Cleansing. That is not demonstrated in her books. Input =output. What is going into these books may be taken from the work of others. Thus a lack of authenticity is the energy you may be getting out and participating in if you use, recommend and therefore support her work.It is important to know the standpoint and support behind a person writing esoteric books in order to determine whether or not to trust what they have put between its pages. If she wants to write an autobiography I hope it is truthful. I also hope that she contains her attempt at self-promotional talk to one definitive all out autobiography complete with all the newspaper and magazine quotes for everyone to see, and gets over her apparent need to belong and be seen as 'hip and cool' as evident throughout the pages of her works.I really don't mean to be rude, however her public persona, the person behind it, and her writing reminds me too much of Gildaroy Lockhart from Harry Potter -Chamber of Secrets. I truly hope she can build some authenticity into her work.In many circles in Australia 'Witch' has been taken to mean 'wise person.' Australia's highly respected Kerry Kulkens and her straight forward but informative writing serves a far better example of that meaning than our Fiona ever can, even if Fiona's media coverage is more pronounced.
5 This is an excellent book. Fiona is down to earth, funny, and adds her own personal stories and experiences to the text. I could really feel where she was coming from, because we have similar religious backgrounds (raised Catholic).  Fiona, thanks for writing probably one of the best witchy books I have read (and I've read a lot)! It truly inspired me.
4 Ms. Horne gives us an introduction to witchcraft that is fun to read and full of useful information. Her magic is a little Wicca-flavored, but it's not overpoweringly Wiccan, and thus can be applied by non-Wiccans as well. She approaches one of the major ethical issues of magic by offering her opinions on cursing (she disagrees with the practice for some very compelling reasons), but also provides some curses and lets the reader make his or her own decision--a decision many Witch/Wiccan authors don't seem to trust their readers with. She also provides some recipes dor herbal shampoos and other cosmetics--these aren't necessarily related to Wicca or witchcraft, but they're interesting nonetheless, and fun.While I disagree with some of her methods (invoking deities willy-nilly in spells), I would definitely recommend this book to someone looking for a good introduction to witchcraft, especially if they, like me, are not Wiccan. Of course, as with any introductory text, I would recommend going beyond it and reading other books, but Horne's book is a good place to start.
3 Dont get me wrong, i thought the book was kinda "cute", but any true wiccan would look for something better than this. Some of the book was interesting till it flowed in to boring subjects of "hear that, did that..same old, same old". The thing that i want to know is, if she is an ex-Playboy playmate, does anybody take her as a serious wiccan after doing something in Playboy?
1 Sigh - if it wasn't for her ego and PR people, would we actually have heard of Ms Horne?One cannot help but wonder whether she actually knows what she is talking about or merely cashing in on the current "fad" due to the lack of substance of the material contained in this book - not to mention the others churned out.  Adding to that, one has to wonder what her real motives are when before the publication of this book, she was quoted in an Australian magazine as "had never done any kind of witch craft or anything like this growing up, and even until that weekend" - which contradicts her alleged "history" of spell casting since her early teens as mentioned in this book ... Fiona, get your story straight.Ms Horne may seem all "hip" and "modern" in her writings, surely this does not mean glossy over or even totally rejecting, tried and tested basic magickal methods?  Her material really does show a lack of research (or understanding) in areas - and has she never been told that when you use the work of others (and as blatantly as she does), then it is appropriate to accredit sources??I have read articles about Ms Horne subsequent to the publication of this book, and it is obvious that she has no idea of what she is talking about.  Classifying witches, for examples, as "Pagans who do stuff" (Insight magazine) leaves things wide open for interpretation - what "stuff", Fiona?Rumours even circulated within the Australian Pagan Community after criticism of this book that she doesn't actually "write" her books - someone else "collates" the material ... that could be one explanation to the less than credible material in her books.Fiona Horne may know something about Wicca but the majority of us in Australian internally cringe each time we hear her name - especially when she is labelled as an "Australian Ambassador" - please don't insult us!End result - despite the above, there are some "interesting" points to this book and it is easy to read and follow.  If you are interested in buying this book specifically for the Southern Hemisphere content, I would recommend Juliet Batten's book "Celebrating the Southern Seasons" as it has more relevant information.  Save your money and buy something decent.
5 This book really caught my eye on the book shelf. I grabbed it and knew i had to read it. I found that it is mostly a personal journey of Fiona Horne, the witch. I enjoyed reading this book and I keep it here on my shelf at home. The only drawback of this book, for me is the fact that Fiona Horne is Australian and writes as such. I am American. Some of the things she states in the book are pertaining to the Australian aspects of the Craft. If you overlook that, it is a great book and I gave it 5 stars.
4 This book was pretty good. It would be very educational for a newbie witch, and she does put some spunk into the Craft. If you do buy it, don't be discouraged by the pics inside. She has a bunch of fruity-looking pics of herself, probably being goofy, but she is an Australian Brit, so I guess the fruitiness is to be expected. The book is much more serious than those pics let on, I was actually surprised that she does have a clue as to what she's talking about. I have read so many Craft books that there aren't many that tell me anything new anymore, and this one had a few things to teach even me. So, I would recommend it, yes, but I won't tell you to run out and buy it NOW.
2 I am glad she covered the Wheel of Seasons from a northern and southern hemisphere perspective. She includes a lot of relevant and important Wiccan lore BUT it's all over the place. Early on she is writing about spells, but has parenthesis referring to see page 64 .... or you'll hear more about this later on in the book. Personally I do not like flicking backwards and forwards in a chapter supposed to be about one thing, but with all the info located somewhere else. There seems to be no logical sequence to the chapters and I feel that she covers the titillating bits first and then polyfillas them in as she goes. I really thought I was going to like this book a lot and buy it, but after having read it I realise there are so many better ones, and I'll return the one I do have back to the library.
5 This is an amazing book which is different than most how to books on wicca. It tells peices of the authors life while weaving the magick of writing. Even if you have been in wicca for years, it's a great review. Reading it is a wonderful experience.
5 You MUST have absolute quiet and calm for this to work. I listened to it once at my home and was bothered incessantly by my cat. A few days later, I had a cigarette. So, I tried again, this time where I was not bothered by anyone or anything, not even sounds, and it worked.
3 My husband bought this book/CD combo five years ago after my repeated pleas that he stop smoking. I had and still have him down to three cigarettes a day, but he just couldn't seem to kick the habit entirely. He tried Ms. Hepburn's system, he said it lessened his desire to smoke, but it was still there and ultimately he couldn't shake the habit. I have loaned this book to friends and family who have had success with it. Thus, from my firsthand knowledge, it has had mixed results.I guess my advice is that the approach is so inexpensive and straightforward that it is worth a try if you are trying to quit.  However, let the fact that it is so hard to quit be a cautionary tale of just what a powerful and addictive drug nicotine really is both physically and psychologically. The best way to quit is to never start in the first place.
1 I can not rate this book, to the fullest degree, as the vendor did not include the CD that was a critical part of the book.  I have tried to resolve the problem and was offered a refund of 10.85 (75%) versus a full refund of $14.46.  There was no return address or packing slip enclosed with the book so I don't know where to send it, other than the UK.  I strongly urge all not to order anything from this company.  I found some information on the "company" and it's an individual working out of a home in GB, not a real company, just an individual trying to scam people by selling merchandise that is incomplete, trashed, or misrepresented.  STAY AWAY FROM THIS COMPANY!
3 i did not see the cd was not included and returned the item for refund
5 hi,for me this book did the trick, within that hour or two had a craving for a cigarette and tried to smoke it and could not inhale and it felt like i was dying, but you really want to do it, speaking from a person  who smoke for 30 years 1 to 2 packs per day i have not touch a butt for 2 1/2 months and everybody around smokes and it doesnt bother me and it is true.... mind over matter..... i dont mind not haven it and it does not matter to me..... i can smell, i can walk  without out of breathe,it great not having that nasty butts
3 I found nothing new and revolutionary about the content, although the sound quality is good and Ms. Hepburn's voice soothing.  I was not  particularly impressed.
5 I bought this for my sister as she expressed interest in not smoking.  She has found this book and CD to be very helpful and has been cutting back in her daily cigs.  Basically you have to be opened to wanting to stop smoking!!
1 This is a joke.  After I listened to this CD I smoked another 5 cartons of cigs.  Later, I hooked up with the Quit net on the web and got myself a patch and I quit. It just takes determination, will power, and a lot of food. You can always join a gym later to loose the weight. But, this Cd is a waste of money. I now have it in my fruit trees to drive out Blue Jays.
2 I suppose this book would be well-liked by Wiccans - and Wiccan beginners at that - looking to follow the Path, so to speak, but for more independent pagan practicioners or even more experienced Wiccans, this book is virtually useless. Also I was not impressed by the amount of traditional practice in this book. In today's rapidly urbanizing world where many pagans can't get out of the city into an enchanted forest, it's impossible to do many of the things she writes of, like nature walks and picking up certain natural items. I would have liked to see something more practical.
5 This truly is The Handbook, and should be required reading if there ever was such a book. No matter what your orientation, or years of practice, take a look at this and keep it on your refrence shelf. It is refreshing and inspiring to read a book that guides the  craftworker back to the basics of our beliefs. The ways that would have been accessible over time immemorial. Our traditions and our individual and group practice have become the focus of our actions in so many publications. It would seem that we have forgotten the simplicity of it all. We need to be reminded that it's what's inside, our intent and motivation, not the opulence of our alters or intricacy of our spells that cause them to be effective. It would seem that it takes the wisdom of The High Preistess of Hecate to remind us of our place in the scheme of things. We need to keep it simple and straightforward, however we worship. It's in the sowing and seasoning of our intent not in the show of our ritual that the spell is cast and carried out.
5 I was looking for a sort of "Pagan/Wiccan 101" book, and picked this up in the hopes that it might answer some of my questions-- which it did, and quite well.  "Handbook" goes through some of the background of The Craft, and explains the differences between some of the varieties of practice and traditions.  Major holidays are explained.  Kate West imbues "Handbook" with a healthy dose of good humor, which I very much enjoyed.  She offers a good selection of sample rituals and spells, things that could be used (or adapted for use) by practitioners at any level, or from any tradition.Much of what West discusses is really pretty basic, and I had a good time learning more about the origins of holidays, and thinking about the various social ramifications she presented.  Part of what I liked best about "Handbook" was the sensible and plausible approach West takes; no need for fuss or fancy-fancy props or tools, you can practice with what you've got, because it's the *intent* that matters most.  I've shared this book with others; and recommended it to several.  Bought a co-worker her own copy, so I could get mine back.  ;)
5 This is one of the best Wicca 101 books out there. Kate West is a very down-to-earth Witch, and her writing is the same. If you want to give this book to your parents so they could understand that Wicca/Witchcraft is not evil, then please do.The one of the best and interesting chapters was the one about the Sabbats. All in all, this is a great begginers book.
4 I knew almost nothing about Wicca, witches, and the practice of witchcraft, so when I came across The Real Witches' Handbook it seemed like a good place to start research on this intriguing subject. Author Kate West (a High Priestess with over thirty years of Craft experience) does a great job of discussing the myths and reality of witchcraft, plus the Eight Sabbats. West also devotes a chapter on how to become a witch and includes a quick overview of each type of witch. Regardless of the style one follows, the purpose of witchcraft is to harm nothing but to do what is right for your life.The one drawback was West's sparse history of Wicca. She focuses more on the present and goes into detail about preparing one's initiation, performing certain spells, and the tools one may or may not need while performing spell. There's also a brief overview of the herbs many witches use in their craft.What impressed me most about the book was the author's clear, relaxed style, and her respect for all things, including people who don't approve of witchcraft. This is a helpful beginning guide for those who are interested in studying the craft, or simply for the curious.
5 Kate West writes from the heart.  Her style is lovely, gentle, funny and very practical.  One can tell that she is a practioner of the Old Religion, that she loves what she does and that she is passionate about teaching others.There are hundreds of beginners books on Wicca now.  Most of them a waste of paper and ink! Save yourself time and money, buy this book and go with it.Recommended to beginners  - and teenagers who are truly interested in learning about Wicca and Witchcraft, from someone who knows what she is talking about.
4 Kate West impresses me because of her practical &quot;real life&quot; approach. This paarticular book had that quality. She dealt with outside influence and secrecy, and emphasized the importance of state of mind over tools. These sorts of information are in short supply in books on witchcraft.One of her greatest strenghths is also one of her weaknesses as an author: She has a tremendous amount of practical experiance. Her writing is from her own experiance rather than reseach. In a lot of ways this is good. It's certainly refreshing. But a seasoned practitioner, or at least researcher, isn't going to get a lot out of this book.She gives some useful information on the elements and how to deal with them, and a very basic introduction to Gods and Goddesses. The sample rituals are great. Some of the best beginner rituals I've seen because they are simple, the meanings of the actions are clear, and they can be built on easily as you become more experianced. The rituals are the only thing in this book I might use for reference.As beginner books go, it's not the best, and is certainly lacking in a few areas, but the intent is positive. If you've already read a few beginner books, I'd pass this one up, but I'd definitely recommend reading SOMETHING by Kate West. Her perspective is certainly helpful, even if every word she writes isn't.
4 One of the books that is very well written. It has an &quot;open arms embrace&quot; to the reader and has some laughter here and there...this tells me that the person can be serious and have a sense of humor right along with her readers..i recommend this book..you thank yourself later.
5 Kate West books are great.  Recommend them to anyone wanting to know know about witches and magic
4 I bought this book several years ago, when it was still fairly new, about 2002 or so.  It's a really good read.  There is a difference between American practices and UK practices, and it is evident in this book.  I still enjoyed it immensely.  Ms. West has a very down-to-earth approach to explaining the basics of Craft without overwhelming the reader.  Her introduction to the Wheel of the Year is fantastic, I love the simplicity of the rituals that she suggests, and the explainations of the Sabbats are wonderful, really showing how they really *are* a wheel, ever turning, ever flowing into each other.I've been practicing for 12 years, and I still find myself coming back to this book from time to time when I feel that I need some grounding and to brush up on my "basics".  Unlike other authors in paganism, there is no condescending commentary from the author, which is very nice and refreshing.I highly recommend this book to people who are new to Paganism, and would like a book on the basics.  There are so many beginner books on the market, sometimes it's hard to find a good one... this is one of the good ones.The Real Witches' Handbook: A Complete Introduction to the Craft
4 After leaving his friends stuck in the muck, Duck is living in the same rural area as Sheep, Frog and Goat.  Unfortunately for them, Duck now fancies himself a handyman.  However, his absent-minded ways make him more of a menace than a helper.  In fact, his "Fix-It" skills are less than even any shade tree mechanic.  Like with the first book, Alborough manages to surprise with a clever twist, that on second reading his foreshadowed throughout the book.  Once again the clever story line is complemented extremely well by the outstanding illustrations.
5 In this sequel to "Duck in a Truck" Duck attempts to fix a leak in his house and instead causes one problem after another for his long-suffering friends. We checked this book out from the library when my son was 2.5 and loved it so much that we bought it immediately. It is one of the few children's books that literally made me laugh out lout as I read it. For months, my son kept quoting the text and acted out various scenes with his toys. (Strictly speaking, children under 3.5 to 4 will probably not understand the point of the story but the expressive illustrations and rhythmic, rhyming text are appealing nonetheless.) We have read and enjoyed all of the books from the Duck series but this one is by far the best.
5 This is a really silly book about a well-meaning and kind-hearted but incompetent and accident prone duck who is just trying to be generous and helpful to his friends but winds up making more problems for himself and them.In "Fix-It Duck",  Duck tries to help by fixing mechanical things with his tools but he always winds up making more of a problem than the original thing he was trying to help correct. In the end we find out it was all started by a mistake anyway, so none of the disasters ever had to happen!It's the type of story where the animals are acting like humans and living in a world like humans, with different types of animals interacting with each other. This book has the white duck, a goat, a sheep, and a frog.The text rhymes and has a good rhythm and pace. It's the type that young children want to hear over and over again just for the wonderful sound patterns and rhymes.The illustrations are hand drawn and in full color with lots of detail.The book was originally published in Great Britian in 2001 and was brought to the American market in 2007 by Kane Miller Book Publishers.This is one book in a series about the duck. Other titles are "Duck in the Truck", "Hit the Ball Duck" and "Duck's Key - Where Can It Be?".
5 A short, rhyming story, this would make an excellent read-aloud for younger kids. Duck is sitting in his living room on a rainy day when a drop of water drips into his tea cup. He immediately launches into "Fix-It Duck" mode, setting out to repair the roof. But he doesn't have a ladder, so he sets out to borrow one from his friend Sheep. Sheep mentions that the window in his own roof (Sheep lives in a camper) leaks, and Fix-It Duck is on the job again. The reader rapidly figures out that Fix-It Duck, while well-intentioned, is an uncoordinated and accident-prone menace. But the thing about Duck is that he never gives up when things don't go as planned. He just makes a new plan, and keeps on going. For example, here's when he "fixes" Sheep's window:He does what he can to close up the gap.He glues it, screws it and gives it a tap.(SMASH - picture of broken window)"The problem," says Duck, "is your glass is too thin.""My house," wails Sheep. "The rain's coming in!""What we need," says Duck, with a glint in his eye,"is to pull your house to somewhere dry."And things get more out of control from there, with an added, funny twist revealed at the end.I found the text in this book quite catchy. It reads like a song. I was making lunch immediately after reading it, and kept hearing "This is a job for ... Fix-It Duck" repeating in my head, in a cheerful sort of way. The illustrations are exuberant and whimsical, with enough attention to detail to reward repeat readings. For instance, the amiable Duck drinks his tea out of a smiley-face mug, while the house-proud Sheep has a vase of colorful flowers in his window, and serves tea in flower-printed mugs. Duck also has a "DUCK1" vanity plate on his car, and a little duck-shaped hood ornament. Mostly, though, what comes across from the deft illustrations are the personalities of the characters, cheerfully clueless Duck, justifiably nervous Sheep, wary Goat, and shy little Frog, who makes an appearance in the end.The board book edition is sturdy, but in a larger format, with thinner pages, than  many board books. It's an excellent addition to the set of available board book titles. The colors are bright (despite the rain falling on every page), and I expect the book to hold up well to repeat readings. This book is sure to be a hit with the early pre-school crowd. Personally, I'll be keeping an eye out for Duck's other adventures.This book review was originally published on my blog, Jen Robinson's Book Page, on March 12, 2007.
5 Love, love LOVE!  Well, my grandson loves it, and it's a fun book for Grandma's too!  This Duck series has great books - I've purchased them all!
5 What a wonderful story this is....poor Fix-It-Duck only wants to help and he keeps making things worse and worse.  A delightful bedtime story you will enjoy again and again.
5 &quot;Plop! goes the drip that drops in the cup.  Duck looks down and Duck looks up.  A leak in the roof.  Oh, what bad luck!  This is a job for...FIX-IT DUCK.&quot;  Now, how to fix that roof.  It's way too high to reach, so he drives over to his friend, Sheep's house to borrow a ladder.  While there, he hears a &quot;rattle, creak, and squeak.&quot;  Sheep's window is stuck.  Never fear...this is a job for Fix-It Duck.  &quot;He does what he can to close up the gap.  He glues it, screws it, and gives it a tap.&quot;  SMASH.....  And so begins an entertaining chain of events story that will have little ones giggling as Fix-It Duck causes one mishap after another while trying to &quot;help&quot; his friends.  Jez Alborough's lilting, rhyming text is engaging, and filled with energy, rhythm, and humor.  Bold, bright, and busy cartoon artwork adds just the right touch to this hilarious misadventure, and sharp readers will notice the source of Duck's leaky roof trouble on the endpapers and title page (a running bathtub faucet), and will revel in the fact that they're in on the joke.  Perfect for preschoolers, Fix-It Duck is a wonderful, manic romp that begs to be shared and read aloud, and a terrific sequel to Mr Alborough's Duck In The Truck.
5 Even if this book is a bit older, it does not mean that the subject is not accurate. On the contrary, this book is still up to date and  worth to read. I would recommend this one to all the managers, middle managers and anyone who want to learn more about management. This is easy to read, not a text book like. It's simply style is charming and makes you want to read the next books by this same author.About the content of the book:The One Minute Manager reveals three secrets to productive and efficient managing as told through a young man's search for the perfect managing and leading skills. These three secrets are: One minute goals, one minute employee praisings, and one minute reprimand.These are all good advise for all the managers how to become a better leader and be more effective in their job.
5 Has a lot of good ideas and how to apply them in the workplace.  Good read and well worth the money.
5 I didn't read this book until after I retired, but I sure wish I had read it before I retired.  Managing people was always my weakness.  After reading this book, I see how easy I could have made it for myself.  I highly encourage anyone who desires management or entrepreneurial position to read this book, as well as my book.  - Aimee Elizabeth, Author of Poverty Sucks! How to Become a Self-Made Millionaire.
4 Plenty of relevant advice, improve relationships with employees and develope management skills. Fantastic book with an amazing narrative, extremely well written and a real pleasure to read.
4 It is likely reasonable to deem The One Minute Manager as a classic among management books. The obvious theme is managing people and employees, but the cover promises ways to simplify one's life, get more done and be less stressed. Along these lines, the authors have penned several other tomes including The One Minute Father/Mother, The One Minute Sales Person and others.The One Minute Manager emphasizes human dynamics and managing people as a means of achieving results. It might seem foreign or simplistic to some who espouse technology over people, blame employees first due to a preference for a top-down culture, care more for corporations than people, and ironically end up serving neither or those whose books and programs are not served by conceding to the fundamentals, but that highlights the need for the book even more.At first, the notion might seem absurd or a stretch, but the book is not a gimmick. The authors are a Ph.D. holder and M.D. respectively and have based the short and straightforward book on research into human behaviour and stimuli. This was my second time reading The One Minute Manager (The `One-Minute' Manager?) and it felt as interesting as the first time, which was back in 1996. After all these years, the advice of Kenneth Blanchard and Spencer Johnson rings true as does the endorsement of C-level persons from firms like Chevron and Jack In The Box.Perhaps like the reader, the book's narrator is a somewhat incredulous and curious person who is justly sceptical about the concept. He meets a man who is a `One Minute Manager' and has three tips. While these might sound simple and obvious the detail and methodology is the key. Using a story format, the book hones in on the three basic components of human management each of which should take approximately a minute to accomplish following the initial discussions and training that come with being a new employee or the initiation of a new project.1- One Minute Goal Setting. The technique insists on writing one's actionable goals down in a concise format of one page with no more than 250 words. That leads to knowing how to constantly measure performance, reviewing them and agreeing to them with one's manager.2- One Minute Praising. This is part of an upfront contract. Praise should follow the commendable action immediately and be specific. Impart sincerity by offering a slight physical touch and encourage more of the same.3- One Minute Reprimand. This is also part of an upfront understanding. The criticism happens as soon as the manager knows of the mistake and is very specifically about a behaviour and not the person. This is followed by a few seconds of silence and a reversion to the praise of the person overall. Do not dwell on it. Be tough at first in order to make sure the pleasant part comes second.People Who Feel Good About Themselves Produce Results. The number one motivator for humans is feedback on results.
1 Hands down, this is one of the most ludicrious books I have ever picked up.I was a little miffed when I opened the box and realized what I'd paid $11.95 (plus postage) for, but that was nothing. The print is large. Some of the pages are only half full. Was this an attempt to draw out what should have been a booklet? Or maybe not printed at all? The behavioral modifications presented can be picked up easily. Positive reinforcement gets better results than punishment-how new is that idea? Or how about "clearly communicate goals"?  Good grief. If this is truly the state of management today I think I'll take my master's in psychology, write a repetitive, inane book and make a fortune. If your IQ is above 75, skip this.
5 With a great concept. All his books seem to be pretty close to the same, so I say stick with the original!
4 Very very quick read. A classic. Very simple to understand. Great for communication and goal setting. You can incorporate this mindset into your management right away. Highly recommend.
5 A great book and a must read. You can apply the teachings to all aspects of life and not just management. Simple and quick to read. Should only take a couple of hours at the most.
4 This Johnson/Blanchard collaboration is one of the most synergistic and powerful of the Blanchard stable of management books.The principles are simple and may come across as intuitively obvious for most seasoned managers looking for motivational techniques for their charges. However, these time-tested techniques of appropriate praising and reprimands are often not applied in a timely enough fashion to achieve their maximal effect on staff and colleagues. As a result, managers sometimes wonder why their efforts fall short of producing tangible results.The authors seek to provide the Whys to the application of these techniques. This serves as powerful reminder to managers that although there is a price to pay in order to be a One-Minute Manager, there is a bigger price to pay if we do not become One-Minute Managers. The bigger price of course is the loss of the privilege to manage talents under our charge.This book deserves 4 stars for its creative, succinct parable-led coaching style which has served the readers well. It is true to its title of One Minute - Short, straight to the point, immediately applicable.
5 I have a wonderful hardcover copy of the book from Kenneth Blanchard and Spencer Johnson that started the whole "The One Minute..." best-selling series.Over the year the One Minute Goal and the One Minute Reprimand have been two of my favorites "One Minutes...."  This is a superb classic management book, reminding us of what is essential.  Indeed, parents can benefit from reading and applying the suggestions as well because, of course, parents are the "Managers" (and stewards) of their children.The One Minute Manager is a book I take off the shelf and review annually.  You will definitely want to add it to your library as well.
5 Everybody should read this book, specially business people. This book gives you a great perspective on how to treat you employees and people in general.
4 This book outlines precisely 3 principles: One Minute Goal Setting, One Minute Praises, One Minute Reprimands. People, like whales, pigeons, and dogs, will learn to achieve goals consistently when these principles are applied properly.The tone of this book could be updated. The first few pages grated on me a bit, as the dialog seemed forced and contrived. The pagination is also odd, with some pages containing less than half as much text as others.A good read to get some good basics before reading other management material.
4 This is a helpful book that explains the importance of effective management as applied to a hypothetical scenario.  Helping people reach their full potential and catching them doing something right are examples of the material in this text.  Common sense goes a long way, but common sense isn't as common as one would expect.
4 This is another book that was a textbook for my first class at Siena Heights University.  My professor made it amusing with the comment that it could be read in one sitting on the toilet.In fact, the only real problem I have with it is the idea of showing you value people if you really don't.  Other than that, it is brutally effecient.
5 THIS BOOK IS REQUIRED READING FOR ALL OUR MANAGERS WE FOUND THIS TO BE A BASIC,EASY TO READ AND APPLY DESK REFERENCE. THEY IS ALOT YOU CAN GET OUT OF THIS BOOK AND APPLY TO YOUR BUSINESS AND HOME LIFE. ANOTHER GREAT BOOK  THAT CAN TAKE YOU TO THE NEXT LEVEL IS THE 2000 PERCENT SOLOUTION. THIS IS  ALSO AN EASY TO READ, EVERYDAY USEFUL BOOK
4 Quick and easy read.  Had to read this for management continuing education.  Good managing skills means spend less time micro-managing and more empowering employees.
5 This book is really the cornerstone of so much of what people really do in management to be successful. As managers, we are so busy that it is often impossible to take any time to really learn anything new. But this book stays in my office all the time-- I can pick it up for a little refresher course anytime. A Classic!
3 I think I enjoyed this book at the time but it didn't leave much of an impression because a few months later I can't remember anything to say about that book.
1 I have a suspicion that many people have read this book for the same reason I have: they were forced to by their boss. All I can say is that if this truly represents the mindset of those who are managing today's business, heaven help us. This book is a time bomb. It encourages managers to be distant and not spend adequate time communicating with their employees. Is one minute really the proper amount of time to spend setting out goals and expectations for any reasonably complex project? Is one minute enough time to even give a basic description of a simple process? On top of this, the book encourages managers to be manipulative with the emotions of their employees, giving unthinkably ridiculous reprimands and praisings that will no doubt to serve as excellent opportunities for employees to mock the manager behind his back. That was my experience with the book, at any rate. In a modern, integrated workplace, the kind of thinking this book promulgates is likely to lead to widespread resentment and decreased productivity.Additionally, if the reader has any contact with even the most rote literature, the style of this book will come across remarkably facile and thunderingly dull. I truly cannot believe that this is directed toward anyone with a high school diploma. Another reviewer mentions that the book might be read as satire, an idea that I wish I had thought of when I slogged through it. If you see this one sitting on your manager's desk, be sure to toss it in the trash when he isn't looking. The workplace you save might just be your own.
2 The One Minute Manager is a parable outlining the fundamental aspects of a "One Minute Manager" program. In the introduction, the authors emphasize the use of the book as a management tool. The key, according to Blanchard and Johnson, is to learn from the program, applying the principles to daily management functions in an organization, and sharing the newfound wisdom with others.Each section is discussed according to the overarching narrative, followed by a summary emphasizing major concepts. They include "The First Secret: One Minute Goals," "The Second Secret: One Minute Praisings," and "The Third Secret: One Minute Reprimands." Mantras relating to these management techniques are peppered throughout the text, displayed as plaques in various offices. These facets are again summarized in the final chapters, reiterating the key points and offering examples regarding the application in actual situations (although the actual situations are ultimately odd and juvenile). The book concludes with encouragement to adopt the "One Minute" management style immediately, simultaneously sharing the "gift" of the program with others in a tone that eerily conjures cult recruitment.While the book certainly deals with management concepts, its usefulness as a practical tool is limited. Written from the point of view of an individual seeking more information on the ideal management style, the narrator is referred to an outstanding manager and seeks to discover the nuances of "One Minute" management, a concept that seems too good to be true. The narrative is extremely simplistic, frequently relying on examples that are trite and cloying. The character supposedly embodying the ideal manager is usually just irritating, bombastically talking too much without really saying anything at all. While this makes for a fast read that is easily digestible, it undercuts the seriousness of the lessons outlined by the author. These drawbacks are somewhat diminished through the helpful reiterations of key points in the "One Minute" summaries; serious managers looking for useful strategies without pedestrian fluff would benefit from focusing on these sections exclusively (which are literally encompassed by only four pages). The strategies are not innovative, although the condensed presentation of approaches to goal setting, praise, and reprimand successfully distill this information into extremely manageable parcels that will be easy to implement quickly and effectively. Some suggestions are outdated and potentially dangerous, such as recommendations to touch colleagues when offering feedback, but overall the basic suggestions remain relevant.Spencer and Blanchard both bring experience as management/human resource consultants for a number of well-known companies. It is clear that as an outgrowth of their consulting work, they have developed the "One Minute Manager" program and the text appears to be the marketing of their trademarked philosophy toward management. The real secret of the "One Minute Manager" is that none of the concepts are actually secrets. They are common, fundamental management principles given a catchy title and framed within a mediocre story. The ideas, while somewhat stale, may be more palatable to inexperienced and broad audiences through the highly anecdotal nature of their delivery.The One Minute Manager is ultimately useful for individuals seeking suggestions for basic management strategies in the areas of goal setting and evaluation/feedback. Readers seeking in-depth recommendations and management guidance will be disappointed, but those seeking a lighthearted and casual overview of commonly accepted management strategies might appreciate a cute story with a few helpful kernels that outline three fair, honest, and effective management techniques.
5 Imagine a show where a whale suddenly emerges above the surface of the water, jumps over a rope to a thunderous applause from the audience who don't mind being drenched by the splash of water. How was the whale trained to do this, one may wonder. The training had actually started under water, where the whale was rewarded with food each time it crossed over the rope. The rope was then gradually raised and the whale jumps over it even if is above the water level.Imagine the rope as the goal setting exercise in our organizations. We reward people for attaining their goals and we raise the bar every time to get the best out of every one.This book is about Goal Setting, Rewarding and Reprimanding. It also proves a very important concept. The normal confusion is that democratic managers sacrifice results while the result oriented managers sacrifice people. The One Minute Manager teaches us to be simultaneously good at achieving results and taking care of people.
1 What a pathetic and banal depiction  of humanity. It's nice to know that anybody with a pea-brain perspective on management can churn out a bestseller; albeit sad to know that the brainless masses buy into it.Do  yourself a favor and read Napoleon Hill and Carnegie for direction. This  book is horrible.
5 I read this book in my last year in university. I was a senior management student and after reading this book, I understood that during the past four years; I was not introduced to Ken Blanchard, and this masterpiece book.I will keep it short. This book is actually not a book, it is an advisor when you need one, it is a friend who approves or shows you what to do in some common, but real life situations in business life. This book, I suggest, should be read by everybody (not necessarily only by managers or supervisors or employees but everyone who lives a social life) because it teaches you how to communicate with people. It is so easy to read, and one should read after and after so that the principles and ways are embedded and implemented by the readers. Thank you Ken Blanchard and his co-authors for writing this book.
5 This book is a must read for everyone whether they are a boss, parent or just someone who is interested in becoming more effective in their life.  This book as well as the others by these authors ("The Present" and "Who Moved my Cheese") contain powerful messages with an economy of words, they are all around 100 pages each.  I have read everything I can find by them and have shared them with family and friends.
5 If you can't role model, you certainly can't expect others to participate in your surpassing your responsibiities.This is a small book, with a big message&quot;Demonstrate that you are listening to each person who you want to influence to perform, on your behalf.&quot;In one minute do you set a goal that all participants understand and voluntarily follow?  Do you also praise others in one minute? What about reprimands - yes, one minute?When you've mastered this you don't feel compelled to press against anyone's mind.  You also expand what Napoleon Hill called the benefit of your mastermind.
2 Another business book from bestseller list. Does it really help your vision? I do not think so. It is simple, well written, easy to read book. But, I did not get anything from it. If you have really have time, go ahead and read it. By the way, it takes only 45 minutes to finish it.
3 classic
5 I was a little disappointed when 'The One Minute Manager' arrived in the mail and I saw its small size and large fonts. However, this tiny little fairy-tale is the best management book I've read. I strongly recommend this book for managers in all fields, including professors in academia. 'The One Minute Manager' takes less than an hour to read, and if you have any interest in becoming a better manager or a stronger leader, surely you can risk 60 minutes of your time? The ideas are not contrived, artificial mechanisms that interfere with our natural personalities. Instead, the entire strategy can be implemented by following a few simple rules that feel natural and are easy to perform and maintain. Sound too good to be true?  Just try it!A word of caution though, use of the strategy assumes the individuals on the manager's team are intelligent, and the tools presented are designed to encourage subordinates to become more independent and responsible, not reliant on a manager's approval, input or direction on minor decisions. Any manager who wants to be involved in all aspects of a project couldn't possibly use the strategies of 'The One Minute Manager' without driving his team nuts.
5 A brief and interesting read about management. It is not overly technical so it would benefit anyone wanting to improve their time management skills.
5 I've used this book for years and recommended it to my employees who worked independently throughout the country. When my youngest son started his own business I gave him this to help him stay on target with his workday. When your daily schedule is self-directed, it's so easy to become overwhelmed with challenges and distractions. This book gives you a tool to help you accomplish what must be done by taking a minute several times a day to evaluate and prioritize your activities.I've recommended it for years and put my money where my mouth is...bought it and gave it to others many times.
4 One Minute Manager was a runaway hit when first published in 1982.  It made popular a style of presenting a business lesson in very short story format.  This book tells 3 things that a manager should do: establish clear goals with employees; give praise; and give reprimands.  Praises and reprimands must be specific and timely.The one minute manager approach is not only to do those three things (above), but to do them in a minute.  This is great because a meeting would only last a minute.  Meetings can carry on longer than expected without a way to know when to terminate the meeting.  Also, some theorists say that meetings generally serve the purpose of affirming who is in charge.  This theory at least offers an explanation for why top management appears to enjoy meetings, especially longer ones, while the rank and file tends merely to endure many meetings.
5 The One Minute Manager is direct and to the point. It teaches you what you need to know without all the fluff. The book reveals that techniques that increase your productivity, job satisfaction and personal achievement. The book gives you three very practical secrets on how to be a good manger and get the most productive out of your team while keeping them inspired and engaged.This book is simple, short and opens your eyes to the right way of managing your team and workplace.
3 If you have commanded troops don't waste your time on this book.  If you are new to corporate leadership and management don't waste your time on this book.  If you want a simple bedtime read go for it.
5 I read this books years ago and loaned it to someone or misfiled it in my library.  At any rate, it is a must have book for managers so I bought another one to replace the one I loaned or misplaced.
4 There are three simple precepts, which the One Minute Manager establishes with his employees: One Minute Goal Setting, One Minute Praisings, and One Minute Reprimands.  This makes the basics of the book very simple to understand.  I was quite stunned to find the content extremely useful.  Strangely the simplicity of the book is deceiving. This book is good for those that are looking for a quick read and who are either currently managing people or wanting to manage people.Goal setting is all about making sure employees understand perfectly what their duties are, what is expected of them and that there are no surprises. The Praisings and Reprimands are simply managers acknowledging that the employees are doing there jobs or not and how to deal with the situation and how to convey it to the employee.In my opinion the book is pretty good but I think everyone should read Leadership and the One Minute Manager rather than this book as Leadership is essential and it is what differentiates great companies from good ones.  The key, like most books that are self-help, is to apply these principles each and every day.  Catch yourself when you slip and find ways to incorporate them into your value system.
5 this book is a good read.  i heard about it and i bought it!  the price of this book is the best investment i have made since my promotion!  i have read it two times already and i learned something new each time.  the goal setting was a skill that i lacked.  also i was reminded how important praising is to the employee.  my skills were enhanced by this book!!!
4 This is another parable book by Spencer Johnson.  I still think "Who Moved My Cheese" is the better of the books as far as delivering the message and getting you to think.The message here is to "train" your workers to effectively complete their tasks/goals by using one minute goal setting, and one minute praise and reprimands.  The author argues that this method is more effective than simply hiring someone, giving them a job description, and then giving them an annual review. He uses an analogy of a bowler bowling a strike. The bowler feels accomplishment when he sees how many pins he has hit right away. The feedback is immediate and it is obvious.  If the bowler bowls but an imaginary paper is blocking his view of the pins and all he hears is the strike, then how does he know what just happened; did he do well or do poorly? In the same way, if you don't let your workers know they are doing a good job or even doing a bad job and you just evaluate them once a year, they will show about the same enthusiasm as the bowler who "bowls in the dark."If you are a good manager or a good boss, I would hope you are already actively monitoring and praising your workers progress.  I think if you are a go-getter, you probably already manage this way because you care about the people working for you and the work at hand.  I had a supervisor one time when I was at my first job and he used a similar style of managing and things always got done. I felt comfortable around him and work was fun.  I had another supervisor in another department that didn't have a clue what was going on. Some people were working, some were slacking and some things just would not seem to get done; the department was inefficient and it was a mess.The goal of the one minute manager is to make sure everybody clearly knows what needs to be done, and when something isn't getting done, you need to offer immediate feedback by reprimanding them. When things are getting done, you need to also offer feedback in the form of praise/encouragement.  The key to all of this is to let your workers know beforehand that this is how you manage.I only paid a buck for this book so obviously I feel that I got my money's worth.  I don't think it's worth the full price considering the message is rather on the basic and somewhat obvious side.  I still think it's worth a read. There is no A-ha! moment here, but this advice certainly can benefit you not only at work but also in other relationships.
5 This is a very effective message in managing and communicating with people under your charge. It can be applied in any situation whether military or civilian. It's more effectve when used in a small group in my opinion. You can see the one minute manager technique in action simply by watching shows like &quot;ST: Next Generation&quot;.  Capt. Picard uses it consistantly throughout the series when reprimanding Worf or Data. It's a short book and can be finished in one sitting. I remember to always give praise and encouragement after reprimanding someone. Works everytime!!
4 I enjoy Blanchard's way of telling a story to communicate another business idea and practice.  It's a quick read and you understand what he's doing right away.  The One Minute Manager seems a bit hokey at first but many of its recommendations I can see how they'd work and I plan to incorporate most of it in one way or another.
5 The book is brief, the language is simple, and the best of all...it works.This handy, and concise book will teach you how to manage your life (Not only your Work!!), and thus reduce your stress, simplify your life, and get the work done in less time.What you will find in this book is an easy to read story, that quickly teaches you three very successful and practical management techniques: One Minute Goals Setting, One Minute Praising, and One Minute Reprisals.Its story format makes this book readable and light,.. but yet very insightful and effective. You will want to read this book over and over, just for the pleasure of doing it. I bought this book 13 years ago, and I still enjoy reading it.
5 
5 Is there a short, easy-to-read management book that can be really useful to the businessman but also helpful for the housewife and in the conduct of family affairs? Is it possible to squeeze into 100 pages enough valuable information so that it serves a multiple audience and could even be a guide for raising children? This book is based on techniques occupying one minute. Concentrating on three core issues, the author first concentrates on goals. In the business world goals would probably be getting more bang for the buck or more widgets per shift or greater efficiency; in the home goal setting can start with children making the bed, keeping the bedroom tidy or clearing up afterwards. Goal setting is only successful if both parties buy into it - boss and employee or parent and child. Agreeing on objectives, expressing them concisely as bullet points, and setting a time frame may take more than a minute but they can be reviewed rapidly and without dispute. The other two core issues - praise or reprimand - follow naturally and each party knows in advance what it will be. There are no surprises.You can easily read this book and map out your strategy in an evening. It is difficult to imagine that anyone could not find this book helpful in some part of their life.
5 I finally ordered this book to see for myself if all the hype was true.  After reading through the pages very quickly (it only took a couple of brief sittings), I was thoroughly impressed.  Blanchard and Johnson truly have a classic here, a volume that fulfills its high expectations.The key to the success of this book is the combination of its simplicity and its practicality.  Three lessons are given to managers:  the one-minute goal, the one-minute praising, and the one-minute reprimand.  The material is presented in a parable-like format, which makes the concepts even easier to grasp.I cannot recommend this book highly enough.  For the small price paid and the short time required to read it from cover to cover, it is a superb investment.  If you are any type of leader or manager, READ THIS BOOK!
2 The book was boring and not very informative.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone.  The way it was told, like a story, was really silly.
5 Great principles in this book that stand firm in the management space. It's laid out simply but packed with a lot of power that sends an important message to all in the positon to lead.Navigating Life's Roadways: Stories of Insight from My Odyssey and Inspiration for Your Journey
5 Geat reading material, enjoying the contents and sharing with fellow employees.  Love the Author!  Learning from this book is excellent.Thanks,Denise
4 This is a simple, though not simplistic, management book which can be read in one sitting and the message is easily understood.  The principle is that by setting clear goals, praising people when you catch them doing something right (this is by far the most important takeaway from the book) and promptly reprimanding them, in an objective, matter of fact way, whenever they veer off the right path, you become an effective and efficient manager while setting people on the right path to managing themselves and eventually managing others.  Though no credit is given to others for these ideas, it's clear that they are founded on the principles of positive reinforcement that come from behavioral psychology and had previously proved efficacy in fields ranging from animal training, therapy for people with disabilities (i.e. applied behavioral analysis used for autism) and various forms of mental illness, and can definitely help regular people achieve even higher levels of performance.The book is almost 30 years old and, because it's more principle centered rather than practical, I would say it has stood the test of time quite well.  Given today's complex work environment, where often times responsibilities are difuse and not clearly defined, things like "one minute" goal settings should be taken in a more aspirational than in a literal way, and as long as you see it that way you can get much value out of this book.  In fact many performance management systems today are already based on these ideas, so it's useful to understand them.
4 A little oversimplified and repetitive, but still a classic management book. Every leader should read this. Its concepts are so simple, and yet, there are so many managers in the world who remain ignorant of them! I wish every boss and senior colleague I have ever had, have, and will have would read this book.
5 Bought the book for a management study group after having read it several years ago.  Excellent tool for new managers.  Easy reading in parable format.  Lots of follow-up work available by Blanchard and others.
5 When most people become a manager for the first time, they are more than a little unsure of themselves.  Naturally, they often use speech and  ways of doing things that they have seen others use.  That's great if their role  models are good, but can be terrible otherwise.The One Minute Manager  provides a positive role model for those who have not yet seen one, and  good reinforcement for those who have not seen one lately.If  organizations try to operate on the assumption that only the manager has  ideas worth acting on, then very little will be accomplished.  The One  Minute Manager provides a useful model for opening up and stimulating the  minds of everyone in the organization to accomplish more.Not only is  this advice worth following from an effectiveness point of view, it will  also make you feel better about yourself as a manager and as a person when  you follow it.  And you will certainly make those who report to you feel a  lot better, as well.I like the use of a parable to help each of us  reexamine ourselves, because it makes the reader feel less defensive.  But  be sure to remember what you gut instincts would have been in the same  situations the One Minute Manager describes.  Otherwise, you may miss the  point of how much your behavior needs to change.This is one of a  handful of books well worth rereading annually.Unlike most business  books, this one is short and easy to read.  The academic language has been  banished, and it is well written.If you want to go beyond The One  Minute Manager to get even better results, you will have to learn and use  other beneficial habits as well.  But you can have all the great ideas in  the world, and if you annoy and stifle everyone around you, not much  will  happen.  So think of this book as necessary for more success, but not  sufficient in and of itself for getting the utmost benefits in working with  others.
5 This is a great book to read, It makes you think about your management style. It does not take long to read an should make you a better manager at the same time. I highly recommend this to anyone who is a manager.
5 The principles are what you want to take away not the literal persona of the &#34;manager&#34; in this story...it's a great metaphor to help you break the &#34;I don't have time to manage&#34; or &#34;I must micromanage my team&#34; nonsense...
5 This is an excellent book for teaching simple communicationsin a typical business environment. The main theme is to providemeaningful communication immediately when an employee act is tobe praised or criticized. The idea is to have an immediateassociation between the praise or blame so that much timedoes not pass between your recognition of the critical behaviorand the quick assessment and communication of it. In rapidsuccession, the author poses many typical scenarios and theoptimal response to the observed behaviors . This book can helpyou to assess critical behaviors so that corrective action canbe taken at a point in time when you have the most control.
5 Instructing and managing three departments has been known to be time consuming if not draining. K. Blanchard offers simple and easily attainable methods in improving performance while making those you lead feel even better about themselves. Happy people who feel good about their work and achievements  want to achieve even more. It feels good not to dread reprimands. It feels great to have an easily execution-able action plan. It feels wonderful having structured positive encounters that create time in the day.
5 Very interesting take on a great manager. This book is short, to the point and is written like a novel which makes is real easy to read. What I liked about it is its wisdom. It gives you quick but effective lessons on how to treat people that work for you right, how to create the most effective organization through your people and how to free up your own time by delegating and developing experts within your organization. Read it, you won't regret it. I won't recommend buying it though, get it through your local library.
3 The One Minute Manager is one of those books that stands even on grocery store shelves, which indicates to me not only that it is a best-seller but also that it is for people with short attention spans who crave repetition. In fact, the One Minute Manager is one of those books that is easy about which to generalize without even reading it first. You, like me, might be wrong about your pre-conceived notions about it. But it is nearly inevitable to make judgments about the book before reading it. While the content turns out to be more useful and less dismissive than I first feared it might, a book of this style and (considerable lack of) length really lends validation and credibility to a managerial style suited for those without real leadership skills-the brush off, the rude and direct kiss off or needless and personal criticism. Sure, when time is limited we may not have the time to be sensitive and to speak deliberately in soft metaphors that cushion the real and blunt intent of our words. However, tact is always appropriate, but this book somehow excuses those who choose to communicate in a non-productive but always critical fashion, even though the book's content by no means condones such tactics. The book's style might lead you to dismiss it as I originally did. It offers quick, keen, simplistic distillations, a McDonaldization fast food approach, if you will, to dealing with people. Never having managed people, I always had the impression that I have been managed by people who absorb the brief and oversimplified &quot;methods&quot; espoused here. Read the eminent qualifications of the writers (developers of the &quot;one minute system&quot;) and you will be convinced that they definitely discovered the essence of this fast food managerial style. Maybe Blanchard and Johnson have perfected it, but in true self-help &quot;hackery&quot; those who read the book will selectively choose bits and pieces of the philosophy to apply to their own stylistics or, worse yet, will adopt the book's tenets with almost Biblical reverence and live all facets of life according to the One Minute Gospel. This sort of book is theoretically dangerous if misapplied because it very easily and summarily reduces people, problems and communication to ONE MINUTE. It reeks of shallowness and erases the human face of management (much like Boeing executives who recently announced that they will leave Seattle. Most likely so they will not have to face the employees when the time comes to fire them). Strangely the simplicity of the book is deceiving. Some people who employ these theories fail to remember the very first and overriding principle the book names, &quot;The One Minute Manager's symbol-a one minute readout from the face of a modern digital watch-is intended to remind each of us to take a minute out of our day to look into the faces of the people we manage. And to realize that they are our most important resources.&quot; This book encourages managers to discover &quot;how people produce valuable results and feel good about themselves&quot;, but the &quot;knowledge&quot; most people gain from this book in reading it is seldom applied this way. For example, the book emphasizes giving constructive criticism... letting an employee know immediately when s/he has done something good or when s/he has done something wrong and why. A close friend's manager, as an example of a horror story of misapplied principles, read an employee's write-up of something and wrote an expletive in LARGE, red letters across the text of the write-up but failed to provide any insight as to why he wrote that or why he felt it necessary to belittle the work of his employee. He might ask himself the question that the book asks, &quot;How on earth can I get results if it's not through people? I care about people AND results. They go hand in hand.&quot; It is only natural and logical that if you belittle, ridicule, or mistreat your employees, they will not respect you as their manager, will not be as willing to give their best and will certainly be less productive as a result. &quot;Productivity is both quantity and quality.&quot; In the One Minute Management philosophy there are three simple precepts which the One Minute Manager establishes with his employees: One Minute Goal Setting, One Minute Praisings, and One Minute Reprimands. These are all very logical steps-goal setting makes sure that employees understand perfectly what their duties are, what is expected of them and that there are no surprises. Many times in real life managers assume employees know exactly what to do without sitting down with them and concisely defining the goals. (A problem exists if there is a difference between what is actually happening and what you desire to be happening). Sadly, a common description of a misguided manager sounds a lot like managers I have encountered, including those who have read this book. They focus on the negative and do not make their expectations clear. Then they &quot;zap&quot; the employee at a performance review to make themselves look good or like they are administering discipline, an approach completely full of vanity and professional insecurity. It also leads to unhappy and fearful employees and benefits no one. One Minute Praising is all about the manager catching the employee doing something right and giving her/him immediate feedback. This is seen as a motivator, with constructive progress reports, focused on the positive. Lastly, the one minute reprimands are honest, direct, specific &quot;what's wrong with what you did and why&quot; moments. These moments are handled with sensitivity and define only wrong behavior not personal attacks on an individual. The book, my friends, is basically common sense. Plain and simple. &quot;People are not pigeons. People are more complicated. They are aware, they think for themselves, and they certainly don't want to be manipulated by another person. Remember that and respect that. It is a key to good management.&quot; This is one statement I can take away from this book, feeling like the 80 or so pages were worthwhile. Now if only I could plaster that statement across the foreheads of the bad managers throughout the world.
3 One minute on the clock and go! This book had interesting points as well as surprisingly brash and blunt points (e.g. the &#34;One Minute Manager&#34; getting upset and warning the man who came to question him not to make him repeat himself). The &#34;One Minute Manager&#34; claims to like people and results. The latter part is understood. However, does he really like people? It seems his personality is similar to most other managers (i.e. condescending, haughty, curt, speciously polite, etc.). Although the &#34;One Minute Manager&#34; needs to work on his people skills, if you peel back his (onion) layers, he seems to authentically want both his business and his people to succeed. Oh no, my minute's up. There's the door. Take care now. ;-)
3 Sometimes we need somebody who reminds us of what we already know. I guess it's the same with this book. This book points out the 3 key elements on managing people / staff. (It takes more then managing staff to be a good manager).  Basic line the three techniques of one-minute management - clear goal setting, one-minute praisings and one-minute reprimands.The book is written in a way that's easy to read, don't expect rocket science.
5 I order this book for all the people I give gifts to.  I read it myself years ago.  It does not get better than this for helping to deal with people and in a concise format.
2 Kenneth Blanchard and Spencer Johnson birthed a monster writing style when they published THE ONE MINUTE MANAGER, "The Runaway #1 National Bestseller!" -- and that style is surrounding a hideously boring topic with clich&eacute;s, adverbs, adjectives, redundancies, dull characters, and exclamation points. The book is then called a nonfiction fable. Hunh?When this book came out in 1981 it used a new, perhaps fresh, approach to teaching management skills, but since then it has been copied and copied and copied ... when it should be put in a cage. It's time to stop dumbing down and start smartening up books for managers. Enough already!Note: You'll only need 1 minute to get what's useful out of this book.
5 I had read this book previously but loaned it out.  My daughter has just taken a promotion at work and asked to read my copy.  I bought her one to keep and she is already using the wisdom contained in its pages.
4 A lot can be gained by learning one minute praise, one minute reprimand, one minute goal setting, etc.  It leaves you with 7 plus hours to just loaf all day and let your employees do what is needed, if that is what you choose.  Employees actually do like the one minute approach.
5 The One Minute Manager is a narrative about a young man looking for the most effective management skills. Through this parable, Kenneth Blanchard and Spenser Johnson seek to show what makes the most effective management approach, an approach that allows for employee innovation and creativity. The book includes topics on motivating, appraisals and sanctions as well as goal setting.I believe that the advice offered here is very practical and applies to most managerial scenarios. While some may dismiss it as lacking in academic structure, the concepts offered here can help many managers become more effective in motivating and inspiring their employees to creativity and performance. The use of the parable not only simplifies the concepts but also makes you feel less attacked, especially if you are at a managerial position.Whether you are a new manager or you have been in a managerial position for some time, this book has some hidden gems to help in your role. It is imperative to put the advice into practice to see the results. I would recommend this book to anyone who is overseeing others in a managerial capacity.
4 With three employees, it can be hard to keep everyone motivated, working hard and knowing what to do. This very short, simple read gives you three pieces of advice. The goal is to let your employees know that you're happy to guide them, but that you want them to eventually learn to make good decisions on their own.You achieve this by:1. developing short, written goals for each employee that they can read and reread in less than a minute.2. explaining to them that you're going to be very blunt and clear in your negative and positive feedback.3. giving them negative and positive feedback as often as is necessary, in a structured way, so that everyone feels fair about it.The only thing I really hate about this book is that it encourages you to touch your employees on the arm or shoulder after giving positive or negative feedback. I'm sorry, but I hate being touched by people I'm not close with. I'd find that horribly invasive and inappropriate, were I an employee, and if someone gave me negative feedback and then touched me, I'd be very creeped out. I understand that other people may not be this way, but I'd use caution in following that part of the book, as people's reactions to being touched vary wildly.Other than that small complaint, I found this book full of very important, clear advice. It's important for employees to always know where they stand and to feel empowered to make independent decisions, and I appreciated the guidance on how to implement that in my small landscaping business.
4 I read this book right after reading the book "Who Moved My Cheese" by the same authors. It is also a quick read and can be read in about an hour and a half or so. The book is easy to read, and quite frankly I found it a lot better than the cheese book.Mostly because it gives managers a good insight into what we do wrong and one possible way to correct this.Their method comes down to a simple advice: Do not wait with compliments and complaints and scoldings and praise until the annual review, but do it whenever it is needed and then scold the behavior, but appreciate the person.Their second advice (although it is given first) comes down to making clear to both manager and subordinate what is expected. Too many employees and managers think different of what is expected of them and have not written it down. Thus confusion begins and people feel unjustly treated.This book I also borrowed from the library, although I might someday buy it. I would recommend this book, both due to its good advice and easy readability. But I find the price of 16 dollars high for the content in it.
4 At the beginning of the year, Jeff sat down with our team and challenged us to set some goals. We're not really goal setters here. We're working on it, because we see the value of it. Typically goal setting hasn't been the easiest or most intuitive thought process for our team. BUT the one goal that has been really fun for me to work on is a reading list.On the top of The List was The One Minute Manager by Kenneth H. Blanchard and Spencer Johnson. The book tells a story and recounts the 3 main management tips through the story. Set clear goals, praise successes, reprimand bad behavior.That's it. Well, there are a few more tips in how to do it in a positive way that will produce the behavior you're looking for, but it was a pretty straightforward look at how to take minimal amounts of time to create productivity and efficiency in your team. There will be a few things I definitely incorporate into my work. I agree that it is absolutely essential for your team to undersand the goal at hand, and to be set in a direction to be able to accomplish the goal.Secondly, the authors made a big point to look for what team members are doing right. They say to focus on and reinforce good behavior instead of bad behavior. This is something I would really like to work on within my team, and in my personal life. It sounds like a great way to work within relationships in general.[...]
3 My first real manager pointed me in the direction of this book, and you know what it's helpful.  Offering some nice tips on how to make people feel important.  One tip in the book about touching people on the elbow or shoulder really adds something to a quick exchange.  Nothing earth shattering here but if you are new to managment or want to brush up on some concepts before going on a first interview for a managment job this is a nice read.
5 I'm a human resources manager and use this book and CD to help first-time supervisors understand the power of managing people properly.  Not an intimidating, theoretical book that they will never read, but a real world "how-to" manage people.  It's a great first step as they make their foray into management. Plenty of time for the heavier stuff later in their careers.
5 Once you read this, you will never think a boss is as good as the one in the book...unless they have read it and use it! I can't say enough good things about this. Readable within an hour. Stays with you for a lifetime!!
5 One of the best books you can read. It is practicle and gets right to the point. It may have been written some years ago but is still right on point.
5 The ONLY book, from the guys who decided to keep milking this one good book, that really is worth a damn. Good, simple management perspective. Over-simplified? Maybe. But, practical, and useful. Especially for new management. At least worth the time. And, hey- you can easily read it in one sitting.
4 ...just started a new part time job and I read this because the owner found it to be extremely influential in her management style. This book is lickety-split-quick. I read it in about two hours. The story is a fable about a young man who wants to meet the ideal manager, who turns about to be a "one-minute-manager", a composite taken from the authors' research. This book illustrates simple principles in an accessible way with focus on goal setting, affirmation, and effective, though caring, criticism when goals are not met.For me, this is an effective book as this is a new area of research focus for me. If you're starting out with management techniques or understanding management techniques, then books like this provide accessible points of entry into the field. Ultimately, the book struggles with two flaws that reduce my rating. First, I would like to have more access to the research that generated the one-minute-manager. Without that research this book can be viewed as a fictional fable rather than a practical one. Second, I feel that while effective, several of the techniques are not practical for American business. I asked my dad, a Wharton grad, about this book, and he said that it was in vogue for a while in the 1980s and then lost its influence in ways that books like "The Seven Habits of Effective People" did not. I feel that the reason the book fails is that it treats American employees and employers like rational, grounded individuals. If you read the Wall Street Journal and the newspapers, you realize that Americans are irrational beings and that this ideal is not always practical. Setting goals with a person that has been marginalized culturally, spiritually, economically, and socially is too reductionist an approach. I'm very interested in programs and management styles that will work with difficult employees, the one's that currently sap the strength of most of the large businesses in corporate America and the large institutions such as our public schools. I think that books like "The One Minute Manager" are best for start ups and new blood who want to impose a new corporate culture on a blank slate. For the majority of businesses that are established and trying to dramatically change course, the ideas in this book will be helpful, but not immediately applicable.--4 stars--SD
4 This is a good book for first-time managers.  It's short, quick and to the point.  The biggest benefit is showing that reprimands and praise deserve equal time.  Employees don't grow if they don't make mistakes, and some of the greatest learning opportunities come from reprimands followed by encouragement.Since the whole books takes about an hour to read, it's well worth your time.
4 I just reread this great little primer on management and found it just as helpful as I did fifteen years ago. While its concepts are simple, they are also quite effective IF managers (including teachers, parents, and front-line supervisors) would implement them correctly. The three secrets of one-minute goal setting, one-minute praisings,and one-minute reprimands are based on sound behavioral principles and are bound to work as long as certain guidelines are met. For instance, goals should be realistic and specific, praisings should be sincere and immediate, and reprimands should end with a bit of encouragement. I love the idea of managers walking around trying to catch people doing things right. What a refreshing idea!Read the book and apply the principles in your home, office, or factory. While the three guidelines won't solve every human relations problem, they offer sound, practical advice that will lay the foundation for effectiveness.
4 I had put off reading this book because of the idea that management can't occur in one minute.  Wrong.  While it takes much longer to become a good manager, the tiny minutes in a day gives us ample opportunity to manage people for positive results.  This book isn't rocket science.  It's written in Ken Blanchard's sensible, easy to read parable format that makes it as much fun to read as it is insightful.  Managers, whether aspiring, new or old-hands will find something that challenges them to be better working with their people.  I suggest you make it required reading for your management staff.
5 Purchased this as a replacement because it is loaded with great tips. Shipped quickly. Arrived in good condition. Recommended for anyone wishing to manage their time better.
3 I believe I bought this as a school text book. I don't even remember one thing about it. Sorry... maybe someone else can be more helpful.
5 Great lessons, quick read, concise principles. Easy to implement and great results. It's a winner for everyone when you implement these lessons.
5 I use this with every new management coaching client. It's approachable and allows almost anyone to try its ideas and get early success.Jim GrewThe Business Transition Defogger
1 I read all the business and management books that I can find and this is by far the worst I have ever seen.  The main character spends the entire book devoting his life to improving at his job after he makes a mediocre presentation to a client.  In the end he finally presents the results of all his hard work to his supervisor. When she reacts positively, he stammers "you mean you are not going to fire me?"  Are you kidding me?  He showed he is as dedicated an employee as there ever was and worked like crazy to get better at his job.  After all his dedication he ends up with very little self confidence.  And even worse, his boss replies, "I can't afford to fire you." She jokes about how much they have invested in his training.  Unbelievably bad book, the writing is very sophmoric, and the overall message is one of self doubt, groveling, and low self confidence. Save your money and avoid this book!
3 I was referred to the One Minute Manager series when I asked someone I considered an excellent manager if he could recommend some management resources.  The One Minute Manager introduces readers to the three techniques of one-minute management - clear goal setting, one-minute praisings and one-minute reprimands.The points are laid out clearly and the recommendations simple and easy to implement.  The book can be read quickly in a single sitting or several short pages at a time.  Those with very little time can read the four pages that summarize all the points made in the book.What bothered me about the book was the portrayal of the business world as a very male environment.  A young man looks for the perfect manager and finds the amazing One Minute Manager, referred to throughout the book as, "quite a guy!"  The male employees, described by age, explain goal setting and praisings.  The female employees, described with adjectives indicating their dress or competence, are secretaries, those providing general info, or those being reprimanded.  All but one of the acknowledgements are to men as are all but one endorsement.  The authors use sports - golf, football and bowling, as analogies, making for a tone off-putting to female readers.  Only on the last page does a young woman come to the formerly young man, now a successful One Minute Manager, seeking advice.It's not a bad book, if you can ignore the gender stereotypes, but it's also quite basic.  I learned more from the One Minute Manager Builds High Performing Teams.
4 This book is a very fast read and gives and overview to some nice concepts.  Managing people is a bit more complicated than the book explains, so I consider this book and intro to see if you enjoy reading management books.  If you like this book, then there are many more solid books out there to graduate to.
5 This book is simple, short, and reveals some profound truth about management. I have been a military officer, and now I manage a start-up company. Regardless the scenario, whether military or tech start-up, one thing hasn't changed, people remain as the biggest asset of the organization. This book tells you how to quickly and efficiently manage people, their emotion and productivity. It's a simple system, if it wasn't simple, it wouldn't work.
5 This is a great little introduction to personnel management.  Though slightly misnamed, the book introduces three skills of management which can be done in a concise way (but probably not quite 60 seconds).  Managers should cast clear vision and expectations, commend good work, and correct mistakes.  That's it.The reason the book is so good is that so many managers can't or won't do those three simple things.  The ability to confront employees in a non-combative way is too abrasive for sensitive people-people, and too limited for true autocrats.  Praise is simple and obvious enough, but many managers think they've done it when they haven't.  And precise goal-setting is sometimes beyond business leaders who do not have sharp mental editing skills.  When you're finished with the book, you haven't heard anything you didn't already know, you've only been reminded of how important it is to do these things.  Like diet and exercise, most of us know what's best for us regardless of whether or not we do it.  Additionally, and this is a subtle point, the manager has to express how he or she feels about an employee's performance, and accurate expression of feeling is sometimes beyond the emotional range of some really driven leaders.It's a top notch, brief read.  Everyone in leadership ought to read it, even if they walk away with nothing new.  The only thing I'd correct is some mediocre narrative, as the whole book is written as a fictional set of interviews by a young manager-to-be of his idiolized One Minute Manager, running a company.  But no one's reading this book because they meant to pick up a good novel, so writing style is a minor issue.  That aside, it's worth the content.
5 excellent book series
4 GEN George Patton has been quoted as saying, "Don't tell people how to do things. Tell them what to do and letthem surprise you with their results."That premise nicely summarizes The One Minute Manager. Skilled, motivated employees need only be pointed in the right direction and management should be minimal. Communicate concisely what needs to be done in objective terms and get out of the way. Monitor the systems and give appropriate feedback only as needed.This book propounds the best way to accomplish this is by first writing out tasks and goals that can measured and reviewed quickly. Counsel, positive and negative, quickly and only in job-related terms. The One Minute part communicates keeping this to the point. Write goals, including the means to measure results, so they can be reviewed in about a minute. Especially at first, tell people what they are doing right and wrong as soon as possible to keep them on track. Most of the time, good managers will be in the background.It's so simple..... so why do we need a book? Too many folks don't do this! Failing to communicate tasks, give objective goals, failing to praise when warranted and waiting to reprimand until it's dumped out at an annual review is all too common.If you've ever been in the military you've certainly suffered this. How often did you stand around for formation (a team meeting in military-speak) to rehash things you already knew? Did you ever receive a written statement with goals/gates/tasks that were clear and measurable? Did you ever receive a written POSITIVE counseling statement for a great accomplishment? Did you deal with idiots that probably shouldn't be in the military but weren't removed because their leadership (boss) never bothered to formally reprimand and deal with them? If you can't honestly answer "yes" you're probably one of those that should have been kicked out!The One Minute Manager is a great management style for working with skilled people.
5 As an executive trainer, I purchased this book for one of the new young manager candidates in our organization who was having trouble especially in handling poor performance. The One Minute Reprimand was the solution.
5 This is a classic.  It covers the three essential elements of being a high-speed and efficient manager.  I also like the &quot;business story&quot; format.  In fact when I wrote &quot;The Virtual  Entrepreneur&quot; (BPRI Press, 1999), I specifically decided to write a  business fable due to my favorable experience with &quot;The One Minute  Manager.&quot;  Thanks!
5 The one minute manager series is excellent guidance for rookie managers. Too many of us have conditioning in our minds from poor sources like TV, movies, previous bosses, etc. of what a manager &#34;should&#34; be like. I thought I would only need to imitate these things to be an effective manager, but that's not the case. There's a lot more to being a manager than just this book, like goal setting and motivation, but Ken sets up the bare basics for you in how to treat your people fairly and do your job as a manager effectively.
4 The book is great. My first advice: don't start reading or listening to it without some papers and a pen. Why? Because you will get some interesting ideas. Those ideas and notes will help you to create a method and after that will be easier to start being a "one minute manager".I bought the audio book version. It just takes 1 hour 40 minutes. The reader is very good.
2 After have been hearing about this book I was expecting something better.  A couple of common sense ideas, nothing new. Obviosly a manager should be  able to get the best from their people and that is only possible if you  really rely on them and consider them able to supply ideas and knowledge. I  can not understand how this book has so much hype. A couple of days after  reading nothing new remained in my mind.
5 ...and actually put it into practice.  Face it, most managers are micro-managers and the ones who are laissez faire managers usually are more worried about themselves or their jobs or looking good.  These guidelines outlined in the book would be awesome if truly put into practice...still waiting for that opportunity
4 This classic allegorical tale is a helpful first step into the world of management. Whether you are a business owner, division supervisor, politician, or pastor, this book can help you manage people in a few easy steps. Indeed, not only are the concepts simple, but the book itself is quick read by any standard.With over 100 Amazon reviews, let me just say this: any reader could likely get the gist of the book by simply consulting the pocket-size "Game Plan" near the end of the book. This summarizes the key elements involved in being a One-Minute Manager: One-Minute Goal Setting, One-Minute Praising, and One-Minute Reprimands. The chart is a little weak on "Goal Setting" but the information is outlined (on its own page) early on in the book for further consultation.For the beginner this is a great resource. For the experienced this is a good reminder, yet will likely be regarded a bit too simplistic.
5 I read this book back in the 80's and it was a great situational management book. I re-read it again before gifting this used book to a friend who isn't a manager but works with people she needs to manage in situations in which she feels her time is abused, and I still like the simplicity of the techniques and they are effective. They still translate well for today's management concepts.
5 I know for a fact that when this book idea first came into its eventual publisher's hands, all the editors laughed at it! "Who would read a silly book like this with almost no words in it?" they scoffed. Yet for whatever reason they decided to publish it and the rest became amazing publishing history! In my own book, "The Expert's Edge," I discuss how to develop leading-edge ideas as well as the importance of viewing failure as "desirable." Without practicing both, you will never produce an unexpected success. Ken Blanchard was obviously doing both back when he conceived this groundbreaking book and the world (and his publisher) has never been the same.
5 Great advice doesn't have to be complicated. One Minute Manager provides a simple formula for management success, whether you're a Vice-President, a school teacher or a parent - this book will help you become a much more effective leader. It's profound yet straight forward and easy to read. The One Minute Manager is a classic! Make sure you read it.
4 The tools the authors advocate in this book are effective and easy to work with in any organization.  They are simplistic but surprisely effective.  They are not a silver bullet for all the ills of an organization.  However if practiced, they will lead to a better work environment.As with many management tools, the policy advocated in this book are not a cure for all organizational difficulties.  In organizations that don't care for their workers, this policy would not work.  Organizations using only this method will not become more profitable.  This is just one of many tools a manager should use in leading his/her organization.
5 A great and insightful resource for everyone - we all 'manage' others in our lives, especially moms and dads! Great management advice, grab a copy and pass it around work.
2 The manager who manages best manages the least. That's the big takeaway from this book.It's mostly true and there's some basic elemental truth in this title. People are people, and regardless of the time period or work environment, they still operate in the same ways and respond to the same incentives.However, the writing is absolutely wretched. I couldn't wait to finish reading the book and plowed through the last few chapters by sheer force of will. On the positive side, the book is mercifully short.I'll sum it up right here: Give your employees clear goals. Let them know early what success looks like and how they can achieve it. Give immediate feedback and focus on the positive. Actually care about their growth and well being. If an employee has a problem, tell them immediately, and make sure you make it about their actions, not about them personally.People want to know you respect them as a person and they do best when they know what's expected. Many managers don't let people know if they're doing a good job or a bad job until it's too late to fix it, and too many focus on the "no news is good news" style of management.If you didn't know these things already, maybe you should read the book -- it'll explain why all that works. Otherwise, skip it. It's a short but painful read.
5 The great thing about Ken Blanchard's "One Minute Manager" is you can read it in about an hour (not a minute, as my co-worker joked). It's a tiny book that you can power through in no time, but the concepts in these limited pages are important and thought-provoking."One Minute Manager" emphasizes the importance of asking the right questions, holding your staff to a high standard, holding them accountable (and yourself), and offering praise when it's appropriate. Like most leadership books, Blanchard's philosophy is pretty straightforward and touches on many of the same concepts other books espouse.You just can't beat the super fast read and the super easy to reference layout.A must-have for your leadership library.
4 After the 60's and 70's, the terms reinforcement and punishment held negative cultural connotations that seemed to equate people with Pavlov's dog. Blanchard and Johnson's One Minute method presented scientifically validated behavioral psychology in a way that managers of the time could feel comfortable with. Thus, if you apply these ideas, you will not sound like a psychologist circa 1950. Instead, you'll sound like a Politically Correct 1980's management consultant.Despite its age, the method is simple -you can read it in half an hour- yet extremely powerful. First, define the behaviors or results you want (One Minute Goal Setting/ Activator), then let your reports go out and perform. During the performance, you offer reinforcement in two forms, positive or negative. Catch someone doing good, you give them a One Minute Praising (positive reinforcement). Catch a report doing something bad, you give them a One Minute Reprimand (punishment/ negative reinforcement). The result is classic operant conditioning and behavior shaping.I use the concepts in this book regularly. They are simple and very effective. Once you know where you want people to go, the behavior shaping methods presented in this book will likely get your team there, and quickly. One Minute Managing is a surefire way to increase the quantity of actions which add value, while minimizing those which detract. I would recommend Aubrey Daniels' `Bringing out the Best in People,' which goes into operant conditioning in more depth, as a very solid companion for this book.
4 I love the simplistic yet important messages the authors project. A worthwhile read. Staff members require direction, support and responsibility... and they/we will surprise.
4 This book is a must read for those who want to improve there management skills. It gives good advice and examples. It is easy to follow and an encouragement to put into practice what they share. Whether you are starting out in management or have been doing it for awhile you will benefit from reading this book. It isn't too long so you can get the points they are making and easily use the information.
5 Loaned this book to someone and never got it back so this was a replacement.  Received it very quickly and in great condition.  Very pleased to have it to re-read and to refer to.
4 The issue is that most of the managers are not effective.The conclusion is that if you use the One Minute technique, you can become very effective.The One Minute technique is:One Minute Goal setting- Take time to set major goals as that the employee knows what needs to be done.One Minute Praising- Praise your employees by catching them doing the RIGHT thingOne Minute Reprimand- First reprimand the BEHAVIOR, Second encourage the PERSON (shake hands)There are examples given to explain each point.This books is a bestseller because of it's simplicity. But subsequent books by the authors have acknowledged the need of more than the above 3 items.It is good in theory but it's practice demands much more.
4 I ordered this book for a class.  It was in perfect condition when I got it.  I think it is small and overly condensed as far as context is concerned, but useful if it is for a class.
5 I ordered this book for my practice administrator of a three doctor group in the Texas area.  She has improved her knowledge and used the resources described in the book to aid her in managing the practice, and all the myriad responsibilites that go with running the business side of a medical practice.
4 Reward or punishment! Is this politically correct now-a-days. You bet not, but the idea is worth looking at and thinking about.There are some interesting ideas contained in the very short read. It will provide the beginning manager with a good base to develop their own style, but shouldn't be copied outright. The words &quot;reward&quot; and &quot;punishment&quot; should be re-worked so as not to offend those PC fanatics who cannot deal with older thinking. Also, comparing the trreatment of personnel to that of training a dog, well, it doesn't play well anywhere.I say give this book a read. Find some concepts that you can think about, and see if they can be applied to your present situation. If you spend more than 2 hours reading it, I'd be surprised. Use it as a brainstorming tool, not a How To book.
5 I love this book.  I use this book when I train my assistant managers.  It has some great management tools.
5 Great principles which can be applied immediately to your personal and professional lives. However, will probably require more than ONE MINUTE to master. (-;
1 This book is definitely simple, but definitely not profound, timeless OR classic.This is a rather short book -- readable in a single sitting -- and yet it is still mostly fluff. It could easily be condensed to 1/3 of its original length or less without losing any meaning.My biggest gripe with the book is the format: it is written as a fictional narrative, with a contrived storyline that reads like it was translated from some other language. I really can't stand this style of writing. Why introduce these characters at all in a non-fiction book? Especially if they aren't based on real-world events, aren't developed at all, and don't serve any allegorical purpose?I, on the other hand, believe that the word is a very large and complex place. Real knowledge can be condensed down to some set of first principles, but over time you only gain understanding by understanding the subtle complexity that underlies everything inside and around us.The principles in this book are valid -- but almost to the point of obviousness.1) Set goals with your employees (to communicate expectations and set evaluation criteria).2) Reward your employees when they do something right.3) Reprimand your employees when they do something wrong.Sure, this is a jumping off point for some extremely clueless managers, but it also glosses over a lot of subtle complexity involved in motivating people.To my mind, one of the single most obvious things you can do to motivate people is to flip the question around: ask your employees what motivates *them*. This is going to be different for everybody. Money is an important motivator, but some people are also interested in job security; some employees want to be challenged; others want to work on something meaningful, and so on. You really need to understand these various sources of motivation in order to have any hope of keeping them productive.This book, however, presents a binary view of motivation: either you encourage, or else you reprimand. (I suppose there's a third state suggested, but not explicitly described: not communicating at all.)As a final nit to pick: for some reason, the unenlightened managers in this book are characterized as having messy offices and calendars that are booked up heavily. The one minute manager, on the other hand, has a perfectly tidy office, and is rarely too busy to take walk-in appointments. This distinction isn't explained in the book at all, but it seems to me to be a subconscious message that one minute managers are also magically transformed into tidy, efficient workers who have a lot of free time to philosophize. Indeed, the student in this book evolves into this one minute manager mold and magically his office is cleaned up, too. I'd love to read a "one minute office organizer" book. Let me know when they write that one.
1 do you want a summary of this book?Stupid kid: "Hey Mr. Manager, how about you teach me some managing stuff to manage people"Manager:"you want me to teach you some managing stuff to manage people with"?Stupid kid: "yeah i want you to teach me some managing stuff, to manage people with"Manager: "allright, ill teach you some managing stuff to manage people with"Stupid kid: "you mean to tell me you'd teach me some managing stuff to manage people with"?Manager: "i dont like repeating stuff, ill show you some managing stuff to manage people with"*repeat thought out  the whole bookif you are in idiot and you think books like rich dad poor dad are good books, then prepare for a heart warming storyif not, dont waste your time like i did, this bs could have been written in a greeting card
4 Ever wanted to read those managerial books out there but had been put off by the the thick textbooks and theories? Look no further with "The One Minute Manager" series of books. Written in simple layman style in the form of a story, each book presents different management concepts. The first book in the series starts off by introducing us to the two types of managerial styles that we know: The task oriented and the people oriented. To get results, the effective manager has to have the correct balance of the two. This can be achieved through 3 one minute secrets: One Minute Goals, One Minute Reprimands and One Minute Praisings. Ponder on the One Minute teachings and you realise how true and simple they are. Of course, as with all things, theory and applications are two different matters altogether. You will still need lots of practice to apply what is taught here. After all, you can't really become a One Minute Manager overnight right?Recommendations: A must read for all managers out there, especially 'senior management' who often think highly of themselves and their results. :) The concepts would also be useful for parents who need to 'manage' their children better. For fast readers, don't really need to buy the book though as it can be easily digested in less than an hour.
4 If you can't take something directly from THE ONE MINUTE MANAGER to make you a better manager, you can take something from it and modify it.  Maybe in reality your company can't run efficiently on the &quot;one-minute&quot; theory.  But you could on a &quot;five-minute&quot; or &quot;ten-minute&quot; concept.  Even that adjustment would cut down on the wasted prodution during those &quot;costly&quot; meetings.When I first looked at the book, I thought it too small to be efficient.  However, this is a case of &quot;good things come in small packages&quot; being real.  It's a very interesting, though controversial book.
3 Few, but EFFECTIVE, hints that stress on the importance of being clear and consise when defining objectives, praising or critisizing employees. Recommended.
2 Do you have a good critical thought process?  If not, then perhaps you should not read this book.  There are a few decent ideas in it, however, I found a great recommendation from another reader's review:  Read Dale Carnegie and Napolean Hill for more useful advice, techniques, and thought  processes.  Dealing with people is an art, not a science, and needs to be  based upon an honest desire to assist others.  Carnegie and Hill can help  to develop those ideals.
5 Back in 1981, I was a first line supervisor for a large steel company. As an organization, we were struggling against the competition coming from Japan dumping large volumes of low quality, low price steel on our shores.  Our management team bought everyone a copy of the new book, The One Minute Manager. We found this small book to be a fun and crisp read. In short order, our local group solved our problems and thrived in the face of the competition.In 2007, I was now a corporate director for a fortune 500 company and one of our operations were struggling with continual losses. Part of my corrective action was to dust off my old copy of The One Minute Manager and put it to use. I was somewhat surprised that it was still available through Amazon. I bought multiple copies for the managers and as in the past, they started solving their people issues which in turn solved all the other problems.Needless to say, I highly recommend this 'old' book. Plain and simple, it works.  Michael L. Gooch, SPHR Author of Wingtips with Spurs
4 The one minute manager is a bit of an anachronism now...when it was first published this book seemed simplistic - with recent research being published you're going to find the notion of 'a minute here' and 'a minute there' is simply not enough for the needs and motivations of different staff.  While the advice in this book is fine and you can only benefit by reading it don't assume that this book has any real answers for real mangement issues.  Any movement beyond docile staff who are satisfied with a one minute word of encouragement or 'feedback' is beyond the depth of this book.
4 On one hand I really like the way this book gets right to the point without consuming lots of time.  Too many books with a similar mission would spend 400 pages, but this one can be read in an hour.The brevity is a double-edged blade though, because the book falls short of fully explaining its concepts.  It really touches on only three main approaches to management, but it does not provide anything in the way of examples or contingencies in case real life does not match the story.I am glad I read it but it is hard to say the book is worth the money.  You really do not get much content for the price.  Upon finishing the book, you'll soon realize the need to buy more books from these authors to flesh out how to implement their suggestions.
3 This is the book that started it all. I was recently reorganizing my books and ran across a copy of the original version. I decided to reread it and was really a little dissappointed. I remember reading this back in the 80's and being quite impressed with it.So why was I not impressed with it twenty years later? Well, a few reasons. Back in the 80's, we bought our books at a place called a book store. There, you could actually thumb through the book before buying it. So, you could easily see that there wasn't much content. The book is 112 pages, but could have easily fit on half that number. Ah, the magic of formatting. Today, we buy our books online and cannot see that we are dupped into believing there is more content than what is actually here.Also, the basic concept here revolves around 3 simple principles, 1 minute goal setting, 1 minute praising and 1 minute reprimanding. There you have it. Don't get me wrong, this is great stuff to know and live by, but by today's standards, this is simply not enough content to warrant the price.If you haven't read this book, by all means, get a copy. But don't pay $14.95 for it. It's easy enough to find a nice used copy for a couple of dollars.
5 This book is astonishing. Teachings on leadership is truly applicable. Short book and story telling format allows one to read it in 1 minute and apply it right away! Take it to action people! I never thought this book would be helpful but it changed my perspective on managing people. At home or bussiness, this book contains infinite wisdom on how to make people truly happy and enjoy what they do. Whether you are a parent of a single child or an older brother of your family, this book will surely help you to bring your families and friends to happiness and success. &quot;Be strict to yourself and only to yourself and mellow with others around you.&quot; Enjoy!!
5 This book is short lessons on how do deal with management issues.  Our daughter is new to management, so we got this book for her.  Both my husband and myself have profited from reading this book in the past.
5 The One Minute Manager is a very short book, in the shape of a modern tale in which  a young man wants to learn about some company and its esteemed manager. He meets him, he becomes exposed to his philosophy of work, and goes on to meet other members of the company; each of which presents another aspect of the One Minute Manager work ethic.This is a book that everyone in business is required to learn in many countries, such as Japan, and I can see why. It is not only interesting for the work place, but you could learn a thing or two about the management of any human group, like a family, a club, or else.
4 This classic is based on the premise that it doesn't take much to "get very big results from people."  In fact, it takes about a minute... a well-timed minute.  Start by setting goals with employees.  Each goal should take no longer than a minute to read.  The manager then looks for progress made toward the goals and "catches people doing things right" rewarding them with 1 minute of praise.  Conversely, when things are not done well, the manager takes about a minute to reprimand the employee.Basically, it's about timely and honestly communicating with employees, a practice which is severely lacking virtually everywhere. If managers actually followed the simple advice of this book, there's no telling what they could accomplish.  It's a quick, easy, and very beneficial read.-- Nick McCormick, Author, Lead Well and Prosper
4 ---Summary---That's a classic book arguing that management of people can be simple (one minute) by applying three basic concepts: Goal setting, praising, reprimand.There is one key concept stating that it's easier to learn by knowing what to do (i.e. what is right), instead of knowing what not to do (i.e. what is wrong).This is achieved by putting in place clarity with written goal setting, praising of right behaviours, and reprimanding bad behaviours when the goals and the right behaviours are known.---Model/concepts---One Minute Goal Setting- Agree on goals, and write each goal on a single page with less than 250 words.- Take a minute regularly to look at your performance and check if your behavior matches your goal.One Minute Praising- Praise people immediately and tell them specifically what they did right.- Tell people how you feel about their behaviour, and how this impacts the success of other people and the whole organization.- Encourage them to do more of the same.One Minute Reprimand- Reprimand people immediately and tell them specifically what they did wrong.- Tell people how you feel about their behaviour.- Explain that you reprimand the behaviour, and still you value the people.- When the reprimand is over, it's over.---Impact---Even though the model is quite simplistic, there is one extremely powerful concept that can be used in practice, which is: "Catch people doing something right".The reason is simple: It's much easier to learn by knowing what to do instead what not to do.This is indeed a huge motivator for employees, who are rewarded for their successes.Additionally, when people are rewarded for their good job, they accept more easily the critics (or reprimands).In my team, this turns out to be a powerful tool.---Rating---- rating Amazon - 4.0/5.0 (206 reviews)- my rating - 4.0/5.0- fun factor - 4.0/5.0- simplicity - 4.5/5.0- impact - 5.0/5.0For more details about the review, its format and metrics refer to my startups and teams blog.
5 1 minute goal, 1 minute praising, and 1 minute reprimand can help you not only on your career but also in your personal life. This is a short book and very easy to read. The main idea is knowing what your outcome, catching people doing things right, catching people doing things wrong. Simple but convincing. At the end of the book, it does explain why these things work and why people function these way. Pleasure reading in 2 hours. Very helpful and practical!For the CD audio book version, it also includes an interview with Dr. Spencer Johnson about where did the 1 minute manager's idea come from and how did Dr. Johnson apply the idea on his daily life.(Reviewed by Otto Yuen, 07-Jan-2007)
5 It's easy to belittle this book for its endless platitudes, but the fact remains that its advice - if shallow - is rock solid. Every manager thet reads this book will be rude about it, but very manager SHOULD read this book and, despite their predictable rudeness, will go away with some simple and valuable points that are worth remembering. When I first read it (back in the Middle Ages sometime) I hated it, hated its style and hated the sense that I was being patronised. But I have found, over the years, that its message has stuck and that its fundamentals do apply to the real world of management much more than many "worthier" tomes.
1 ...I was given this as a gift and did take the time to wade through its moralizing, preachy text.  &quot;People are Your Most Valuable Assets,&quot; the authors breathlessly remind us, as if those of us in business are somehow blind to this obvious truth. Its fundamental promise of transforming ones' organization, like that of so many management gurus, rests on the notion that the authors' sheer intelligence and brilliant insights into human nature will transform any organization into a productivity machine. This, as anyone with a real job can tell you, is long, hard work deeply idiosyncratic to the specifics of one industry -- nothing that can be collapsed into a book; certainly not one as thin as this one. Which is not to say that the One Minute Managers is all bad. It paints a wonderful theoretical world where all interpersonal problems can be solved in 59 seconds flat thanks to the fact that the characters are all fictional. It is a terrific daydream. Because that is really what the One Minute Manager, like most fad management books, are about...
5 This is a no-nonsense book. The book is simply written, concise and walks you through the whole &quot;one-minute&quot; manager process. It is enjoyable and you walk out with some practical tools in your hand.Enjoy!  and share it with those who you care for and  especially those  &quot;don't-care&quot; ones!
2 I must admit it took me a minute to remember this book, as I have read it several years ago. That gives me an advantage on judging the impact of this book. At the time I had given it 2.5 stars but now it will definitly be 2 stars.This review is hard to write as I don't like critisizing books. People put their heart and soul in it and it may work for a lot of people. However, I'm not one of them. At the time of reading I had no management experience at all, so it should have felt like a quick and easy way to learn something. I found other books a much better help, though.If you want a quick read and spend 4 dollars an hour on this book go ahead. I'd just rather spend more time and money on another one.
2 "The One Minute Manager" purports to give the reader instructions on managing work and life. It does that, but the advise is so obvious and the instruction so superficial as to make reading even this short volume a waste of time.The advice is to give employees clear instructions, then praise them when they do well, and reprimand them when they do not. That is nearly the whole book. Now you don't have to read it.While this advise seems correct to me, it is also very obvious. I would think that any manager who does not already know this needs more help then this book can provide.In any case the book can not do much harm since it is short.
5 Really enjoyed this book.  New in the managing department, and I have found this book very helpful in dealing with employees and problems that arise.
5 This slim volume will take you an hour or two to read but, if you follow its three simple rules consistently, could help you become an outstanding people manager.  The language is a little bit dated and sexist but, if you can ignore, that the advice is pertinent regardless of the gender of the manager or the the employees.  I bought this edition for a colleague who is struggling managing both her manager and her staff and I am confident it will help her do both better.  It certainly helped me in my younger days as a manager and was the first book I thought of when I became aware of my young colleague's difficulties.  One of the better 'how to' books.
5 A quick read because the concepts it describes are simple yet powerful.  &quot;The One Minute Manager&quot; has evolved into a management classic since its first edition in 1981.  Managers will take three precepts from this book:  Efficient Goal Setting with employees, Praise, and Reprimands.  In other words, make sure your people know precisely what they are to do, and then give them feedback whether they meet those expectations or not.  That's it.  Simple and effective.  It takes an hour to read &quot;The One Minute Manager&quot;, consider it an investment.
5 'The One Minute Manager', written in 1981 by highly-regarded author and consultant Kenneth H. Blanchard and by Spencer Johnson, is an excellent book on improving management effectiveness and employee productivity. And, while increased 'knowledge worker' efficiency may have made it simple enough in the 80s and early 90s for companies to simply dismiss below-average workers (they didn't require replacing, as fewer total knowledge workers were required to perform the same tasks as before), the 21st century challenge will be to optimize the performance of employees already in the organization, as profitable businesses will likely need to replace dismissed workers. This will involve improved management practices, such as the ones espoused in this book.'One Minute Manager' is very short (can be read in less than one hour), yet has the potential to greatly improve management efficiency. The book discusses three 'secrets' -- one minute goals, one minute praising, and one minute reprimands. To briefly summarize, the theory espoused in the book is for the manager to set one-page goals with each employee for the top 20% of tasks which, according to Pareto, account for 80% of the productivity of the employee. Next, the manager follows up with either immediate one minute praise or an immediate behavior-based (rather than personal) one minute reprimand. The praise is designed to focus the employee behavior toward continuous improvement. As such, a less-capable employee (typically a newer one) would receive praise for lesser accomplishments than would a more seasoned one. The reprimand is to reinforce the goals of the organization.The theories made a lot of sense. They espouse the true vision of 'leadership', which is to guide the organization in a specific direction, toward specific goals and achievement. I recommend this book to anyone interested in leadership or effectiveness.
3 B.F. Skinner, K. Breland, and N. Guttman discovered shaping in 1943 at a General Mills flour mill. Oh, the excitement they must have had teaching pigeons to do funny tricks like bowl, peck discs, and pull strings. Now, you can share the fun. Let your employees be the pigeons and you can use Skinners 60-year-old principles to teach your employees tricks.Kenneth H. Blanchard and Spencer Johnson shamelessly repackage Skinner's operant conditioning as a management tool. Even the examples are the same: Pigeons and bowling. Told in parable form, the "employees" of the imaginary company love their successive approximations ("One-Minute Goals"), positive rewards ("One-Minute Praisings"), and aversive stimulus ("One-Minute Reprimands"). Using operant conditioning principles to control humans is not new; in fact, B.F. Skinner himself suggested that the principles of operant conditioning can be used efficiently to control a society. In his 1948 novel, Walden Two, he presented a utopian society guided by operant conditioning principles. His 1971 book, Beyond Freedom and Dignity, caused a controversy by presenting his ideas on how operant conditioning could be utilized in an actual society. Although most people are not willing to accept Skinner's utopian ideal, the principles of operant conditioning are being applied in our everyday lives. Apparently, DRS. Johns and Blanchard feel employees, as pigeons, can be controlled with simple antique behavioral modifications.
5 I read this book almost immediately after it was first published more than 20 years ago and recently re-read it, curious to learn how well it has held up over the years. In fact, I hold it in higher regard now than I did before because Blanchard and Johnson focus on certain core principles which (if anything) are more relevant today than ever before. Specifically, they offer an allegory in which they use the metaphor of a single minute to suggest how to set goals, praise achievers, and reprimand non-achievers within a brief period of time. It is probably human nature to over-explain. (How often have you asked someone for the correct time and received an explanation of how a watch works?) I agree with Blanchard and Johnson that much of our precious time is wasted during interaction which is out of focus. We waste others' time. They waste ours. Group meetings are unproductive. One-on-one conversations fail to achieve their desired objectives. We also waste time when thinking about what we do and how we do it, about what others do and how they do it, and about unsatisfactory results when working with others.Blanchard and Johnson draw heavily upon their extensive research in medicine and the behavioral sciences. What they share in this book is organized within 16 brief chapters. In the first, they introduce a "bright young man" who is searching for an effective manager from whom he can learn how to become one himself. In the last, the young man (who by then had become a One Minute Manager) is about to share with a young women the same "gift" which he had previously received from others. "I will make only one request of you." Blanchard and Johnson make the same request of those who read this book.For whom will The One Minute Manager be most valuable? Good question. My initial response is to recommend it to those who want to increase their organization's productivity and profits as well as their own prosperity. In other words, to almost everyone. In fact, my opinion is that many of them (for whatever reasons) will not be receptive. Why? Perhaps they reject any ideas presented within an allegory. Or perhaps they strongly disagree with Blanchard and Johnson about what can be accomplished in only a minute.I think it is a thoughtful. well-written, immensely practical book. Just as in my review of Spencer Johnson's The One Minute Sales Person I recommended that sales managers provide a copy of it to each new salesperson, I now strongly recommend that management supervisors provide a copy of The One Minute Manager to anyone for whom they become responsible. I also think that senior-level executives would be well-advised to re-read both books from time to time. Dust and rust do accumulate, don't they?
5 This book is required reading for the course I teach in educational methodology. The fact is that we all need to manage our interpersonal communications in an effective manner and both the ideas presented here and  the manner in which they are presented exemplify how to do just that.
4 First published in the early 1980s, this thin book is a classic of the business world. The book is a business parable of sorts, a fictional tale of a young man who wants to learn everything he can about how to be an effective manager.In the course of his travels, he hears of a manager of a company in a nearby town who has the reputation of being both effective and admired. The young man arranges a meeting with this manager and is surprised to hear him describe himself as a "one minute manager". Rather than explain himself immediately, the manager encourages the young man to talk with other employees and learn about the techniques that he uses.Essentially, this book covers three areas on interpersonal and organizational skills: Goal setting, praising, and reprimanding. It is not so much a book about the mechanical tasks of managing, but rather a set of lessons in interpersonal relationships and the psychology of job performance.Starting with the premise that employees who feel valued will be more productive, the book describes simple techniques to encourage productive behavior and to correct deficiencies.Although the central theme of the book constitutes program of management style, there is plenty here that a prospective manager could come away with, even if they did not choose to embrace the entire One Minute Manager program.Even if you never plan to become a "one minute manager", this is a good book on interpersonal relations in the workplace and beyond.
1 I read this book when it first came out.  Two big things I came away with were: limit criticism to one minute and give positive criticism with negative criticism.  These are good ideas to keep in mind.  However, when I finished the book, and I don't remember what I paid for it at the time, I do remember thinking that at this price I can't afford to improve my life, or learn anything from reading such books.  What the book has to say could be limited to one page.  As a matter of fact you can read a couple of the reviews and get everything you need to know about what the book has to say.  For what you pay and how long it takes to read to get 2 good ideas, you're better off just living life and taking your chances that you'll pick up good advice along the way.  I would die penniless, and socially underdeveloped if I had to rely on such books for information on how to live life.  For people with money and time to waste it's a win win situation.  You get what you want and the author gets your money.  I'll stick with the Bible.  You can still get a good one for less than the cost of this book, and there's at least 2 good ideas on every page.  Dozens in Proverbs alone.  You won't be done with it in one hour.  The idea makes me laugh.  You'll be reading it for the rest of your life and still be getting things out of it.
4 Was recommended by friends as a very good tool to aid with successful transition to management.Have not yet hear how its working out.Received promptly, as ordered. Very happy.
1 To the book's credit, there are a few valuable points contained here but that is where the value ends.  Having been a business management teacher and counsellor for the best part of my life, and having written a training manual on the subject which is still in use today, I feel comfortable in saying that what is contained in these few pages is not going to make you management material!  You may pick up a few tips on how to IMPROVE your skills as a manager, but if you are planning to manage a business, this book certainly won't cut it!One of the key reasons why businesses fail is not solely because of the lack of start up and working capital, it is because owners/managers do not possess sufficient basic business management skills. Those skills do not come from simply reading a book; they come from proper management training and a lifetime of hands-on experience.  A future lawyer cannot sit down, read a book, and without any formal education be qualified for a memeber of the bar; nor can a would-be physician with no formal education, read a book and undertake his first operation!  Why then, would anyone be so niave or gullible to think that reading an 111 page book would prepare you to be a manager...of anything?Management, especially business management, takes know-how and experience.  Believe me, my files are filled with &quot;would-be wanna-be's&quot; and &quot;one minute managers&quot; who thought formal management training was a waste of time and that experience would come in time.  Unfortunately, time ran out. The reality of it is, they learned how to make every mistake in the book on their own money, or equally worse, on someone else's money!  Now, not only do they not have a business, they are facing a future of financial ruin.  There are some excellent books in existence that will help you to improve your management style, providing you have the basics to begin with, so save the money you would have spent on this one and invest in a quality,in-depth book.
5 this is an interesting book it's about how to manage people and all you do is praise people.  I would rather receive praises all day then someone tell me what I did wrong.
5 I needed this book for a college class. It was well priced, shipped fast and was in very good condition. The book is part of the OMM series and offers very clear, simple to follow advice. Worth reading.
4 I liked this book and it's easy to read style. However I highly recommend purchasing (from Amazon of course) "The Art of Giving and Receiving Feedback" by Shirley Poertner, Karen Massetti Miller. I combined the info from the 2 books to give myself a complete system of "reinforcement" and "redirection" to use (I dislike Blanchard's use of the term reprimand; sounds too harsh and punishment-like). It takes the process a step further than Blanchard by showing what to do if after a "reprimand" the employee gives resistance or is confused about the expectations. I highly recommend Blanchard's "Situational Leadership and the One Minute Manager". The situational leadership system made my "lightbulb" come on.I am now ready to be the manager I was hoping to learn to be when I first purchased the One Minute Manager book!
5 I have read this a couple of times in my career already, but the new boss just bought a hardback copy for his management team so I read it again. It doesn't take long.The authors of the negative reviews here miss the point. It's not a management tome meant to provide day-to-day advice, but rather a parable offering a timeless philosophy: Tell your employees what you expect, offer timely feedback and exhibit support.One reviewer recommended an annual reading. I concur. It's easy to get lost in the specific details and lose sight of foundation principles. Buy the hardback, read and reread. Yes, there is a lot of whitespace, but it's about the message. It's not rocket science, but it's timeless. You and I could have written it, but Blanchard and Johnson beat us to it.
3 The books we find most insightful are usually the ones that remind us of things we&#8217;ve simply forgotten. They don&#8217;t teach us something new, they simply remind us in a unique and powerful way of something we already knew.That is exactly how I&#8217;d describe &#8220;The One Minute Manager.&#8221; The authors wrote a simple book full of common sense &#8211; and thus the book makes total sense.This book sold 13 million copies! It&#8217;s only 106 pages, with about 200 words per page. Why would we pay 12 dollars for such a short book?Because it speaks to us &#8211; it reminds us to be people &#8211; and that we can succeed and make money and make friends better if we do.Great Lessons:1.&#8220;People who feel good about themselves produce good results.&#8221;2.If you don&#8217;t like the way things are, but you don&#8217;t know what you want changed &#8211; then you don&#8217;t have a problem, you&#8217;re just complaining. Once you know what you want changed &#8211; then you have a problem and can work toward a solution.3.People are motivated by praise more than scolding.4.When there are problems, attack the behavior, not the person doing it.5.&#8220;I&#8217;ve never seen an unmotivated person after work.&#8221; (People get excited and motivated when they are looking forward to something &#8211; like what they get to do after work. So figure out how to get them excited about work)6.Take a minute &#8211; see if your behavior matches your goals.7.&#8220;The key to training someone to do a new task is, in the beginning, to catch them doing something approximately right until they can eventually learn to do it exactly right.&#8221;8.Most employees aren&#8217;t trying to produce or accomplish anything anymore other than they&#8217;re trying to get paid without getting in trouble.9.Manipulation is getting people to do something they are either unaware of or don&#8217;t agree to.10.&#8220;Goals begin behaviors. Consequences maintain behaviors.&#8221;
5 This book tells the story of a man who has searched far and wide to discover the secrets of effective managers. He finds what he is looking for when he discovers the One Minute Manager. At first he is in disbelief, but after a couple encounters with the One Minute Manager himself as well as a few of his employees, he is convinced of this management style.The One Minute Manager manages in three ways:-One Minute Goal Setting: set goals that can be reviewed in a minute or less-One Minute Praising: immediate, genuine praise for things done right-One Minute Reprimanding: immediate reprimanding for things done wrong, but still assuring the individual of their valueThen the One Minute Manager explains why these methods work so well and the young man goes on to become a One Minute Manager himself.I found this book to be an easy read. It is a brief book with short pages and an interesting storyline. I really like how the principles are taught through a story in this book. I also like that at the end of each major principle, an outline is given to summarize what you just learned. Also throughout the books are brief quotes to help you remember what you are learning.  The management style itself sounds very effective and I think this book is a good tool for anyone in a management type position to study.
4 Wonderful book. This has really helped me to perfect my management skills. Easily explained so that anyone can understand. Read it, you wont regret it.
4 This is a must read, I read this book about 15 years ago, better the second time.It is a timeless book, read at difference point in your life, meaningful all the way through,
2 This definitely feels to me like there were a few good ideas puffed up with lots of words and air to make a longer book.  Anyone who needs this info doesn't need all that storytelling and wants the info in the most effective form not in some long drawn-out storyline.  It also feels like it was a set-up for more books at big prices to present info that could have been presented effectively in one book.  I am very glad I got this out of my local library instead of buying it!
5 I gave my daughter this book as a gift.  She LOVES it.  It now sits on her desk at work.
5 The One Minute Manager is a book that MUST be read by anyone on the payroll of a fortune 500 company -- especially since there are more than 7 million copies in print.  But is it really worth five stars?  Well, let's see...Published in 1980, the One Minute Manager is the story of a hypothetical manager and his hypothetical employees, being interviewed by a hypothetical interviewer who is out to learn how to become a better manager.  Through the interviewing process, the interviewer uncovers that the One Minute Manager has developed a three legged process for managing *the behaviours* of working adults.  Specifically, the three main components of the One Minute Manager process are:1) One Minute Goal Setting2) One Minute Praisings3) One Minute ReprimandsThroughout the book, the One Minute Manager and his employees frequently use metaphors to clarify the why's and wherefores of the One Minute Manager process and its value-add to an organization.  Shockingly, most of the examples used to clarify the value of the process draw on behaviour modifcation techniques used on animals (in the book: a whale, a pigeon, and a puppy), recalcitrant children and even a terminally ill alcoholic.  Not exactly the types of paragons I am trying to emulate in my professional life.The real problem with the One Minute Manager is that the authors, Blanchard and Johnson, evidently believe that a reasonable way to develop a process for managing people is to venture out to the extremes in finding test cases for how best to change behaviour.  And in theory, this can work.  But in the One Minute Manager the process breaks down in most real-world situations because the One Minute Manager process *requires* a binary world (i.e., black/white, off/on, correct/incorrect).  Especially for the One Minute Praisings Praisings and Reprimands -- my experience in the complex world of modern business, is that there frequently does not exist one right way to do things and that good/bad, better/worse, and best/worst cases are often not uncovered or agreed upon for years (example: Time Warner &amp; AOL merger).What is good about the book is that Blanchard and Johnson have marketed a process that neccesitates engaging both manager and employee in objective setting and driving the success of the business (very TQM/Deming of them).  They also encourage folks to praise themselves -- something I have found that many do not do in the workplace.  The most poignant part of the story uses the following joke very effectively (paraphrased): &quot;If you don't blow your own horn sometimes, eventually someone will use it for a spit-toon&quot;.So given the above, why the five stars?  Well, there are three reasons for this:1) The One Minute Manager is unique in the business book genre in that it employees a parable (i.e., no new data or primary research) to put forward ideas/concepts for managing people -- somewhat strange that two *supposed* scientists would take this approach2) I have personally been an employee of someone who, while I worked for her, became a One Minute Manager by reading the book (this manager overcame her mere average incompetence and quickly became ludicrously incompetent), so realize that in the wrong hands, this book can make the lives of employees a nightmare3) Too many folks in business have bought the book for you not toNet/net: FOREWARNED IS FOREARMED.  Read this and know what other corporate types know if you rely on your paycheck for shelter and food, and have even the slightest interest in being happy and succeeding in corporate America.
5 Sooner or later every manager or leader reads Blanchard. I got into his work because he promotes Anthony Robbins. I also saw him in person at a seminar; his inspired me to honest tears. His books may be pricey, but that is because he said he didn't want to write 10 dollar books. His value is seen in the fact that people finish his books due to their smaller size and their interesting stories. One of the most helpful in this one is his discussion between leaders and ducks. It is an unforgettable lesson.
5 I have never had people working for me until recently, so I bought this book to help me get a handle on how to manage people.  This book has given me so many great ideas and things to think about.  It is simply written as a story.  There's nothing bad I can say about it.
4 I read another classic book among fortune 500 companies, The One Minute Manager by Ken Blanchard and Spencer Johnson. I was happy with this book. It is exactly what is says it is.... a book that focuses on skills of a great manager and more specifically centered around the idea that the skills can be done in one minute.The book is written in a fictional story format, however, the principles can also explained in a list format which is what I will focus on for this week's blog. The three key tools used by the manager in this book were The One Minute Goal Setting, The One Minute Praising, and The One Minute Reprimand.The One Minute Goal Setting- Each employee writes down their goals on about half a page. Something that can be read in 1 minute if needed. I think having goals is the best way to make big things happen. You will have a hard time getting someone from point A to point B if they don't know what or where either one of those points are... so help your team set goals.The One Minute Praising- You need to praise your people... The one thing humans crave more than anything on Earth is attention. When you give people attention for doing good things, they want to do more good things. Praising is one of the most affective and simple ways to get a person to do something. Take, for example, a baby, when they are getting ready to take their first steps. At first they may get up and stumble the first time and hit the ground, but parents are around to cheer them on and give them big hugs for their attempt. Then the next day the baby liked that treatment, so they try again... after a few times the baby actually takes their first full steps and is given more praise than ever before! Then the parents use the same "management strategy" to encourage the first words out of a baby, then good grammar, great driving habits, and before you know it you have a full grown kid living in Minneapolis, working 60 hours a week, starting a real estate business and writing a book blog in his little free time.The One Minute Reprimand- This book's One Minute Manager uses the technique of watching for his employees to do the "right thing." However, when he saw something that was below their ability they would get a reprimand because he wanted to reinforce that they could do better. This is one of the most difficult skill sets to master as a management professional. It is difficult because you need to reprimand a behavior and not the person.The book gave a clever story of a couple trying to train their dog to do it's business outside. When the dog made an accident on the rug the couple would take the dog and shove it's face in it and then throw him out the window in the kitchen into the backyard. The couple asked if this was a good technique and they were told they were just training their dog to jump out the window after it had an accident on the rug. People, like animals, need to know the ultimate goal before they can try to replicate it. Humans are easier to train than animals because we speak the same language. Once the person knows what the goal is they will try to make it happen for their craved praising. And if you know they have the ability to reach that goal and they intentionally fall short it may be time for a reprimand.Leading people is a very important skill set! I can't stress how much it can make your life and the lives of those around you more successful. To lead people you just need to leave the bread crumbs... just like the child we were training in the analogy earlier... once the baby was able to walk you don't jump up and down every time they walk for the rest of their lives. You go on to the next skill you would like to train them on... after they have all the skills you are able to train them on they will go on to be as good or better than you... and that is what we want of those around us right? To live great big successful lives? And doing this will make your life easier.... if you train someone to do everything you know how to do, you have an easier load because you have employees that are capable of handling all the responsibilities that at one time were all on your shoulders. Great managers have much more available time than poor managers...This book has a great story that can really impact a management professional or anyone that wants a little help with leading people. It's a very quick read and written by the same author of the book Who Moved My Cheese which was a great hit on this blog. If you have any questions on the book don't hesitate to ask. I would be more than happy to help anyone that wants it.[...].
5 I love this book because it is written in a plain English with life examples from a new managers' perspective. It is all about one minute actions.
5 The anecdotal information provided in this gem is wonderful.  It actually describes my work environment and a popular 'management' style to the letter.  What I think is interesting about this book also is how, the One Minute manage does very well and seems competent. However, I'm sure many manager who aren't competent attempt this same management style.  I'll read other books from this author, as it obviously is a series, though this book is an excellent start.My only concern is that while it makes 'others' accountable for their work, it doesn't really give much insight on how the One Minute Manger actually organizes his/her time.  THAT, would be worth reading...
5 I was told by Intel that I needed to read this book. I did it gets right to it and makes since. Even though this management style has been around It does not waste your time understanding the concepts. If you like direct, concise, easy to read, but revealing info this book is for you.
2 This book is too simple to be really effective. So what if you are a tough or nice manager? This book is basically trying to find a balance, and that's nothing new. And it tell you to evaluate your performance with your goals, thanks for the insight, wow, I've learned so much.  Save your money and time. If you must, check it out at the library.
5 I think everyone should read this book. This is a book you can read in about 45 minuets (so you dont get lost, or never get a chance to finish it) and very readable (in-fact the book is in a story format. There are many valuable lessons you can take with you, for people management, for managing yourself, it can even help with child discipline! This book is a classic must read!
5 Read this and the &#34;One Minute Manager Meets the Monkey&#34;... Both are worth reading- they apply to owners, managers, and all others in any sort of a leadership role. Read them once... Read them twice... Read as much as you like and I guarantee you won't be sorry for the time
5 One might be tempted to say that the steps outlined in this book are &quot;common sense&quot;.  But it's full of wisdom I had not been using in my managerial position.  And I know hundreds of other bad managers.  This  book is a gem.  It's ideas are simplly presented and simply apprehended but  amazingly powerful.  It's no quick fix, though: you have to work at it to  get results.  A must for ever manager.  It fits well with new-fangled ideas  of organizational structure presented by Drucker, Peters, and other gurus.
5 Finally, a compilation of Howe's fantasy, and 144 pages, at that!  I admit that this review is premature, but I am totally excited to snag this new arrival...
5 John Howe and Alan Lee are the indisputed masters of "Lord of the Rings" artwork. And this fantastic compilation of Howe's artwork, of all kinds, is a wonderful collection of artwork by an immensely talented artist. (And a cute part at the end has photographs of Howe in armor)A great deal of the book is devoted to Middle-Earth and J.R.R. Tolkien's works. There are the creepily reptilian dragons, spiders chasing hobbits, the majestic Elves, several different incarnations of the Balrog and its battle with Gandalf, the black-armored and evil Morgoth, the dwarves dining in Bilbo Baggins' hole, a misty Treebeard, Smaug asleep on his glowing gold, the Dark Tower of Mordor with a hissing Fell Beast in front of it... all sorts of goodies. The pictures come from book covers, book illustrations, game boxes, and so forth.But Howe's artwork is not just for "Rings" and Middle-Earth. Oh no. There are sketches (uncolored) and previously unpublished artwork. There are illustrations from picture books like "Jack and the Beanstalk," "Rip Van Winkle," Howe's fascination with armor and Arthuriana, which includes lots of solid horses, armor, and sword-wielding knights; his illustrations for books by Anne McCaffrey, Robin Hobb, Charles de Lint, Guy Gavriel Kay, Jan Siegel, Margaret Weis, a compilation of Merlin-related stories, and much more.Howe's artwork has a lot of variety, and many of them look almost like photographs. While you can tell that they're paintings, they're frozen in one second, often in the middle of an action scene. So you almost expect them to start moving. He uses light and shadow expertly, such as in the pic where we see Smaug on his gold -- under his wings, the golden reflection of his treasure is lighting up his face and scales. Or when he is shown attacking Laketown, where everything is dark and shadowy except the fire.When the "Lord of the Rings" movie trilogy was given the go-ahead, Howe (along with Alan Lee, ) was hired by filmmaker Peter Jackson to help with the sets and landscaping and other designs. Now Jackson has written a foreword to this book, in which he talks about what a fan he is of Howe's artwork (and was, even before the movies!), and how his artwork served as a guide of sorts to how certain things should look. (Such as Ian McKellen's "Gandalf" look, which was based on Howe's famed picture of the wise old wiz) And the afterword was by fellow artist and friend Alan Lee, who describes how they met in New Zealand in 1998, starting work on the movies, and praises Howe for his energy and skill.This is a fantastic read for fans of J.R.R. Tolkien's works, not to mention people who enjoy good artwork and fantasy/SF pictures. A lush, fantastical book of dragons, halflings, Elves and suits of armor. Marvelous.
4 i recommend this book not only to fantasy art lovers but also to tokien fans, since most of the movie costumes and scenery were inspired by john howe's piantings
5 The paintings are great. John Howe is a amazing artist. I really liked on his Lord of the rings paintings and it was nice to see all the work he has done for other books as well.
5 This book is full of beautiful pictures with a wide variety to styles. I strongly recommend it.
5 it came in perfect condition and just in timeim starting my owm artbook collection and when i look at this one i though, this is deffinitely a must have, the art its gougeous, not only for tolkien fans but also for people who enjoy art works, because aside from the middle earth art there are also other themes, take my advice, a great artist like john howe deserve a place in your bookshelf
5 This book was way better than I was expecting. I got it used and was expecting some creases/bent dust jacket, but it looked like it was brand new, and smelled like it too.
4 As one of the foremost fantasy illustrators of the past twenty years Canadian born John Howe has done more to define the look of J.R.R. Tolkien's world than almost any other illustrator, apart from Alan Lee. He captures in vibrant and dramatic images the grandeur, beauty and majesty of Middle Earth, in both calendars and on book covers alike. But he is so much more than just a visual interpreter of Tolkien's fantastic world of Middle Earth. Getting his big break in Time Life's: The Enchanted World series in the mid 1980s his art has graced the covers of some of the bestselling contemporary fantasy authors, and has even illustrated books on ancient mythology, legend and fairytale. On top of that he's also written and illustrated several delightfully enchanting children's books!His magical art for the book A Diversity of Dragons, or his book on medieval armour with its complex and detailed illustrations has cemented his already well earned reputation. Occasionally John Howe tries his hand at science-fiction illustration, but only when he gets the chance. Though of course he is with good reason most famous for his art exploring fantasy, myth, legend, folklore and fairytales. This book is a stunning portfolio of some of the most significant and beautiful masterpieces that have marked his career thus far, and an exploration of what inspires him (like ravens or horseshoe crabs!) as an artist. With revealing commentary from some of the many talented people he has collaborated with over the years, this insightful volume explains why he is so sought after as a fantasy illustrator. There is even a fascinating chapter on his passion and hobby; creating medieval arms and armour for a reenactment society in Switzerland, where he also now makes his home. In recent years Mr Howe worked as one of two chief concept artists on Peter Jackson's epic film versions of The Lord of the Rings trilogy, the other being Alan Lee, and I firmly believe the creative input of both men gave the films an aesthetic credibility they might not of otherwise had. While many of the pictures in this book are a little bit too small and hence fail to do justice to his jewel like art, and while I also think the text is spread a little too thin as well... one can't really complain. So as one of my favourite contemporary illustrators I was very pleased when this long overdue book was finally published and would definitely like to see a second portfolio of his work published someday, especially considering how much new art and design he's created since the publication of this book.
5 Plus factors: John Howe rocks!!! The details are astonishing. Just look at the medieval gear and his gothic landscapes! Looking at his gorgeous works are inspiring. It not only gives you a kind of in-the-moment draw to the pic, like you were actually witnessing an event real-time, but also has an attractive gloom to it (eg, the gray architecture of 'The Dark Tower' &amp; 'Shelob's Lair'). Go get it!! A very good value for money.Not so plus factors: I was expecting an insight of Howe's process of completing his artworks, his inspirations, the materials he used etc, and curiously enough, dimensions of the artworks and art mediums weren't stated. Only the title, source and year were.Felt the text was brief, short and poured little light on his masterpieces (there were some, like the furniture in Bag-end and such)... Also, I hoped badly that the pages would be filled from page edge to edge with full glossy pics, but some artworks were reduced to a size no bigger than a Post-it! I understand that the publishers want to display as much of John Howe's works into the book, but I wouldn't mind paying twice as much for a better visual spectacle. I'd purchase Myth &amp; Magic 2, if it existed!Come to think of it, Myth &amp; Magic is, afterall, a portfolio of a remarkable artist. Too many words would have killed the book. Just remind yourself to enjoy the works and forget about being an art student for once.
4 This book shows how it should be done.If you had to condense decades of brilliant art work into one volume this is about right.It is obvious that the volume was put together with love. The paper and color are good, and the pictures (why most of us want to buy this book), are many, varied and quite often large.** (Lesson for "Realms of Tolkien" editor: There are many double and single page spreads, with no white space!)For the person who wants to know about John Howe, (not just his Tolkien work), there is quite a bit of information, although I would have liked to have seen and read more about the technical side of how he works.There is quite a bit of his non-Tolkien work, which I found really interesting and just as good, (artistically) as his Tolkien stuff.If you like the work of John Howe this is the book for you!The only way to improve it would be to add another volume, (hint to the editor...).Now if they could just do the same thing for Ted Nasmith...
3 Don't read this book if you're looking for a story about Edgar Allen Poe--he's more of a device than a character in this book.The narrator has a chip on his shoulder throughout the book which is always a bit off-putting.  This is understandable as he is that most unfortunate combination of circumstances which result in the ubiquitious "impoverished gentleman" -- bitter at spending his time working to support himself.  This doesn't work unless the character changes during the course of the book.The dialogue recalls Wilkie Collins' work in an uncanny way.
5 Did I miss something? What did the parrot say?  Help!  You can comment to me directly.
5 I would just like to add my appreciation of the language that was used in this book.  Andrew Taylow artfully combines the various styles of English speech used at the time, with the mix of historical and social conventions, and family and societal values.  It's quite an accomplishment, and this, as much as the engaging and progressively engrossing story, makes it shine - a reader's joy and happiness.  I experienced the audio book of this, read by Alex Jennings, and found it superbly satisfying.  A real gem which took me away - luckily, for 16 CDs.  As noted by others, not to worry one's head over the title, which although not an afterthought, is not significant to the story in any crucially developmental way.
4 This book has a slow-paced, old-fashioned style. I found it absorbing enough, though not exactly can't-put-down.  If you're one who likes thrillers, this may not be for you. However, as far as I can tell, the author conveyed an accurate picture of the times, and certainly an atmospheric one.  (Hardly anything to do with Edgar Allan Poe.)
4 Here's another book I only read because it was the list of 10 books nominated for a Best Read Award on British TV. Like the first reviewer the author was new to me and I was also not in the habit of reading historical fiction.Once I began it was hard to put the book down.This is almost 500 pages of escapism bliss as Taylor's beautifully told tale slowly unfolds. It's a hybrid of historical and crime fiction that is incredibly atmospheric of nineteenth century London. The novel it most reminds me of,if you want a pointer, is Wilkie Collins' "Woman in White" and the fact that I compare it to that great classic shows how highly I think of this book.If you like Wilkie Collins or maybe even Charles Dickens you will love this book.I see no point in revealing any details of the intricate plot as I'm sure any literate reader will be quickly gripped by Thomas Shield's quest.I will,however,say that I was pleased with the conclusion of the book, which is not one of those banal denouements where all the loose ends are miraculously tidied up and everyone lives happily ever after.If you are looking for an engrossing and pleasurable read you cannot possibly go wrong with this book. I can guarantee that you will be enthralled and perhaps a bit sad that it isn't even longer !
5 This is the first book I have read by this particular author and it prompted me immediately to order several more on completion. A highly intelligent, literate and adult piece of historical fiction with a pleasingly sophisticated plot that is very difficult to put down - also featuring Edgar Allan Poe as the eponymous boy (though crucial to the plot he is not one of the major characters as his father is).Fully deserves the excellent reviews it received in the UK press, an enaging evocation of time and place and a wonderfully paced thriller.
5 This is truly a five-star winner. Witty writing without being overly sarcastic, clever characterization that keeps each person rich and intriguing in the reader's mind.Theodora is refreshingly realistic. She is not smart, beautiful or even particularly spiritual at the start of the book, but she is likable and her adventures are fun to follow. She is a colorful personality, and the people surrounding her are equally interesting--her Greek-obsessed mother, football-crazed plumber boyfriend, the Aussie Reverend "Digger" Graves, and maternal Pollyanna Mrs. Hubble. Each of them makes the plot vibrant and fast-paced. They are all consistent, and any emotional and spiritual changes are both believable and satisfying.The faith element is handled with tongue-in-cheek, but also with a skilled painter's brush. The Christian stereotypes are all present, and somehow they are both endearing and laughable. This comical backdrop, however, only enhances the brilliance of characters like Miss Chamberlain, who radiate Christ.The pun-ny writing is laugh-out-loud (or groan-out-loud) funny, reflecting dry British humor. I loved the way the prose rambled along, interspersed with moments of cheekiness that almost took me by surprise. I loved the lack of jaded sophistication, the absence of the kind of biting sarcasm that seems to always be putting someone down.I can't recommend this book enough. I have to mention, however, that there are several references that are purely British in nature, and may not seem that funny to an American reader. My husband had no idea what a "bloke" was, while I found reference to a "Bible for Blokes" uproarious.Fun reading. I can't help thinking that fans of Betty Neels would enjoy this book. I can't wait to read the sequel, "Theodora's Wedding."
