5 Both history and fiction about the Second World War are replete with stories of heroism and courage under fire.  This novel, steeped in solid research, explores the period before war breaks out and during the first year or so of hostilities.  It's a picture of the British ruling class, rife with indulgence, ambition and anti-Semitism.  Excellent writing and engrossing storytelling.
3 I very much wanted to love this book.  Having read an excellent one-volume biography of Churchill (if such a life can be crammed into a single volume), having greatly enjoyed Michael Dobbs' riveting fresh look at the Cuban Missile Crisis, and being a fan of historical fiction, I eagerly embarked on this multi-volume historical fiction series on one of the past century's greatest leaders and most accomplished individuals.However, I must say, the book delivers less than its jacket cover and glowing blurbs promise.  It is a fine book as far as it goes, and I plan on reading the next volume, with the hope that Dobbs will do better, but ultimately was disappointed.These are momentous, dramatic events that form the heart of this novel and the ones to come.  They have tremendous, inherent power.  Hitler is on the march in Europe.  The only voice of reason is Churchill.  We, the reader, know this to be true.  We know that when Chamberlain seeks peace, he is the wrong path.  How does Churchill feel about this? How does he deal with these frustrations?  He has had an amazingly full, rich career already - with ups and downs, and with what the British public view to be heroic acts as well as tragic, bloody mistakes.  He is out there warning all those who will listen about Hitler, and he is doing so with substantive information, with insight, with passion.  He is letting fellow Britons know that their defenses are inadequate - he has sources inside the military, the ministries, who are telling him these things, showing him these things- he is not only a sitting member of Parliament, after all, he is Churchill.What must it have been like?  Hitler on the move, Mussolini prancing around, Chamberlain ineffectual, the British public asleep.  A blurb on the book cover says that Dobbs brings us inside of Churchill's head -so that we think as he thinks.Sigh.  Not so. Not in this book.  We are inside Churchill's head hardly at all.  We learn hardly any of this.What do we learn, who do we meet, and what events are we witness to?  We meet a few fictional side characters that Dobbs develops nicely and that we grow to care something about.  We spend a lot of time with the well-known British spy, Guy Burgess.  Dobbs does well in creating some suspense around a subplot involving Burgess and Churchill which I won't spoil here.  Then there are some characters floating around Churchill and Chamberlain that are nicely drawn, like Joe Kennedy.  And there's Chamberlain.While Dobbs paints these characters in a convincing way and creates dramatic tension around various conflicts involving their inter-relationships, I found myself growing impatient with their interactions.  The march toward world war kept proceeding, and instead of getting insights into the key events, I kept reading about petty parliamentary backbiting and these interpersonal tensions that felt a bit contrived to me.  It was as if Dobbs felt compelled to put in some "fictional" tension to justify writing this as a "novel," when all the drama one could ever dream of was right there in front of him.It sounds crazy of me to critique this book in that way - I could never write something like this, so who am I to criticize?  I just know how good Dobbs is at writing actual history, so I  can imagine what he could have done here had he raised his sights more.As it is, I found myself pulled along by Dobbs' skilled writing and the inherent drama of the "big events" - it's unavoidable, though Dobbs didn't overtly mine it- and so I read it through quickly to the end.  But I felt he could have done so much more.I thought, for example, that the book would have benefited greatly from more historical references - every now and then there's an actual letter - and more detailed notes.  Major decisions seem to be made based on internal (petty) politics without any consideration of larger geopolitical issues.  If this is in fact supported by the historical record, such notes or other references would make the novel much more compelling.  Without it, a reader like me is left wondering "is that really something that could have happened?"In other words, the strength of historical fiction lies in the suspension of disbelief.  That's what made Killer Angels such a timeless Civil War classic -its realistic portrayal of what the generals were thinking and doing during the Battle of Gettysburg.  Had that book made key battlefield decisions seem to hinge on minor interpersonal disputes alone (though of course those have their place), without also bringing in everything else about the battle that made it so memorable, the reader would have scratched his head and wondered, "surely Lee didn't do that just because Pickett insulted him five years ago and he never forgave him?"So, I will read the next book in this series.  But if it focuses as much on the minor details - actual or invented - at the expense of the greater sweep of events - it is that sweep which is why I'm interested in these books, after all - then it will be my last.
4 "You might very well think that; I couldn't possibly comment..." Francis Urquhart's memorable quote from "House of Cards" was particularly useful in public relations career. Thank you, Michael Dobbs. And, thank you for "Winston's War," another look at British political infighting."Winston's War" has little enough to do with World War II, per se. It is all about the run-up to, and earliest days of the war, when Churchill's primary battle was with Neville Chamberlain and his Tory minions about appeasement, war preparedness, and political power. This is historical fiction, and so doesn't pretend to know exactly what was said to who by whom. And Dobbs creates British everyman and everywoman as embodiments of British character: Ian and Dickie, the Statler and Waldorf (for Muppet fans) of parliament; Jerry and Sue, the starcrossed lovers on the eve of war; Carol and Mac, the hooker and the Jewish refugee from a Russian gulag. But there are searing portraits of historical figures: Churchill himself, suffering the black dog of depression and generational competitiveness of his ancestors; Chamberlain, intent on clinging to power while deluding himself, his party, and the nation that he has brought peace - if not to Poland and Czechoslovakia - than at least to Britain; publisher Max Beaverbrook, supporting whichever politician can improve his political and financial ambitions; the craven, common, and crude U.S. Ambassador Joe Kennedy and his duplicitous niece Anna; Churchill's allies Boothby and Bracken; and Soviet mole Guy Burgess, a tortured soul attempting to meld his flamboyant homosexuality, anti-fascism, alcoholism, and journalistic talents as a means of propelling Churchill into 10 Downing St.I thought that Burgess' character was a bit overly dramatic, but that's the only drawback in this fine political novel.
4 Based on historical fact, WINSTON'S WAR is a solid and absorbing fictional rendition of the leadership struggle between Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain and Winston Churchill between October 1, 1938 and May 10, 1940.As the book opens, Chamberlain has returned to 10 Downing Street a public hero after the signing of the Munich Agreement between himself and Adolf Hitler which gave the latter the Sudetenland in return for &quot;peace in our time&quot;. Meanwhile, relegated to the periphery of British politics and virtually an outcast, Churchill obstinately lashes out against appeasement and loudly proclaims the necessity for total war to save democracy from the depredations of the Nazis. What subsequently follows is history: the German subjugation of the rest of Czechoslovakia and the invasion of Poland, the German-Soviet non-aggression pact, the Phony War, the Soviet invasion of Finland, the British military's Norwegian fiasco, and the crisis in His Majasty's government in May 1940 that ultimately elevated Winston to the premiership.The cast of characters in this sweeping story by Michael Dobbs of political maneuvering, skullduggery, and backstabbing is an historical Who's Who of the times: the ailing, haughty, and pacifist Chamberlain, who personifies England's bitter memories of the Great War and the popular concept of &quot;never again&quot;; the ambitious and self-absorbed Churchill, whose pugnacity sometimes clouds prudence; the defeatist, philandering, and anti-Semitic U.S. Ambassador to the Court of St. James, Joseph P. Kennedy; the alcoholic, disillusioned and psychologically tortured idealist, Guy Burgess (of Burgess, Philby, and Maclean of Cold War infamy); the stuttering King George VI, who whines that the German invasion of Poland interrupted his grouse hunting; and the Machiavellian newspaper mogul, William &quot;Max&quot; Aitken, Lord Beaverbrook.It's in the minor details with which Dobbs fleshes out the story of Chamberlain's fall and the rise of his nemesis, Churchill, to an epic 685 paper-backed pages (UK HarperCollins edition). And it's the length of WINSTON'S WAR that is, perhaps, a minor flaw. Some of the subplots seemed unnecessary, and should have been severely cropped by a ruthless editor: the love affair between the crippled WWI survivor &quot;Mac&quot; McFadden, barber to the politically great and one of Guy's information sources, and Carol, a housemaid and part-time prostitute; and between Bournemouth postmistress Sue Graham and Army Sergeant Jerry White - though the experiences of the latter did usefully tie the Norway debacle into the storyline on a personal level. Slightly more relevant, but still mildly tedious, was the dysfunctional relationship between Brendan Bracken, Churchill's closest confidant, and Kennedy's niece, Anna Fitzgerald. Perhaps Dobbs perceived a need to include Carol, Sue and Anna to make it less of a Guy Read.Chamberlain was toppled not because he sought to appease Hitler and avert a cataclysm, but because he didn't have the mettle to wage all-out war when the necessity for it was thrust upon him. That was to prove to be Winston's genius. The author's genius is in portraying the labyrinthine venality of Whitehall and Fleet Street powerbroking at a time when solidarity against a rapacious common  enemy was desperately necessary.WINSTON'S WAR is the first in a series of novels about Churchill's wartime leadership. According to the back cover, the next book is apparently NEVER SURRENDER. I shall seek out and buy it immediately.
2 It was interesting in a many worded way. The author had too many unconnected threads of plots that eventually wove together but it was a struggle to get to that spot.
4 Winston's War: A Novel of Conspiracy starts out very slowly sounding like a history textbook with reflections not only about the First World War and the Napoleonic War but the Romans, too! The author's bursting with facts because he's obviously an expert about history and politics, being an actual member of the British House of Lords. Reading chapter one makes you think that the writer must be a fascinating conversationalist, making wry reflections about all sorts of battles and conflicts in England's past. But the reader wants to start out a "novel of conspiracy" set in 1938 with a bang instead of a long flashback about the main character's past.by Linda Cargill, author of Key to Lawrence
5 A fictional account of the intra-party intrigue leading to Winston Churchill's premiership. I'm not a scholar of the period, so can't opine as to its accuracy.  But the telling is superb, and the broad outlines seem quite believable. I thoroughly enjoyed it.
5 Although a historical novel its insights of political intrgue are outstanding..the trilogy is a must read by anyone interested  in the time from Chamberlain's &#34;I have a piece of paper &#34; speech through WW2 to Churchill's defeat by Atlee.
4 My husband read this and he enjoyed it.  He found it very interesting.  I shall read this book at a future date.
5 I enjoyed Michael Dobbs' ideas about that world changing time and the people playing major roles in the process. His ability to achieve intense drama made this a page turner even though we already how it ended.
5 Well written of course, held my attention to the the end. Michael Dobbs is brilliant as usual. Nothing better than Churchill, some whiskey and a Damon fine book.
5 This was an interesting insight into the lives of two men, Neville Chamberlain and Winston Churchill, both of whom were acutely involved with what the future held for England at a time when it was about to be embroiled in another war with Germany. The book covers the events from when Chamberlain, as Prime Minister of England, acquiesced to what was going on in Munich to the period following Germany's takeover of Poland. The book ends when Churchill is about to assume the post of Prime Minister (PM).A lot of the book focuses on Chamberlain's hand wringing over the events leading up to and following Germany's invasion of Poland. The book treats this period in British history as largely a political behind-the-scenes wrangle of personalities: Churchill the alleged "war monger" and Chamberlain the "peace-at-any cost" Prime Minister. There is no question that the political, if not also the personal relationship, between the two men was both frustrating and maddening.Although I consider myself a student of WWII in Europe, my interest has been predominantly with the role of the U.S. and its involvement with the allies, mostly with the interaction between Eisenhower and Montgomery. So this book presented a new introspection of the times leading up to the war, albeit from solely a British perspective. In short, it was an interesting analysis of what was going on in the minds of the British leadership in the time leading up to WWII.
4 Winston'd War deserves the 4-star rating because of the interesting premise involving a relationship between Churchill and Russian agent Guy Burgess. The characters were fascinating and the intertwining of the lives of various famous and unknown persons was well handled. The reason I did not assign a fifth star was because the writer's style was lugubrious, making it difficult to stay with the story for any length of time. One has to take a break and let the content settle before proceeding. If the book had been whittled down by a third, it would have made for more enjoyable reading.
4 In writing a series of novels about Winston Churchill's wartime leadership, British politician-turned-author Michael Dobbs has a prodigious quantity of documentation to call upon, not least Churchill's own six-volume history,THE SECOND WORLD WAR. But Churchill's prose, though by no means self-effacing, is dry and even circumspect. His account of the last days of the Neville Chamberlain administration, leading to his own elevation as Prime Minister, is a laconic six pages. Not only does Dobbs devote the last hundred pages of his book to these nail-biting events, he structures the entire novel to lay the groundwork for them.His subtitle is "A Novel of Conspiracy." For Dobbs, it is not a matter of the inevitable rise of talent to the top (although he is a great admirer of Churchill), but a constant war of factional infighting, sexual intrigue, espionage, and blackmail. Nor is the spying a purely national affair: Dobbs makes much of a recorded early contact between Churchill and Guy Burgess, later unmasked as a KGB agent; he also suggests that the household of US Ambassador Joe Kennedy (the father of the 39th President, shown in most unflattering light) was a source of information that eventually found its way to the Germans. Such speculations aside, the central thesis is based on fact; despite Churchill's public show of support for Neville Chamberlain, there was a longstanding rivalry between the two men, as documented by Graham Stewart inBURYING CAESAR: THE CHURCHILL-CHAMBERLAIN RIVALRY. But Dobbs goes much further, in the manner of his own novel and TV seriesHOUSE OF CARDS, and such Jeffrey Archer books asFIRST AMONG EQUALS. By inventing subplots, machinations, numerous minor characters, and liaisons both gay and straight, Dobbs makes this whole saga immensely entertaining. The nearly-600 pages of this fat book (surely it could have used smaller type?) go very quickly. There are a number of anachronistic touches that jar on a reader who grew up in that period, more or less, but on the whole Dobbs' ability to amplify the historical record without unduly distorting it is remarkable.Let's face it, though, one of the great pleasures of reading this kind of historical fiction is the 20/20 hindsight we can bring to it. We chuckle to see one famous person with his pants down (perhaps even literally); we congratulate ourselves on seeing another, not yet so famous, and predicting what will become of him; we watch events in the making whose outcome we know, but whose precise course is a mystery. In making his readers buy into that mystery, Michael Dobbs has produced a wonderful escapist entertainment that nonetheless sends us back to the history books to find out more.
5 I was fascinated by the dreadful mistakes the British government made leading up to WWII. I knew nothing except the names of Churchill and Chamberlain before reading this book, but now I can talk about the British side of WWII almost as well as I can the Australian and the American. I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in WWII or political intrigue.
5 Review of &#34;Winston's War:  I found this book absolutely fascinating...  I had trouble putting it down!  I was a child during this period, and remember the people and the difficulties of this period in history.  But I never knew of  the intrigues and in-fighting that was going on.  I completely recommend this book
5 I really enjoyed this book and have been recommending it to my family and friends. My husband read it and liked it too. It reads like a novel but you are learning history. Thanks to the author for making history lesson easy!
5 I picked this book up in Bangkok as I was browsing through a second hand book store, and didn't expect much until I read that this was a novel by the guy who wrote House of Cards, To Play the King and The Final Cut.As mentioned above, this covers the events leading up to World War 2.  It provides a great insight into the behind the scenes goings-on in parliament, the rivalries and treacheries in the run up to Winston Churchill becoming Britains war time Prime Minister.It's a superb read, really gripping from the first page through to the end.  Definately recommended for anyone who has an interest in WW2, Churchill or British history.  In fact, I would definately recommend this to anyone, it's easy going and difficult to put down.
5 This was a fascinating read through the ending. I love historical novels which impart historical facts. I loved how the author did not back away from the somewhat irritating and rough characteristics of Churchill, but demonstrated how many of these became strengths during war.
4 Full of atmosphere, world war II feel to it. He does a good job, in this whole series, of bringing Churchill to life as a very real and human character. It is a novel and not historical text book but he really takes you into the time and place. I've enjoyed this whole series, would recommend them to anyone who is interested in this era but remind them that they are fiction, good fiction never the less.
5 This fictional work is as fine a book as any non fiction book covering the period leading up to Churchill's ascension to Prime Minister. The reader witnesses the chicanery and dangerous self serving and selfishness of Chamberlain and his cronies. It leaves the reader wondering what the world would look like today if the forces of appeasement had been victorious over Churchill. A great read that gives wonderful insight into the mess inherited by Churchill from Chamberlain and his ilk. The author has done a fine job in remaining historically accurate as he spins his enjoyable tale.
5 I was only 7 when WWII ended but have heard and learned thru the years of Neville Chamberlain's appeasement policies. Even tho this  is a work of fiction , the facts about  the political machinations were  intriguing . Unfortunately the same kind of behavior is still active in our own political system.The character development is very good. I just knew Jerry wouldn't make it, sad.
5 I had a feeling this story was going to be dry but I was pleasantly surprised.  I learned a lot about Winston; the author put everything together in an interesting story of people and their interwoven lives. Books like this make history enjoyable. A good read, there were times I couldn't put it down.  All in all I really enjoyed it and would freely recommend the book to anyone.
3 In 1938 Winston Churchill received Guy Burgess at Chartwell, his home in Kent. Many years later, Burgess was found to be a Soviet double agent. No one made much of the meeting until Michael Dobbs based this novel on a fictional but plausible premise that their encounter might actually have been crucial in getting Churchill the office of Prime Minister.The premise and the plot themselves are believable enough and they might have made a fine political thriller, but unfortunately Dobbs hasn't mastered the realistic portrayal of historical figures. Churchill too often stumbles and his greatness isn't conveyed: under Dobbs's pen his flaws are petty and his qualities flat. Neville Chamberlain is merely vain and vengeful.Most offensive are Dobbs's portraits of US Ambassador Joseph Kennedy and of Canadian newspaper magnate Max Beaverbrook. He gave them identical voices, having them blast out "damns" and "f-words" as the typical expletives of powerful North Americans.Dobbs's characterization of Guy Burgess is more sympathetic and more believable while Burgess's helper, a barber to many government high officials who learns many secrets from bantering with his clients, is a well fleshed out character whose pathos genuinely moves the reader.Overall, the story rings wrong but it moves along well enough. And while we all know Churchill does become Prime Minister in the end, Dobbs manages to hold us in suspense as to exactly how he will manage it.Vincent Poirier, Tokyo
3 I'm probably in the camp of the earlier reviewer who said they really wanted to like this book.  I've read a number of books about Churchill over the years, so many of the characters in this book are familiar and known names.  Still, when Mr. Dobbs goes into long and detailed conversations between these "real" people, how much of this is what those people said and thought versus what the author needs to make a good tale?  By labeling this "historical fiction", what's the obligation of the author to observe the former, when the latter might make for a better read?  I mean this as no criticism to Mr. Dobbs, since he properly calls this a historical fiction.Mr. Dobbs has written a good book that is an interesting read.  Still, my concern about books of this sort is how quickly the reader may forget the author's "fiction" disclaimer, and take this for total "history".  I received this book as a gift from a friend who told me that I'd enjoy it, because, "it tells you what really happened".  That's my concern....
4 The review above who complained about the abundance of dialogue and lack of action should be forced to read Georges Simeon, Maigret series to for comparison. Another fun read from Ruth Dudley Edwards.
2 I enjoyed this British mystery, which centers largely around Parliament's House of Lords. That was interesting, since I know nothing at all about how it works or waht they do there. The plot was pretty good too, although the ending didn't really wrap everything up the way I expected and there was no real climax to speak of.My main complaint was the characters. I didn't really like anyone in the book, except perhaps for the policeman assigned to solve the case. The book centers around a woman, &quot;Jack&quot; Troutbeck, who is elevated to a peeress. She immediately jumps into controversy by supporting the traditional English hunt, which animal rights activists are trying to outlaw. She ropes in a reluctant friend to help on her campaign, Robert Amiss. Although he's out of work and in India looking for a new job, he drops everything to come help her out. Soon the action picks up, with a terrorist attack in Parliament and peers dropping like flies.Jack is abrasive and coarse. She's independent enough, and occasionally funny, but not often enough that I could really stand her very long. Amiss comes off as a wimp (he admits it himself several times during the book) and I wondered why he would even stick around since Jack took him for granted during the entire book.I was not impressed at all by the characters and I sure won't be reading another one of these books.
5 The irrepressible Jack Troutbeck has been made a life peer much to Robert Amiss's surprise.  When she co-opts him as a researcher he soon finds himself in the middle of some very dangerous shenanigans where pro and anti-hunting factions are concerned.  Jack decides to make her maiden speech a pro-hunting one and decided to rally supporters against a bill currently proceeding through the Lords.When several Peers are found dead following the debate Ellis Pooley and Jim Milton from Scotland Yard become involved and things start looking dangerous for Jack and Robert.  There are some marvellously funny scenes in this book - most notably those featuring Plutarch, Robert's cat.  Both the pro and anti-hunting lobbies are satirised and animal rights activists come in for a fair amount of stick too.This irreverent series takes apart some of the UK's best loved and most hated institutions and provides interesting murder mysteries and lovable characters as well.  If you like your crime novels with interesting backgrounds and not too much violence on the page then you may enjoy this series.  The books can be read in any order but if you read them in the order in which they were published it's easier to understand the development of the series characters.
3 An attack on political correctness and exagerated animal rights, it has it's amusing moments, although it also is somewhat wooden and lacks character development
4 As an American who spends a frightful amount of time in the UK, I found this book to be hilarious, but then I am familiar with a lot of how the UK works. For this series, it probably helps although it isn't absolutely essential.  If you watch a lot of Mystery or read a lot, then you'll get by fine.This book is dry British humor.  It holds no sacred cows in fact she targets and sends up sacred cows in her books.  She also has a cat character, Plutarch, who is one of the funnier cats in writing without that nauseating cloyness that many authors give pets.  Then again, that's probably part of the humor.If you like dry humor, if you appreciate poking fun at most everything, if you like intelligent slapstick (do you like Mr. Bean?) then you will probably appreciate the humor here.  It also helps if you understand and appreciate irony. Otherwise, much of this may either bewilder or bore you.  If you're a bit prudish this probably isn't your cup of tea either.One other thing - the mystery here is just a vehicle for a hilarious story.  If you want mysteries to be the key, this will probably irritate you too.  I wasn't particularly worried about the solution as I was enjoying the caper far more, but I knew what I was in for.
4 For us American types who know next to nothing about the British House of Lords, this was an instructive book. But that's not it's real purpose, of course, since it is after all a murder mystery. Baroness Jack Troutbeck, newly elevated to that title, is now in the Lords and consequently her sidekick Robert Amiss gets to investigate a murder there. One is generally less interested in the mystery in a Ruth Dudley Edwards book than enjoying the comic twists in the plot line and laughing at the even quirkier characters, and both abound in this tale.Like the previous reviewer, I believe the ending is rather contrived and it does break one of the cardinal rules of mysterydom, which is that there should be enough clues along the way to give away the identity of the murderer to a careful reader. But since this is a comic mystery that is a bit less of a crime, if you'll pardon the pun.I did not enjoy this one as much as some other Dudley Edwards mysteries, but it did keep me entertained and surely that counts for a lot. One point: someone needs to tell the writer that the state of Virginia is not in the American midwest.
2 For the first half of this book, I enjoyed the author's wit and storytelling quite a bit. Any writer who has the courage to expose the anthropomorphic absurdities of the animal rights movement has my eager attention. But the second half of the book didn't quite work for me. It seemed like scene after scene of characters discussing the situation rather than anything really taking place. After the twentieth phone conversation between two characters telling each other what they'd found out or arranging meetings over dinner, I began to get a little impatient. Indeed, the most action-packed scene in the second half of the book involves retrieving an escaped cat. By the time I got to the solution of the mystery--which seemed to come out of nowhere and had little to do with the theme of the book--I really didn't care that much anymore. I appreciate the author's willingness to satirize so many political points of view--on both sides of the pond--and Baroness Troutbeck was a hoot, but I would have liked a little less conversation and a little more action.
4 "An April Shroud" is one of Felony & Mayhem Publishing's reprints of excellent (mostly) mysteries from the 70s and before.  In this very well written Reginald Hill story, Dalziel and Pascoe have become the formidable detective team they will be for years to come, but Pascoe marries Ellie in the first chapter and leaves on a honeymoon, leaving Dalziel to  take some time off on his own after the wedding.  Big Andy is soon embroiled with a bizaare menage that generates dead bodies on a regular basis.As always, the best part of "An April Shroud" are the highly original characters and witty dialogue that are hallmarks of author Hill (and pretty much unequalled by any other mystery or other genre writer in 20 years).  The book's plot is unusually serpentine and the denouement both funny and a bit opaque.  In any event, it's a fine piece of writing that any reader will enjoy.  Recommended.
5 I saw the D VD of one season of Dalziel and Pascoe, liked it a lot and got this book from my local library to see if I would like the novels as much as the show.  I was so pleased with this book that I ordered a copy to keep from Amazon.  I wish I could afford all of the late Mr. Hill's books, but will have to settle for getting most of them from the library unless finances improve.The Yorkshire setting, dialog and the main characters are a real treat = Fat Andy Detective Chief Inspector Dalziel, rude, crude and shrewd; Peter Pascoe, university educated and smooth (getting married to his rather formidable wife in this book) and craigy faced Sgt. Wield the quiet organized force in the background.  This particular book has a great beginning as Dalziel gets lost due to flooded roads when he goes south to Pascoe's wedding and finds himself witness to a very strange funeral with the coffin  being rowed through the flooded area.  His car gets stuck and he becomes a guest of the house in mourning.  It is a really odd lot of characters and plot.  I now am committed to reading the whole lot of Mr. Hill's books and being very sorry to hear that he died several years ago.Another of my favorites in the series so far is THE WOOD BEYOND which involves our basic characters and ties them to past murder and the execution of Pascoe's great grandfather during WWI.
4 I haven't gotten around to reading it yet.  I have a stack of books to get through first, I just wanted to add it to my collection.  I do like the new covers/jackets.  I good cover goes a long way toward making you want to read a book.  I think Reginald Hill is with Mayhem now and Mayhem has gorgeous covers.
5 From the truly bizarre scene at the river, through the Fat Man's unexpected romance, to the not quite satisfactory winding down of the tale, this book is one riveting read.I would say that one of Reginald Hill's touchstones is the unflinching honesty of his two protagonists, Pascoe and Dalziel (read this book, by the way, to learn how to say the Fat Man's name; I haven't quite mastered it, but it's nice to have the phonetics at hand). He simply does not allow them to lie to themselves. And, when they are not quite up to deconstructing (or admitting) all that is to be known in the moment about their motives, he doesn't shirk from laying it out for the reader.Hill refuses to blink, too, at his supporting cast. Even the characters who might be considered sympathetic (are ANY of Hill's characters people I'd like to know? I kind of doubt it, fascinated though I am by them) receive the full Hill treatment, i.e. any warts and sins well highlighted along with their wit and good grooming.And then there's the superb writing. Beautiful sentences. Descriptions evocative, but never over-wrought. Dialog that sounds right in the reader's "ear".The other books in the series I've read so far (I'm taking the series in order and am only a book or two beyond this one) show far less of Dalziel, the man. So if you've read later books without having yet picked up this one, this provides some back story you might find interesting. In fact, you might even go to the headwaters of this great series:A Clubbable Woman (Felony & Mayhem Mysteries)
4 This is an early installment in the Dalziel and Pascoe series from 1987 with the majority of the story featuring the "Fatman " only.This is very much like a Agatha Christie novel with all the events taking place at a country house where our hero finds himself stranded during flooding. Very much a 'who dunnit' and great fun.The standard of dialogue and humour is of the usual high standard with a high body count and Dalziel managing to get the girl ,for a while anyway.
2 Any early Hill effort which develops so slowly it is better as a sleep aid than a thriller.
5 This book is a little different than most in this series because it focuses on Andy Dalziel on his own.  It also shows a side of Andy that we have never seen before.  We see him at his most vulnerable - in the middle of a love affair with a widow.  It is also a story set in an old crumbling country house (a la Agatha Christie).  But there the similarity ends.  This book has more twists in it than a small English country road.  It is filled with wonderful eccentric characters and Dalziel knows that at least one of them is a murderer.  He sets out to find out, hoping that his paramour is not the one.  The book is also very funny.  This is a must-read for any Dalziel and Pascoe fans.  It gives the best picture of Andy Dalziel that you'll find in any of these books.  Hill is a master storyteller, and he has used his considerable skills to pen a nice country manor mystery that isn't like any English country manor mystery that you'll find anywhere else.
1 Boring is far too nice a word for this misadventure by author Hill.  The plot is so convoluted, the development so slow, the logic so absent, that the publishers should issue a recall on this, collect all remaining volumes, and burn them.  Someof the Dalziel stories are quite catching, but this one, as another reviewer has said, can put you to sleep no matter how inflicted with insomnia you are.  Skip it.
5 What a concept: a fantasy series that doesn't involve a feckless young pig  farmer, a grizzled old wizard, or a wry thief who's actually a nobleman.  Hobb's characters are fascinating, multi-dimensional people from a variety  of cultures (including one memorable non-human tribe). Their adventures and  misadventures bring up larger issues of power, feminism, and slavery--but  these themes are carefully explored, not driven home with a hatchet. Hobb  is also among the best prose stylists writing modern popular fantasy, and  the pages melt away as the plot grows thicker.
5 I've read and now re-read all of Robin Hobb's works, and the Liveship trilogy truly is her greatest work.  All of her other series suffer from at least one 'filler' book where the characters do little more than travel a long way or churn through uninteresting politics.  Not so this trilogy - it has the richest set of characters and strongest narrative, with hardly a chapter wasted.It also has the strongest set of characters, especially female characters.  She is a master at introducing immature female characters that you start out wanting to strangle but somehow, by the end, you cheer for.  This would make a great trilogy to give to a young woman, but be aware that there are adult themes including sex and rape, so perhaps best for a teenager.It does stand alone, so if you haven't read any of her other books you could start with this one.  I'm not sure whether to recommend you start here, because it's so good, or start with the Assasin's trilogy, because it's her first trilogy in this world.
5 This book blew me away!  Most books this size have at least one boring spot in them right,?  or a place were they go on and on about nothing. But Robin Hobb made every word, every paragraph something to savour!The  character developement in this book is the best i've seen yet, (except from  Lord of the Rings, but even then i'm not to sure). Wintrow and his  miserable situation was heartbreaking, but it was reality and thats what  most Fantasy writers forget about. I know your thinking "well there's  a magic ship and pirates involved in the plot, how realistic can it really  be?" But those aspects just give this book some interesting details,  yet give you situations that are enlightening and entirely life like. The  good guys don't have pure hearts or any of that junk, but they do have very  human motivations and ideas. PLEASE and i mean this sincerly!, read this  book, its a page turner and will give you something to read on those warm  summer nights, sitting on the deck listening to the crickets perform.
4 After the first couple of chapters I was worried that this book would suffer the same problem of so many other books... 1-D characters... the typical Good vs Bad set up of many Fantasy books. Not so.. every character  was believeable. I wasnt sure if I was going to get through the book  though.. the set up for the characters was just so depressing, but I  suppose that every book needs a trial that the Characters must  overcome...Stick it out and you will be rewarded. Hobb's writing style is  just so impressive. Every setting is crafted beautifully, the rooms and  characters leap vividly off the page.However if you are looking for  C.S. Forester's &quot;Hornblower&quot; like action this is *not* your book.  Clearly Hobb's interest is more in Character development.. and not the  detailed minuet details of seamanship, that authors such as Forester and  Kent provied. No detailed descriptions of setting Gibs, mainyard arms ect  here... just basic descptions of sailors dutey. And they are sufficient for  the story.Im looking forward to the next book.
5 Strong fantasy coupled with a unique, fun concept that broadly starts the epic.  Get started and enjoy the whole series.
1 After reading The Farseer Trilogy which was very promising, I decided to take another chance with the author and try The Ship of Magic series. This first book is very silly. The concept of a liveship which speaks to it's  occupants was intriguing but it loses it's appeal as the characters were  very annoying, and the magic was very unsophisticated. I tried very hard to  find some good in this novel but it falls short of anything spectacular.  Only for the extreemely imaginative and open minded. If you have your feet  planted firmly on the ground, this fantasy novel is not for you. Goodkind  fans will find this novel a hard read. The Farseer trilogy is far better.
4 I picked this book up for several reasons...one, I'd heard some pretty good stuff about Robin Hobb, two, Waldenbooks was having a  buy-four-get-one-free sale and this was number five on my list.  *g*From  the cover and the writeup on the back, I was expecting a pirate novel in  the best traditions of Robert E. Howard (Cormac Mac Art and Black Vulmea  come readily to mind) and Robert Lewis Stevenson (TREASURE ISLAND....always  a classic), but must admit I was pleasantly surprised.  It took me a few  chapters to switch gears mentally, having just put down a very good, very  violent sci-fi novel, to reading a low-tech/slightly magical...well, drama.  The characters are very well-developed, and for the most part, the story  flowed nicely (with just a few minor snags/glitches that I noticed), and it  was, as has been commented before, quite difficult to put down!The  only reason I was not able to rate this story a full five stars was the  obvious lack of details anywhere fighting occurred.  While this would be no  problem for my mom, I myself like to get in there amongst the pirates  hacking the merchants  &quot;to tiny bits, in Thy mercy&quot; (to steal a  quote from Monty Python).All in all, I will definitely pick up the next  book in the series.  Robin Hobb uses very intricate, delicate, and  unnoticeable lines to draw the reader in, and once you're hooked, there's  no turning back!  Kudos, Ms. Hobb!
4 Having thoroughly enjoyed the Farseer trilogy, my fears that the Liveship books would not measure up were utterly groundless.  Without using the first person voice, Ms. Hobb is still able to present  her characters from  the inside out, giving each actor on stage the depth necessary for the  story must have to be effective.  Once again, she weaves magic into a  complex, human tale without requiring too great a suspension of disbelief.  This allows the story to better serve as a platform for her message.  Her  graphic depictions of the horror of slavery, and its corrupting effect on  economic and social institutions, and the brutality of harvesting animals  for economic profit (obviously drawn from extensive research into the 19th  century whaling industry) show us once again that Hobb has a gift for  presenting relevant social issues within the context of fiction in a stark,  yet entertaining, style.  Nothing is in black and white, regardless of who  the protagonists and antagonists are.  We are even allowed to feel empathy  for Pirate Kings and grasping in-laws.  Like Fitz, Althea finds that  growing up and pursuing a dream has many bumps in the road, regardless of  your social station.  I again commend this author to anyone with teenage  children, with the suggestion that they encourage their teenagers to read  this book: it is a superb substitute for MTV or computer entertainment.  The only downside is the end of the book, and the inevitable wait for the  next installment.  Robert Jordan and his publisher could learn a thing or  two about brevity from Ms. Hobb's example; however, I do hope the  conclusion for this series, which is bound to have a few surprises, ends a  little less abruptly than The Farseer tale did.  In any event, give us  more!
5 Thus far I have read the first two books of this series and have started the third, so I have a fairly good idea of where the series is headed.  This book is a great beginning to the series and provides the reader with a detailed look at the lives of the liveship traders.  The setting is within the world Hobb created in her Assassin trilogy, although it's not the same region.The characters are exceptionally detailed and I found myself getting angry at certain characters and feeling sorry for others.  The book allows the reader to suspend their disbelief and actually feel as if the action described on the page is real.  It is also written in such a style that it keeps the reader hungry for more.If there is any downfall to the writing style it is the way in which storylines can be abrubtly dropped for 100 pages before picked up again.  There is not a real aspect of seamless weaving between the storylines until the third book in the series.  The story may follow a particular character for several chapters and right as something important is going to happen the story will shift focus to another character and another storyline.  To be honest, that's actually the only reason I wouldn't classify this book as a "true" page-turner.  After reading for several hours, I'd find myself stopping at one of those abrubt shifts, because it's convenient to do so.Overall, however, that one negative aspect doesn't detract from the actual story or the vivid way in which it is presented.  I'd highly recommend this book to anyone who is a fan of fantasy.  I'd also recommend, if you like this book, Terry Goodkind's "Sword of Truth" series or Robert Jordan's "Wheel of Time" series.
5 This was the first fantasy novel that I read and still the best by far in terms of originality, sensitivity towards the subject matter, and all-round  writing talent. My fears were that it would be like all the 'traditional'  fantasy that graces children's movies - goblins, magicians, magic frogs,  etc. - but I gave it a go and was swept into Ms. Hobb's vividly  conceptualised world that contained no goblins, no magicians and, believe  it or not, no magic frogs whatsoever.Hobb sets The Liveship Traders  series in a land far to the south of the Six Duchies that were featured in  her earlier Farseer series (which I also wholeheartedly recommend). It  principally (but not exclusively) concerns Bingtown, a trader port that is  part of the Satrapy of a corrupt and negligent Jamaillia, and Divvytown, an  outlaw community in the Pirate Isles. The attention to realism was the  first thing that grabbed me about Hobb's style; far from being an Emerald  City in a Forgotten Forest, we have essentially a colony reminiscent of  pre-Revolutionary America, pinned between aggressive foreign governments  and an uncaring ruler, plagued by pirates, and struggling for credence and  independence in a land far removed from their pre-colonial roots. Bingtown  itself is very well thought out, a town where the Old Traders with their  Bingtown traditions are being usurped by the New Traders who have bought  their way into society from the dishonest Satrap. Indeed, the resistance to  change of the Old Traders is highly reminiscent of the upper-crust British  aristocracy of the late nineteenth century, social graces of as much  importance as power and money, but infused with the aforementioned desire  for autonomy.The story line is contentious and moving and action-packed  all at the same time, enough there to keep a mainstream action fan happy  and even, perhaps, a Jane Austen enthusiast. Despite its fantastical  setting, it deals with strong contemporary issues such as domineering  parents Hell-bent upon control, the position of women in society,  Government corruption, nepotism, and many more, and still has time for a  few moral debates on the concept of slavery and the ethics of fair trade.  Add to this an array of intelligent sea serpents questing after lost  memory, pirates banding together in an attempt to form a Pirate Kingdom for  outcasts and outlaws, and the night-time appearances of the mysterious Rain  Wild folk, kinsmen of the Bingtown Traders, and it is certainly a novel  which sticks in your memory long after you have finished reading it.It  is in the characters, however, where Hobb truly shines. She is surely in  touch with both her masculine and feminine sides, because every single  character is incredibly empathetically drawn. She has the power to put a  feeling down on paper in such a way that you can feel it too. I was angry  and bitter when main character Althea was cheated out of her heritage, I  felt hurt and lost and slightly upset when Wintrow was coerced into obeying  his father; I have known grown men who admit to crying at things Hobb has  written, and that's something that can't be faked. You finish the novel  knowing her characters, and even the 'baddies' like Kennit and Etta are  painted in such a way that right and wrong becomes ambiguous. You  understand them, and feel for them, and Hobb's talent for this is  exceptional.Overall, Ship of Magic is perhaps the best introduction into  fantasy writing, even if it does overshadow every other fantasy novel you  will read. This is epic writing on a grandiose scale, literary and  heart-rending, intellectual and energetic. There is no other author who can  so sympathetically draw you into a fully realised world of their own  creation. I cannot recommend it enough.
5 If you like your characters to have depth, reasons for what they do and to be like real people, no one's pure evil and no one's pure good, then these are for you. What I like about this series is not only that the characters are great, but also that she follows some of them, one by one. They get one chapter each and take turns, which makes you scream when the chapter ends and you want to read more about that person, but then you start reading about the other one, and scream when that one ends, but then it's her again and... Wonderful, full of imagination and originality. I love them.The only bad thing is two rape scenes. I DON'T enjoy reading them. I'm thinking about cutting out those pages. They feel unneccessary and I just hate such scenes. But that's the only bad thing about these books and they're worth it, I promise. Read the first book and if you still love them, keep reading even though these scener come later on, they are not in the first book.
5 i don't often read such books, but after the assassins series, i knew that this would be a good series. i was not disappointed. it was a pageturner until the end of the last book.  it was a little darker than the assassins series, but all the threads were neatly tied and i really learned/enjoyed myself reading it. awesome, just read it.
4 Sea serpents, pirates, sailing ships that are alive, a feisty female heroine who is bereft of her rightful inheritance by a cold, calculating brother-in-law, a young priest torn from his vocation and forced into a life he does not want, tantalizing, teasing hints about the Rain Wild River folk that leave you eager for more, and yes, even politics - this enchanting new fantasy explores new ideas in a genre that all too often plays the same old tune.  Perhaps there is a hint of influence from Anne McCaffrey's &quot;Ship Who Sang&quot; series, but the ideas here are fresh.  The characters are solid, their dilemmas absorbing, and you alternately admire, then are irritated by them as they develop.
4 Not sure why I should be surprised as I enjoyed Hobb's other books, but this one does seem a little out there... none the less it's good fun with good characters. Recommended!
5 I read this book mostly when I was in waiting rooms or similar circumstances.  Since I would only read 5-10 pages a week, it took over a year and a half to finish.  In spite of that, the book was a marvel.  The characters were so well drawn, the story was so involving that I had no difficulty in picking up the thread even if a month when by between reads.
4 Pretty cool. But Robin, Robin, Robin. I'm very disappointed with this one. Even though the mysterious character Amber (aka the Fool) brings some of the Hobbness into the book, it lacks something. It's too centered around the &#34;family issues&#34; instead of he whole &#34;dragon mystries&#34;. Despite that it was still a beautifully written book and I still love RH.
4 With a few minor "huh?" moments, the Liveship trilogy stands on its own, separate from the preceeding Farseer trilogy or the (technically) subsequent Tawny Man trilogy. Nonetheless, although I picked up the Liveship trilogy while Tawny Man was still being finished by Hobbs, I also put it down. I didn't find it as compelling--no Night Eyes, no Fitz, no Fool (OK, I'm not an idiot, but...). However, upon finishing Tawny Man, I realized how Liveship fit into the overall story and have since completed it with new and much more interested eyes.Still, Tawny Man is a spoiler for Liveship in many ways. As such, perhaps you should power through Liveship. If not, you will certainly return here afterwards.
5 If J.K. Rowling is the Louis Carroll of our era, Robin Hobb is Melville. Hobb claims in her web site that it was her intention to write a &quot;swashbuckling adventure story with pirates thrown in for good measure.&quot; This may have been somewhat of Melville's intention too.  I believe there is a bit of tease here. The greatest adventure, the most danger, is always the journey inside. The most difficult quest is the search for selfhood. The major characters in this novel must journey to find out who they are. They have a social identity, a role to play, or a place in the ecological scheme of things. But who are they really, at the core? What is their true identity?As I have found in other books by this author, many of these characters at first glance seem exotic and strange, but as we get to know them, we see ourselves, or people close to us. Here are a few of my favorites. There are the liveships, Vivacia and Paragon - brought to live by some magic after three generations of their owners have died on board them. But who are they really, and where do these strange souls come from? There are Brashen and Althea, both children of prosperous merchants, both of them estranged from their families after insisting on going their own way. There is the  pirate, Kennit. He is a casual killer who doesn't understand what love is. At the beginning of the first book he purchases for himself a good luck charm carved to his own visage. It is made of the same substance as the liveships. This charm serves him as a most uncompromising conscience and psychotherapist. He soon finds his direction has changed. But has he, himself, changed? There is the young man Wintrow, first headed towards priesthood, but then diverted to life at sea - both at his parents' whims. His younger sister Malta is a bratty self-centered teenager - is she there just for comic relief? Finally, there are the sea serpents, on a long migration they do not understand towards a destination they do not know.The Liveship Traders Trilogy takes place in the same world as the Farseer trilogy, but unlike the earlier work, it is written from multiple points of view, frequently switched. Moreover, one does not get the same sense of inevitability, that events must work out as they do. The characters are set in their initial circumstances; they then make their choices. Some grow, others do not. Some are fortunate, others, not. This trilogy, then,  may be a bit less organized and artistically coherent as the Farseer trilogy; but there is much suspense in this uncertainty, and delightful surprises. As in Moby Dick, the question is asked whether man or God is in charge of ones own destiny.  One character wonders, if she had acted differently, whether the fate of the world would have been changed. The reader will not want to stop reading this trilogy after Book 1 or Book 2. But in the end, for those who survive, the journey must continue, and we must leave them, inevitably, midway through.
5 Having immensely enjoyed Robin Hobb&#65533;s Farseer Trilogy, I enthusiastically turned to her next fantasy series, the vast Liveship Traders trilogy.  This first novel in the series, Ship of Magic, is set in the same world as the Assassin&#65533;s Apprentice but otherwise has very little to do with it, instead focusing on a whole new and unique fantasy setting.  Liveships are large masted sailing ships made of wizardwood that actually become sentient beings after three generations of their owner&#65533;s families have died on board them.  We follow various members of the Vestritt family, an Old Trader family who is in the unenviable position of trying to increase their trading profits before their creditors take harsh action.  There are several main characters but chief among them is Althea Vestritt, a young lady who has spent most of her life sailing under her father&#65533;s captaincy aboard the Vivacia.  Upon her father&#65533;s death in the early chapters of the novel, the Vivacia &#65533;quickens&#65533; into a full-fledged liveship.  Unfortunately, through a series of circumstances and inner family squabbling, Althea is not allowed to continue to sail on board her, thus launching the main story thread of the series.There are many well-drawn characters in this novel, but I always appreciate a good villain.  Ms Hobb excels once again, with the introduction of Kennitt, an ambitious pirate who has his eye on Vivacia as his prize.  To be able to write a villainous character whom the reader can sympathize with as he pursues his dastardly plots is difficult at best but Ms Hobb does it so well.  And her good characters come across as very real also, not always choosing the wisest or most honest course.  They stumble over bad decisions during their struggles to achieve their goals and we feel for their failures, often seeing ourselves within them.This is, fundamentally, a tale of the sea, albeit in a fantasy setting complete with magic ships and sea serpents.  The ship board activity is well researched and fascinating to experience.  This is a long book and is followed by two more long books in the trilogy.  Where some see extra wording or too much detail or even refer to &#65533;the doorstop syndrome&#65533;, I see a richness of character that is essential in understanding these people.  Besides, I just like spending time with them.While Ms Hobb provides splendid detail about some of the characters here, she only hints at others.  We spend a little time with another liveship, Paragon, who is considered mad by the populace due to several incidents involving the deaths of his entire crew.  It seems obvious that we are being set up for much more from Paragon, especially considering the title of the next volume, Mad Ship.  We also get tiny scenes involving what appear to be sentient sea serpents, but, quite frankly, I found them to be confusing and so relegated them to the recesses of my memory in order to dig them out again as they become more relevant in future books of the series.  Ms Hobb also prepares us for a major role by the Rain Wild magicians and their interaction with another headstrong daughter of the Vestritts, Malta.For those readers who prefer their plot lines wrapped up neatly, I would suggest they have all three volumes of this trilogy readily available.  Not one of the major threads is resolved here.  But for those who relish complex relationships that are not convoluted, this novel will be sure to please.  I for one am searching my book shelf even now for number two of this fine trilogy.
5 This was my first Robin Hobb series.  At first I had trouble getting into the slow pace of the story.  I stuck with it and am glad I did.  One of the best series I have read and I have read a bunch.  At times a bit "TOOOO" slow, but necesary.  The end left me wanting more.  Perhaps a series will be written to continue as there sure is enough material to suggest a grand series.
3 Sentient ship family.Set in the same world as the Farseer series of books, and geographically within trading distance this book is about a family that crews one of the sailing ships made of a magical wood that are actually alive.When the father of the family dies the new owner of the ship comes as a surprise.  After this, with the usual problems of trying to make a living in this industry throw in piracy on top of that, and pirate romance even.Nowhere near as interesting to me as the Farseer books, unfortunately.
5 If you're looking for a long fantasy novel, this is a pretty enjoyable read. Better than Terry Goodkind.I should point out that it's not really a trilogy, but rather a single novel that's divided into three parts. So don't expect either of the first two books to end in any sort of way. You need to commit to reading all three books.Initially, the book is confusing, because "Hobb" bounces around from character to character, including sea serpents, and at first you have no idea how they are related to each other or the story. But it's worth the effort. Once you get past the first third of the first book, the rest of the trilogy is a really enjoyable read.If you never read the Assassin trilogy, you could read this and never know that you missed anything. However, the various events that happen in this trilogy kind of give away the end of the last book of the Assassin trilogy.
5 Awesome HIGH FANTASY!If you like your characters highly developed, ones that will step off the pages and into your heart... if you like action on the high seas with ships that have come alive(!)... if horrifically drawn sea serpents who follow them, waiting for "food" to go overboard sends a chill up your spine... if you like your politics and relationships between adversaries quite nasty... then this is the book for you!  Cheers!
4 I just finished reading Robin Hobb " Ship of Magic". Having previously read first Fitz trilogy, I was expecting a lot. The book was not as depressing as the above mentioned trilogy. After having read the first chapter, I smiled with pleasure. This book was going to be so enjoyable. It was and it wasn't at the same time. It was too long, but I would be hard pressed to say which part should end up on the cutting room floor. There was not enough action in the first 65 percent of the book, but then it came on fast and furious. I love pirate fantasy and "Pirates of the Caribbean" movies. While Kennit was predictable and not too interesting, I loved the flavor of the pirate part of the story. The book was really cozy to get into, with small towns, taverns, whorehouses, serpents, disgraced priests, slavers and pirates. I kept thinking of colonial Virginia as the inspiration for Bingtown. Bingtown portion was very slow, so slow, so slow. However other portions of the book had me in awe of Hobb's skill in telling the story. For example I remember setting aside a book after reading of Wintrow's unfriendly encounter with the residents of a port town and thinking that there were not many fantasy novels of exploration and sea travel around. Overall I give the book 4 stars. I am ready for "Mad Ship" now.
4 Just finished &quot;Ship of Magic&quot; by Robin HobbPretty good first book in this trilogy. Hints at a lot of things to come, but of course I already knew that since I've read both Farseer and Tawny man before it, which is not really the right order. I'm particularly interested in the dragon aspect with this trilogy, because that will become important later on, and Hobb is handling it very nicely in this first book.I'm also very fond of Paragon, the mad liveship, easily my favorite character from the series sofar. Amber is an enigmatic and very sensitive character, she's good as well. The story revolving Althea and Brashen fails to capture my interest and I almost found myself skipping their pages. The scenes regarding the three Vestrit women at home (Ronica, Keffria and Malta) are ok, but not spectacular. Which leaves Wintrow's storyline aboard the Vivacia, which is quite good because the attitude towards him remains so very cruel. I'm also pleasantly surprised by the concept (and humanity) of the Liveships.All in all there's still much to develop, and I'll be reading book two soon. I have to add that at least this first book doesn't draw you in the way the Farseer trilogy does, and I also think that series attains a higher level overall, if only it were because the great lead, Fitz Chivalry (of course there's more to it than that). But these Liveships books are still above average. I give the first one 7,5 out of 10.
5 I learned about Robin Hobb just recently and this is the first book I've read of her. What a great treat. It is a superb novel. I can't wait to get and read the next one in this great series. About the Verasit family and their liveship Veracia, this book keeps you turning its pages. A strange mix between real life and science fiction. A very good read.
5 Sometimes, when one has high expectations of an author, one can be dissapointed with the final work.  Not so with Robin Hobb's Ship of Magic.  This is the fourth of Hobb's books that I have read and I am becoming more and more of a fan with each one.While the Ship of Magic begins very slowly, the action and intrigue pick up quickly about half way through the book and don't let up an inch the rest of the way.  The characters and storyline are wonderfully compelling and full of emotion.  Believable interactions between characters and the way that Hobb gives a glimpse of their true thoughts gives the story a very realistic feel.  Human misery, hate, joy, and love are described in a way that a reader can almost feel, really bringing the story to life.I strongly reccommend all of Robin Hobb's books.
4 I loved Robin Hobb's Farseer Trilogy, so I figured I'd give her new Liveship Trilogy a shot as well.  The first hundred pages or so were a bit slow, leaving me to wonder if I was going to be disappointed by an author who had so impressed me when I was first introduced to her. Lucky for me, she proved my suspicions to be unfounded! Soon after those hundred pages, I was eating up the story, truly enraptured in all the characters and their plights.  What I love about Hobb is that she really makes you love the characters you're supposed to love and hate the characters you're supposed to hate.  She illicits very strong emotions...at least from me anyway.  I loved this book and I'm looking forward to reading the other two books in the trilogy to find out what happens next!
4 I have read over 450 fantasy novels and this is one of the very few times that I have come away with so little connection with the characters.  The closest I came to flowing with a character was when I was reading the chapters about the pirate Captain Kennit.  What I mean by "flowing" is that when I am reading a book I prefer being totally immersed in the characters and story, to the point where I feel that I am seeing everything in my mind rather than reading word after word.  Don't get me wrong I still enjoyed the storyline and especially the environment.  There are many redeeming qualities to this series.  I especially enjoyed the subplot of the serpents and the rich detail of the life aboard ship.  This series has great potential and I am looking forward to the next two books.I think Robin Hobb is a great author and I hope she writes many more novels.One final note:  I read the Farseer and Tawny Man trilogies before I started this trilogy and I am glad I did.  I lost a little of the mystery of one of the characters in this series, however I think I gained more enjoyment from the Tawny Man trilogy by reading in this order.
5 I was reading another fantasy novel that just had to be put down! I then picked up this novel, after having recently read her excellent 'Assassin' series.The characters are developed and are individuals, and there are those you will care for, and those you will 'boo and hiss' when they have thier turn on the stage. Will your division of who are 'the good' and who are 'the bad' remain consistent let alone agree with mine?There was an obvious original inspiration here, and there has also been the careful thought through of second and third drafts, plot elements are added and 'in thier proper time' utilized; and there are a few plotlines revealing themselves, discovering they are tied to other events.I recommend this novel, I am left wanting to read the rest of the storyline, and wanting to read the 'Tawny Man' series. I guess I should say, it left me wanting to read MORE good writing.
3 The first book of this series didn't grab me like her Farseer trilogy did. I will read the next one, but did anyone else get the feeling that Hobb really doesn't like her characters? She really beats the heck out of them... Mainly Althea and Wintrow. Wintrow was shaping up to be my favorite character in this big door-stopper of a novel, but as time goes on, the poor kid just gets his face rubbed in the doo-doo over and over again. By the end of the novel, I was ready to beg Hobb to just put the poor guy out of his misery. He needs an adult!As I write this, I can't help but recall how she did the same thing to poor Fitz-Chivalry in Farseer. I don't think it grated on my nerves as badly then, but I have to wonder if Hobb is some kind of literary sadist. I mean, we get the point- Your characters are real survivors!Well anyway... I am dying to read the Tawny Man series, soon, but I am determined to finish (or officially give up on) the Liveship Traders series first. So, Mad Ship will be the test of where I go.
5 Ship of Magic marks the first installment of one of the strangest fantasy series I have ever encountered. Robin Hobb manages to weave an intricate mixture of characterization and plot, making it absolutely impossible to construe which is the primary driving force behind her story.For the first one hundred pages, the resulting weave that is Ship of Magic is absolutely so Byzantine that this reader experienced an intense struggle to continue turning pages. Without warning, Ship of Magic became a helter skelter roller coaster ride. Which is it that grips the reader so viciously: concern and love of characters or an intriguing and addictive plot?Whichever the answer, Ship of Magic is a unique fantasy tale that deals with Bingtown's Old Traders. These are merchants who venture into tremendous generational debt in order to own a ship virtually carved from wizardwood called a liveship. Wizards and other normal fantasy devices do not reside in Ship of Magic. Instead, a world of serpents, pirates, cruel slavery, and political intrigue abound. In fact, the frame story that seems to encompass the Bingtown doings is a mysterious migration of serpents. What this has to do with Bingtown is an interesting mystery that is only hinted at within the first volume of The Liveship Traders trilogy.Robin Hobb is definitely a literary voice belonging within the realms of fantasy. Those who have never had the pleasure of reading her previous works should give the lady a try. When Hobb's magic boat does take off, the reading pleasure becomes highly addictive.
2 I almost never made it through this book. There were several times where I almost gave up on it. It moves very slow and while, there are some interesting things happening, not much of anything develops until the last two chapters. Even then, however, it doesn't deliver.It was pretty disappointing because I LOVED Robin Hobb's Assassin series. They are some of my favorite Fantasy books. So, it was quite a let down when I read this book. It's still written quite well and the characters are deep and unique, but the story just doesn't go anywhere.At this point I don't plan on reading the other books in this series and hoping that the Tawny Man series will resume what I liked about Robin's stories in the Assassin series.
2 I forced myself to finish reading this book.  The story line was a good one just the writer jumped around way to much to follow the story very well.
5 This was the first book I ever read by Robin Hobb and I soaked it up like a sponge! Hobb creates a magical world that is entrancing. Don't just buy the first book. You will be itching to continue reading the trilogy once you are done this one!
4 Ship of Magic and the Liveship Trader series are one of the most innovative fantasy series I have read in a long time.  Robin Hobb's choice of a maritime setting for her work (a setting that feels vaguely like the Caribbean, with an immigrant-type history) is very unusual and extremely well-rendered.  She obviously knows a lot about ships and shipboard life and renders the day to day minutiae of life on board a sailing ship extremely well.  She also does a good job of portraying the Bingtown society as a society in flux, with a clash and struggle between the old-time, established residents and the newcomers who are unfamiliar with the old ways of doing things.  Her depiction of the Vestrit family's struggles at home to make ends meet is very well-rendered and believable, and I was struck by the realism and thought put into her society (one example might be the fact that a lot of the old families are having problems making ends meet, caused by cheap Chalcedonian grain produced with slave labor being dumped on the market--an unusually realistic problem and explanation).  Her characterization feels excellent too--watching the Vestrit family essentially hit the wall in the first hundred or so pages, the people feel like real characters, and one is forced to admit that really, things couldn't have been done much differently, given the character make-up of the people involved.  The liveships are a great concept, and Paragon, the mad ship, is one of the most interesting characters in the whole series; his history is unexpectedly pitiable and touching.  Some people have considered this similar to Anne McCaffery's brain/brawn ships (The Ship who Sang, etc.) and while I guess I can see the resemblance, for some reason they didn't seem at all similar to me; perhaps it's just because her liveships seem so heavily to come out of a maritime tradition where sailing ships are regarded as living things, where Anne McCaffery is drawing more from a science fiction milieu involving cybernetics etc.  She does a remarkable job with the character of the pirate captain Kennit as well, I thought, with a character who is totally loathsome and utterly amoral and without any human feeling at all, but who is able to be ascribed these qualities by people around him who wish to see him as a symbol.  While I never liked Kennit, I was very impressed by what she was doing with him.  Wintrow's spiritual strength and strength of conviction were impressively done, and Malta the spoiled daughter is an impressive character also.  I was particularly interested in Malta because I have seen others try to create this type of character and fail to make him/her convincing; however, Malta was convincing.  Obviously her source of power is her knowledge of human relationships and her ability to manipulate people and use diplomacy.  However, unlike some other characters of this type I have seen, there is never any doubt in my mind (and I mean that in a good way) that Malta can manifest such power.  Right from the start she displays herself as extremely good at spotting people's actual motivations and using her knowledge to manipulate them, and while at first she uses her power for evil instead of good, because she doesn't know any better, by the end of the series she has matured and grown into a sympathetic and formidable character.On the negative side, the series has a few too many plotlines--the plotline with the serpents, for example, was one that I honestly felt I could have done without--and the prose style seemed a little thin at times.  However, for a truly different and interesting story, this is extremely well done.
5 For a long while I have waited to read these books.  I very much enjoyed the Farseer trilogy that she wrote (I read it a few years ago) and just knew that this series would be just as good, so I guess I was waiting for the right moment of enjoyment.  I am not displeased of my choice.  I was wrong in one thought that I had, while this story is in the same world as the first trilogy, it is not exactly connected to the first. There are all new characters and magics.I found the idea of the Live Ship to be a very interesting thing to read about and Hobb did a wonderful job of creating understanding of this as the story went on.  Certainly a wonderful quality of creating characters (in general), which of course is why I so much enjoyed the first story.  To gain a different way to sail and interact with a ship and crew.  I was glad of the start to get a glimpse of the proper way this was to happen and then the breaking and how I could feel the pain and wrongness of the choices of those in the book.  Every time I thought I figured out the connections that would occur later on I was wrong (mostly), and glad of it.Each character is strong and every time their tale is being told I was in rapture of what they were dealing with as well as the emotion that they felt.A Pirate captain with only the wish to capture a Live Ship to become a king.  A girl that just wants HER live ship.  A boy with the mind of priest having to live as a sailer and later as worse. A mother losing grip on her home and children as well as the daughter that only wishes to be grown and important, but with the attitude of a spoiled brat.  The mystery of what is up the river and what the true importance of that is.  As well as the Live Ship that is wrecked and pulled from the water defaced (literally) and dealing with what actually does not seem so much like insanity.  That is only a few of them.Such a great story has started.. and I am excited about moving on into the next one.
5 Robin Hobb is amazing! I can hardly wait to finish the trilogy and go on to the next one! Great Read.
5 My sister-in-law told me about Robin Hobb and that as a fan of fantasy novels I needed to be reading her.  I thoroughly enjoyed the first trilogy and was ready for this second series based in the same world with a different location and characters.  The nice thing about this series is that it doesn't really center on the typical magic system and some huge monolithic evil wizard / warlock / demon.  This is all about characters.  How they live, the struggles they face, and the tough decisions they have to make.  Yes there are magic ships, but really they can't do too much.  The characters are the heart of the story.How will Althea, who has spent a life on the sea, find love, deal with tragedy, get along with her sister and mother.  How will the extended family deal with business ventures on the brink, government intervention and war.  This series packs it all in.  Secrets that are slowly revealed, political intrigue, love won and lost.  Oh yeah there are pirates, bounty, and life on the sea to boot.Pros:o well written - character driven novel / serieso many plot turns and twistso magic is just part of the world, it doesn't rule itCons:o what might be a con to some is that it is definitely written from a woman's perspective.  So there is a lot of focus on the love lives of the characters.Overall - I highly recommend this series, and this author in general.  The books offer enough solid plot and character development to keep almost every reader happy.
2 I read this after having finished the Farseer and Tawny Man series and was disappointed.  Maybe the second book will be better or maybe I just like books that take place in castles better but whatever the reason this has not struck my fancy.  I will continue so as to finish the series but I hope Hobb goes back to Fitz rather than follow these characters around any more.
5 &quot;Ship of Magic&quot; is a little over 800 pages long and tells a slo-o-owly developing story from the multiple viewpoints of a family of liveship traders, the liveship herself once she is awakened, plus various sea serpents, a pirate king, and other more peripheral characters--at least they're peripheral in &quot;Ship of Magic&quot; but this is the only the first book of a trilogy, 'The Liveship Traders.'I've also read this author's 'Farseer Trilogy,' and once settled into one of her books, it is very hard to put down until the last page is read. I'm kicking myself because I didn't immediately order the two concluding books of this trilogy as soon as I started &quot;Ship of Magic.&quot; If Patrick O'Brien had collaborated with Charles Dickens and written &quot;Oliver Twist Goes to Sea in a Magical Ship,&quot; this book might have been the outcome.All of the characters are minutely detailed and believable, even the would-be pirate king, who is a much nastier man than Gilbert and Sullivan would have him. He ends up performing glorious deeds by accident, and I wouldn't be surprised if his title turns out to be 'the Great Liberator' rather than 'King' by the end of this trilogy.The man who does the most evil in this book is a merchant captain who believes that he alone knows the right course to steer, both for his liveship and his family. In fact, I wonder if &quot;Billy Budd&quot; was also an inspiration for &quot;Ship of Magic.&quot; The relationships between the self-righteous captain, his unworldly son, and an evil Claggart-like second mate are almost pure Melville. The innocent boy is even accidentally responsible for the deaths of his shipmates, brought about when he tries to comfort a dying slave.Merchants, pirates, slavers, and hunters (meat ships) are all brought to life in a fantasy setting that seems to draw on the 18th century British Empire for its inspiration. The trading port of Bingtown is only a few generations away from having been forcibly settled by convicts and debtors. The fortunes of its most prominent merchant families are bound to their liveships, which are sailing vessels partially constructed of wizardwood. When the well-respected Captain Vestrit dies in his prime, he wills his liveship 'Vivacia' to his priggish son-in-law rather than to his daughter.Thus begins his family's precipitous decline, and the start of what promises to be a fascinating saga. I am very much looking forward to the arrival of &quot;Mad Ship,&quot; the second book in this magical seafaring trilogy.
5 I really enjoyed this book, especially after reading theFarseer Trilogy which showed how Hobb couldweave in characters, and make them still just as interesting as the first,A great book.
4 Robin Hobb, author of ASSASSINS APPRENTICE, has written a great entry in new series. the ship, the details of his life, the sea tale, is enthralling. He also has written sea serpents, pirates, and all kinds of magic in this fantasy adventure. These, liveships the trade ships, although somewhat different personalities, and reminiscint Anne McCaffrey Brawns brain vessels, and their special people, cooperation and full groups.Hobb has peopled the book with the characters very well developed. The main ones are very Vestritts members, who have Vivacia liveship Old Trader family. They believe in crazy stories, and leave the old liveship Kennit, an ambitious pirate Brashen the disinherited scion of a family besides serving Vestritt ship Paragon, are intercut with it. This is the story of sentient sea serpents, and have hinted.Although the ship is full of magic, none of this book plotlines get resolved. Almost 700 pages of questions and a few answers to many of the readers are left to re-think two times before, and the rest of the series, their voltage is not too long so that you should not wait. But Hobb's writing draws you in, and a terrific storyteller desperately needed to take care of what is going to happen next.
4 This was the first book of Robin Hobb's that I'd read, and I must admit that I approached it with some reservations.  I suspected that with the inclusion of pirates it would become some rousing seafaring tale long on  action and stereotypes and short on craft and characterization.  I could  not have been more mistaken.  In many ways this tale was more reminiscent  of work written by any of a number of 19th century authors, such as E.M.  Forrester or Joseph Conrad.  With a great amount of detail devoted to  multifacted characterization and evolving relationships, as well as to the  Trader culture of Bingtown, Hobb is not in any hurry to push the storyline  along by punctuations of suspense and action.  Instead she gradually  developes her characters and their interpersonal conflicts until they  possess a depth and individuality rarely encountered in fantasy fiction.  While I doubt such writing skills will be appreciated by all - especially  those who moan and groan about Jordan's unwillingness to rush his saga to  conclusion - I appreciate and applaud Hobb's effort.I look forward to  &quot;Mad Ship&quot; and have already gone back to discover her earlier  &quot;Farseer Trilogy.&quot;  For those who enjoy a well written tale that  is not dependent upon repeated battles and bursts of sorcery to hold one's  interest, I heartily recommend this story.
5 I cannot figure out what is wrong with me. I read this book for the first time about, oh, four years ago, just after completing the Farseer Trilogy. It took me a good month to get through it and for some reason I was not all that impressed. However, a second reading really changed things for me: I loved it. I think it's better than Farseer.Maybe that's because this is my style: high-seas, swashbuckling adventure and action, multiple characters, and distant ideas. It's all-aroudn juicy. Maybe it's not as emotionally complex, but I am a girl that likes a good, exciting story.And still Hobb worked hard for this. She once again created a rich mythology set against the practical setting of a proper merchant society, giving us on hand an almost plausible story and a mind-blowing fantasy on the other. And I'm not just going on about the talking ships.This is a book (and possibly a trilogy) for those who loves interesting characters and a good, satisfying story.
5 When Ephron Vestrit, head of the Vestrit trading family of Bingtown becomes the third generation of his family to die onboard his Liveship, Vivacia, the ship "quickens" and becomes alive. Liveships, made of wizardwood, a magical substance so valuable that the four-generation old debt of the Vestrits is still being repaid, are vital to the success of Bingetown, a city-state that has a monopoly on trade with the Rain Wilds. With Ephron dead, the fate of Vivacia and the Vestrits rests on the outcome of a family struggle between his daughter, Althea, an accomplished sailor, and Kyle Haven, her sister Keffria's husband. To Althea's surprise, her father leaves Vivacia to her sister, who promptly hands it over to Kyle. Kyle plans to restore the family's fortunes by entering the slave trade, a trade which sensitive Liveships abhor, and Althea leaves home in disgust and despair to set out on her own in an attempt to prove herself worthy of the ship she has lost.Vivacia will only sail with a blood member of her family onboard and, without Althea, Kyle must use his son, Wintrow, recently torn from his dream of the priesthood, to console the ship. Wintrow cannot decide between his hatred of the new life thrust upon him and his growing love for the ship.To the south, in the Pirate Isles, Captain Kennit dreams of uniting the pirate townships under him as self-styled pirate king. He has set about capturing slave-ships and releasing the grateful slaves, which then crew the captured vessels in a growing pirate fleet under Kennit's control. The one thing he is missing is a Liveship.Under the sea, a group of sea serpents is desperately seeking "She Who Remembers", to lead them somewhere unremembered for some equally important but forgotten purpose.The Liveship Trader's Trilogy takes place in Jamaillia, Bingtown and the Pirate Isles, on the coast far to the south of the Six Duchies. The war in the north has interrupted the trade that is the lifeblood of Bingtown, and the Liveship Traders have fallen on hard times despite their magic sentient ships. At one time, possession of a Liveship, constructed of magical wizard wood, guaranteed a Trader's family prosperity. Only a Liveship can brave the dangers of the Rain Wild River and trade with the legendary Rain Wild Traders and their mysterious magical goods, plundered from the enigmatic Elderling ruins. Althea Vestrit expects her families to adhere to tradition, and pass the family Liveship on to her when it quickens at the death of her father. Instead, the Vivacia goes to her sister Keffria and her scheming Chalcedean husband Kyle. The proud Liveship becomes a transport vessel for the despised but highly profitable slave trade.Althea, cast out on her own, resolves to make her own way in the world and somehow regain control of her family's living ship. Her old shipmate Brashen Trell, the enigmatic woodcarver Amber and the Paragon, the notorious mad Liveship are the only allies she can rally to her cause. Pirates, a slave rebellion, migrating sea serpents and a newly hatched dragon are but a few of the obstacles she must face on her way to discovering that Liveships are not, perhaps, what they seem to be, and may have dreams of their own to follow.
5 After reading Hobb's Farseer Trilogy,and loving it, I forbore reading anything else by her until recently. I waited and bought all three of the Liveship Trader series and spent most of four days reading the entire series. It was gripping, involved and kept me wanting more. I sincerely hope Hobb follows this trilogy up with another set in the Rain Wilds and Bingtown. You come to hate then love many of the characters in her books. Characters are complex  and intriguing and make the reader relate to them on many levels. Great Job!! Looking forward to more stories but please, don't let release dates between books keep us in agony.
5 From the first page, the vivid and exotic world I was drawn into stopped all else. For five days the world around me ceased to exist. I did not check email. I did not do homework. I disappeared to my room whenever I had the opportunity. The book went *everywhere* with me. _Ship of Magic_, as well as the other two in the series are easily the best fantasy books I have ever read. Most of the fantasy books I pick up now pale in comparison, much to my chagrin.If you're trying to avoid the same old storyline of the indiscriminant character who grows into a hero/ine's role and must go questing for that legendary sword, I can't recommend this book more highly. This is the most original storyline I've come across yet. The plot isn't so complex that it will make your head spin, but it definitely isn't simple. And by the end of _Ship of Destiny_ (The 3rd and final book) there are still little plot twists and surprises that I wasn't able to predict.The characterization is unsurpassed. Hobb's characters are constantly evolving. Kennit is the most psychologically intricate character I have ever come across. Other characters one should keep an eye on are Malta and Keffria.And if you're worried because books about seafaring just aren't your thing, don't worry because I felt the same way! If I could give this book more than 5 stars, I would. I really hope that Robin Hobb writes a series to continue this trilogy.
3 This trilogy is quite different from the previous two Hobb trilogies I'd read (Farseer and Soldier's Son): it's in the third person, with about a dozen different main characters to follow around; there's certainly a wider scope this way, as well as a quicker pace, more action and less immersion in the lives of the characters. Apart from that, this trilogy is also much more consistent: where I found Farseer and Soldier's Son to start off brilliantly and then go downhill badly, this one started off okay and got better. I didn't ever love it the way I loved some previous Hobb books, but whether this is because I've gotten jaded toward her books (and their tendency toward emotional manipulation) or because she's at her best when getting deep into one character's head, I couldn't tell you. But the good news is that, unlike with the other two trilogies, I didn't hate any of the Liveship books either, so this might just be the trilogy I'd feel most comfortable recommending.With as many main characters as these books have, the plot is complicated. Some of the threads are about characters' personal quests--one of the main characters, Althea Vestrit, spends the entire trilogy trying to reclaim her family ship--while others tell a larger story--Bingtown, the colonial city where most of the non-nautical action takes place, is facing major social changes and trying to assert its independence despite being located between two larger and more powerful neighbors. For the most part, Hobb weaves all these stories together well, although toward the end the bigger political story is sidelined in favor of the characters' personal ones. Ship of Magic begins rather slowly, with lots of long, repetitive arguments among the various members of the Vestrit family, but the plot picks up quite a bit in Mad Ship and Ship of Destiny, with more action (pirates! storms! sea battles! sea serpents!) than I'd normally expect from Hobb.As for the characters . . . having so many of them is a double-edged sword. On the one hand, they are well-conceived, they have psychological depth and complex motivations, and they grow and change. They also all have their flaws and make mistakes. Kennit, the pirate captain who's probably the closest this trilogy has to a villain, isn't the sort of fantasy villain who entertains himself with cruelty; he's willing to do whatever it takes to get what he wants, but this is just as likely to be fighting slavery as it is murdering people. Meanwhile, Althea, who's arguably the heroine, is easy to sympathize with, but has a tendency to be selfish and dismissive of other people's feelings and contributions. We also get to know characters who normally get short shrift in fantasy: Ronica, the Vestrit matriarch, who's struggling to hold her family and their possessions together; Keffria, her daughter, who has to learn to take control of her own life back from an overbearing husband; and Malta, Keffria's daughter, who starts out a spoiled teenager but has to grow up quickly. Most of the main characters in the trilogy are women, and Hobb does an excellent job in creating in them well-rounded and realistic characters, much more relatable than the usual female fantasy characters.The downside to having so many characters is that none of them are quite as well-developed as other Hobb protagonists, and that each reader is bound have at least one major character they find ridiculously annoying (Wintrow, in my case). Additionally, in Ship of Magic, there are a lot of rather pointless scenes with characters whose importance to the trilogy doesn't become clear until the second book (Paragon and the sea serpents in particular). Finally, in later books I found certain characters' development so dramatic as to seem a bit contrived.Now to the story's world: Hobb does a lot here that I normally love in fantasy. We get to read about a seafaring, merchant-based society that has a 16th-century feel; there's political and social change, and an overall progressive ethos--Bingtown has to change and move forward, not return to what it was in the past; there's no ultimate evil, but rather a bunch of characters all struggling to get what they want. But while that's all good, it isn't memorable here. Hobb tends to skim over worldbuilding, a fact that's evident from her characteristically uninspired place names (the Wild Sea, Trader Bay, Shield Wall Island . . . and so on). The world feels underdescribed in a purely physical sense--rarely could I envision the places or the scenes--but beyond that, the societies are rather flat and uninteresting. I'm not convinced there are hidden depths beyond what's on the page. And there's precious little culture here: think "well-to-do merchant society" and you already know everything there is to know about the Bingtown Traders. Part of a truly compelling fantasy is a compelling, multilayered world, and despite some very good ideas, this isn't one.As for the magic: I'm torn about that. I liked that there are no wizards here; the supernatural is (mostly) outside the characters' control. At the same time, particularly in the last book Hobb uses "destiny" to explain certain coincidences and the supernatural plays a role in a couple characters' psychology, which I wasn't thrilled about. But while I might have preferred a bit less of it, the magic fits well into the story, and it's fairly unique--living ships with talking, thinking figureheads aren't something you're likely to see anywhere else.Ultimately, this trilogy is solid entertainment. It's a fun seafaring adventure with complex characters and some interesting concepts. With a better world, and a writing style that's more than merely serviceable, it might have been fantastic, but in the end I don't regret reading it and am glad I pushed through the first book to get to the good stuff.
5 Can fantasy get any better than this? I don't think so. Robin Hobb is one of the best writers out there and she vastly proves it in this trilogy. The idea of mixing seafaring high adventure (pirates included!) and fantasy is just another example of Hobb's mastership. The setting is spectacular: the world is, in general, ample terms, that of the Farseer trilogy; but while this latter's story is set in a medieval-like group of kingdoms and fiefdoms, the Liveship Traders trilogy is set far to the east of these, in the lands controlled by the city-metropolis of Jamaillia. This city is a kind of Byzantium or Rome, an ancient, sophisticated metropolis with a very complicated (and corrupt) political system, and several very rich colonies-satellites. Bingtown, where the main characters of the story come from, is one of these colonies and its commercial elite has survived the harshness of the dangerous setting by sheer strength, sharpness and will power...and by an extremely accute sense of honour that has always made them be true to their word and pay their debts (in &quot;gold or blood&quot;). This pride in their sense of honour has allowed them to keep strong links with their metropolis,  while trading in the most precious and costly of merchandise, a merchandise that hides a well-kept secret that has made them rich but for which a terrible price has had to be paid. The moral issues arise from the conflicts that the characters have to face in their changing and corrupt society, but the author is too good to hit us with these issues on the head -as so many fantasy authors do nowadays. And this is what is really glorious about the author: she manages to present her themes without writing an overly simple pamphlet about what is right and wrong. Because in times of change, they are not so easy to see.
5 This is the first book in a fantastic stand-alone series written by the author of the Farseer and the Tawny Man trilogies.  It does contain one character from the other series, Amber, but surrounded by an entirely new and unique cast of characters and surroundings.  Truly a fantastic read, this book pulled me in and once I read the first one, I immediately had to read books two and three!
5 Robin Hobb's second series after the Farseer Trilogy is absorbing.  Never afraid to kill, maim or torture her characters, Hobb weaves an intricate story that provides some answers to riddles from her first series but is in every way a completely new story about lands and cultures that simply share the same planet with those of the Farseer books.Robin Hobb's writing transports me into the lands she describes and I feel a connection with the characters she develops so well.  They feel REAL.
5 I have been reading the whole series of Liveships and the dragon series.  Great books, well written.  Well worth the money.
5 I picked up Mad Ship on the strength of my positive experience with her Farseer trilogy. I am glad I did, because it looks as though it will be another series that will keep me entertained and engaged-- even when it means reading a book *way* past my bedtime.Ship of Magic draws from a wealth of other maritime writing to provide enough realistic details to make the conceit (a town that depends on a kind of living ship for their livelihood) work very well. I was willing to buy the details of life on board the ships and I was not able to easily poke holes in the fantasy world that the book creates.Her characters are both strongly drawn and appropriately flawed. One of the best things about her work in general has been the fine and realistic characters with whom she populates her fantasy world. I liked the way that Althea and Wintrow (the two main characters in this book) are introduced and contrasted and I see enough in both of them to keep the reader hooked throughout the rest of the trilogy.A great beginning, and an overall great read for fans of literate and readable fantasy novels.
5 Well maybe not quite, BUT very good!  I couldn't believe it when I saw a re-issue of this in hardcover.  I was so bummed 'cause I thought it was the second book in the series!  I went back and tried to buy all the old Megan  Lindholm stuff I could find (thank you Powells for telling me the two are  one and the same).  Her work as Lindholm was extreemly good (try Harpy's  Flight or Reindeer People) but this book and the Farseer trilogy are new  heights.  She breaks the staid mold of fantasy!
5 Great book - hoping that they will republish in hardcover.  I have all of these books - all twelve and I was not able to get hardcovers in about four of them - especially the Liveship Traders trilogy.
5 This was actually my first introduction to Hobb not the other way around.  Very good it's a two-fold plot.  One follows a family of Bingtown and their declining fortunes.  The other vain follows Kennit a pirate who is out to make a name for himself and found his own personal empire.  You really don't need any prior Hobb knowledge to enjoy this series I didn't.Hobb's strength has always been in her character developmentLooking back after I read the whole thing it was fun to see how much Kennit, Paragon and others developed over three books.  Even the B-characters like David Restar are well drawn.The only part I didn't like (and some will nail me for this) was the dragon POV in this book.  Just was not as well written as the rest of the book.
4 Wonderful book..  Amazing detail I felt as if I was part of the whole story!  Once I started the series I could not stop!  Read them all, thank you for this experience!  I look forward to more books by this wonderful author!  Thanks again!
5 I was hooked from the beginning of this book to the very end of this trilogy.  Lots of adventure and unforgettable characters wrapped up in a story you'll never forget. I would highly recommend this series to anyone.
4 In Ship of Magic, Robin Hobb continues the expansion of the world we were first introduced to in the Farseer. As usual, the characters are well written, and the plot is very strong. The only real problem, in my opinion, was in the telling of the story.In the Farseer trilogy, we follow the same character throughout, and are given glimpses of the world's history as introduction to each chapter. In the Liveship Traders, at least in Ship of Magic, the tale starts out relatively compactly with one human family in three locations, and pulls them all together, before expanding to follow specific family members in a confusing trail of individual plots. Add to this the journey of a group of sea serpents that seem to be unrelated to the main story.The number of plotlines that I can think of right off the bat are; Althea Vestrit, Ronica Vestrit, Wintrow Haven, Kyle Haven, Malta Haven, Keffria Haven, Brashen Trell, Kennit the Pirate, the Liveship Vivaica, the Liveship Paragon, and Amber. I suppose I should also add the Sea Serpents Maulkin, Shreever, and Sessurea. All of these characters are very well drawn and multidimensional, and each one has both admirable and less than admirable traits, still it is a very tangled web.The story starts with the quickening, or consciousness, of the Vivaica, a liveship that quickens when 3 generations of her family have passed a portion of their essence to her. A liveship also requires a family member, in direct bloodline, to sail upon her. Althea thought it would be her, but it turns out that Kyle has decided his son, Wintrow, an acolyte training for priesthood, will be the family member. Wintrow has no interest in doing so, but his father doesn't listen to his wishes. Kyle feels that Wintrow is quite lacking in manly traits, and has decided to make him a man.Althea, exiled from Vivaica, is following her plan to regain the captaincy of what she feels is her rightful ship. Vivaica has just quickened and is still trying to discover who she actually is.Kennit, the pirate, has decided that he wishes to be a king and wants to bring order to the chaos that is the Pirate Isles. To do this he feels he needs a liveship.From there the story just gets more interesting, as the characters follow their own paths, occasionally crossing paths with each other, in an interesting, unpredictable story.Though the plot scatters a bit more than I prefer, it is very interesting as Hobb weaves the separate thread into a pattern that has not yet come into view. The threads do begin to coalesce as the book winds down and the shape that seems just out of reach.I highly recommend Ship of Magic to anyone interested in a good story. The characters, the world, and the story are all very interesting. As usual Robin Hobb's writing is very refreshing.
3 The first book of Mr. Hobb I have read.  The book captured my interest  with the first few chapters.  In the middle of the book, I found myself  frustrated as if Mr. Hobb were taking particular delight in kicking me in  the teeth.  He seemed to find specail pleasure in crushing any hope out of  his characters and his readers.  I continued reading only because of habit  and a desire to see if he could possibly mangle his characters further.  The end of the book did hold out hope that the next book would have the  possiblility of becoming entertaining again.  This book will not be on my  reread list unless the subsequent books are better.
4 Many of you know the writing of Megan Lindholm. But apparently not enough of you. The story I heard was that because of a lagging career, and on the advise of her publishers or perhaps her agent, this writer of innovative and critically successful fantasy and science fiction re-invented herself as Robin Hobb, writer of ponderously long, epic fantasy trilogies. Under the Lindholm name, her books had been mostly of a more normal length, and the ones I've seen, stand-alone stories, not series. Apparently, this change is what her career needed, since the Farseer Trilogy was successful. And now we have the start of a new series, The Liveship Traders.At whatever length she chooses to tell her stories, Lindholm/Hobb is afine writer. Ship of Magic introduces us simultaneously to many stories: the charming and dangerous pirate Kennit; a tangle of sea serpents; Althea Vestrit, disowned daughter of a once-wealthy Trader family, who has a close relationship to the families' prize possession, a living, sentient merchant ship, along with many other vividly interesting characters, all told against a landscape which is other-worldly, decadent, magical and yet historically resonant.I confess I feel this book was just a tad commercially contrived. Ittouches many romantic stereotypes, and uses them effectively; a young lady masquerades as a boy to run away as a sailor; forbidden love, family intrigues and so forth. But Lindholm/Hobb is still an inventive, imaginative, effective writer, and I further confess I loved this book, and wait eagerly for the next.Perhaps I also wish, however, that shorter books, which have a climax when you reach the end, were more popular.
3 Hobb has created an audience for herself as ardent as any author could wish. They have learned to enjoy the hallmarks of her work and she executes these items very, very well. The immersive characters, the sense of justice, the romance of the work, these are all things that her readers have learned to expect and which she delivers (if not as grandly as in her Farseer books). But creating an audience does not a sufficient condition to influence a genre in the way we expect great books to do. Despite delighting her audience and constructing her plots well, we do not see anything in Liveships that will force future authors to grapple with her themes and elements in their own writing. Hobb's popularity will track evenly with her prolificity. When she ceases to write, we feel her books will be crowded off the shelves, new readers diminish quickly, and new audiences created for the next new series coming out that adequately serve such cravings. Her second and third books in this series will have to be far, far better in order to overcome the deficiencies of this first and launch The Liveship Traders in to true greatness.WHO SHOULD READ:Fans of Hobb's other work will disagree vociferously with the more critical elements of our review. They will like this book with tremendous energy. It satisfies readers who crave their dramatic tragedies delivered in tactile rather than philosophical arenas and become very emotionally attached to the romantic elements of the characters. Aside from readers who enjoy other notable fantasy authors who deal in this arena, we think these books could cross over very easily from some of the less cheesy novels from the straight romance genre and perhaps the less gruesome horror novels dealing in vampires. Similarly, we feel that enthusiasts of cop dramas (Law and Order, CSI, etc.) could also find great satisfaction in Ship of Magic. If the sex is more heated and the language a bit coarser than Farseer we still feel this book is eminently suitable for adolescents and teenagers.WHO SHOULD PASS:Not to belabor the point, but this is not a book for people worn out with conventional fantasy and looking for something strikingly new or different. For this, they'd be better served with The Etched City, Perdido Street Station, or City of Saints and Madmen. Also, as we mentioned, romance is a major theme here and if the reader finds himself in the camp of just not interested in the love interests of the characters, there are large sections of this book he will find distasteful. Sophisticated readers who are coming from Farseer entranced by some of the chances and elements that Hobb took in the latter part of that series will probably be disappointed with this book (as we were). Finally, despite popular press to the otherwise, while good this book is no substitute for George RR Martin (A Song if Ice and Fire).READ THE ENTIRE REVIEW AT INCHOATUS.COM
5 This is a very fine work of fantasy literature. First of all, as far as I'm concerned, the premise of liveships is utterly original. Sick of sparkly wizards, clanking knights and flaming dragons? Read of Robin Hobb's talking, feeling ships.Hobb's genius is manifold. First, her characters are extremely real, very human in behaviour, and every single one of them effortlessly evoking sympathy (or anti-sympathy) in the reader. Hobb's remarkable skill is in entering the mind of the character she is writing - even though the book is written in traditional third-person perspective, whenever a character is &quot;on stage&quot;, the author's writing creates multiple unique nuances in speech, description and thought to identify each and every one's personality - hence the intimacy.Second, Hobb's main plot is very compact and assured, with its subplots tightly hugging alongside. Her storyline devices (the ship-hunting quests of Kennit and Sorcor, the issue of Paragon, Althea's quest for a ticket) are fascinating and completely believable - nothing is absurd or incredulously outrageous - all this enhance the realism of her magic. I should warn though that a reader going through the book for the first time may be at a total loss as to the whole thing about the serpents - the prologue and epilogue hint at something much larger, but it is probably only when one reaches the second book that things start to come into the light. So, if you get a bit confused with all that obscure serpentine underwater talk - don't worry, all will be explained later. All in all, Hobb paces the book extremely well, sailing between tantalizing sluggishness and quick, lively momentum - 880 pages? No problem, every chapter is worth it.
5 I began reading Hobb's Farseer series. This story makes the reader impatiently wait to read the next in the series. A captivating read from beginning to end. The sea serpent-like creatures are a new species to me.I rushed through the first reading of her series. I immediately picked it up and read it again. The second read was even more enjoyable. If you dislike a book that leaves you hanging until you've finished the series, steer clear & read another series. If you like to be held in suspense & don't mind reading a series of long books, you'll be in hog heaven. I'm a fantasy fiction junky and this is by far my favorite series.[...]
5 I am a fan of fantasy novels, BUT only if the books are extremely well written, contain unique and compelling storylines, and are peopled by magical, well developed characters. Now, one could argue that any good novel should possess the above criteria. I agree - but more so with fantasy fiction which is so dependent on the author's imagination and ability to tell a good tale. Robin Hobbs, an enormously talented writer, has a particular gift of imagination that transforms readers into addicts. "Ship of Magic," the first installment of the author's "Liveship Traders Trilogy," caught me up from the very first page and kept me reading well past midnight, every night, until I had completed this book and this series."Liveships" are sentient ships. After three consecutive owners, from separate generations of the same family, die upon their decks, the ships become alive. They take-on and retain the memories of those who lived and died aboard them. These enormous trading vessels are built of wizardwood - a magical substance obtained from the dangerous Rain Wilds. "Ship of Magic" can be a stand alone book...but why would anyone want it to be with such superb entertainment to follow? ("The Mad Ship," #2 in the series, and "Ship of Destiny," #3). And, make no mistake, the novels and storylines only get stronger.Bingtown, located on the Cursed Shores, is a major shipping center for all kinds of trade, especially the exotic. A merchant nobility class, made up of old trading families, originally settled the inhospitable land which eventually became Bingtown. They made their wealth developing monopolies on goods produced and sold by the mysterious dwellers of the Rain Wilds. The Vestrits are one such family. Althea Vestrit, an expert seawoman who sailed aboard her family's ship, "Vivacia," since early childhood, long ago developed a strong bond with the vessel. She has waited her entire life to captain the ship. With her father's death, she expects the legacy to pass to her, rightfully and legally. However, her dying father, whose death makes the necessary third in order for the "Vivacia" to "quicken," wills the captaincy and ownership to his daughter, Kefferia and her new, non-Vestrit husband, Kyle Haven. Althea's father ultimately believed that a man's hand should hold the helm. Kyle is a hard and unsympathetic character. He banishes Althea from her beloved ship, and forces his adolescent son, Winthrow, to work on board. The boy becomes despondent, as he is a scholar, studying to become a priest of Sa. A learned, sensitive boy, he is does not have the soul of a seaman. The tensions, unhappiness and ineptitude which Kyle brings to the "Vivacia" threaten to drive her insane. And Captain Kyle plans for a new money-making cargo, slaves - the very thought is enough to send poor "Vivacia" over the edge.Meanwhile, Althea runs away to sea, disguised as a boy, and signs on to serve on a slaughter vessel. She needs a recommendation from the captain to prove she has earned her stripes serving on a non-family vessel. Brashen Trell, her father's former first mate, signs on with her, as he too has been banished by Kyle Haven."Ship of Magic" has multiple storylines, and a wide array of characters, including pirate Captain Kennit, a killer if there ever was one. He lives to acquire power. He wants a liveship...and a liveship is Power with a capital "P." Then there's Paragon," a beached liveship, thought to be crazy by most, and seafaring dragons who have lost their way. All Ms. Hobbs characters are multi-dimensional and complex - no one is either all good or all bad. These fictitious people, (and non-people), all have their foibles - the heroes are flawed and the villains have some redeeming traits.The author has woven together a rich tapestry of adventure, heartbreak, fellowship, courage and many mysteries. Her prose is a joy to read. And the nautical theme especially appeals to me as I love the sea and am an avid sailor. But you needn't be an "old salt" to enjoy "Ship of Magic."The good news, for those who really love this trilogy, is that there are actually 3 interrelated trilogies called "The Realm of the Elderlings." "The Farseer Trilogy" is the 1st in the series. "The Liveship Trilogy" is the second, and "The Tawny Man Trilogy" is the 3rd.. However, if you read the trilogies out of order it really doesn't matter. So, enjoy! Enjoy! Enjoy!Jana Perskie
4 kind of a slow starting book/trilogy.  Really wanted to read tawney man trilogy but new i should read robin hobbs books in order.  Overall a good book.  Don't think i'd read it again though.  Has must read information about characters from the first trilogy and continued in the tawney man i think.
5 This was the first Robin Hobb book I read.  What a great story.  The characters and world were so three dimensional that they almost seemed real.  Bingtown is alive with the stories of its inhabitants.  Kennit and  Althea are definitly strong characters, as is Vivacia.  I recommend this  novel to any dedicated reader of fantasy, or anyone who isn't familiar with  the multitudes of fantasy writers available.
5 Absolutely GREAT! Hobb has once again proved herself in this excellent work! Dragons and serpents are never the same as any you have seen in other fantasies as Hobb weaves an enchanting tale of the species. Like Assassins,  Hobb's characters in the Liveship Traders are flawed, like any real life  person. Brashen is undisciplined, rough and a cindin addict. Althea is  headstrong, feministic, stubborn yet conservative in her values. Martha is  selfish yet honorable in her loyalty to her family and father. I find  myself loving and hating each of the characters in turn at some point in  the story (both Ship of Magic and Mad Ship) because they are just so human.  They are not goody good like &quot;heroes&quot; are supposed to be, not all  bad either. Hobb captivates us in a story of very real, relatable  characters trapped and turned by circumstance, something that modern  authors don't do very often. I don't know about others but the last time I  saw another author do the same was in Thomas Hardy's novels. Robin Hobb has  created a niche of her own in the world of fantasy novels. A truly great,  worthy read that you wouldn't want to put down for anything in the world.
5 I loved the book, it is long and can be a little overly descriptive, but the story is great, the characters are well written. Overall I found it hard to put the book down.
5 I have really enjoyed all the series so for. The writing is well done and draws in the characters nicely for you. Thank you Robin Hobb for writing such great tales.
5 "Ship of Magic" is the first book of Robin Hobb's Liveship Traders trilogy.  It is set in the same world as her previous trilogy: The Farseer, but deals with another aspect of the world and this first book, at least, is almost completely separate with only occasional mentions of a "war up north" which was a major plot point of the Farseer.  "Ship of Magic", unlike the Farseer, is told in the third person point of view rather than the first person of FizChivalry (The Farseer Trilogy).  The focus here is on multiple characters and multiple storylines which are initially separate but start to slowly come together.Althea Vestrit is the daughter of Captain Vestrit, owner of the Liveship Vivacia.  A Liveship is not merely made of wood and sailed by the talent of the crew, but it is a ship that is actually alive, it has personality and can think and is so prized that Trader families would put their families generations into debt because of how valued and important these ships are to Bingtown and to the Traders.  The Liveships are faster and sail better than any other ship on the water.  When  her father dies, and he is near death, Althea expects to inherit Vivacia and eventually learn to be her captain.  But when he does die the ship is left to the husband of her sister, and Kyle Haven thinks Althea is no proper lady and has no place on a ship.  After a very big argument and fight with her family, and with Kyle, Althea leaves Bingtown with the intent to eventually working her way back to be able to own Vivacia in her own right.There is also a pirate captain, Kennit, who seeks to be ruler of the pirates and also to capture a liveship of his own.  At least a third of "Ship of Magic" is about Kennit and his adventures and piracy and his dreams of a better, different life.  The final third of the book is focuses on Kyle Haven's son, Wintrow.  Wintrow is Kyle's only son, but was promised to be a priest of Sa.  But when Kyle finally gains control of Vivacia, he also commands Wintrow to join him as a sailor with the intent the Wintrow become a man and eventually take over Vivacia.  But Wintrow is not the son that Kyle wants him to be, nor is he the man that Kyle considers a man."Ship of Magic" is a slow moving novel with more focus on the characters and their development than about swiftly moving a plot along.  By the end of this novel there is quite a bit of plot development, but with the pacing and the characterization it is almost a wonder that Hobb moved the story along at all.  It is almost as if the reader were a ship floating along in the ocean of the novel.  But while the pacing may be an issue for some readers, if the reader is familiar with her earlier work, this will not be a surprise and Robin Hobb does such a good job of slowly pulling the reader into her world that by the end we are looking for the next book in the series.Since this book is not directly related to the Farseer Trilogy there is no problem with reading this book first, but I do recommend reading the books in publication order (starting with Assassin's Apprentice).  Either way, this is a different sort of a fantasy novel, but one which I find to be a treat.  There is much magic here, but it is in the storytelling rather than in a wizard waving a wand.-Joe Sherry
5 Over the summer I've stumbled upon Robin Hobb whilst gearing up for George RR Martin's Dance With Dragons. I finished her Farseer trilogy in June - even now, I don't wish to recall that uber-depressing yet amazing reading experience - and now started the Liveship trilogy before planning to conclude with the Tawny Man trilogy in mid- August as I've read other reviewers recommend to do.Knowing too well her writing style of real-life characters put through much pain/suffering against a backdrop of dragon/Eldering fantasy, I only say 'here we go again'.  Viewpoint has been changed to 3rd omniscient. Pace is much quicker than Farseer however the 1st half of the book (Mid Summer to Autumn) is VERY slow. I put down the book several times but then it became a thrill ride. Location is now way south of the Six Duchies; imagine the Farseer setting as New England and Canada whereas Bingtown is more like Havana or Kingston with the Pirate Isles being Meso-America and Jamailia as Rio De Janeiro. Six Duchies is mentioned a couple times like a far-away barbaric place with the war over and Verity's dragon squadron a crazy rumor and no more. But other than that, this series is pretty independent but I suspect the overall enjoyment factor of Farseer+Liveship+Tawny Man= much better than w/o Liveship. So start the series, I'm off to pick up 'Mad Ship'.Think Pirates of the Caribbean mixed with a very little bit of Pride and Prejudice and David Copperfield.
5 Robin Hobb has been on my "should" read list (not "must" read) for some time now since reading her Farseer Trilogy (Assassin's Apprentice, Royal Assassin, and Assassin's Quest).  These are good, enjoyable books.  I thoroughly enjoyed Assassin's Apprentice, and the next two books were fine. However, with Ship of Magic, Hobb has vaulted to my "must" read list.Ship of Magic is the first of a series, The Liveship Traders.  The basic premise of the series is that ships made of wizardwood, a very expensive wood available in the inhospitable lands of the Rain Wild River, can magically ripen into sentience--a liveship.  This awakening takes three generations of captains from one of the trader families of Bingtown, a trading port on the Cursed Shores. Each ship is extremely expensive, and a trader family might have to work for generations to pay one off.This is an interesting idea, but without good writing, without good characters, that is all it would be--a good idea.  But Hobb has woven a rich interlocking tapestry of people, ships, and situations which kept me glued to the book.While there is no single central character per se, there are several who take center court.  There is Vivacia, a liveship of the Vestrit trader family newly awakened into sentience but into a tumultuous and unhealthy situation.  There is Althea Vestrit, the willful young daughter of the ship's captain who thought she was going to inherit the ship only to have those hopes dashed upon his death.  There is Brashen Trell, the young scion of a powerful trader family disowned by that family and now a capable ship's mate. Kyle Haven is Althea's brother-in-law.  He becomes captain of the Vivacia, kicks Althea off, and drags his unwilling son, Wintrow, out of a monastery and onto the ship (the ship needs someone of Vestrit blood on board).  Then there is Kennit, a pirate bent on both obtaining a liveship and becoming King of the Pirates. And finally, there is Paragon, a beached liveship, deemed unlucky and crazy by most.There are a host of other characters, alien life forms, and serpent-like creatures who hold an important, if yet unrevealed place in the center of the story.  These characters are fleshed out very well.  And with only one exception (Wintrow's very stupid and headstrong sister Malta), each of the characters is very believable.  I really like the fact the "good guys" are not 100% good, and the "bad guys" are not 100% bad.  Althea was not the sailor she thought herself to be when she was playing on Daddy's ship.  It takes posing as a man and working as a sailor for her to find herself.  Brashen, the white knight figure, is fond, if not addicted, to a drug.  Kyle, although his ignorance will have some grave consequences, is really trying to do his best for the entire Vestrit family, at least in his mind and in his terms. This is real life.  People are not all evil or all good, but too many writers today cubbyhole their characters just this way.Of course, the situation surrounding the characters is hardly stable.  New traders, granted land by the emperor are beginning to have an effect in Bingtown.  Slavery is growing in use, and the serpents are on the move.  The long-standing traditions and practices are slowly being eroded away.  The Chalcern States, long-time enemies of the Bingtown Traders, have been tasked by the emperor to move their ships to the Cursed Shores with fighting pirates as an excuse.Mix together a unique and clever idea, great characters, and an interesting plotline and you have a great book.  Easily the best book I've read this year (and in my Lifetime Top 10), I was anxiously looking at the dwindling pages left as I was reading it, knowing that as soon as I was done, I wouldn't have the joy of discovering each new page.  It made me wish for my childhood dream invention, a brain zapper which would remove all memories of a good book so you could enjoy it for the first time again and again and again.I felt the the second two books of the Farseer Trilogy did not match up to the first.  Ship of Magic is a superb book, though, totally engrossing, and much better than the enjoyable Assassin's Apprentice. I pray that Hobb will be able to keep it up for the next two books, and I am eagerly awaiting reading them.
3 First, this book is a very interesting read. The story plot of this book I would rate very good because it is about ships that come alive after being quickened and one ship, the Vivacia, is disputed once the owner quickens the ship. Family members have to die on the ship to make it come alive. Character development is really good in my opinion because you get a real feeling for the person.The cons to this book is the author has no problem abusing the characters in the book. Almost every character in the book faces some form or abuse. One character, Wintrow, is abused mentally and physically by his own father. It made me cringe and want to throw the book across the room on how his father treated him throughout the book. If you have empathy or sympathy for people who get abused, this book will be a challenge and get you frustrated. At times I wished the Wintrow's father, Kyle, would have been murdered by another pirate for his cruelty to his own son. The wording of the book gets a bit extensive. In some areas the author puts in long descriptions and/or another plot that seems unnecessary at times.Another issue is the writing style of subplots. As one begins to read the story begins to pick up and you are drawn to that one character. All the sudden the author jumps to another totally different character and their totally different story. Only way I could describe it is the author does not keep you with one character but numerous. If you are interested in staying with a single character or a few through the entire book in a linear fashion you wont be. Be ready to jump around from one character to another character in totally different areas.The ending is not conclusive but one must understand this is a trilogy that leads to Mad Ship then Ship of Destiny. Overall it was somewhat of a chore to finish reading due to the abuse of characters, bouncing around from plot to plot, and extensive wording which could have been summed up in fewer paragraphs. It is an okay read but then it may appeal to readers who like the feeling of living a life of pirates, merchant trading, and characters that go through a tough time facing one challenge after another with no sustained positive outcome.
5 Althea Vestrit, wrongly denied her inheritance of the beautiful Liveship Vivacia, leaves Bingtown in order to prove herself as the true sailor she is and claim back her beloved ship from her brother-in-law's greedy grasp.For Wintrow, Althea's nephew, Vivacia is nothing more than a slave ship wrenching him away from his religious studies so his father can have his son aboard his ship to inherit and keep Althea from coming into her inheritance.But no one counted on Captain Kennit, a ruthless pirate captain who will stop at nothing to take control of the Pirate Isles and name himself as King of all Pirates. To do so he must first obtain a liveship, and when his and Vivacia's paths cross, bloodshed is not far from the horizon.I was riveted to "Ship of Magic" from the first few pages onward. Robin Hobb has created an old pirate's tale that is so vivid and realistic that I was loath to wrench my eyes away from its pages for more than a few minutes at a time. Curse sleep, give me more of "The Liveship Traders!"Hobb's characters truly came to life for me. Althea is a character that truly did grow throughout the book, someone who started off as a spoiled Capitan's daughter turned slowly but surely into the courageous young woman she so had the potential to be. Wintrow, the haughty boy finds out that there are more things to life than just the religion he devoted his life to, and finds out that one can see religion in many different ways and lights and truly he comes into being as a man, and finds the person he wishes that he could be.On the home front, Keffira, Althea's older sister is finding out how hard her mother actually works and how hard she is going to have to work to keep the family finances together while her husband is out to sea, and her daughter Malta in her rush to become a woman is soon over her head with a suitor that she should treat with caution.On ever single page, there is drama, adventure, excitement, and suspense. I cannot wait to read the rest of Hobb's "Liveship Trader" series, and find out what is going to happen to all of my new friends, the Vestrit family and their lovely ship Vivacia.
5 Robin Hobb creates a magnificent world in this book.  Nice character development and description.  This entire series makes the Farseer Triology and the Tawny Man trilogy all the more enjoyable.I do recommend reading the Farseer Trilogy first, though.  If you read that trilogy first, then the Liveship Traders and finally the Tawny Man trilogy (only 2 out so far) you'll appreciate the pieces much more.
2 I'd never read any of Robin Hobb's books before, so I did not know what to expect. On the basis of this, I never plan to read any more. I hated this horrible book, and sold it off as soon as I could. I gave it two stars instead of one because Hobb does have some imagination and writing talent. But her book is full of stupid, unpleasant people doing stupid, unpleasant things to each other for stupid, unpleasant reasons. And as for the storyline involving Malta - Yuck! This girl is fourteen, and Hobb is female herself! Where the story can go from here I cannot tell and do not care. Avoid.
5 This book - and the rest of the Farseer Trilogy - has all the qualities of the Assassin Trilogy - and then it's even better! The characters are vivid and stunningly described - all seem to come to life from the first page, but believe me, you do not know them before you finish the last page of book three. Hobb has gained a fantastic ability in making her characters realistic, and noone in these books are only good or evil - the stark black and white of the Assassin Trilogy - in these books, the characters change and develop, and those you first dislike might end up being those you admire the most - and vice versa.I can't wait for book three of the Tawny Man trilogy to be released - cause I won't torture myself by beginning on those books before I can read it all in one go! Once you've started, there's no letting go!
5 I would never have picked up these books if I hadn't already read been a Robin Hobb fan. The thought of sentient ships just didn't appeal to me. However, I really enjoyed this series for the same reason as I like her other works. Some of the characters overlap, also, which is nice. I had become attached to the characters in The Farseer Saga and Tawny Man Trilogy, so it was nice to see them again!
5 I read The Liveship Traders trilogy MANY years ago; so many that I am unable to write the type of detailed review this series, and its author, rightly deserves.  However, I did want to take this opportunity to write how much I remember enjoying this trilogy.  I remember being so taken by it that I actually wrote a fan letter to Robin Hobb.  It was my first fan letter EVER!I still consider Robin Hobb to be one of my favorite writers.  I've read almost all of her books, and the couple that I haven't are queued-up in my Wish List right now.I highly recommend any book written by Robin Hobb, but especially those of The Liveship Traders trilogy.  I hope you give the series a chance, and that you find yourself transported into her fantastic, new world with it's oh-so compelling characters.~Ship of Magic (The Liveship Traders, Book 1)~Mad Ship (The Liveship Traders, Book 2)~Ship of Destiny (The Liveship Traders, Book 3)Enjoy!
4 This is a huge book with dozens of characters and a POV for almost every one of them. The book could easily have been trimmed to its advantage. But it's still a delightful read about a delightful world with a delightful seafaring twist.
5 Ship of Magic is the first book in the Liveship Traders trilogy. It is set in the same world as the Farseer trilogy, although the setting and characters are almost completely different.This is the series that made me a huge fan of Robin Hobb. Although I liked the Farseer trilogy, the ending left me a bit confused and I really wanted to see the world sketched out a bit more. Hobb certainly does that and a lot more.The story begins in the port city of Bingtown, a heavily taxed but otherwise neglected exclave of the nation of Jamallia. Bingtown Trader families are famous for their liveships - vessels carved from a special type of wood that ripens into sentience after three people in the family die aboard. Althea Vestrit has been waiting all her life for their ship Vivacia to quicken - even with the sadness of her father's death accompanying it. She has grown up on board the ship and fully expects to inherit it, but when it actually happens, she's in for a nasty shock - the ship instead goes to her greedy brother-in-law Kyle. Althea's gentle cousin Wintrow is training to be a priest and greatly enjoying it, but his father Kyle is determined to make a sailor out of him - by force if necessary. The newly awakened and confused Vivacia needs someone with Vestrit blood aboard her, but all she has is Wintrow, imprisoned upon her against his will. And there's Kennit who is not satisfied with being the most successful pirate of his time, and his plans will lead him directly into Vivacia's path.Hobb is never unduly kind to her characters - she makes them work really hard and go through a lot (it's almost physically painful to read about sometimes, but at least it pays off in the end, unlike say, with Joe Abercrombie.) They are not Chosen Ones - they are just fairly ordinary people that only become heroes because they care about something very much, and will cross any obstacles for it. Althea is no exception - she's stubborn, spirited and impertinent. I found myself alternating between cheering for her and being exasperated at her obstinate sense of entitlement. She loves Vivacia and after a few days of utter despair, makes up her mind that she will do anything to get her back - including proving her seamanship by enlisting on a dangerous whaling ship. Wintrow is also very well written, especially his relationship to Vivacia. He resents her because her need for Vestrit blood has chained him to her, but he also recognises that she's sad and confused and needs his help.Another thing I love about Hobb's fantasy is that there are no straight up villains. Everyone is complex and changeable, and Kennit is no exception. He's got some backstory behind his desire to capture a liveship, and he prides himself on being just and practical, and he's even kind most of the time. He also manipulates people for his own ends, but Hobb never portrays it as evil - he's just the product of his circumstances. The supporting cast is also really well envisioned - especially other Vestrit women (Ronica, Keffria and Malta.)The plot is really just a function of the characters' natural actions - although there is the lingering issue of the sea serpents. Hobb's descriptive writing and the complex history of Bingtown and the Rain Wilds really brings the setting to life.Highly recommended, even if you've never read anything else by Hobb.
3 At times, it was imperative.  Like in the Farseer books, bad thing after bad thing happened to the main character(s) with little or superficial respite before the next agonizing event.  Somehow this worked with Fitz in the Farseer books.  I couldn't stop reading to find out if he'd ever catch a break.  It's not working for me in the Liveship books so far.This book being written in third person limited, the style I usually prefer, rather than the first person of Fitz's story, could be the difference.  Instead of one main character to anguish over, there were at least two, interspersed with characters who were easy to hate.  So you get a chapter where some horrible thing happens to someone Robin's made you care for, and then you have to suffer through a chapter about the really nasty guy (or two or three chapters about everyone else,) before you find out if the good guy survives the last utter disaster to befall him.It was an emotional roller coaster I wish I had skipped.  The books are good enough that I can't stop, so I'm dreading suffering with the main characters through two more books.  In fact, I needed a break from the second book so I sat to write this review.  I love Robin's other work, both Farseer and Tawny Man.  The story here is interesting and so nicely fills holes in the story of Tawny Man.  (You should read these between Farseer and Tawny Man, I just didn't happen to.)If you're made of hardier stuff than I am, I'm sure you'll love this series.  Just make sure you've got anti-depressants on hand.
3 For years I have been urged by many different people, lists, guides and store recommendations, to read Robin Hobb. Finally I got down to it but rather than starting at the beginning with her first trilogy (since I understood they were non sequential even if they were in the same world) I opted for the second "Live ship Traders" books because they were in third person.And I have to say the people who urged me were right. This woman is an amazing author, right up there in terms of technical skill and world building with Kate Forsyth. Still, I had an extremely hard time sticking with the first novel in the series "Ship of Magic."Plot first. "Live ships" are ships which are made out of wizard wood and come to life after absorbing the life experiences and deaths of three generations of captains related by blood. The ships are owned by a family, cost an immense amount and a long time to pay off (think multiple generations) but they give you access to the rain wild river from which come magical trade goods and water so dangerous that no ship made of dead wood could possibly navigate it. Thus, only the original trader families of Bingtown own these coveted ships, which are faster, smarter, can talk, and won't work for anyone but one of the family (thus making them pirate proof.) But Bingtown is changing from when the original families moved to the cursed shores and made them their own. Slavers are moving in, along with new people who have no respect for the ways (and no knowledge of the many secrets which keep Bingtown and the Live ship trade running.)"Ship of Magic" basically begins with the death of the third captain of the Vivica, making her ready for quickening. But unlike everyone in Bingtown thought he would do, Ephron Vestritts has not left the ship to his youngest daughter Althea who was practically raised aboard but to his elder daughter, leaving her husband Kyle Haven (a man with no real idea of what Bingtown is) in charge of the ship. And he wants Althea gone and his eldest son Wintrow (who was trained as a priest and perfectly happy doing that) on board the ship to keep it happy.Add in a pirate determined to have a live ship and be king and the many secrets that surround wizard wood and Bingtown and you have a great plot. But....Basically this book is about family betrayals (a lot of them) conflict, people trying to right what their family has done, get what they want in life, or just be the worst father in living memory. And it's all written so well that the distress of the characters is unbearable at times which leads to a much needed reading break of a month or so.Basically: wonderful premis, wonderful writing, but because it is written so well, if you have empathy it gets hard to read. I don't consider myself a wussy reader-I'll get through war, famine, cruelty of all kinds, but this book struck a blow. Maybe you should be happy when you read it. Three stars.
4 'The Liveship Traders' trilogy fits in between the 'Farseer' tilogy and the 'Tawnyman' trilogy. If you have not read any of them, I highly recommend them all. This paricular trilogy may fall between the other two, but if you dont have time to read all 9 books, dont hesitate to pick this one up anyways, it stands on its own.The story revolves around Althea Vestritt, a woman who most think should be at home raising children, but wants to follow her fathers path as a liveship captain. She needs to defy tradition and take what is hers by rights. She will be thwarted by pirates, politics and her own family.Im a man, and sometimes have trouble getting into female characters, but not so with this one. Robin Hobb created a wonderful cast of characters with diverse and complicated personalities. Athea is beautiful but tough as nails, and I had no trouble getting into her storyline. There are alot of other characters you follow through out the series as well. All equally as complex. As with all good stories, sometimes you hate the good guys, love the bad guys, and sometimes cant tell wich is wich.  There is plenty of action, love, and intrigue in this series to make it a must read series.If you have read any of Hobbs writing, you know the quality of her work and will not be dissapointed.
5 I have read a lot of fantasy in my time and it is rare to come across a story that is truly original. The world Robin Hobb has created in this series is unlike any I've seen, the magic is subtle and the characters are alive. After reading the Farseer trilogy (also by Robin Hobb), I couldn't wait to get my hands on more of her books. This one was as good. The characters Robin creates are real people, they don't always behave the way you expect them to, they make mistakes and they evolve based on what has happened to them. None of the characters are completely good or completely evil, and they don't fit into classic stereotypes.This series is actually placed in the same world as the Farseer trilogy and there are a few subtle ties to that story (which is fun if you've read it). If you find you like Robin Hobb's style, you should really consider listening to her works in order. Each trilogy stands alone, but is made better if read in the right order. Start with the Farseer trilogy, next is the Liveship Traders, then the Tawny Man, and finally the Rainwild chronicles. If on the other hand, you are only going to read one set...this one stands alone the best. It is impossible to stop reading until you've reached the end.
5 Hang onto to your coffe or tea mug. You are embarking on a series that will keep you engrossed from the first page. This book has it all - strong women (yeah!) fabulous wickedness, great reptiles. Believe me you will not be able to stop reading once you start so tell your significant others to take a breather while you go to sea with the serpents and dragons! I started this series of nine books with the Liveship trilogy and then went back to the Assassin Series finishing with the Golden Fool trilogy. This actually worked well - the first three books made sense to me in a way they might not have if the Liveship info was not already installed in the imagination - however no matter how you read them you will love the progression of characters as they struggle through all the incredible obstacles to the fantastic and totally satisfying ending. The linking of human and animal that Robin has created in nothing short of brilliant and will leave you looking at your animal partners in a completely different way - she has broadened the discussion of how we relate to other species in a unique and important way.
5 Satisfying-- that's what I thought after I read the entire series.  These books are in my favorite genre- fantasy- but different enough from the cookie cutter fantasy story to really capture my attention.  The concept of the liveships is fabulous and Althea (or any of the other characters) was not the typical farm-boy-finds-out-he's-royalty-and-has-to-save-the-world fantasy character.  I enjoyed this series more than the Assassin's Apprentice series, which dragged a little at it's very dark conclusion.  This is definitely a highly recommended read!
1 Very Long, very boring, none of the characers are likeable. I read this one after finishing the Tawny Fool Trilogy expecting to be as good. Boy was I dissappointed. I can't believe I read the who thing.
5 I have just completed Ship of Destiny - the final (sigh!) volume, and must  share my deep appreciation and satisfaction with this exceptionally  original, thoroughly engrossing, and profoundly moving trilogy. I was  absolutely astonished by the depth of feeling this marvelous cast of  characters brought forth in me as I read. The intricate plot was unwound so  skillfully, with each development seeming so very RIGHT! Brilliantly  conceived and beautifully written!
5 THESE TRILOGY IS THE BEST THING THAT HAS EVER HAPPENED TO ME!!!! FIRST I THOUGHT IT WAS GOING TO BE GLOOMY AND UNJUST, BUT THEN IT BECAME BETTER AND BETTER AND SUDDENLY I WASN'T ABLE TO PUT IT DOWN, AND THE BEST THING WAS THAT I DIDN'T EXPECT MUCH FROM THESE BOOKS, SO I GOT MUCH MORE THAN I HAD BARGAINED FOR. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THESE TRILOGY, SPECIALLY TO PEOPLE WHO ENJOY READING SEAFARING AND NAUTICAL ADEVNTURES.
5 Great reading for those who like fantasy. I have read 6 books writin by this woman and love them all. Start with ship books first. They will lead you up to the dragon books.
5 First, I'd like to say that I haven't read the next two books in this series yet so I will talk just about this one.I have read that this series is weaker than the Farseer (which is one of my all time favorite fantasy series) but judging from the first book only I beg to disagree. Rarely, especially in the fantasy genre, I have found myself unwilling to go on reading, fearing that something bad would happen to some of the characters, the book is really emotional. They are so real, not the two-dimensional superheroes so often seen in this genre. Everyone in this book has its own flaws and virtues (although I have yet to find any virtues in Malta, I guess that will change:)). Character developement is really well done and the changes in their personalities evident and logical after their experiences.Social topics like slavery and emancipation of women are also strong in this book. The world is changing and the characters are struggling to find their place in it while in most fantasy books I have read the people changing the world are the main characters themselves and I find myself thinking that whatever goes wrong they would have the power to make it right. In Ship of Magic the sense of doom is very strong which some people won't like but I really apreciate. The realism of the world may not be to the taste of the fans of Eddings  and the likes  but  I find it refreshing to read a book with no immortal superheroes, powerful wizards, elves etc.At first I thought that reading a book about ships would be a bit boring but sailing is described so well that sometimes I found myself wanting to sail and I have never liked the sea too much. Not in some romantic manner - the dark side of sailors' life is shown too - cruel captains, the hard work, the bullies, the dirty ships and bad food etc. The concept of the liveships is both original and very intriguing and they as the other characters struggle to find their true identity.Hobb's writing style is not one of the best I have seen but clearly better than 90% of the fantasy writers I have read.People prefering more action-packed fantasy will surely dislkie this book as its main focus is not flashy magic and clashes of vast armies with the few battles mentioned only briefly, kind of in the background of things. Also the book seems a bit too long but if you like original, well written books with fully realised and developed characters you should read this book.
4 Robin Hobb is a master story crafter.  Set in the same world, although different location, as her Farseer and Tawny Man series.  This is a great sea faring adventure that is so authentic you will feel like you are on a midlevel ship sailing through sea monster infested waters right with the crew.  Her imagery is so original and her world very thorough and well constructed.  I didn't think this series was quite as good as her Farseer trilogy, but still very good.  Highly recommended.
5 I love Robin Hobb's books, and i admit, i was a little skeptacle of this one, but it was amazing. Just like her other books, it was full of detail and characters you just have to hate. I can't wait to read the next one!
2 Since I only read 50 pages, I'm not sure that it is fair for me to review, but I have read some very long books and enjoyed them.  This book is NOWHERE after 50 pages, and it was painful to even get that far.  Each character is described in excruciating detail - not by actions, but simply by words and their own thoughts.  This really helped me to appreciate authors like Terry Brooks and Terry Goodkind who can describe characters as the story grows, so that something is happening as you read.  After all, it is our actions that define us...
4 Never have I been as frustrated with a book, which I suppose is a testament to its quality. If it sucked, I couldn't care less what happened next, right? As it is, Ship of Magic has some of the most engaging characters I've read in a long time, and really quickly draws the reader into the lives and motivations of both the protagonists and antagonists, and there is a full cast of each.Even the bad guys are very well drawn with individual motivations and backstories.The frustrating part is that Ms. Hobb doesn't resolve any of the major plotlines in this book, and I haven't read the next installment yet! Worse, even more questions and issues are raised at the very end. I'm dying to read what's next for these living breathing people (and ships.) It ends at such a crossroads for so many of the characters than it's as if watching a half dozen of your closest friends in the world on the brink of a life changing decision.
4 Very good book, part of a 3 book series. Lots of action and plot, interesting characters, some sympathetic, some not so much
4 Ship of Magic is a monster of a book (weighing in at 800+ pages) and the first I had read of Robin Hobb's, so I approached it with some trepidation. It is a Fantasy novel far removed from the norm. Instead of kings, castles  and knights the action is set on the seas of pirates, traders and whalers.  I suspect Robin must have considerable sea-faring experience as no amount  of research could capture what it is really like to live and work on a ship  and this book gives you that. The mysteries of the Bingtown Traders, their  relationships with the dark Riverwild folk and the wonders of wizardwood,  are teased out slowly - setting you guessing and thinking. With one book  over, the reader is left feeling there is so much more to learn, despite  the complex and detailed descriptions. It will not be to everyone's taste:  there is no sign of a big dark menace threatening the world, there are no  armies of wizards and knights, no quests and no magician's sons growing up  as stable boys... This is different. There is conflict, yes - battles of  wills between the stubborn and strong principal characters, including the  Ships themselves. This is an adult book: issues such as slavery handled  intelligently as well as realistically. This book is well deserved of  praise. My only dislike was the author's attempts to portray how the  sea-serpents functioned and thought, from their own point of view, perhaps  I was not giving this a chance as it featured only slightly throughout the  book. I will see how this develops in the future.
5 As a fan of the 'Faseers' and 'Tawny Man' Trilogies i was abit reluctant to pick up the 'Liveship Traders' Trilogy also by Robin Hobb.  I just didn't think it was possible to better them.  I thought reading Ship of Magic would be a disappointment to be honest, but when i had ran out of good literature to read i decided to give it a go! And i am VERY glad i did! Ship of Magic in particular is my favourite of the Liveship Traders Trilogy and i just could not put it down.  Hobb is such a realistic writer that you actually start to believe that at one time or another Bingtown may have existed.  I read this book in about four days, and that was during the week off i had to prepare for my end of year exams! Ship of Magic is one of my all time favourite fantasy novel and the other two novels in this trilogy (The Mad Ship & Ship of Destiny), although not quite as good as Ship of Magic, are well worth the money, time and effort!
5 Forewarning: I'm a spoiler purist, and so try to avoid spoilers as much as possible in my reviews, inclusive of both plot and characters. As a result, what I write is somewhat vague, but be assured I do my best to keep things spoiler-free.I was a bit hesitant coming into this book. It's such a huge shift away from the Farseer trilogy, both in terms of setting and narrative style, that I didn't quite know what to expect. I also felt a bit apprehensive that this might turn into a more derivative sailing story. Thankfully, as in the Farseer trilogy, Hobb subverts the traditional story ideas and delivers something unique.Right from the start, we're thrust into the action. The introduction of characters is expertly handled, both their characterisation and their role in the plot made immediate. From the basic plot premise, the story progresses and is built on steadily. By the time things really kicked into gear, I was hooked.This story, like Hobb's others, are character-driven. Character conflict and interactions drive this story, and each character is set on their own course of development. Underpinning this is the plot, which more or less serves to give these character's struggles context. If you're the type of reader who likes their plots tight, you'll probably struggle with these books. In terms of plot, the pacing is slow; in terms of the character arcs, it's tight and very well paced. The story shifts frequently between characters, but I found the balance Hobb strikes to be near-perfect; the timeline is tight, and we only get the story that's relevant.Not to mention I found the different plot arcs, and how they would tie together, fairly predictable. Hobb takes care to throw in alot of twists and turns, and though this undermined my certainty my earlier predictions turned out to be right. However - and this is a big however - it's one thing to predict something will happen, and another entirely when it comes to pass. And this is what Hobb is really good at; no matter how accurately I predict things, when they come to pass I'm still on the edge of my seat. I think it's her characterisation - what matters, to me, is not so much as what will happen as what happens to the characters. I can't predict the latter.Another thing which really caught my eye is her antagonists. One is an inward-looking sociopath. Another is a cruel, stupid, arrogant, impulsive misogynist. The third, which developed later in the story, is a sly, selfish fool. Not only did I dislike all of them, I found them thoroughly believable. More, I cared what happened to them, I think, more through their affect on the people around them. In my opinion, that's what gives their stories some punch, something more than a simple dislike, and Hobb really should be commended for this.I've only got one quibble with the antagonists, and that's with how their inner workings are presented. Mainly, we get exposed to the logic they follow, which can be insightful but also a bit ham-handed. For example, if someone does something to make you angry, you feel angry; that's taken a step further to look at the underlying reasons for why the characters are angry. The problem with this is that you don't actually think of that logical progression, it's almost subconscious. The result is that, because people, and by extension the characters here, are irrational, you see some really stupid things which aren't very subtle. Hobb does a pretty good job, but it is sometimes excessive.Both the magic and setting here are fantastic. It's always a problem with some authors that they return to their world and write a different story with the same background. Hobb's writing in the same world as previously, here, but she's put it in a vastly different setting, and she's using vastly different magics. It's a treat, and it gives her story a real punch.As ever, Hobb shows a great awareness of societal issues. While the Farseer trilogy focused on hierarchical power structures and their constrictive nature. Here she has a clear focus on both sexism and changing class structures. I found this delightful, particularly Hobb's brief analyses and explanations of Bingtown society. Some dislike this; I respectfully disagree. I don't see the historical context, no matter how it's treated, as having any particular bias.When I take a step back and look at this story, it all seems so obvious how Hobb has structured things. Which characters fight with each other, how their attributes and personalities come into conflict, and how that creates tension. How the introduction of different plot elements pulls the other way, so to speak, and ups the ante. But better, when I'm reading I don't see these things. It takes some real sleight of hand to pull that off.As for the ending, well, several of the things I predicted came to pass. The only thing Hobb really does to shift this around is by introducing new, evolving plotlines, or shifting a character around into a different situation. So she avoids thorough predictability, and, as I mentioned before, when things do come to pass it's spectacular and very tense. There's some conclusiveness in the ending, but if you were to view the trilogy as one giant story then this is a natural end point. To use an analogy, the ending here sets up the next act.Simply put, I loved this book, and I'm annoyed that I can't start the next one straight away because of other commitments. Hobb has a real talent for taking derivative settings and stepping outside the stereotypes, and for creating unique, compelling characters. Highly recommended.4.5/5
2 I was really exicted that Robin Hobb had a new series out following the really good "Assassin" trilogy.But this was just plain bad.  Whiny, uninspired characters that ruined what could have been a good book.If you must read the series, do so at your own risk.
5 I came to The Liveship Trilogy from the Farseer and Tawny Man trilogies. This is actually a sidestep between those two that takes place in the same world but in another region. Only one character from the other two trilogies is involved in this story yet all of it weaves together to form a 9 book series. If I had not had the luxury of choosing to skip from Farseer to Tawny Man in order to stay with Fitz Chivalry I would have read everything in sequence......which I now see is the best way though not essential. Hobb has skillfully written the trilogies so that you need not venture to the Liveship series in order to maintain continuity. Having initially skipped to Tawny Man I did not feel anything was missing. Enough information was provided to fill any potential gaps. However, this is not to suggest that anything in the Liveship trilogy is not worth reading. This series stands on its own as well as fits together with the other two. It is an emotionally gripping tale full of characters you will learn to love. Fortunately this one ends leaving room to continue in a future story. Where Tawny picks up and ends does not define where Liveship could go. I do not regret the order I read them in because I needed to stay with Fitz Chivalry's story at the time. The design of each tolerates such a sequence. But Ideally, do yourself a favor and read the sequence in order from Farseer to Liveship to Tawny Man so you can gain the most from this wonderful tale.
5 After reading the Assasians Apprentice series (and loving every sentence), I was going to skip the Liveship Traders series and go right into another three books about Fitz...I am not a big ship fan or a big pirate fan...but on the strength of Hobb's writng I figured I would give it a try.It's amazing.Kennit, Althea, Brashen, WIntrow, Etta, Keffria, Ronica, Davad, Malta, Vivicia, Paragon... every character is just as interesting and unpredictable as people in real life.And the concept of wizardwood is a new and quite original idea.These books are works of art.  The words make the sentences which make the paragraphs, but the ideas they create are painted on the page and the picture they reveal is pure magic.
5 Only about 10% into this book and it's as good as expected. Have read just about all the other books by Robin Hobb and she is currently (Past 3-4 years) one of my 2 or 3 favorite authors. Her stories are very engrossing and sucks you right in. Start reading and you can't put it down and before you know it it's later than you thought. Very engrossing. Would recommend Robin Hobb to all fantasy readers. A living ship - very originial and very well done. Also like the way all her books I've read take place in the same relative area (one set of books take place in a country next to the other books).
5 Robin Hobb has managed to achieve the impossible with her Liveship Traders trilogy. In a genre that so often uses the same themes and ideas, Ms Hobb has produced an original work.The Liveships of the title are very expensive and rare ships built from the mysterious wizardwood only found in the Rain River Wilds. After 3 generations of the owner's family have died on board, the wizardwood 'quickens' and the ships become living, sentient beings.Throughout the book, the author interweaves the story of the Liveship traders, the story of the sea serpents who are driven by an instinct to search for their 'beginnings' and the tale of Kennick, a ruthless man determined to be King of the Pirates.Ms Hobbs shows an extraordinary talent for characterisation. There are no totally black or white characters in her stories but realistic characters who have their good sides and their faults in abundance. At times the reader will feel antipathy toward the heroine and at others empathy for the 'bad guy'.This is a book that you will find difficult to put down. Highly recommended
5 Ship of Magic was an excellent book, upholding the high standards of writing set by her previous &quot;Farseer&quot; trilogy, and surpassing it in many ways.One of the best things about her work is that she writes  about characters, not situations.  There are no world shattering battles or  anything, not even a profusion of physical fights at all, but she puts all  her characters through hell nonetheless.  And what an array of characters!  There are tons of characters, and not a one boring, uninteresting or flat.  They are all well fleshed out and interesting people, and it's amazing to  see how they all interact.The writing style is lovely, although the  cover was a bit awkward. I won't go into plot details, because there are  simply far too many of them, but this book isn't really about the plot;  rather, the plot manages to fit into the lives of the Liveship Traders.I  definitely recommend this book to everyone, and it sets the stage very  nicely for the rest of the trilogy.
4 I almost feel like Hobb wrote this trilogy in response to my internal criticisms of her two FitzChivalry trilogies (Farseer and Tawny Man) - at the end of these, I was left feeling that a) I would've enjoyed more strong female characters and b) I found the characters too black-and-white/Good or Evil.In this trilogy, most of the main characters are female, and Hobb addresses certain tricky issues (including rape) in a solid, sensitive manner. She manages to write strong female characters without resorting to stereotypes, or demonizing the male characters.Secondly, I like the moral ambiguity she writes into many of these characters - none of them are purely good, all of them make (sometimes devastating) mistakes, and there is no clearly defined "EVIL" character (motivelessly malignant) against whom they must all unite.The action scenes are gripping and frequent. Towards the very end of the last book in the trilogy, the romance gets a bit sickening, but in general it is kept interesting and reasonably realistic, and doesn't intrude upon the plot.
3 I've read other books by Hobb and thoroughly enjoyed them, but somehow I just could not get envolved with this book.  There were sooo many characters and sometimes you would have to wait through five to six chapters before Hob would return to that character so that you could find out what happened.  This would normally not bother me in the least, but I never was able to form an attachment to any one character.  I simply could not relate and because of that I simply could not enjoy the book as much.  Granted the story itself was excellent and the world was well thought out.  I think if Hobb would have focused on fewer charactesr and attempted to developed them more, I would have enjoyed it more.I finished this book, realizing in the end that nothing was solved and I would have to read through two more oversized ones before I would ever find out.  I ended up only scanning through the next one and returning them to the library.  Sorry, Amazon, but I am glad I did not bother to pay money for them.
3 Well, I am struggling with this series. I finished the Farseer trilogy and and wanted to read the Tawny Man series but I asked some Amazon readers and it was suggested I read this series first, before I moved on to Tawny Man. So I am just about to start the third book in this series. I had such a hard time getting through this book, the first of the Liveship Traders. I like the characters, but it just seemed so, so slow, and I was so disappointed because I flew through the Farseer books. Things picked up a little at the end of the second book, but I am not going to give up. I feel the need to finish all three before I move on, if I find I like the third book better, I will post another review on that page, with a little edit here. Anyway, I just don't love this as much as the Farseer books. That is why the three start rating. Just to make sound not all bad, I love the idea of the Liveships...really, really fun.
5 I am very impressed with Robin Hobb. I read this book on the recomendation of a friend. At first I was a little worried. The book starts out a tad slow. I was a little confused by the chapters pertaining to the serpents and the opening with the mysterious island didn't have me frothing at the bit.But then you get in the book and you just can't put it down. There are so many good storylines that run through the book. You quickly become engrossed in the actions and well being of the characters who are well rounded with their share of quirks and demons.The story line has you turning pages at an ungodly rate and when you reach the end you'll probably do what I did and run out and buy book two and three.But if like me you find yourself having problems getting into the book at first stick with it. It seems to be a trademark of the Robin Hobb books to start slow then explode into action.
3 I think Robin Hobb suffers from the same problem as Anne Rice.  If you use 3 sentences to discuss a frown on someone's face, I think you have 2 sentences too many.This book is not 'filled with action' as the  synopsis states.  There was hardly any until the last 75 pages (unless you  count all the times one character slapped another)!  It wasn't even until  the last 150 that I began to even care what happened to the main  characters.  Before that, they were simply objects acting out the plot.  Every one of them was so whiny or melancholy, I couldn't figure out why I  was wasting my time with this book.  *I* would have loved to be the one  doing the slapping.I would have gladly given this book 5 stars if it  would have had about 250 less pages.  I *will* read the sequel, but only in  paperback.Luckily, I have George R.R. Martin's new tome to occupy me for  awhile.
5 "Ship of Magic" is overflowing with creativity on almost every page.  The story centers around a city called Bingtown, which is known for producing liveships.  Once a liveship has been owned by a family for three generations, it 'quickens' and gains consciousness, at which point the ship's figurehead gains the ability to move and speak.  There are numerous other original elements in this novel.  For instance, there is one group near Bingtown known as the Rain Wild Traders who have the exclusive right to trade in special gems and other magical goods.  Only towards the end of the book do we learn what price they have to pay in order to deal with these items.  Let me be clear about one thing: the elements of magic are not just gimmicks designed to grab the reader's attention.  It's clear that the author, Robin Hobb, gave a great deal of thought to them when writing the book.  She carefully considered what effects the ownership of a liveship would have on a family of Bingtown traders, and integrated this element into her story very well.In terms of plot, this isn't your standard 'good guys go on quest to defeat bad guys' fantasy novel.  Hobb follows several plotlines and several different groups of characters as they travel around the world, and, in the process gives us an overview of a society in the throes of rapid change.  The plot is full of surprises, such as a character who gets attacked by assassins right when he - and the reader - least expect it, and it is not at all predictable.  There were several occasions where I thought that I had figured out what would happen, only to see Hobb suddenly take off in an entirely new direction.  There is real suspense, not just corny melodrama, in numerous scenes throughout the book.  There are a number of mysterious elements mentioned, where we are supposed to wonder where a certain character comes from, or what events happened to drive somebody insane.  They aren't all neatly wrapped up at the ending, but that just builds our anticipation of the sequel.  There's a love story in here too, of course, but it's developed with the same skill as the rest of the novel, and actually includes some of the best romantic scenes that I've ever read in any genre."Ship of Magic"" is primarily a character-driven book.  Much of the eight-hundred page length is taken up by long stretches of character-driven dialogue and internal reflections, so if you're the sort of reader who wants to see a swordfight every five pages, this probably isn't the book for you.  If, on the other hand, you've been disappointed by the shallow characterizations in many modern fantasy novels, you'll probably find "Ship of Magic" to be a welcome change.  While the heroine, Althea, is a likeable character, she isn't perfect.  For instance, there's one point where she decides to go on a drinking binge at exactly the wrong moment, but she eventually redeems herself from her flaws.  All of the other members of the Vestrit family, who are the main focus of the book, are developed with great care, and their behavior is realistic throughout the novel.  As others have mentioned, the villains are one of the book's biggest strengths.  There's no comic-book type evil arch-nemesis here.  The bad guys have highly believable personalities, although that doesn't mean that you won't eventually come to loathe them wholeheartedly.  Hobb also takes a huge risk by writing some sections from the point-of-view of the intelligent ships, while others are seen through the eyes of a giant sea serpent who lurks in the water beneath the action.  These scenes provide a welcome and truly unique perspective on the events of the book.I would be negligent if I failed to mention that Hobb's writing is fantastic.  It's clear that she put a great deal of attention into developing each paragraph, and it pays off.  The descriptions in the book are beautiful, and you actually understand how different cities, or different sections of coastline appear to the characters.  While anybody can write a scene set on a ship, only a talented author like Hobb can make us feel the conditions endured by sailors at sea, or experience the relief that they feel when returning home.  The writing remains strong throughout, and it helps make "Ship of Magic" one of the most unforgettable fantasy novels I've ever read.  Despite considering it for several days, I still can't think of anything negative to say about this book.
4 This is my first Hobb book.  I tried Farseer but I couldn't get into it.  I thought I'd give her another try since so many people seem to like her so much.  I'm glad I did, and I'll have to give Farseer another try.Possibly spoilers here...First the good stuff.  The magic was really kool.  The whole system was very intricate and believable.  The wizardwood was really intriguing and even though the liveships do kind of have a cheese factor, I still liked it.  The story was really a pageturner, I looked forward to picking up the book everyday ( I read it on breaks at work mostly).  A lot of the characters broke out of the stereotypes of pirates and such although Althea...I dunno she kind of seemed too much the spunky heroine ya know?  I liked her and all...but she wasn't the most interesting of the bunch.  The most I liked her was when she did something I didn't expect, which was only a couple times...the plot point of her dressing up as a boy could be seen a mile away.  But it doesn't put a damper on it, I think she still has potential in the rest of the story esp with Brashen.  I also liked her thing with the woodworking girl Amber...which wasn't as much as I wish it would have been.  The world was nice, and I liked the family dynamics and the contract with the Creepy Traders...although Malta was a bore.  Kyle...who can say why Ephrom ever trusted him for a moment?Now for some of the not so good stuff...Paragon...I don't know, he was interesting but just a bit too blank sometimes characterwise.  I can see why that could be since he lost his memories...but some of the stuff with him and Amber I didn't think added much to the story.Interminable setting details...could have been A LOT shorter and tighter if some of that stuff was left out.While I really liked Kennit and his whore...I wish there were more background information about what made him the way he is...hopefully that will be brought out in the next two books...but I would have liked more in this one!  It would have made him less of just a villain.Wintrow...was interesting and everything it's just I didn't find myself liking him very much at all.  That's not all bad...I realize not every character has to be likable...but I had to read a lot about him and I thought he was spiteful and pompous...but I do see room for him to grow and I hope he doesI think the worst aspect of the book was the serpents...it did not go anywhere and was just a muddle.  I know we'll see more...but bring it somewhere in the first book!Most of this stuff is probably nitpicking...but I gave the book four stars and overall it is a really good book...just a few things that maybe will be resolved over the course of the trilogy but I wished were brought to a better tantalizing crescendo in the first book.Happy reading!
4 If you are bored with Jordan, have given up on Goodkind, and are just waiting for Martin to finally get out the latest, this series is a nice interlude.  It's a nice change to the typical fantasy series becauses it is mostly a tale of the sea.  This series should have a broad appeal, but may not be appropriate for young readers.  I highly recommend it.
5 "The Liveship Traders:  Ship of Magic" begins "The Liveship Traders Trilogy" history within the realm of "The Farseer" saga (chronologically published after "The Farseer" and before "The Tawny Man") yet centers on a seafaring life as opposed to any connection with FitzChivalry.  Although I was apprehensive to start a series with an entirely new cast of individuals on a different continent in a familiar world, I am extremely pleased with the experience entailing action, adventure, and romance.Whereas "The Farseer" narrates from a first person point of view, "The Liveship Traders" skillfully relates numerous tales bouncing between assorted individuals through a vast range of experiences.  Wintrow Haven battles between his faith and his fate.  Althea Vestrit strives against all odds to improve her life and obtain what is destined to be hers as Brashen Trell simply struggles to survive.  Kennit the pirate is rather selfish but quite lucky in his decisions and cunning to behold.Similar to the earlier unusual theme, magic quickens inanimate objects into living creatures.  The brief "tangle" segments involving the ocean serpents are very confusing and lead almost nowhere in the storyline.  The nerve-wracking politics of the Vestrit women may be occasionally maddening.The storyline for the most part presents respectable affection between individuals but contains some disturbing moments, which may be questionable for young readers.  The many people can be confusing with the odd names. A more detailed map of the significant terrains including a legend plus a comprehensive appendix would have been useful.I highly recommend this series to any fan of the fantasy genre.Thank you.
5 I just finished the Farseer trilogy (which was just incredible) and reluctantly decided to continue to the next series Ms. Hobbs wrote before picking up the Tawny Man series which truly interested me because I loved the characters in the Farseer trilogy.  Fitz has to be one of the great flawed protagonists and I was not interested in switching gears to - what was this?? The Chalced States?  Bingtown?  Liveships?  what the?  Yawn.  I want more Fitz and the Fool.I am happy so say - without any equivocation - that I stuck to my guns and just finished "Ship of Magic" and immediately started "Mad Ship."  This series is enthralling and please add any number of superlative adjectives to describe it.  Robin Hobb is just an incredible author!
4 "Ship of Magic", volume 1 of  "The Liveship Traders" by Robin Hobb.Althea Vestrit daughter of Ephron Vestrit, captain of the Liveship Vivacia is approaching the end of her first trip on Vivacia with her father not acting as captain as he has become ill. In his place Kyle Haven, Althea's brother in law whom she dislikes acts as captain. After an argument Kyle lets althea know that she will be removed from the ship when it ports at their home in Bingtown. She knows her father will right this injustice when they arrive home but he is only lingering in life, waiting on his ship to return so he can die on it's deck and quicken it (Bring it to life). After the quickening the ship is passed to Althea's sister and in turn to Kyle which Althea cannot believe. She was certain that her father had intended the ship to pass to her. Althea vows that she will get her ship back and flee her father's funeral in search of a way to make this happen.....Wintrow, son of Kyle is fast on his way to becoming a priest of Sa. He has been parted from his family since he was a boy and doesn't really have any connection with them. News of his Grandfathers approaching death reaches the monastery and he is called home to be with his family at the time of his passing. After the funeral his father demands that he leave the priesthood and take up his rightful place on the Liveship vivacia as Liveships must have someone of the family bloodline on them at all times of travel. Wintrow wishes no part in becoming a sailor and only wishes to return to his life as a monk but is forced by his father on the ship as the ships boy and whether he likes it or not must begin to forget his life as a priest and begin life as a sailor....Kennit is a pirate out to make a name for himself, but he desire more than just being a pirate, but he must find a way to achieve it. After visiting the island of the others his journey begins. He is determined to build a fleet but he believes he must have a liveship at the head of that fleet....The Good: Something about Hobb's writing captured me and kept me reading. The book actually could have been written with fewer pages but I'm not sure it would have maintained what made it good if it had been. The Characters have great depth as do the environments. I found myself truly disliking the protagonist of this story which stemmed from the depth with which they were written.The Bad: At times the book felt overwritten but it wasn't enough to make it bad or overly boring. Some may find this book boring at times as this is just the beginning of the trilogy and there is a substantial amount of things that take place when considering the length of the book. This being said I never found myself bored with the story.Overall: A very good start to what promises to be a good trilogy. I highly recommend picking this up and reading it.
5 Vivacia is a liveship - a seagoing vessel made of wizardwood sailing out of the trading hub Bingtown - that has magically come alive into self-awareness after the death of Ephron Vestrit, patriarch of the family that owns her. His youngest daughter, Althea, feels her it is her rightful legacy to command the Vivacia but the elders of the family, her mother, Ronica, and her older sister, Keffria, persuade Ephron before his death that it is in the family's best interests to give the captain's chair to Keffria's husband, Kyle Haven. This is the starting point for a story that, while set in a fictional world that includes the magic of liveships and wizardwood and the fantasy of sea serpents, is actually a monumental family saga in the finest sea-faring tradition of the 17th and 18th century British empire - merchants, slaves, pirates, meat hunting ships, strict codes of decorum and family behaviour, religion and the harsh justice familiar to readers of Dickens' novels that was meted out to those who defaulted on debt.Hobbs' mastery of her plot lines is nothing short of extraordinary! With what is actually a relatively small cast for such a huge story, she has set up a multitude of plot lines and conflicts that realistically weave in and out of another with absolutely perfect pacing designed to keep any reader flipping pages at a breathless pace! Althea masquerades as a boy to establish legitimate sailing credentials and win back her right to the Vivacia. Kyle's son, Wintrow, struggles with his love of monastic life and a desire to become a priest while his father cruelly kidnaps him to a shipboard life on the Vivacia to push him into his stereotypical vision of manhood. Kennit, the pirate captain, refuses to recognize the love that his first mate, Sorcor, and the whore, Etta, offer him. Like Ahab chasing after his elusive white whale, he pursues his dream of becoming a king and captain of a liveship, no matter the cost to any around him. Wintrow's sister, Malta, is nearing womanhood with spoiled, profligate ways that threaten to pull the Kestritt and Haven families over the brink of bankruptcy. Ronica, now the matriarch elder, tries to hold her fractured family together and deal with their teetering contracts with the Rain Wild Traders.The depth to which Hobbs has developed the characters of these people and pulled them off the page into reality will take your breath away. Can she maintain this level of suspense and excitement through the remaining two entries in The Liveship Traders trilogy? I don't know but I sure intend to find out just as quickly as I can get to the nearest bookstore!And, for what it's worth, Hobbs has proposed some sort of underlying mythology that explains a relationship of some kind between the sea serpents and the liveships that remains unresolved as of the end of Ship of Magic. I am definitely looking forward to seeing what Hobbs has in mind! Unquestionably, a 5-star novel that can be recommended as one of the finest books I've read in my life.
3 It took me a while to get into this the first book of the Liveship Trilogy. The author plunges us directly into a world teeming with complex characters and multi layered narratives. At first I was overwhelmed by the way the plot line jumped around. I wanted to focus on one narrative and I was frustrated trying to grapple with the back stories and trying to understand which were sub plots and which was the main narrative throughline. Eventually about a third of the way into the book things started to settle down. Despite the fact that there were several key characters who were particularly nasty there were enough characters who I was able to fall in like with. I became seduced by the rise and fall; the romantic swell of the story. I am particularly impressed by the depth of the world views explored by the author. This may be fantasy, BUT, it is fantasy with heart, maturity of perspective that offers the reader a real sense that this world parallels and reflects issues that are important to both our world and the fantastic world of the page. I am halfway through the book now and I am finding it more difficult to set aside. I want to keep reading on and on, floating on this wonderful sea that is the  the imagination of Robin Hobbs. Thank goodness there are 2 more books.
3 After reading the Farseer trilogy I could not wait to continue on the the Liveship books. I was blown away by the adventures of Fitz and the exquisite writing that brought him to life. Those three books were the kind that were next to impossible to put down. With that level of expectation coming into this series, I have to say that I was very disappointed. One of the things that I have come to love in Hobb's writing is her amazing insight to her characters that she crafts like beautiful pieces of artwork. At no point during this book did I feel a true attachment to any of the characters. I would come close, and then the focus would shift and all would be lost. This book easily could have been halved in length and nothing would be lost.I actually think I might have enjoyed this book if there weren't so much superfluous events scattered throughout. In the Farseer trilogy, every single detail that was written was important in some way. There was not one thing that happened that did not effect later events or have some deep significance. This is not the case at all in this book.That being said, the overlaying concept and system of magic is very interesting. I enjoyed reading about the wizard wood and magic that is associated with it. The problem is in the fact that there is so much filler, that I forget how interested I was with this new area of th world. It seems to me like this book is 800 pages of setting material.I may come back to these books at some point, but for now I'm going to move on to the Tawny Man trilogy and my man Fitz.
5 You know I did not think I would like this series but again Robin Hobb blew me away like winds against the sails of the LiveShips in this series.  I was totally immersed in this world and love the Rain wilds.  I would move there in a second if I could (lol).  Burning river water, facial disfigurement and all.  My favorite characters were Wintrow and Malta in this book.  Malta came across as a real stuck up pompus ass but I soon grew to admire her as the series progressed.  Wintrow broke my heart.  The pain, suffering, and journey to manhood that he had to endure was at times painful to be witness to.  I had to put the book down and cover my face during his most painful trials and tribulations.  I was such a Fool for starting this series earlier that at times I can hear Lady Patience in my mind scolding to no ends for being such stubborn oaf like Burrich.  This series was definitely worth readying before the Tawny Man series.  I am so glad that I did pick books up.  Queen Kettricken is sure to be please that I made the Sacrifice.  Kudos to Ms. Hobb for turning me into a sailor as I read this series.  Hopefully I won't end up a pirate like Kenneth.
5 These books are spell binding! I was so excited to read that she has written 4 connecting trilogies about this world and each book is 700-900 pages so if your a reading junky like me you can really get your fix! The world is fascinating and the characters are people you want to spend all of your days with. Great author and a fantastic adventure.
1 I do not want paperback books cluttering my bookshelves.  If you know of somebody that does, by all means have at it.  The book that I am currently reading, the hardcover of this, is well worth the time of any RH fan.  There is no need to read the Liveship Traders series to be able to enjoy this, but LSTs searies will addd additional flavor to this series.
3 **A bit Spoiler-y*The first line reads: "MAULKIN ABRUPTLY HEAVED HIMSELF OUT OF HIS WALLOW WITH A WILD THRASH THAT LEFT THE ATMOsphere hanging thick with particles." Hmm, let's read that again. "Maulkin abruptly heaved himself out of his wallow..." Bit clumsy? Yes, this is a perfect example of unnecessary adverbs - on the first line! That sentence would have been a thousand times better if `abruptly' were simply removed. 'Abruptly' isn't even the right word here - it's not being original, it just doesn't quite fit. Gah! Not a good sign for the rest of the book. In fact, I was really surprised about the awkward nature of the prose, given its high aggregated rating. Oh, and `muck' was used no fewer than five times in the prologue. Aren't there other appropriate words like mud, silt, sea-bed or bottom?!Gerunds - I really don't have a problem with them per se, but when there's one after the other, within the same paragraph, it drives me insane! It's so uncomfortable to read.And then there's the adjectives. You know, it's great that Hobb cares so much about world-building, but arghhhhhhhhhh, the adjectives! There was very nearly one for each noun! It's just not necessary, and is a sign of some highly uninventive use of the English language. Why not tell me what the scenery does to the character? Or explain how one part of the environment interacts with the other? I'm sure many of you will think that I am being over-critical here, but I'm desperately trying to enjoy this book. I know there may be a really fun plot inside it, but for me it's veiled by this mess of crap, try-hard writing that I can barely see past.Look at this line: "Kennit had followed the gravel path that snaked through the forested hills of the island's interior until its winding descent spilled them out onto a coarsely grassed tableland that framed the wide curve of an open beach." Do my eyes not get a rest during this sentence? If I read this aloud, am I permitted to breathe? How many metaphors are you trying to fit in there, woman? Off the top of my head, here are some changes: "Winnet had followed the path that cut through the hills and their trees, through to a plateau of grass that had been roughened by wind and sun. Beyond this lay a beach so curved and open that it resembled a great mouth, waiting to consume the sea."Okay so we've lost the bit about the path being gravelled, but who the *muck* gravels paths in fantasy worlds anyway?Bards. Who calls them bards beyond the context of: joke historicals, faux-English accents and cheap documentaries about Shakespeare? It may be irrational to others, but I hate the word 'bard' with a passion. Please use poet or literary composer or verse-writer or SOMETHING ELSE!You know what, I was only twenty pages in, and I started thinking, who actually passed this through editing and published this? Spectra, you are officially a barrel load of monkeys. No. That's not a good-enough insult. You're Vintage Books. That's who you are. Vintage-Arse-Bunkum-Drivel Dross-Books. Yes, they're the idiots (wealthy idiots) who published Fifty Shades and Spectra is just as brainless (if not so rich).But a book is more than just writing style, so let's look at the plot. I think there are some very good ideas in here. The Wizardwood/quickening one is great, and there is some real thought given to the complexity of boat ownership and antagonisms between various groups and nationalities. Yay.It was a little bit creepy to read that Althea thought Brashen's hands felt just like those of her father. What's the daddy version of an Oedipus complex? Weird. And then there's the slightly phallic "sticking of the peg in the figurehead." Also, if a sailing family is so desperate for their ship to awaken, why doesn't the fourth generation regularly finish off the third at the first opportunity? Prospect of a living ship versus daddy's boyfriend-like cuddles? Hmm.Character development. Okay, not bad. There are some seriously rambling passages that explore the back stories and thoughts of the characters, but at least this means they're properly fleshed out. Another plus is that the characters are not inert lumps of fossil. They do change their minds, develop and have their opinions altered as they learn. I especially appreciated the change in Wintrow's attitude, and how he falls for his sexy ship. Reminds me of a few men and their relationships with their cars.And after that rather sexist comment, I should probably talk about the feminism in this. There's a really good variety of female characters, both strong and weak. I think the range of women that Hobb presents in this book is to her credit, and she manages to include a good selection of male character types, too. There were a few times when I thought, "Althea could have done that without you," and others when I thought her struggle was somewhat forced. But, otherwise, it was a pretty good representation of how different characters react to the roles they've been given by society.I'm quite ambivalent about this book, so I'll give it three stars for effort.
4 is what this book is.  It is mostly the character and setting development of what will come.  The story gets set up but doesn't even really become a full story until the second book of this - the 3rd story - in this world.  Still, I enjoyed this book immensely.  I especially liked the link up with the second trilogy set in this world although familiarity with that trilogy isn't necessary to enjoying this one. Small links are made. I just like to have some clues as to what happened to someone or something mentioned in the preceding story but wasn't fully explored or explained.  There are several instances of this...sort of "Easter Eggs" of the series - little extra bonuses for dedicated readers.  In fact after this trilogy, the author has left room for more stories to come.  They aren't necessary, but there's room and clues to follow just in case.I think there is room for more in this world without it becoming overdone since new protagonists and new areas of the world are covered.  The biggest mystery with this trilogy is "What are Liveships?".  You may think that is explained...but it isn't until much later.  Enjoy this if you like very full worlds.  I did. The other big question is "Who are these "tawny people"?  This is a big question because they (3) appear in the 3 trilogies about this R. Hobb world.  So far I don't know...but they are remarkable.  And thanks for the map...it helps!
3 This is hard to write mostly because I had such high hopes for this book.  Many reviews were wonderful.  And, goodness knows Hobb's Assassin trilogy predecessors were worth a full five stars each.  This first book in the Liveship Traders series just did not click so-to-speak.  Maybe it was the hundred or so pages of waiting for a character's death (a character I honestly liked that plays no part other than dying) that starts the book that turned me off (don't worry, I'm not giving away anything important here, not a spoiler).The character development is good in that all characters are all self motivated.  However, many of the characters are not enjoyable to read about which at times makes the book seem very long indeed.Clearly Hobb wants us to embrace Althea (our heroine), Brashen, Wintrow, and of course Vivacia herself.  I like Althea.  Really I do, but she just doesn't keep me interested (insert here: like Fitz Chivalry Farseer did).  Brashen is interesting and I think I'll like him more in the next book.  Vivacia is wonderful to read about.  I wish Wintrow would just go away.  Here is a problem since so many chapters revolve around him and I really could care less about him and his complete inability to be what he needs to be.On the other hand not all of our villains are all that bad (again, true self-motivation and believable characterization - Hobb's strength).  Kyle Haven is such an ass.  Ok, he's trying to do what he believes is right ... but he can't see the forest for the trees.  Kennit is respected by many but such a complete idiot - I hope Hobb kills him off soon.  Kennit's [prostitue] however is so engaging that I hope she becomes a major character in the series.  Of all the characters, she has the most potential.  Malta ... someone please spank this whiny little brat and put her to bed without any supper before she messes up everything.  I don't hate her ... I frankly just don't want to read about her ... ever.Filler characters that SHOULD be more:  Ronica never comes into her own and she should have started off as a strong matriarch ... not a weenie.  Keffria is completely useless and I hope she goes away soon.Storyline / Plot is well thought out and definitely worth the time it takes to read it.The Rain wild traders are intriguing and promise much in the future.The Serpents promise many twists in the plot and I'm looking forward to hearing more about them as the series progresses.So, overall:  Character development is good in that they are all self-motivated but many of the characters are not enjoyable to read about which at times makes the book seem very long indeed.  Storyline / Plot is well thought out and definitely worth the time it takes to read it.
4 Robin Hobb, Ship of Magic (Bantam, 1999)Hobb, author of the critically acclaimed Farseer trilogy, took a break from the world of Fitz and his companions to write the Liveship Traders trilogy. Only a small break, mind you; the first two books, both of which weigh in over eight hundred pages, were both published in 1999. That's a whole lot of words. Ship of Magic is the first of the Liveship Traders novels.The Vestrits are one of the Old Trader families who live in Bingtown, sandwiched between the sea, Jamaillia, Chalced, and the Rain Wilds. Jamillia is the country from which their charter comes, but the current leader has been ignoring his ancestors' promises to Bingtown, and in the process making things difficult. Chalced is a country of barbarians, where slavery is legal and women are treated much like perfumed cattle, and their ways are becoming more popular in Jamaillia. The Rain Wilds are a place of mystery, full of goods that command very high prices, but are also home to rampant disease and a mortality rate roughly akin to that in Europe at the time of the Black Death. Ephron Vestrit, current scion of the Vestrit clan, lays dying, while his ship is sailed by a greedy, careless son-in-law, Kyle Haven. The Vestrits, like all Bingtown Trader families, are into the Rain Wild families for generation's worth of debt, thanks to the commissioning of the liveships, worked in wizardwood, with sentient figureheads. Ephron's younger daughter, Althea, has been groomed to take over command of the family's liveship, the Vivacia, since she was very young; when Ephron dies, though, her older sister, Kyle's wife, inherits the ship, and Kyle starts making changes. Althea and the ship's former first mate, Brashen, go separate ways, but both wish to see the ship taken out of Kyle's hands. Kyle, instead, is bent on grooming his son Wintrow, a priest in training, to take over the ship, but he'd rather continue training to be a priest. Then you throw into the mix a pirate captain whose lifelong dream is to capture own a liveship, sea serpents, society parties, a mad liveship who's been abandoned on a rocky beach, the Others (half-man half-fish prophets), an illegal trade in wizardwood artifacts, and any number of other subplots and characters, and you can see why the trilogy requires 2,500 pages.If you're familiar with Hobb from the Farseer books, you should know what to expect here-- well-defined characters, readable prose, and in general, all the things that make a massive fantasy trilogy worth your time. It's genre writing, and never really strays outside the conventions of genre, but it's very good genre writing, and that shouldn't put you off. Fans of fantasy literature will find a good deal to like about Ms. Hobb's second trilogy. If it tells you anything, I was planning on waiting a few weeks before startting Mad Ship, the second book in the trilogy; I ended up starting it about half an hour after I finished this one, instead. *** 
4 I usually start off reviews like this by noting one or two things I like and then moving on to my various criticisms, but this time I'm going to reverse that.To begin, Ship of Magic is a terrible title (I think Live Ship would have been better), and the cover is a standard-issue fantasy embarrassment--the sort of cover I try to keep hidden when reading in public. And Hobb certainly does stretch the story out. Fairly early on, say page 100 or so, you get the idea, more or less, of where the story is headed, if not any of the particulars. But there are so many long drawn-out arguments and side excursions that not until the end of this 800 page novel do you get to where you thought the story would be on about page 300. Some merciless editing would have been a nice touch to tighten up the story. But, then, this is fantasy. Fantasy writers make it a point of pride to produce bloated door stoppers. It's the sort of thing fantasy readers like when its done well. And for the most part, Ship of Magic is done extremely well.I realize that the Farseer trilogy is beloved by many, but beyond the first book I found that series to be just shy of awful. I got the distinct impression that Hobb had no more idea than the reader of what the answer was to the various mysteries she had created. That distinctly does not seem to be the case here. The back story is well crafted. The characters all have distinct motivations. And there's no malevolent, unstoppable force of evil--just characters in conflict.The female characters are strong and interesting without always being incredibly strong warriors as in so many fantasy novels (I'm talking to you, Steven Erickson). The culture of the live ship traders, the strange rules governing magic, the mysterious sea serpents are all rich and interesting and give the novel a nice depth. And the story, though it moves slowly, really does carry you along. This isn't Assassin's Quest. It a finely plotted, richly detailed novel.
5 This begins a saga that promises to be as spellbinding as Robin Hobbs' other novels. I particularly like that, although each trilogy is complete in its own self, it is actually an entire history.
5 I been a fan of Hobbs since I read her assasin series so I was thrilled that she was going back to her fabulous world but in a different area.This  novel introduces us sentinent ships made by wizardwood,terrifying sea  serpents and bloodthirsty pirates.Hobb's world-building skills are  execellent as usual and her characters are fully described like charismatic  but ruthless pirate named Kennit.Great start to a series.
5 Robin Hobb continues with the Liveship Traders Trilogy. A remarkable follow on from Assassin's Quest. What a stunning story to enjoy over the weekend :)
4 I'm reviewing the whole trilogy here, because I assume anyone buying the first book in a trilogy is making the first payment in a 3 part investment in the series. I don't know very many people who would want to read a random book in a series without the others, so I'll do my best to provide a spoiler-free review of The Liveship Traders trilogy.Basically, the trilogy spans about 3 years, or around a year per book. If you've read the Farseer Trilogy, this takes place less than a year following the events of Assassin's Quest. However, don't expect to see any of your favorites from the Farseer Trilogy -- while this book does take place in the same universe, it's in a different country. Aside from rumors and a few Six Duchies citizens here and there, we aren't going to hear much about those characters in this trilogy. This book instead follows a few Bingtown Traders through their adventures, mostly on liveships. Liveships are ships made of special wood that can be "quickened" (brought to life) after absorbing the memories of about 3 generations of their owners.That's the bare bones setup. I'll give you the good and the bad now.Pros:- Engaging characters with real personalities, emotions, ambitions, and reactions. This is probably Hobb's strongest point.- Although most of the events contain only subtle fantasy and more realism than most fantasy series, Hobb manages to keep a decent pacing and level of interest through the majority of the series. I read through these pretty quickly.- The subtle fantasy I mentioned in the previous point is a pro for me. I don't like books that get too crazy with wizards shooting firebolts or extremely powerful main characters. It might be a con to people that like those kinds of things, though. You'll find none of that here. All the main characters are very human and no one really has special magical powers.Cons:- Pacing in the third book starts to slow and towards the end comes to a near halt. I slowed down reading here and it took me longer to read the last half of the 3rd book than the other 2 books combined. The Farseer Trilogy also had this problem -- I think if Hobb needs to work on anything, it is keeping up the pace throughout her books, to the end of the story.- Kennit never grew on me. I really wanted him to, since especially in the first 2 books, he was so amusing that sometimes his scenes would make me laugh. But I just could not like or even really understand him. I don't think his full story is ever completely explained, so it left me feeling like that was a loose end.Bottom line: If you enjoy less flashy fantasy and stories about people whose actions could be as real as the people you know in your own life, you will enjoy this trilogy. I don't think I would've enjoyed this before high school, so I'd probably recommend it to 15+ years old. This is also a good book to recommend to people you'd like to introduce to the fantasy genre that might be turned off by some of the more formulaic books.
5 I couldn't put off writing a review, even though I haven't finished this book yet. We so rarely see excellent Fantasy, or at least I see it rarely. For me, the motivating factor to purchase this book came in the form of a recommendation by Orson Scott Card. For me, there's no higher honor. In addition, if you read the compliments on the first pages, many well-known and well-respected authors add their praise. And when fantasy authors praise each other, you know you've got something special.I was not disappointed. The book opens the door into a world of seafaring folk, of traders who sail the fantastic and intriguing Liveships. Liveships have keels and decks of Wizardwood, which causes the ship to come to life when the first three captains have died on deck.The concept of the liveship is amazing to think about, and as you read, you will understand the contradictions and moral dilemmas Hobb has created with this notion. Can you "own" a ship with a mind of it's own? What if it doesn't like what happens to it?The characters are enjoyable because they are very three dimensional. Rather than burden her characters with sterotypical behavioral signals a' la Robert Jordan, Hobb gives them personality. She makes them do the things most of us would do in their places, and they are not good _or_ evil; as in real life, there are shades of gray.One of my favorite apsects of this book is the Pirates. Any story of the sea worth it's salt will feature pirates, and the ones in "Ship of Magic" are as interesting to follow as the real ones that used to prowl the Spanish Main (Stede Bonnet, Blackbeard, etc).I could go on, but I'll keep the plot to myself. Suffice to say that this is another series I will soon devour with entranced hunger, and weep to myself once it ends.
5 Hobb has come out with an amazing book here. Rich in world building and description, this new series begins in  the same world as her best selling Assassin series, but with a vastly different bent. Of particular interest  are the wealthy trading families, who vie for position and wealth, the  misshappen and mysterious upriver folk, and of course the liveships, made  from a magical wood and &quot;quickened&quot; with the lives of three souls  who them sail themselves, and think and speak. Here also, is romance,  piracy, and the troubles of adolesence. Hobb is writing better than ever,  and her words are smooth and flowing here. Get this book today!
5 This is a review of Robin Hobb's THE LIVESHIP TRADERS trilogy. The trilogy comprises one story, 2448 pages in three mass-paperback, and you may ask, "Do I really want to devote that much time?" What with so much other, EASIER media--TV, movies, video games, computers, and music--you might shy away from such a commitment. But when you discipline yourself to read, you channel your mind with more focus than you can with any other medium. If you never read, you are forever just a dabbler, never penetrating the depths of truth for hidden treasures. And if you avoid fiction, telling yourself that you do not need it and that it is trivial, then your awareness is parochial. You remain blind to the realities, the characters, and the events of alternate universes.I bought and read the Spectra mass-paperback editions: SHIP OF MAGIC (1999, 809 pages), MAD SHIP (2000, 850 pages), and SHIP OF DESTINY (2001, 789 pages). Even so, I recommend the Spectra hardcover editions because I find thick paperbacks less convenient while reading. I do not recommend the Harper Voyager paperbacks, whose cover art is drab.Though Hobb's FARSEER TRILOGY was published first and occurs on the same world, THE LIVESHIP TRADERS trilogy is self-contained. I think it is also better and more original. Its distinction is liveships. These are sailing ships constructed of wizardwood, and they develop into persons. Science fiction has intelligent spaceships, and maybe some authors have expounded on the personalities of such beings. And though fantasy has other examples of sailing ships with personalities, I do not know of any fantasy authors who dramatize the theme as well as Hobb does here.Which reminds me of Hobb's forte, at least in THE LIVESHIP TRADERS. That is her characterizations. Many characters, including the liveships, display traits that absorb the reader's attention. What's more, the traits do not seem artificial, inserted so critics will say the characters have color. Behavior and complex personalities blend logically into the story, evolving as the story progresses. Certainly this is a tale of high-seas adventure, human relationships, politics, magic, and action. Yet despite the presence of magic, which is unbelievable in our own reality, Hobb's powerful, convincing characterizations open up portals to a believable alternate reality.
5 This series comes on the tail of the Farseer trilogy, and while it's true that Amber's presence as a character makes no sense if you haven't read the previous books, you don't need to.  I didn't.This series stands on its own, fascinating and brilliant in a sea of [weak] fantasy.  She brings epics and politics back to the fantasy genre in meaningful ways reminiscent of the American Revolution.  It's romance, it's adventure, it's magic all rolled into one.  This is a fantastic series, and this book lays all the cards on the table for you in fascinating detail.You'll love her female characters.  You'll even love the villain--perhaps too much.  Fantastic!
5 This is the first book in The Liveship Traders trilogy (before The Mad Ship and Ship of Destiny).Althea Vestrit is the 19-year-old daughter of a family of Bingtown Traders, the only community who can possess a Liveship, a magic vessel made of wizardwood, a precious and legendary ware. Always her father's favourite, she spent all her childhood on board the family's Liveship, the Vivacia, whom she's come to love more than anything.Alas, the captain is very ill and is going to die soon. He has to be taken on board the Vivacia so that with his death, the third of a family member on the ship's deck, the latter can undergo her quickening. Althea knows that when the Vivacia awakens, she'll become hers to sail. Only at the last moment, she discovers that her mother and sister have convinced her father to leave the ship to Althea's brother-in-law, an execrable and authoritative Chalcedean, Kyle Haven. And as the Vestrits are crippled with debt, it won't be long until Kyle starts trading in the most profitable of goods, slaves.Banned from her own deck, desperate to have to leave the only recently quickened and emotionally fragile ship to such a horrid fate, she decides to run away. Disguised as a boy, she'll work on a slaughter ship and try to gain a ship ticket, a token to prove Kyle she's tough enough to become the rightful captain of the Vivacia. Knowing the ship has to be comforted to sail safely, Kyle drags his 13-year-old son Wintrow from his monastery where he's studying to become a Priest of Sa, and forces him to work as deck hand. Soon though, Wintrow reluctantly admits his bond with the Vivacia.Kennit, captain of the Marietta, is a pirate whose dearest dream is to become King of the Pirates. He knows that if he helps freeing slaves, he'll gain the reconaissance of their families and friends, the people of the Pirate Islands. With his first mate Sorcor, he decides to stop looting merchant ships and start chasing Liveships and attacking Slavers instead...I read Robin Hobb's astounding Farseer Trilogy more than a year ago, and it instantly became my favourite series, the one to which I've compared everything I've read since. Knowing that the third and last book of The Tawny Man, the sequel to the Farseer, will only come out in paperback in more than a year from now, I have forced myself to wait until now to read Robin Hobb's other trilogy, The Liveship Traders. So you can imagine how much I expected, how much hope I'd placed in these books, how much I feared I wouldn't like them as much. But the only thing I can tell after reading the first volume is that it didn't disappoint me. At all. The story is tremendouly gripping, the descriptions fascinating, the characterization flawless. Everything Robin Hobb touches is gold. Don't overlook her!
5 I started this 750ish page book on a Sunday and finished it by Friday despite classes, labs, and work!  I found it hard to get into at first, but once I'd been introduced to the entire cast of characters, exposed to the many different twisting plots, I was hooked!  The greatest aspect of this book (aside from the deep character development, amazing dialogues, and beautiful prose) was that the reader is never stuck in one place with one character for too long. We are constantly taken from one place to another learning each character's motives and perceptions of the events.  Right now I'm half way through the sequel, Mad Ship, and I haven't been able to put it down since I started.  If you like fantasy, intrigue, pirates, a little romance, or just a great story, I highly suggest this book.
5 Having never have read a work by this author or for that matter a fantasy  written by a woman, I was simply blown away by how SOM drew me in.  This  book turned out to be a page-turner for me.  Even during the scenes with  Malta which were for the most part I considered teenage girl problems I  found myself flipping pages faster than fast food establishments turn out  hamburgers.  SOM's most attractive feature is that it is a dramatic sea  going adventure full of pirates, traders and their ships, and yes sea  serpents who also have a quest of their own (though not as richly detailed  as of yet).  The richness of the characters developed is simply spectacular  and I don't believe that to be an understatement.  The concept of the  liveships is handled quite nicely as this could of turned out to be silly.  The liveships interact with the characters both physically and emotionally  so that you really care about them.  While reading I drew an analogy to the  voidhawks of Peter Hamilton's The Nights Dawn Trilogy and the liveships in  SOM.  Of course this is fantasy, but if you are not a fan or have not read  a book of this genre, I think that Ship of Magic would still be a very good  read.SOM has some very grisly scenes that animal rights activists would  not be too happy about and that their is also human suffering described in  uncomfortable detail.  Of course the word fantasy tends to imply happy, but  some of the material in SOM is disturbing.Never the less, I did enjoy  the book and am looking forward to reading Mad Ship.
5 I finished this book a few weeks ago and now am on the third book of this series.  Robin Hobb is a great writer.  All the characters are super and eventually weave into one story.  I am amazed that anybody can write such compelling and complex stories.  Robin has now become one of my favorite authors.  And she's not a one story wonder.  Her other series &#34;the Farseer&#34;  was also great, which brought me to &#34;Liveship Traders&#34;.  I plan on looking for more Robin Hobb books as soon as the third book is finished.Hurray Robin Hobb!!!
4 The truly amazing thing about Liveship Traders is that Robin Hobb has created a society...wait, what? Isn't that the goal of (almost) all second world authors? Yes, but I don't mean that Hobb created a list of rules, or a collection of customs, or a homogenous mass of bizarre rituals. No, Hobb's creation is multi faceted and deep, beautifully realized and felt with every word that's read of her creation.Characters, or people, are shaped by the world around them - even as they, in turn, shape that world - and few authors better understand this than Hobb. Nobody in these novels exists in a vacuum. Instead, each and every character is a result of their environment, whether they are struggling to live up to the expectations of others or trying to break entirely away from those predefined paths.This is character driven fiction in every sense of the word; the plot meanders and grows, always organically, as a result of the characters' decisions, even when that character is wrong or misguided. Main characters will end up opposing one another, threads will wander and twist, and some events even seem to be striving in the opposite direction of the rest of the novel, but there is not a single point where a viewpoint feels false, where a plan seems concocted only for convenience's sake.In order for something like this to work, the characters need to be exceptional. And they are. These are people driven by their own desires and needs, who have their own goals and fears, and always act in a way dictated by their virtues and flaws. Everyone here believes their own goals to be paramount, and, within that character's viewpoint, it is impossible to think otherwise. Hobb's skill is not to make the epic personal, but rather to make the personal the stuff of epics. Simple tragedies, the kind that we experience without having to fight dark lords upon mountaintops, the kinds that form the core of almost every life, are the center of this story.Personal injustices affect us just as much as they do the characters. The catalyst for much of the trilogy is Althea's loss of her liveship, the Vivacia. Convinced that her sister's husband would be better able to support the family as a whole, Althea's father deprives her of her inheritance. The scene hits with the emotional impact of Martin's famous Red Wedding. This was never a world shattering event, and yet I was as furious as I'd ever been made while reading; at that moment, if I'd had the ability to reach into the book, I would have throttled Kyle Haven.Even that, however, is not where the true power of Liveship Traders lies, because, you see, Hobb's characterization is unbiased, and, when I was in Kyle's head, I understood his reasons, I understood why he did what he had to do, I even agreed with him. The fact that Hobb can do both ends, can make both sides feel as just as the other, can stir up the reader's one way and then twist it the other, is the core of The Liveship Traders success.Furthermore, the lackadaisical pace of The Liveship Traders gives characters time to grow. These books are not a series of trials or challenges from which the characters come out at the end with a tidy moral lesson. They are, instead, brutal transformations, where every character is morphed and shaped by the events around them and by what they have to experience. Often, at the end of difficult journeys, characters will be presented with what they've been striving for, only to realize that it no longer fits them as it once did.Malta is a great example of this. At the book's start, she is spoiled and childish, not to mention wholly unlikable. As time progresses, she's forced to mature. By the book's end, she is a totally different person, even though the characteristics that shaped her before are still present, and even though she never went through a magical epiphany that reorganized her whole personality in a single, glorious instant.The first book in the trilogy, Ship of Magic, is slow to start, as many of the characters seem unsympathetic, and the cast as a whole is too far apart to really influence one another yet. Still, the characterization draws you in within only a few pages, and you're soon enthralled as events that start simple slowly begin to spiral out of control.The supernatural is muted here, present but far from center stage. What few elements of true magic there are are blended seamlessly into the rest of the narrative, made normal by the character's perceptions and used to emphasize the cast's humanity rather than to simply drive the plot.Mad Ship is where the stakes are upped throughout, with the beginnings of the plot that will link the series together becoming apparent. The various conflicts that determined the first book's events are magnified here, the societies established in book one on the verge of splitting open. Where Ship of Magic was a meandering journey through increasingly interesting places, Mad Ships is a disparate but still cohesive sprint through ever more affecting heights of tension.Hand in hand, with the growth of the stakes is the presence of magic in the narrative. Ship of Magic showed us a relatively standard world, with only the slightest hints of the otherworldly to give it flavor and direction. Here, by contrast, events are often decided by the ever growing presence of those otherworldly elements.Everything still works, however, because those elements are still fundamentally a part of the narrative. Rather than supersede the various character stories that Hobb has built up to this point, the supernatural plays into them, exaggerating strengths and weaknesses while still sticking to the ground rules that have been established up to this point even if Hobb is busy shattering our perceptions while she does it.Furthermore, the magic is just damn cool. None of it is particularly original, but we've been made to care about the world to such an extent at this point that that doesn't matter. The reveals given here are both jaw dropping and horrifying, and the atmosphere that Hobb manages to evoke is haunting and beautiful in all the right places.The plot of The Liveship Traders is almost like trying to make something out of a disorganized ball of string while seeming to do nothing at all. Patterns slowly began to emerge in Ship of Magic, but things are more than leisurely as the individual pieces seem more inclined to move under their own volition and to their own ends than to any master plan. Mad Ship is nothing short of frantic when compared with its predecessor, but the events still feel just as character driven as they did before.With Ship of Destiny, though, you can clearly see Hobb's fingers in the frame as they manipulate the strands into the shape she needs them to be in, regardless of where they just seemed poised to go. The once organic plot now becomes contrived, characters picked up off of their natural courses and plopped down somewhere convenient with no regard to their wants or desires. By the time the third or fourth piece is about to be rammed into place for the climax, it becomes hard to even feel that Hobb tried to disguise the fact that she, quite literally, dropped him out of the sky.A prime example of the simplification of everything that came before is the Bingtown situation. Where the first two books featured an increasingly fractured community, one where no easy solution was present, Ship of Destiny features a cartoonish and generic villain take power by being a puppy-eating demon, his every threat counteracted by his oh-so-obviously-eminent downfall.Worse still is the use of magic. No longer are the dragons and serpents, the seething cities and sentient ships, a part of the plot, an influence on the characters. Instead, the supernatural steps up and takes control of the whole journey, tossing the motivations and actions of the characters we just read about casually aside as they assert their own dominance and narrative directions. Partway through the book, a certain magical character instructs the characters:"'I have a task for you, [name]. It is of utmost importance. You and your fellows must set aside all else to attend to it, and until it is completed, you must think of nothing else. [...] The task you must perform is vastly more important than one human's mating. I honor you with an undertaking that may well save the whole of my race.'" (p. 355-356)A supernatural creature insisting its own tasks are far more important than that of us lesser humans? Fascinating. The humans actually going along with this and just about abandoning all of what made them interesting characters and the book a gripping read? Less fascinating.The Liveship Traders is one of the absolute best works of character in fantasy or any other medium. Events are built to a fever pitch over several excellently paced and plotted books, the experience something like what might result from taking Fitz's treatment in FarseerLINK and expanding it to everyone in sight. Then, in the final volume, the whole thing falls apart, resolving the events and conflicts that were built up without ever resolving the characters internal and external crisis, explaining how everything fits together without bothering to mention why the pieces should be put together that way or how they feel about their new positions. It's not enough to ruin what comes before, but it is enough to deny The Liveship Traders the position in the fantasy hierarchy that it deserves.
1 So many people recommended this book, but I can't get beyond the first chapter.  Am I reading Darwin's book on evolution or something stranger?  I will update this review if my feelings change.
5 Of her trilogies. The characters are more in depth, less whiney. The setting is a repressing change from the norm in this genre.
4 I have never read a Robin Hobb book before but I liked the cover art on this one and decided to pick it up and see what it was about. The book jacket made it sound like it would be an adventurous read and it really was.There are several stories going on in this book: Althea's quest to regain her ship, Kennit's quest to become a king of pirates, Ronica's quest to keep her family together, the serpents' quest for who-knows-what, the mystery of Paragon, the political intrigue surrounding Bingtown and, most compelling of all, Wintrow's story. All of these narratives are interwoven into one big,compelling, un-put-downable, can't-wait-for-the-next-volume, story.Although it would appear that Althea's is the main story, I found the saga of Wintrow and Wintrow himself the most involving aspect of this book.  Ms. Hobb has created in Wintrow a likeable, tortured young man who undergoes a tempering that is wonderful and sometimes painful to watch.I enjoyed how such unsypat! hetic characters as Kyle and Kennit were not created as simple cardboard villains, instead one is a man who truly thinks he is trying to do right for his family (no matter how obnoxious or wrongheaded he really is) and the other a man who is consumed by ambition and not a little bit of self hate.I highly recommend this book and look forward to the rest of the series with great anticipation.  I also plan to seek out Ms. Hobb's other series of books.
5 I bought this because I started the Tawney man series from the same author, during the second book, I realized I was 'missing' some information on the liveships they were talking about. I had already read the Assassin's apprentice series and wanted the next series. I can't buy the last book of the Tawney man series until I finish this series.
5 From the first page, this book had me hooked. As soon as I opened it I was no longer reading a book, I was on board the Vivacea, tasting the sea air for myself. I can't wait to read the next one.Note: I also posted this review on Goodreads.
4 Since this is the first book of a series, any rating has to be tentative. This could be a five-star series very easily but it could also plummet like a paralyzed falcon.This is a multi-threaded work, following the actions of several characters. The world-building is excellent and the various conceits, such as the live ships, the serpents and the various geographical areas and their peoples, seem very strong.The non-sympathetic characters are notable for their depth and interesting detail. One of the most fascinating is the captain who knows what is good for everyone and sincerely believes that he would be the soul of generosity and kindness if everyone followed his plans. The pirate leader also manages to be more than a cardboard villain.The sympathetic characters are also interesting and far from stock figures.
5 OK, let's say right off that it reminded me a bit of a bodice-ripping potboiler, except that when the pot began to boil the contents didn't just cook down into goo. The image of the mad ship Paragon's living figurehead screaming and flailing underwater for months is striking and unpleasant. The offstage threat of the mysterious Rain Wilds, whose inhabitants become magic-touched mutants as they work with the magic upstream, is an added creepiness to an already creepy work. Would-be pirate king Kennit seems to alternate between statesman and moron; kept afloat by his loyal friends who keep frantically steering him right, he may end up as king of more than the pirates. And the irony of forcing a living ship to carry slaves is pretty thick. Meanwhile the malevolent sea serpents dog the liveships with a humanlike intelligence, searching for a secret they have almost forgotten over the ages ... a secret which seems about to be revealed. As the Vestrit family wars within itself for control of the newly awakened Vivacia, Vivacia herself must decide what her own destiny will be. Kyle Haven? Completely over the top and unrealistic, and if I hadn't seen his like blustering and threatening in every fast-food joint I'd say he was a cartoon character. I can't believe either Wintrow or Althea would be so naive, but it does move the action along. Can Hobb keep up the pace? Is the secret of the liveships worth slogging through two more humongus books to find out? Hmmm ... I'll let you know. It's vivid and detailed and obviously sailing towards a destination, and I'm signing on for another voyage.
1 I can see why people would love this book, but it wasn't for me. Having read and fallen in love with the Farseer Trilogy, and then the Tawny Man Trilogy, I was thrilled to hear of another series set in the same world, and ordered book one of the Liveship Traders immediately.I got to about page 60, before I really decided to give up. Knowing that there was a whole other two books as well as this one, and not at all enjoying much of it so far, I decided not to waste my time.The problem with this book is that it reads, mostly, like a collection of character profiles and backstories. Huge, huge info-dumps. It's called character development, I suppose, but it's not at all how I like to see characters established.The writing was good, excellent, as is Hobb's standard. But I was bored, immensely so. And there just didn't seem to be an actual plot that was important enough to hold my interest. Everything felt like a kinda side-story, but I'm not sure where the meat and action was supposed to be.I was very much dissapointed having expected great things from this series after reading Farseer. But Liveship is completely different and not nearly as good.
3 Just finished Ship of Magic, and thought I would share my reaction.Many people have compared this to Hobb's Farseer trilogy, and the differences are interesting.  I felt Hobb writing in the first person was much stronger than her third person work here.  It may be that working from one point of focus is a strength she's developed, and many points weakens her writing.There is some potential for very interesting plot lines here, but it isn't realized in this book.  As an example, Wintrow's decisions make for interesting reading, but not as much as I had hoped when we were introduced to him.The serpents are also confusing and underdeveloped (at least when you consider the length of the book).  I got a hint of where the serpents fit in from reading book one of the Tawny Man series, and so I'll try the remaining books to see how that connects.I'm hopeful that the launch found here will result in a better story line in the next book.  More direction and less rambling would be great, and if Hobb knows where she's going with this one, it will be interesting to see how things turn out.
5 I'm very sparing about 5 Star Reviews, but this book is worth every single one of them.Quite simply, this book captures the essence of the entire series, going beyond the first book in so many ways, and setting the tone and themes that the rest of the series explores in further depth.As other reviewers have noted, the character of Stephen Maturin is made the equal of Jack Aubrey in this book, but you are also introduced to:- Jack's ongoing troubles with Money- The Grapes Inn in the Savoy- Jack's relationships with Sophie and Diana- Stephen's relationships with the two ladies as well- Mrs. Williams and her petty prejudices and closed mind- Internal scheming at the admiralty for ships &amp; stations- Spying abroad on the French and Spanish- Duelling, honor and friendship- Daring escapes, near misses, close calls- The nature of Sailing, Gunnery and Seamanship- The natures of Indiamen, Privateers, and Warships- Humor, both subtle and broad- Reflections on the nature of soul, heart and mind- The requirments, priveleges and duties of command- Love sought, found, lost and rekindledFolks, it's truly a wonderful book, and wonderfully dense, able to bear many a re-reading.  Read it quickly for an adventure story.  Read it slowly for literature.  Read it at moderate pace for the humor.  There are so many shifts in tone, so many little vignettes, so many sparkling moments of dialogue that you just ~have~ to own it to appreciate it.I recommend you buy this and READ it.  If you have trouble getting through Master &amp; Commander, don't worry.  Put it down if you wish, and pick this one up immediately - I assure you, it's a great book.
5 Patrick O'Brian's Post Captain is an intoxicating adventure story that includes some genuine twists, an incredibly authentic feel, and truly multifaceted characters. It is also about 180 degrees from Master and Commander in terms of its story. The novel centers, of course, on Captain Jack Aubrey and Dr. Stephen Maturin, friends and naval officers in Napoleonic-era England. Lucky Jack, though, is not quite so lucky in this novel, as the prize money he earned for taking the Cacafuego in the previous novel is stolen by a venal prize-agent, leaving Jack in debt and avoiding his creditors and debtors' prison. He escapes to France, where war soon breaks out again, and Aubrey must escape internment. Finally, he gets back to England to put his affairs in order but has his promotion refused. As a consolation, though, he gets a command: the HMS Polychrest, known (nonaffectionately) as the Carpenter's Mistake, and crewed by a dangerously undisciplined crew. Meanwhile, Maturin tries to woo the Lady Diana Villiers, whose half-sister is infatuated with Jack.This novel is, surprisingly, light on the long descriptions and definitions of sea travel that O'Brian seems so fond of, and centers more on the people. Only about half of the novel takes place on the high seas, and the other half takes place in various locales on England and Europe, the descriptions of nineteenth-century society are vivid and engrossing. The relationships come through here: Jack and Stephen, of course, are the center. Their relationship takes a number of turns in this installment, including a near duel! Fortunately they sort it out. Jack's dealings with his crew, his society friends, and Maturin's treatment of officers in the Portsmouth hospital are revealing indeed.My only complaint is that the book can be difficult to follow. The scenery can change and hours can elapse without warning, an event can happen and only be mentioned in a throwaway comment that might be overlooked. With so much happening it can be difficult to know what exactly is going on. That said, the book is an otherwise fascinating and thrilling narrative, certainly worth a look if you enjoyed 'Master'.
3 Following the rave reviews, I thought I would try this book (and the first one).It was ok.It was good on detail, but I just found it too easy to put down and not take up again.I struggled through the first, and then this one thinking that perhaps it would engage me the more I got into the story.  Unfortunately, for me, it was just not interesting enough.  A bit slow on the action, and the conversations seemed to be stilted and quite unrealistic.Oh well, given the reviews of others, it is worth a try, but if you don't like the first book, I don't think it is worth struggling on as I did.
5 The details are extraordinary - and detailed. O'Brien may have been a despicable person as a human being, but he sure immersed himself in the language of the late 18th Century. His books start slow, but they get the battles and tactics correct, and will have your heart pounding until the end.
5 Volumes have been written about this series.  Some of them are worth reading and contemplating, useful derivatives of some of the best literature I have ever read.In some ways this series is less entertainment than obsession.  Also uplifting, educational, extremely funny, difficult, challenging.  Amazing.
1 I assume that people interested in audio versions of O'Brian's novels have already read the books. So, listening to to the book is a supplementary pleasure that can follow a great read. My rating here has nothing to do with the literary quality of the work in question. The whole Aubrey-Maturin series is superb. But if you want to listen to them I warn you to stay away from any of the versions read by Simon Vance. His are tedious, monotonous readings, in which he is unable to sufficiently differentiate the characters, with their diverse accents from around the world. For example, Maturin grew up in Ireland, and should therefore have a bit of an Irish accent. Vance can't do it.  Rather, he gives us wooden characters that makes Jack sound like a bombastic jerk, and Stephen like a mincing prig. And in his hands, Diana sounds like a silly simpering ninny. An actor, not just a reader is required. I highly recommend Patrick Tull, who recorded the entire series with consistent success and enthusiasm, as well as John Lee, who unfortunately only recorded the first 6 volumes.
5 Post Captain is the second in the Aubrey/Maturin series and perhaps the first written with the knowledge that it was part of a series.  O'Brian's first novel in the series was published shortly after C.S. Forester's death  and the publication of Pope's and Kent's first novels in their series of  wooden ships and iron men.  O'Brian found a different niche within the  genre and one that ultimately led to his recognition as a serious author of  historical novels.  If one has read Pope or Kent and even Forester, then  the reader might have some difficulty getting into O'Brian's novels.  If  one accepts that O'Brian is a longer read and that the emphasis is more on  character and historicity than violent action then one can enjoy this novel  thoroughly.I read the first book in the series, Master and Commander,  and was disappointed.  I enjoyed Post Captain more.  Perhaps that was due  to knowing what to expect and perhaps it is because Post Captain is better  than its predecessor.  However, it is not your typical naval action  adventure.  In fact, the first few chapters sounded a bit like Pride and  Prejudice from Mr. Darcy's perspective.  The fact is that O'Brian writes  well enough to pull it off.  Post Captain does pick up when war is declared  and Aubrey goes back to sea.One area of conflict that I found strangely  missing in Master and Commander was that between Aubrey and Maturin.  I had  expected that Maturin would be critical of Aubrey taking the ship into  actions that caused wounds Maturin would have to treat.  There is a serious  conflict between the two in Post Captain although it's not over Aubrey's  naval actions.  Since the series has 18 more novels one knows that the  conflict will be resolved.The main problem that Aubrey faces in the  novel is not the French navy but his own indebtedness and the inability to  obtain a suitable command.  Paradoxically, Aubrey is safe from creditors  while at sea.  The problems that a person faced while in debt in 1800 are  explained well and the reader has great empathy with Aubrey.The naval  activities in Post Captain seem similar to those in Hornblower and the  Hotspur to the point that the climactic action appears to correspond to the  same point in history.  While O'Brian did not appear to value the  Hornblower novels greatly it is obvious that he owes Forester a debt of  gratitude for creating the genre.  Without Forester it is doubtful that  O'Brian would have been able to develop his own unique niche and this  excellent novel would not have been published.
5 This is the second book a series which is most entertaining to me. There are people who may not like all the information about life on ships and sailing them but the action and the relationships between the characters is totally riviting. I even had to buy the companion books, one of which is "A Sea Of Words" to understand what I was reading and laughing at. I don't know if I would sugest reading these books out of order since they are so much fun going from the first to the last.
5 I have read and reread this series over the years, and now that it is on the Kindle, I intend to read it again! There is enough history in this series about the Napoleonic Wars to keep you interested, and enough character development to wish that Waterloo was a century away.
4 While Master and Commander focused on seafaring life at the dawn of the 19th century, this novel focuses more on the life of seafarers in this same era.  Indeed, as much of the story takes place off of the ship as on it.  As a result, Post Captain is in many respects a different type of book than the first one, but my hope is that it is more telling of what is to come in future books (this is my first time reading through the series).One thing I liked about this book is that we get to know the two main characters, Captain Jack Aubrey and his ship's surgeon, Stephen Maturin, as they compete (sometimes with each other, sometimes with others) for the attention of women and interract with "landlubbers," including the bureaucrats at the top of the British admiralty.  This type of character development is not present in the first book.Also, despite the fact that they are less prominent in this book, the sea battles seem more gripping and exciting.  Perhaps this is O'Brian getting into his element, or maybe it has to do more with the fact that Captain Aubrey is moving up in the world and captaining larger ships.  Either way, you will not be able to put the book down during the battle scenes in this book.So, without a bad word said yet, why not give this book five stars?  Well, unlike Master and Commander, Post Captain makes clear that Patrick O'Brian had the intention of creating one continuous novel in 21 volumes, as opposed to a series of single volumes involving the same characters.  For this reason, I felt like the book was trying to do a lot of groundwork in terms of building the backbone of several future storylines.  As a result, this book moves a little more slowly than the first.  But, it also gives me great hope as I move through the series.
4 This is the second book and, like the first, is named for the rank Capt. Jack Aubrey, RN, obtains in the course of the book.  The road is very rocky to get there, however.  First peace breaks out between adversaries England and Napoleonic France (no hope for a promotion there, and scant hope of even being given a ship to command).  His prize agent (sort of a banker) is caught in a Ponzi scheme and flees, leaving Jack hopelessly in debt.  When war is resumed, Capt. Aubrey is on the wrong side of the English Channel.  When he is finally offered a command (still at the Commander rank), it's a sloop of experimental design and dubious quality of construction.  Worse, Aubrey is placed under the command of an admiral he had previously cuckolded and with a crew consisting mostly of landlubbers and jailbirds.  However, Aubrey's negotiation of these treacherous positions is child's play compared to the romantic attentions paid to him by two women of entirely different personalities.  To complicate things, his best friend Dr. Steven Maturin is equally smitten with one of the ladies.With this book, the world of Napoleonic Europe comes to life.  The details of life asea and ashore are as fascinating as following the adventures of the two protagonists.  As we'd expect from an O'Brian novel, the reader is absorbed into the story, but might be hard-pressed to say why, exactly, the book is so enjoyable.The romantic subplot is fascinating, if somewhat Austin-esque in its soap-opera qualities.  I was never convinced that Steven could be so besotted with his love interest - she is cold, fickle, and indiscretionary in her flirtations.  The busibody mother/aunt of the two ladies is also a carricature of a Jane Austin character, and I was never quite sure if O'Brian was offering this subplot as a sort of satiric comic relief, or if this was an accurate picture of upper-class life in the time period.  Don't get me wrong - it was fun and still enjoyable to read, but the highlights of the book definitely take place aboard the ships, especially when cleared for action.Overall, I think I enjoyed the first book better, so I'm demoting this one to 4 stars.  It's still a great read, and I'd recommend it without reservation.
5 You really don't need any knowledge of ships and geography to enjoy the fantastic writing of Patrick O'Brian's series about the sea. It is writing at its best.
4 O'Brian is a superb writer. Start at book 1 and work your way through. Don't let the archaic language get you down; the language you don't understand just adds some texture.
3 The setting is strong and the characters are interesting.  This series has been given accolades for a quarter-century, and I know it has promise, and I know I'll keep reading.  Even with all this, the sophomore entry in this series was a let-down in tension.Tension doesn't have to be big sea battles between military-grade warships, but it does have to be engaging and threaten the protagonist.  Other than a somewhat minor relationship issue between Jack and Sophie and Diana the only real novel-length theme was Jack's continuing struggles with his finances.As a chronicle of the life in opening  of the nineteenth century it is a great book.  It demonstrated the core of military power - the Navy and it's ongoing internal political struggles as well as a rivalry with the Army.  More interesting than Jack Aubrey and his money troubles is the revelations in this volume of the hidden life of Stephen Maturin, land-heir and intelligence spy - but for whom?  His mini-adventures and influence keep one interested in the book and keep one guessing.It's a serviceable book in the series, which put it above many author's best work.- CV Rick, February 2008
5 The main characters are more fully developed in this novel, revealing strengths, and more interestingly faults - often in a humorous, subtle light. It could be said the middle drags somewhat, although it is necessary for the stories development, it could of done with some cutting... Still one of the best books of the Auberacy!
3 I loved the first book in the series and I plan on reading more of O'Brian's books.  However,  in this particular book, things....just happened..... and somehow, I missed them.  Or maybe they were inferred actions that were never discussed....I couldn't tell you.  Then I thought that perhaps the main characters were just incredibly awkward on land and that is why they seem disconnected from day-to-day reality.  The author had to constantly tell you what the characters were FEELING, almost as an afterthought to whatever actions where occurring.  Whatever the reason, I am hoping that the series returns to the exciting standard of Book 1.
5 I didn't think it was possible, but its even better than Master and Commander
3 I'm a fan of O'Brian and the Aubrey / Mautrin series, (although I have only read two of the books to date.)  The pace, language, minutae and attention to detail are magnificent, O'Brian's plots keep me in rapt attention.  _Post Captain_, however, has a very different feel (and pace) from theif irst book in the seriesMaster and Commander (Movie Tie-In Edition).  Part of this, as a previous reviewer points out, is because so much of _Post Captain_ takes place on land; what threw me for a bit of a loop, however, was the plot - much of it revolved around the courting of women by Aubrey and Maturin, and by the conivances, of their mother seeking to make a "good match" and the on-again-off-again nature of the budding relationship between these women and their beaus.When I read O'Brian, I expect action, hands above deck wrestling with lines, sails and weather, blood running from the scuppers, and all manner of nautical detail that has so endeared these books to me.  To be fair, there is a goodly portion of this, fear not.  But the letters, motions, dances and subtle nuance that was a part of the courting ritual in the early 19th century made for a stark contrast to life at sea, and here reminded me of Austen.  (No knock on Austen; rather, this is high praise for O'Brian.)  Indeed, the close attention to detail that O'Brian provides in his sea-faring adventures is equally applied to the courtship, romance (and rivalry) between Maturin and Aubrey.Also of note was the damnable politics that then (as now) are a part of senior command, as Aubrey struggles to be promoted to "Post Captain" (hence the title) - a promotion which would pipeline him to eventually becomming a flag officer.  That his immediate superior holds Aubrey in disdain and actively seeks to derail his chances of promotion was fascinating if troubling to read.  (Troubling in that I deeply empathized with AUbrey and his valiant attempts to do well inspite of being given command of a challening ship with a green crew.)  That I so strongly empathized with Aubrey's career speaks to the power of O'Brian's writing.In spite of the mediocre review, the book is very much a worthwhile read, if only to provide some context and broader historical detail to the characters and the time in which the books are set.
5 While this series tends to be read by a predominantly male audience, I as a woman thoroughly enjoyed Master and Commander, and found Post Captain to be even better. Since O'Brian has already introduced us to his wonderfully believable sea-faring world, he is free in this second installment to settle down into storytelling. And what a tale it is - battle and adventure, love triangles and intrigue, duels and debtor's prison.The unforgettable characters that we met in the first book deepen and flower in this one. We learn more of their backgrounds, more of their inner workings. The beginning of the book occurs on shore, during the Peace of Amiens, and we get to see a new side of Jack and Stephen as they venture into the world of women. It's an unsteadying world, particularly for Jack, and it seems that he only truly "returns to dry land" when he's back aboard his ship.Dotted with subtle and witty humor, this book made me laugh aloud on numerous occasions. It's a great read for anyone with an interest in history and a love for richly written and unpredictable characters. For the non-nautically-minded (like me), it's best when coupled with the informative lexiconA Sea of Words.
5 I don't know the first thing about sailing or ships, and although after reading eleven Aubrey-Maturin novels so far I've absorbed a *bit* of nautical lingo I still don't know a jib from a yardarm -- but I just love these books.  Much more than genre adventure stories, they read more like what Jane Austen would have written had she spent twenty years in the Royal Navy.  They are a bit difficult for us moderns to get through at first, being written in a very historically accurate style, complete with archaic vocabulary and a much more formal and indirect manner of speaking, but once you start to get a feel for the language you will discover that they are not only quite spellbinding in the battles and intrigue, but exceedingly funny in a droll, read-between-the-lines way.  Jack Aubrey is an endearing fellow, a phenomenal seaman and inspiring leader at sea, but a bit of a maladroit on land and prone to terrible business schemes and embarrassing social situations (usually due to his indiscretions with the ladies).  Stephen Maturin in certainly one of literature's great creations.  A half-Irish, half-Basque, cello-playing, pistol-wielding, laudanum-addicted physician-philosopher-spy, he is somehow both geeky and heroic.  The pacing of the books also seems strange at first -- Jack and Stephen sail around, play string duets together, periodically blow things up and then sail around some more -- but it gives a pretty good feeling for the rhythm of life at sea, where weeks of routine are punctuated by the odd hurricane or pitched battle.
4 This second volume in the Aubrey/Maturin Series continues both the friendship and the adventure for the two protagonists.  They vie for love, struggle with poverty, and continue to harass both French and Spanish shipping.  Anyone who enjoys a good sea adventure will be sure to be entertained.
1 This is one of the worse novels I have ever read - The writing is so broken apart it seems that pages must have been pulled out of the book. The author jumps forward and backward and into different scenes and times without any appropriate lead. This writing would have received a failing grade in most college level courses.
5 This novel is set roughly in the years 1802-1804, and is a sequel to &quot;Master and Commander.&quot;  With most of the Royal Navy laid up during a temporary peace with France, Aubrey tries setting himself up as a  country gentleman.  Both Aubrey and Maturin have time to develop romantic  interests, but a reversal of fortune leads them into some interesting and  unusual (and sometimes humorous) situations as they dodge creditors.  A  renewal of war with France sends them back to sea as they attempt to  restore Aubrey's fortunes.  The action is fast paced and holds the reader's  interest.  Although part of a series, the book can be read as a stand-alone  novel.  The story is well researched and fits into the historic period.  In  addition to naval action, it provides an interesting look at some of the  social and legal aspects of life in England during the early 19th century.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed getting a deeper understanding of the main and supporting characters and brought to a fine climatic ending.
4 One important trait of Aubrey .... he reminds me of myself in real life.  A Naval Aviator and American Airlines captain .... I find my role clearly marked at work ... yet fumble as Jack does ashore.At home I have gotten burned numerous times ... replacing windows of home/ pool built ... due to the sympathies of trusting in the working man. And yet, after vowing to never fall victim again, I repeat my faults.Recall Mauturin's quote, "Poor JA too vulnerable against himself ... while the dog restrained from biting the bitch ... the bitch no restraints to bite the dog. And the more honorable a person be ... the greater his vulnerability against sighting another" .... referring to Aubrey's continual affairs so not to offend a lady's advances.Alas I lack the friendship n support of a Mauturin to pull me out of my predictaments.
4 Number two in the Aubrey-Maturin series. No sophomore slump here; O'Brian's a master with this historical sea novel. That's not to say that O'Brian's method isn't strange. I'm not sure, but I believe that he is consciously imitating a novelistic style used in the 19th century. Of course there's the letters, which accurately depict the style of that time's correspondence, but the stylistic differences are in the descriptive text, things like strange jumps in time and character. Maybe it's a British mode of expression, for two writers who do similar "jumps" that come to my mind are Gwyneth Jones and Mary Gentle. O'Brian's speed is also slightly off--he rushes through great battle scenes that one expects to be the climatic portions of the book, then leisurely strolls through descriptions of teas and late night discussions by the fire. Coul it be that I'm yearning for more "adventure" and less "character"?It is the character studies of Aubrey and Maturin that fuel the book. What happens to Jack Aubrey is important, yes, but it is how he reacts to it and how Stephen Maturin reacts to his reaction, etc., that makes these books so appealing. If I seem to yearn for more adventure, perhaps it is simply that while I enjoy what O'Brian is showing me with his characters, that I still long for the thrill of a well-told battle or escape from the enclosing walls of a conspiracy. For as much as a character novel this is, it is the historical verissimilitude and the intrigue of the day that interests a modern reader.In short, they complement each other, and in this volume I felt a little extra weight over in the character side of the scale.
5 This is the second book in the critically lauded and very popular Aubrey/Maturin Series by Patrick O'Brian.  It is clear inthis book that the story of these two very interesting characters is going to go on and on.  The first book was excellent in that it introduced us to these wonderful characters, this second novel delivers further growth and development.  Again, wear a warm jacket as you will feel as if you are on the ships.  I truly believe that reading these books is just as good, if not better, than attending a history class.Excellent!!!
4 I read Master and Commander recently - prompted by the Movie - and  loved it.  This, second, book in the series continues the adventures of Jack Aubrey - a bluff, impetuous Naval commander, and the reserved, cerebral Dr. Maturin.This book opens with Aubrey anxiously waiting for promotion to post-Captain and courting young ladies, when he is made bankrupt overnight. Various adventures ensue, which the usual derring-do. This book marks the first time that Maturin is explicitly identified as a spy.  His work aids Aubrey in securing commands, promotion and therefore an understanding with the young lady of his dreams.  Maturin's world view and prospects are more sombre and morose.The book itself contains a huge amount of naval jargon, mainsails, topsails, etc. etc., curiously however it doesn't lose the narrative for me, despite the facts that I have no idea what the terminology means, the pace of the narrative doesn't lessen, and I am quite happy to ` go with the flow'.Overall a good read.
5 Book Two of Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series finds Jack and Stephen ashore and shipless during the Peace of Amiens. Worse, when war between England and Nepoleon resumes, our two heros find themselves in the most unenviable of places: France, where a pennyless Jack Aubrey is hiding from his creditors due to unforseen reverses in the English prize courts. Will they escape from Imperial France and avoid the English tipstaff in time for Jack to secure a ship and restore his fortunes in the new war?Perhaps even more intriguing, Post Captian also introduces the great loves of Jack and Stephen's lives, Sophia "Sophie" Williams and Diana Villiers. Thus a new demention of exploration of both men's characters and thier friendship is added, one that proves not only rocky, but as potentially mortal for both as French roundshot.
3 The whole series is great, and this is a worthwhile chapter in the overall story, but it just wasn't that great a book on its own.  I enjoyed the stories of Jack's attempts to evade the his creditors and was intrigued by his new ship (a former secret weapon).  There's also a romance that is well-written by O'Brian.  And the character of Stephen Maturin is well-developed.The downside is that the outcome of the secret weapon is predictable, and the romatic plot-line left me shaking my head at what a dolt Jack Aubrey can be.  There's also a personal feud that starts promisingly enough and seems to just fizzle out; I hope future books develop it better.It's worth reading if you're already into the series, but I certainly wouldn't start with it.
5 This second book in the Aubrey-Maturin series is, like all of the others, an absolute delight.  O'Brian does his usual astonishing job of transporting us to an imagined early-19th century world, interesting in large part because it is in some basic ways quite unlike ours, yet peopled by richly-drawn characters who experience emotions intensely familiar.For the fanatic O'Brian fan (I am one) this book is especially interesting to re-read, since several of the dimensions of the characters, especially Maturin, are slightly at odds with later versions.  For example, in one diary passage, Maturin waxes eloquent (and accurate) about the specific arrangement of sails as a convoy weighs anchor -- something he would never do in the later books, when he has become hopelessly ignorant about all things nautical.These books are in the rare category of those classics that are a page-turning excitement to read when first encountered, and remain similarly exciting if read again and again, constantly revealing new subtleties of character and incident.One of the great things about the books is O'Brian's periodic indirect explanation of certain expressions that have passed into the vernacular, and are used in contexts far removed from their nautical roots -- for example, "the devil to pay" or "we were at loggerheads", or...I've forgotten the rest.  I guess I'll have to read the books again, and so should you.
5 I read the whole series on paper in another century.  The first read is wonderful and surprising.  The second read, now on the Kindle, is even better.  You start seeing how carefully everything chapter is crafted.  The dictionary feature on the Kindle enhances the experience even more.  I wish, though, they had X-Ray for this of all series.
5 Book two of the Aubrey/Maturin series. I have a feeling this series will stand up forever. It&#8217;s just so well done, from the research, to the authenticity, to the classiness of the writing itself. It&#8217;s charming and beautiful and a hell of a pleasure to read. The relationship between Jack and Stephen is still my favorite thing and continues to delight me. This is a wonderful series, O&#8217;Brian has recreated a real living and breathing world and I&#8217;m reading it slow because I don&#8217;t want it to end.
5 In the book we get to see a lot more of of Jack and Stephen's personal lives and in-land personalities. The book lives up to expectations of the previous volume and, in my opinion, improves upon it. Post Captain continues developing and going deeper into the main characters in a way that I thought difficult to achieve after the first book.The book feels very easy to read, partly because by the end of the previous instalment readers would be somewhat familiar with naval terms and phrases.Before reading Post Captain, even though I loved Master and Commander, I wasn't sure how far I'd get into the series, but every book that I read only increases my interest to see how our beloved characters fare in the future. I definitely recommend this book to any fan of Master and Commander.
5 Patrick O'Brian's works have been compared to those of both Jane Austen and Homer. To those who haven't read the series, this might seem like a strange juxtoposition. But anyone who has read Post Captain understands  this. O'Brian's novels are a marvel, mixing the story of life at sea with  the goings on in 1800 Britain. Throughout the series, we see most of the  world and experience the life of many characters. And all the while O'Brian  develops two of the most vivid and well done characters in fiction: Jack  Aubrey and Stephen Maturin.Although the series itself starts out in  Master and Commander, it really takes off in Post Captain. I've talked to  several readers who's reaction to the first book was that it was good but  they weren't ready to rush out that night and buy the next half dozen.  After Post Captain, they're hooked, and procede to devour the entire  series.
5 I'll be honest, I don't understand half of the naval jargon. But I love these books. The vividness of the battles really draws me in. I look forward to reading more.
5 This one, second in the wonderful series, is more involved with English society and its emotional relationships than many of the others. In some ways it is darker, in that area, and more socially historical - more Jane Austen - than the rest. The characters undergo nore personal pain in this than in almost any of the others, except for the much later time when Jacks' marriage is in trouble. (Stephen and Diana of course are always in trouble, more or less).Here are the first major delineations of the female character- appalling Mrs. Williams, true-blue Sophie, the dazzling but dangerous Diana Villiers. Although it's a theme that does carry on through all the novels, it's not the central one: mainly, one supposes, because that's not his focus, but also perhaps because the whole area could be something of a lee shore for him, apparently.
5 I just wanted to say that I had not intended to enjoy this series. I had been turned onto the series from an acquaintance, and as I had enjoyed the Hornblower novels, I thought I'd give the first novel, Master and Commander a try. That one was slow going at first, but it kept getting better the further into it I read. Finally, I couldn't put it down for the last one-third of it.And I enjoyed Post Captain even more. O'Brien's humor seems to hit me just the right way. I'm waiting a bit before purchasing the next in the series, as they are more expensive than most of the kindle books I read.
5 I was sucked into the Aubrey/Maturin series after reading "Post Captain", discovering the virtues of O'Brian's prose and his fictional rendering of the Napoleonic wars nearly a year and a half before it became popular here in the United States. This is truly the novel where the celebrated Aubrey/Maturin friendship takes off, whereby Maturin shows that he is Sherlock Holmes to Aubrey's Doctor Watson (Or perhaps, for a more contemporary analogy, Spock as opposed to Captain Kirk.). Maturin comes across as an elegant, erudite spy, working on behalf of Sir Joseph Banks, the chief of British naval intelligence. Meanwhile Aubrey finds himself in a debtor's prison in France and escapes just as Western Europe plunges into war again. Eventually he will find himself rewarded with a promotion to Post Captain and a new ship command. Once more O'Brian's elegant, descriptive prose shows a unique side of British life not shown in prior naval fiction series; indeed, it is truly his homage to Jane Austen's fiction.
4 WARNING: Review might contain a moderate spoiler.Overall, I enjoyed "Post Captain" as much as the other books in the Aubrey/Maturin series: absolutely not to be missed is the "Crowning Moment of Awesome"/"Crowning Moment of Funny" in which Jack presses the sheriff's deputies who've come to arrest him for debt! This book is also immensely valuable in deepening the characters of Jack and Stephen, and in introducing the two women who will have such a profound effect on their lives - Sophie Williams and Diana Villiers.It's Diana, though, who is the subject of - or rather, the relationship among her, Jack and Stephen which the subject of - probably the most irritating gap in the series, at least to this reviewer. As many others have noted, Jack engages in an ardent pursuit of Diana (whom Stephen is very much interested in) while at the same time being deeply interested in Sophie. This tangled romantic web leads at one point to a serious breach between Jack and Stephen - I'm talking "pistols at dawn" seriousness here. However, later on in the book, the rupture is magically healed, with no sign whatever of what might have occasioned the reconcilation, and the Captain and Doctor go along together on their merry way.  All quite gratifying, to be sure, but also deeply frustrating to the reader who was waiting with bated breath to find out what had happened.There. I got that off my chest. Just bearing that flaw in mind, I can heartly recommend "Post-Captain" to anyone interested in this classic series.
5 This is the one that got me hooked on the series, and I've never looked back. I totally love them.
5 The human side of what it meant to serve in the Royal Navy in early 19th century really brings this story to life. I have always enjoyed sea action stories. This book is different because it really brings out how the pressures of command when the sailor can't find a ship to command. It reveals the Jack Aubrey character not only as a fighting sailor but also as very human indeed. It fills in the blanks to tell the story of how a man who commanded ships who had his very deep personal struggles rebounded and became to feel alive again.I will certainly read the rest of the Aubrey books.
5 I made a serious mistake when I first read the Aubrey/Maturin books: I  read them out of sequence. Thus, when I first came to &quot;Post  Captain&quot; which is the 2nd in the series &amp; sets up many themes in  the novels to come, I already knew how dilemmas would be resolved. This  contributed to a feeling of irritation the first time I read it, especially  as much occurs on land in a Jane Austen-esque style.This time around I  am re-reading all 20 books in order, &amp; I find &quot;Post Captain&quot;  to have many nuances I overlooked the first time. It is one of the funniest  books in the series. There are some scenes (such as Maturin's first arrival  on deck of Aubrey's acting command the &quot;Lively&quot;) in which  O'Brian's dry humor will have you in stitches. Of course this is also the  novel in which Maturin contributes his much-quoted explanation for the term  &quot;dog-watch&quot;. The consequences of Pulling's celebration on being  made lieutanant are hysterical; but in the dense plotting of &quot;Post  Captain&quot; these moments are leavening to the sense of a lee-shore  looming in the distance.If you are currently reading the Aubrey/Maturin  novels, you don't need a recommendation to get &quot;Post Captain&quot;.  Just take my advice &amp; don't read this book out of sequence if possible.  If you are thinking of starting this series, do so with &quot;Master &amp;  Commander&quot;. You'll be happy you did!
5 Full of fascinating historical detail about not just the fight for the oceans in Napoleonic times, but also domestic life back in England. Clue: don't be a debtor in early 19th c. London! Also, a fascinating escape across France into Spain.
5 the series was purchased as a gift for a friend who read the series years ago and is now re-reading
4 As his creditors try to arrest him, Jack is given command of the oddly-built Polychrest, but disappoints his hostile admiral by bypassing prize ships for military targets. Then he is given temporary command of the Lively while her captain sits as an M.P., and is attached to a squadron going after the Spanish treasure ships.Interesting story, but disorganized; really 2-3 separate and only marginally related novellas rather than a coherent novel. O'Brian also leaves some loose ends unresolved; while it is just barely believable that Jack and Stephen would wind up fighting a duel, it is completely unebelievable that they would simply forget it and go back to their warm friendship. Not the best book in the series, but if you can tolerate wandering plots the naval stories are engrossing, as always.
5 What absolutely delicious reading this is! Master and Commander was excellent. This is even better. I cannot believe how very, very funny O'Brian can be!There is a little scene in the beginning of this book  where he briefly describes Jack's horse, a "sullen gray gelding" who spends  most of his time "mourning his lost stones", and the horse's train of  thought, something like, "Sits too far forward at a jump, I'll have him off  sooner or later... Oh, a mare! A mare!"  I just laughed myself to tears.It  is rare to find a book that has such a rich blend of various ingredients.  O'Brian's insights into the wide variety of human personality (not to  mention equine!), his quirky sense of humor, his excellent portrayal of the  ways of life in that time, the politics, the navies, the ships, all are  tied together, and blend beautifully into this absorbing human drama.I  think I'll have to read them all!
4 The second book in Patrick O' Brian's Aubrey-Maturin series, 'Post Captain' is a worthy follow up to 'Master & Commander'. This novel has the usual naval action, but much of it takes place on land giving the reader a broader overview of English society in the early years of the 1800's.I have some quibbles, the difficulty in understanding nautical terms and 19th century slang made following the plot difficult at times, which was compounded by O'Brian's writing style, where scenes change without warning. Also I found the lack of a map(s) irritating.On the other side of the scale there is the fascinating detail in not just naval life in the Napoleonic era, but life in early 19th century England in general. There is also the wonderful characters of Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin. And of course lots of action with the occasional bit of humour (for example Stephen's bees on the 'HMS Lively')
5 Master and Commander is a very good book, no question.  But it is here -- the second book of the Aubrey/Maturin series -- that the epic adventures really catch hold of a fair wind -- one that runs for another 18 books.Jack Aubrey is fresh off his sucess in the Med.  The Peace of Amiens has grounded him for a while, but he is loving life -- spending his time in a country estate splurging the promised money for the prizes he took in the war.  But the peace is not to last and very soon he and Maturin will be swept up in a resumed war against the tyrant Napoleon, but this time with just as much to worry about on land as at sea.Post Captain is an entertaining adventure in its own right.  Jack's adventures aboard the Polychrest make for riveting adventure.  But what is great about this book is how it broadens the story and sprawls out.  Almost everything that follows in the series is set up here.  The world is fleshed out in much more detail -- the petty politics in the Admiralty; Jack and Stephen's romantic entanglements; the beginnings of Jack's financial difficulties.  Their characters come into sharper focus so that by the end of the novel, the careful reader can almost think with them and know how they will react to their situations.  These two men will become two of your favorite literary characters despite -- perhaps because of -- their all too human foibles.  The only two characters I can think of that work so well together are Sam and Frodo.For those of you who -- like me -- enjoyed the first novel but wondered if something was missing, you will devour this volume.  I tentatively bought the first two volumes.  After this one, I went out and gathered up the entire series in hardback (expensive but worth it).
5 An enormous improvement over "Master and Commander" in technique, richness and interest.  An utter delight to read and ultimately a simply brilliant novel.  A great place to start the series, since the first book would probably not have given me any impetus to continue the series, but "Post Captain" presents the best of O'Brian fully-formed:  cheeky, elegant, deep and delightful.
5 About a third of the way through Post Captain, I began to grow a little impatient.  &quot;Why can't Aubrey and Maturin get to sea again,&quot; I wondered.  &quot;All this gallivanting around, dodging bill collectors, competing for the affections of rose-cheeked English lasses - it wears on one.&quot;  But after reading about the press gangs, the foxes and hounds, the merchant class and their conduct at parties, it became clear that O'Brian had widened his narrative scope.  No longer would this series be merely about two men and their friendship aboard a fighting ship; the author couldn't be content with reproducing the prior success of &quot;Master and Commander.&quot;And in fact, one gains a rich and carefully-crafted vision of the times and the customs of 1803 England, just before and after the breaking of the Peace of Amiens.  Though the novel is imbued with history, you needn't refer to a textbook if your recall is rusty - O'Brian takes you there, he shows rather than tells, and in the end you'll feel like you'd lived through the historical moment in question, along with the good Captain and his faithful Doctor.  A very pleasant way to take your history.I especially liked the part where Aubrey finds a dermoid, carefully concealed in Maturin's pistol holster!  What a character!
5 If you enjoyed Master and Commander the second in the series will not disappoint.  I have read them all and each volume never fails to draw me in.
2 I will continue to read the series, but I must say it could have been enhanced had there been some glossary of the nautical terms used so profusely.  I would have expected nothing less mind you, but unlike having a good dictionary for other words, there were many terms to be found nowhere.  It can make for some rugged reading.Still, the book is worth the effort.  I am just not sure the full enjoyment is available to those who are not intimately familiar with sailing and with sailing a vessel during the Napoleonic era.And who am I to judge a book?  Because I spent money to buy it.
5 I must begin by confessing my undying love of all things Patrick O'Brianesque. I have read and reread his books, working my way through his canon from beginning to end and taking solitary excursions via audiobooks as the fit takes me.It is nothing for me to turn up at work after listening to a chapter or two, my words all antique, my phraseology rolling like the ocean, and my heart full of good cheer.This second book of &quot;the Aubreyad&quot; is the most like Jane Austen's genteel tales of manners in the England of two centuries past. There are grand houses, elderly admirals, single young naval officers possessed of fortunes, and delightful young ladies. Romance is in the air before the book is fairly begun.And yet there is another side, or rather sides. War and battle and financial problems interfere with the grand pursuit of love. Humour is everpresent, in the language, characters, settings and ships. The incompetent footpad who writes out an incredible recruiting poster. The scene with the bear. The verbal abuse in the middle of a battle of a sweet young lady disguised as a ship's boy.It is also a complex maze of relationships. We do not meet Molly Harte again, but we encounter her cuckolded husband and his hatred of Jack Aubrey. The wonderful Diana Villiers makes her first appearance in these pages, eventually resulting in a severe quarrel between Captain Jack and his &quot;particular friend&quot; Stephen Maturin. Sir Joseph Blaine, the master of British Naval Intelligence and a rare collector of beetles plays a discreet game in the bureaucratic corridors of the Admiralty.And there is action a-plenty at sea. Battles and chases, rigging and running, storms and ships.Just open the book and you will be part of the crew.
3 In "Post Captain" the saga of Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin continues in the second volume of Patrick O'Brian's legendary naval series.  However, I found "Post Captain" to be the weakest of the series because of its long chapters on land.  On the other hand, it is critical to read because of the characters that it introduces: Sophie Williams and Diana Villiers, the two most important women throughout the 21 volume series.The story begins with Jack Aubrey fleeing to France to avoid his creditors, and his interesting means of escape once war is declared following the Peace.  Jack's fortunes amassed in "Master and Commander" have largely been wasted away or denied due to his own mismanagement or his lack of favor with the all powerful Admiralty.  True, Jack's inability to govern his desires have helped contribute to his misfortune: cuckolding one's superior officer is never advised as a career enhancing move, and this lack of self restraint is one of Aubrey's greatest character flaws.  So, he returns to the high seas to recapture his fortune, while on land he competes with his best friend for the favors of Ms. Dianna Villiers while simultaneously keeping her cousin Sophie Williams appeased.The interaction between Jack and Stephen on land nearly drives their friendship apart, and Jack must confront a near mutiny onboard his experimental ship, while Stephen continues his work as a naval intelligence officer and ship's surgeon.The book's long chapters set on land are absolutely necessary to establish the two women characters; however, for someone who loves O'Brian for his sea stories and spy adventure, I found the expos? on the social structure and courting rituals of the 1800's hard to push through.  If that's what you want to read, then you'll probably enjoy this book the most of his series.  In any case it should be read, if only as an investment to enjoy the later novels more thoroughly.
5 "Post Captain" is the second in Patrick O'Brian's epic 20-volume  19th-century maritime series.  Captain Jack Aubrey, who made and lost a  fortune in the first book, spends this book on the run.  On the run from  France as war comes, from debtor's prison throughout, and from the  entanglements of romance.  His shotgun-approach to courtship leads to a  near-disastrous conflict with his best friend, the ship's surgeon Stephen  Maturin, whose own secret life slowly unfolds behind Aubrey's back.This is a wonderful book, not a typical novel in the sense that it does  not open questions in the beginning and then answer them by the end.  Instead, it is a linear narrative that ends on a cliff-hanger just begging  for a sequel.  O'Brian's writing is crisp and spare.  The characters are  fully-developed human beings, the action is exciting.  The book is hard to  put down, but the best thing is that there are eighteen more to follow.
5 I can easily imagine some readers not enjoying this novel.  If one's idea of a great book is one battle scene after another, then this will not be their cup of tea.  O'Brian spends much of the novel dealing with affairs of the heart, and his characters discuss a vast number of subjects that have nothing whatsoever to do with warfare.  But like in the first novel, the attentive reader will learn a great deal of social history by reading the book.  It is hard to imagine a historical recreation much more attentive to historical detail and accuracy than this one.  The nautical detail can sometimes be overwhelming, and some of the sailing maneuvers can leave land lubbers like myself a bit confused about what is happening, but all in all his amazing descriptions provide a "you are there" specificity lacking in many similar books.Although this is only my second book in the series, I have quickly come to appreciate the character of Stephen Maturin.  The first novel hinted at hidden depths, and this one revealed some of his situation.  We learn that he is a man of some property if not comparable wealth.  We find that he is far more involved in espionage than we might have suspected in the first novel.  And we find him to be a man not content to be a mere sidekick to Aubrey, but a companion only if it suits his own needs and other duties do not call.This novel definitely has a great deal more in the way of plot than the first book.  But by and large, it remains true of POST CAPTAIN as it did of MASTER AND COMMANDER that one does not read it for plot so much as one does to get to know and enjoy the very fine central characters, and to learn some history.
4 NOT QUITE AS GOOD AS FIRST BUT I THINK IT IS STILL CLASSIFIABLE AS GREAT.
5 I loved Master and Commander but I thought that this book was even better.  O'brian wisely realized that although the workings of man-of-war during this period are interesting and sea battles are exciting, it is not enough to base a whole novel on, much less a series of novels.  So O'brian spends  more time developing his characters here than he did in Master and  Commander and the result is a more interesting novel that the reader  quickly becomes completely engrossed in.  I think that Jack is a much more  likable character in this book and Stephen is much more interesting and  even more comically eccentric.  There is a fair amount of romance in this  book, but it is handled so well and the book is just so well-written in  general that I didn't mind it at all.  There are two battle scenes in the  second half of this book that will make your heart pound (they are  extremely well-written).  By the way, the scene with the bear costume is  kind of stupid, but it is just one small miss-step in an otherwise  fantastic novel.  In sum, this is a wonderfully entertaining novel, full of  interesting characters, humor and great action scenes.  I will be reading  H.M.S. Suprise very soon!
2 I must note at the start that I was a sea officer myself (a Merchant Marine navigator) for sixteen years, so I can appreciate the fine points of seamanship and leadership styles that may elude some readers. Please keep this in mind as I review the book.I've read all of Forester's Hornblower, and Kent's Bolitho; and about half of Stuart's Hazard novels. O'Brian's "Lucky Jack" Aubrey suffers badly by comparison. I do not approve of him as an officer; about the only thing he gets right is that you must inspire and not drive the men. But he depends far too much on luck and does far too little planning in his campaigns, and I cannot say that I approve of his personal conduct ashore. When Aubrey is at sea, he does an adequate job of running his ship, but on dry land he lends new meaning to the phrase "spending money like a sailor on shore leave." In my opinion he should not be allowed ashore without a keeper, and never should be allowed more than pocket money. He needs a man of business to handle his prize money, for heaven known he can't. But that is by the way.When I read Forester, Kent, Reeman, Stuart, Gallery, or Griffin I expect action, and I am generally not disappointed. But O'Brian spends FAR too much time on the soap opera aspects of Aubrey and Maturin's lives ashore. I frankly could not care less about their romances, because they fail to advance the plot, as, say, Hornblower's romance with Barbara Wellesley does; or in similar vein, as General Frank Savage's romance with Flight Lieutenant Pamela Mallory does in Twelve O'Clock High. I find that O'Brian gets so bogged down in the non-naval aspects of the novel, that actions such as Aubrey's cutting-out raid in the Polychrest or the strike against the Spanish flotilla in the Lively late in the novel are almost incidental.If you like your seafaring adventures with a strong admixture of irrelevant soap opera, you will adore Post Captain, and O'Brian's other works in the Aubrey-Maturin series. However, if you are looking for action and adventure by men of decision and daring, you'll much prefer any of the authors I mention in the third paragraph.
4 Patrick O'Brian's beloved Aubrey Maturin Series provides its second installment with the excellent "Post Captain."  While "Master and Commander" sets the bar impossibly high for the later works, "Post Captain" nearly attains the same heights as the first book.In "Master and Commander," Jack Aubrey earned the nickname "Lucky Jack" through a combination of skill and audacity, commanding the sloop "Sophie" and taking down a much larger enemy vessel and several other "prizes."  A ship's captain didn't make a big salary, but was entitled to generous portions of the booty taken on the high seas from enemy ships (both military and merchant).  With the fantastic military victory and his prizes, Aubrey appeared well on his way to achievement and wealth.Unfortunately for Aubrey, "Post Captain" sees his fortunes change drastically.  First, the navy pooh-poohs his military achievements and refuses to give him his due.  Second, the courts rule that Aubrey shouldn't have seized a couple of his "prizes," due to neutral status, so he has to pay the merchants back a colossal sum.  And third, his agent skips town with his remaining funds.The 1800s were not kind to the destitute.  If a bailiff laid a hand on you, you were arrested and sent to debtor's prison.  O'Brian has a lot of fun with this legal quirk, as the peacock-like Aubrey must skulk and hide and even enlist his sailors to fight off onrushing bailiffs.  Plus, Aubrey can't get a command with which to reclaim his fortune.  Things appear dire.O'Brian foists other troubles on Maturin as well as Aubrey.  Both men struggle in love for most of the novel.  O'Brian writes about the formalistic "courtship" of English society very well, but these passages aren't quite as entertaining as O'Brian's depictions of life on the high seas.We do get to see a lot of our favorite captain-and-doctor team at sea, particularly after Aubrey gets command of an experimental ship that is as comfortable going backwards as it is forwards.  True to form, Aubrey commands it in a damn-the-torpedos fashion, even in the face of a looming mutiny.My only quibbles with this book are, again, the absence of a map, and also the fact that the ship Aubrey commands for most of the novel has a much different layout than the otherwise helpful ship diagram at the beginning of the book.  I don't speak Navy, and my knowledge of the European coastline circa 1800 is spotty at best.Still, these are minor quibbles in a heck of a yarn.  Check it out.
5 Read this book very carefully, especially if you are committed to reading all 20 volumes.  IMHO, it is the best book of the series. In book one ("Master and Commander"), I assumed that Maturin was a minor character who would not appear again.  I thought he was a gay geek, and that his mysterious, solitary, on-shore expedition was of a carnal nature; little did I realize the true nature of either Maturin or the trip.This second book focuses on developing the Maturin character as a spy; a sophisticated man of wealth, background, and education; a lifelong drug addict; and a nerdy womanizer - sort of an 19th century cross between James Bond and Bill Gates.Chapter 4 is the most bizarre chapter in the entire series.  I am still going on the assumption that the escape-across-France-in-a-bear-costume was really just another opium vision of Maturin's.The books that follow this one vary greatly in quality of plot; some are excellent, some seem to be virtually plotless narratives, but all are worth reading.  Still, book 2 stands head and shoulders above all the rest.
5 Jack Aubrey, and his sidekick doctor Maturin return for the sequel (book 2), in the delightful Aubrey and Maturin series. In this episode, Aubrey is on the run from debt collection agents and Doctor Maturin receives an interesting commission of his own from the government. Also, jealousy rears its ugly head, as the two comrades fight for the attentions of Cecila, (a cruel hearted vixen who has entranced both Maturin and Aubrey).I really enjoyed this second novel in this exciting nautical series. The book was extremely well narrated, and I found myself staying up late, just to listen to more of it!! I particularly like Jack Aubrey's character he seems so guileless. I like Maturin, but at times he can be rather cold and self-indulgent. I eagerly await listening to more of this exciting series.
5 This is an excellent source of history.  Well written and engrossing.  I think it is important that you read the entire series, and best in order, started with Master and Commander.  Also an excellent series for books on tape.
5 This is the second O'Brian I've read - planning to keep going in chronological order. Despite the title, the focus of the book is more on Stephen Maturin than Jack Aubrey. Aside from some rather obvious cribbing from "Pride and Prejudice" - maybe O'Brian was less comfortable imagining three-dimensional female characters than  males - I thought the characters were very well fleshed out. It's fun to see a bit of Maturin as secret agent in addition to his role as resident geek from the first book. One minor character I was glad to see back was Midshipman Babbington, no longer a "child", still quite adolescent but growing up.O'Brian does a great job of immersing the reader in the early 19th century - the language sounds plausibly archaic while still managing to convey plenty of personality and humour. While I can hardly keep up with all the nautical terms, I find myself accepting them and running with the story - it's like finding Elvish words in Tolkien. Modern military-techno thrillers (like the works of a certain former insurance agent) just aren't this rich.If I were to draw parallels between this book and another, it would be Showell Styles' "Midshipman Quinn", which takes place during the same period. It's obviously aimed at a younger audience and is therefore lighter, but also does a good job of bringing you into the 19th-century British Navy. Quinn is more of a geek-type like Maturin, actually.
4 Let me say first that I really enjoyed this book.  I did not enjoy it as much as the first in the series, however.  It is quite interesting to see how Aubrey and Maturin work and live when not aboard ship.  Maturin starts to be developed fully as a deep and interesting character in this book, and that is great.  The pace is a little slower, and I just didn't enjoy it quite as much.  That being said, don't avoid this book.  It is still very good and sets up the even better books that follow in the series.
5 Very different from #1 - somewhat of a soap opera air to a large part of it. That part did a lot for character development and there is enough action interspersed to keep it going. Look for me reading #3.
4 A easy to read book with lots of good battle action. If you like the Aubrey series you'll love this book..
3 &quot;Post Captain&quot;, unlike most sequels, far exceeds it's predecessor. For one thing, the character of the doctor takes shape; some of his mysterious history is revealed, and he plays a crucial part in the action. We come to respect his evident brilliance as his work behind the scenes, in love and in war, moves much of the story.In addition, there is a lot more humor and I actually laughed out loud at some of the jokes. I understood them, a big improvement in either my reading abilities or the narrative. Jack is revealed to be a very poor punster, and some of his puns are so stupid as to be quite funny.The friendship between the two men is much more central in this book than in the first. Like Sherlock Holmes and Watson one is smart and the other not, but the authority figure is reversed. It makes for a very interesting relationship, though not entirely unique in literature. (Stretching the point, I think that I have seen a similar relationship on Star Trek with Spock and Captain Kirk!)I liked this book well enough to recommend it to anyone. I would give it a 3.75 on a 5-star scale.
5 It was not until I reached the very last note that I realized it. This novel is about career as much as it is all the other things - romance, if you can call it that the way O'Brian places the various hearts, tearing each other, and maltreating each other for vanity or lust, and then making buffoons of those once truly afflicted. And politics, both ridiculous prating cupidity as well as the sharp end of the stick wielded with malice. But the end does not finish anything but the first of these, and even that is not tied up, just settled back on its track for the moment. And it is in that moment that the Captain thinks to raise a glass to his heart. Even so it will make you think as much of your high school sweetheart as it will of history.Things chase one another through the book, one influencing another, and not all aware either, but tumbled together in a way that is chaotic and familiar and satisfying in its patchwork. Lack of money; the simple pleasure in music; the indecent shortsightedness of obsession; the cruel sequence of events which lead in another direction from that in which the heart is leaning - all intertwine like the gnarled trunk of a tree to give a sense of the lives before us. So that career doing the grunt work for marriage seems natural, as indeed it is.There is something sublime about the way O'Brian writes. He does not bother too much with interstices, either in his plot, or his sentences. We will leave the squalor of a disappointed assignation, and next find ourselves a week out, taking the sun on the deck. It is sudden, but neatly done, like a piece of glass scored and broken off. His writing sometimes becomes lists of characteristics, or events, piled one on another, in a way which gives the sense of the moment - be it urgency or even whimsy - it reminds me of the way serendipitously a word you just learned will appear twice the same day. It is a sentence style that Hemmingway might have recognized, except his were flashier, bruter. Annie Proulx has clipped the hair off her sentences, but usually to a stark effect, like a buzz cut on a fresh recruit. O'Brian mixes it in among his regular prose style, which is like the anecdotes of an old lecturer, who knows his ground and runs on in a smooth yet very knowing way, always leading up to a payoff. It has been said a hundred times now, yet the covers still belie it - these are not Historical Sea novels in the vein of the Hornblower series except in the sense that they cover the same ground. The depth of life these novels observe, and the range of simple human indecency and wonder. Yes, brother, there is a lot about rigging and cannons, and there are battles and chases at sea every 50 pages or so. But there are also drunken gibbons and an untouchably empowered sadist, marriage parties where the father of the groom is carried out on a shutter and the crimped and unwanted attentions of a greasy parson. There are many scenes in the drawing room that might make you think you were reading Jane Austen.And there is also an authorial opinion evident which is reminiscent of Jane Austen. She tends to observe from outside her characters, and O'Brian from within, but it carries the same pleasant weight. S.M., just before seeing his beloved a puppet on the arm of a rich dilatant being shown off at the opera:"A foolish German had said that man thought in words. It was totally false; a pernicious doctrine; the thoughts flashed into being in a hundred simultaneous forms, with a thousand associations, and the speaking mind selected one, forming it grossly into the inadequate symbols of words, inadequate because common to disparate situations - admitted to be inadequate for vast regions of expression, since for them there were the parallel languages of music and painting. Words were not called for in many or indeed most forms of thought: Mozart certainly thought in terms of music. He himself at this moment was thinking in terms of scent."That second sentence, with is cascading rhythm; ontologically onomonopoetical. It is the form of what it describes AND what it describes at the same, and still manages to be an arresting thought - almost philosophical. This occurs not in isolation, but in the middle of an acute misery, the summation of one of the many patterns that make up the plot. Reading O'Brian is like watching a thoroughbred run - the greatest pleasure is not seeing her make the finish line, but enjoying the run itself, the play of muscles and the subtly of line and grace of movement. Power married to subtly, majesty found in minutia, and the sum of its parts.  As the end of the book nears, it is not anticipation foremost to find what happens, but regret, that the body of the journey, that time when neither departure point nor destination is in sight and all is flowing along, is over.The characters, even the glancing ones, ring true without seeming like symbols rather than people. They are craven and greedy and thoughtless but keenly human. The novel does not deal in absolutes, but in the multi-faceted, foreshadowed moments that make up a life - a brief spurt of joy, the scent of turf in the spring, the dull beat of your pulse after your heart breaks - they come large and small, and you may swallow the one only to choke on the other. I have not so enjoyed reading a novel since I read The English Patient almost twenty years ago.
2 Book covered way to much stupid stuff that took place on land.  Understand the British Admirality politics is a big part of this time but when over half the book is about bad love llife, it detracted from the few good sea asventures!
5 Highly original. The characters don't think and act like twentieth century ones - O'Brian has really made an effort to offer people from a different age and mindset. Their values are so different. The heroes do foolish things at times, they have good and bad luck, it's pretty unpredictable (although you're sure that somewhere Jack Aubrey will win some sea battles with courage and skill). How the hell would I know, but he seems to know what he's talking about with the minutiae of 18th century ships, and the mores and attitudes of a range of people. I think I read somewhere that he's done a lot of research into the (often very well documented) battles of the time, and said that all the sort of adventures and actions Jack Aubrey experiences did actually happen - but they just never would have all happened to the one guy.Interesting narrative style too - more like a TV show which just cuts to new scenes without bothering to link them. One second Maturin's home writing in his diary, the next he's on board chatting to Jack. It isn't that hard to work it out (despite no visual cues), and I suppose omits a lot of really unnecessary padding - but I haven't come across this style before.O'Brian isn't trying too hard to make us identify and sympathise with people `just like us', so often the assumption of the historical novel, but to enjoy some of the remarkable dissimilarities and events of a wonderfully alternate place.
4 I enjoyed most of this book. I have to admit parts of it are a struggle to read, but that is par for the course with these books. Reading Post Captain is kinda like exercise, lots of struggle and hard work. The payoff is well worth the effort though. Overall good reading!
3 As is the first book in the Aubrey-Maturin series of high-sea adventure, POST CAPTAIN is a mixture of both entertaining and annoying elements.  It reads as through the author, a somewhat ne'er-do-well Englishman actually named Richard Patrick Russ (1914-2000) writing under the nom de plume of "Patrick O'Brian," is experimenting with new techniques and approaches, not many of which are successful.  Here are what I find to be the most annoying shortcomings of this second novel in the series:No transitional or prefatory introduction is provided to explain any of the background of the companionship and co-habitation of the two protagonists, Jack Aubrey and Dr. Stephen Maturin, or to explain how they came to be living the life of rather impoverished country gentlemen on very solid land.  This novel is, therefore, very much a sequel to MASTER AND COMMANDER, and the reader will find himself rather lost if he has not already read that preceding novel.Russ/O'Brian spends a fair amount of ink in this book examining the ill-fated romances developing between Aubrey, Maturin, and the young ladies residing in the nearby countryside, attractions that are largely complicated by the artificial mores of "polite society."  This is the sort of thematic material that one expects from George Eliot's MIDDLEMARCH or William Makepeace Thackery's VANITY FAIR, not in a novel of marine warfare during the Napoleonic Wars, nor does Russ/O'Brian command the literary skill of Eliot or Thackery, and the theme of doubtful love is not particularly well developed.  In fact, its focus in the opening chapters results in a particularly boring beginning to the book, although I confess that I was eventually caught up in the story and really wanted to learn whether or not either man would be successful in his wooing of the ladies.The description of the ship Polychrest left me quite nonplused.  Supposedly, she was an experimental ship built to carry a new, secret weapon--a ship-to-ship rocket.  Considering the time setting of the novel, such an explanation is utterly incredible.  The reader feels that Russ/O'Brian decided to experiment himself with inserting a bit of science fiction into his historical novel, but the two genres simply do not coexist smoothly, and the reader feels a sense of relief when the strange vessel finally sinks out of sight and, thankfully, out of mind.Throughout the book, Russ/O'Brian employs a stylistic technique that is most disturbing until the reader becomes accustomed to it.  The author frequently omits transitional narrative and compresses time, drawing separate scenes together with no transition whatsoever.  For example, he may have Aubrey direct a seaman to call for the doctor, and in the very next sentence, he is addressing the doctor as though he had been standing beside him all along.  There is no going to fetch the doctor.  There is no approach by the doctor.  The doctor is simply and immediately present.  For another example, at one point we see the doctor preparing to perform surgery on a seaman, but never are we told why.  What may have been wrong with the patient we never learn.  This jarring and confusing technique of omitting explanatory or transitional detail does not appear in the preceding novel so we may conclude that it is more of Russ/O'Brian's experimentation--and it is a failed experiment that I hope not to see in the next book of the series. Perhaps we could describe it as a truncated style of writing, but it not a smooth one.As soon as Aubrey and Maturin get back to sea, the action does pick up substantially, and the reader can almost forgive all of the land-based tedium with which the novel begins.  There is surely enough swashbuckling adventure on the high seas to reward the reader for having persevered through the initial pages.  The character of Maturin is also further developed, and we see a hitherto unknown side of him as a covert political agent as well as an unusually learned physician and naturalist.  If one enjoyed MASTER AND COMMANDER, then he is very likely to enjoy most of POST CAPTAIN, yet I feel as though this second book is as experimental in its own way as was the Polychrest in hers.  Let us hope that Russ/O'Brian will have gotten this urge to experiment out of his system by the next book, H. M. S. SURPRISE.
5 I read Master and Commander some time ago but resolved to read the series.  Once I picked up Post Captain I berated myself for the delay. What a great  read. Besides the humor, the mesmerizing plot, and the excellent character  development I was captivated by the insight into the British culture  two-hundred years ago. Assuming that O'Brian has it right, it is amazing  that one arm of the government labors to enforce the law and put Aubrey  into prison while the Admiralty sends him out to enrich the King's  coffers.Overall a truely great book -- with a great finish!
4 This historical novel set in the early 19th century has the rake Lucky Jack Aubrey down on his luck - in debt and without a ship.  The story is a masterfully told.  It is of how Jack avoids debtor's prison, gains command, and regains his Lucky Jack moniker by the end of the story.  I highly recommend this novel.  Although there are times where some greater knowledge of sailing these warships would be of use to more fully understand the tale and the inherent drama.  O'Brien does an excellent job of providing enough details that you fully understand the historical backdrop.
5 Patrick O'Brien never fails to thrill in the high sea adventures of Aubrey/Maturin.  It is a shame that Hollywood only made one movie off of these books and that being Master and Commander.  It could have been a great franchise and money maker with some effort put into it.  I find all of O'Briens novels in this series great reading with high adventure.
1 I assume that people interested in audio versions of O'Brian's novels have already read the books. So, listening to to the book is a supplementary pleasure that can follow a great read. My rating here has nothing to do with the literary quality of the work in question. The whole Aubrey-Maturin series, with its hints of Jane Austin, is superb. But if you want to listen to them I warn you to stay away from any of the versions read by Simon Vance. His are tedious, monotonous readings, in which he is unable to sufficiently differentiate the characters, with their diverse accents from around the world. For example, Maturin grew up in Ireland, and should therefore have a bit of an Irish accent. Vance can't do it.  Rather, he gives us wooden characters that makes Jack sound like a bombastic jerk, and Stephen like a mincing prig. And in his hands, Diana sounds like a silly simpering ninny. An actor, not just a reader is required. I highly recommend Patrick Tull, who recorded the entire series with consistent success and enthusiasm, as well as John Lee, who unfortunately only recorded the first 6 volumes.
2 I picked up a Patrick O'Brian novel looking forward to a voyage with the British Navy, only to find myself out to sea.O'Brian's series of 21 Aubrey/Maturin novels, detailing the adventures of two friends in His Majesty's service during the Age of Napoleon, are among the most widely respected in literature. Getting into the series here, with Book 16, was not an optimal approach, but it was the only book of his I had at hand. To me, a good novel should stand or fall somewhat on its own. That was where "The Wine-Dark Sea" failed.Part of the problem is that I found myself joining Captain Jack Aubrey and his physician friend, Stephen Maturin, in the middle of an adventure, with a crew of people O'Brian took pains introducing long ago. Mention is made of battles recently fought, a mysterious woman rescued, and intrigues ongoing, all of which seems part of a bubbling stew just beyond our ken (published in 1993, "Wine-Dark Sea" comes near the end of a run of seven novels in eight years).But even if I had read this in order, I doubt I would have enjoyed "Wine-Dark Sea" much. It's a highly episodic novel with a slow narrative and no real central plot. Aubrey and Maturin are now aboard Aubrey's privateer "Surprise," catching unfortunate whalers and merchantmen while Aubrey plans to unsettle French ambitions in South America. But O'Brian is less interested in all of this than laying out various nautical details in mind-numbing detail.His love of the recondite overtook his interest in story, and sent me to the computer to look up more than a hundred terms. A few escaped me even then, but I did enjoy the result when I Googled "dumb-chalder" and saw one of the results: "I've read all 21 of them thrice and I still don't know what cross-catharpins, Bentinck shrouds, or a dumb-chalder is." So I'm not the only person who struggles with O'Brian.Battle scenes are over in half a page while O'Brian chews over the state of repair of the yards and masts of the "Surprise." Worse follows when Maturin makes landfall in Peru, for what starts out a potentially exciting espionage story but turns into an 19th-century episode of Wild Kingdom, with O'Brian glomming onto various items of flora and fauna which Maturin collects for dissection. I guess James Bond started out as a bird enthusiast, too.O'Brian does create a sense of total immersion in his world for the reader. You do get the hang of the pitch-perfect period lingo, to the point that when it was observed at one point that "spotted dog" was on the ship's menu, I knew at once they were eating shark and not Fido. I do enjoy the idea of the books, and the byplay between the captain and physician gets better after they get split up for a while and have something new to say to each other. (The rest of the crew doesn't stand out; several clearly being characters you are supposed to know from the prior books.)The novel ends as it begins, with Aubrey and Maturin still at sea, somewhat at a loss but happy to be alive. If you like these guys already, you may find "Wine-Dark Sea" a cheerful way of extending their company. But as a stand-alone novel, it doesn't stand up. I guess I should have begun at the beginning, but a good novel would have done a better job entertaining me even though I hadn't.
5 Patrick O'Brian continues to impress with his ability. It is unfortunate that he passed away before completing the Aubrey story.
5 I've been reading these books for the last 10 days or so.  I CAN'T STOP READING THEM!!!!  Even the descriptions of battles, sail setting, beetles and birds are fascinating. This one has the ship encounter a new volcano.
4 Very impressed with this book. I really enjoyed when they went to Peru. This is my 3rd of his books and really enjoyed this.
5 Exotic places, sights and sounds perfectly conveyed with the deft precision of a master writer. I loved this installment in the series. It stands out as one of my favorites.
2 Unlike Patrick Tull who has performed the readings on the previous fifteen books, Richard Brown is the reader on this CD production.  But Brown is no Tull.  His voice is dull and repetitive, and it has little differentiation between any of the characters.  More than that he doesn't seem to try and make the story interesting but seems to be in a hurry to get the whole thing over.  Whereas there is some great spirited writing in the book you wouldn't know it from listening to the CD, he could just as well be reading from the phone book.BTW the story is great as usual and deserves a four star rating.  So read the book or listen to the cassette.Zeb Kantrowitz
2 This is the second Aubrey/Maturin book that I have read. I did not enjoy the first one. I figured, however, that I had to give the series another try because Patrick O'Brian has so many fans. I fared no better with this one.I just cannot get into these books. O'Brian's repeated use of archaic nautical words and phrases is more than distracting. It is overwhelming and it buries the stories. I would suggest staying clear of this stuff unless you are well-versed in 18th century naval termonology.
5 The joy of Patrick O'Brian's books is the accuracy of his language among the characters as they speak (&quot;Give you joy!&quot;) and the accuracy of the depictions of naval events.  This includes accuracy of naval terminology.  I have listened to all of these books as Books-On-Tape and often find myself replaying sections to hear the language spoke again. This approach may assist persons like High Cotton &quot;could not get into these books&quot;. One of the greatest things about these books is their unparalleled historical accuracy.  When you hear a naval battle described, you can be assured it happened just as described.  How does the author place a fictional character and fictional ship into real events?  Cleverly!  Such as by having the hero captured by the enemy and observe the battle from the deck of the enemy's vessel. Or by having the hero's vessel arrive a few minutes behind the actual combatants and not actually taking a role in the action, but seeing and describing it.  In one of the books, Capt. Aubrey was called on the carpet at the Admiralty Offices in London for his provisioning of his ship.  Indignantly, he recites from memory what &quot;vittels&quot; and other supplies he provisioned his last voyage with.  In fact, the author, Patrick O'Brien, was given access to real Admiralty records.  What his character Aubrey was reciting was from an actual invoice of provisions for a naval warship during the Napoleanic War.  Very interesting stuff if you like history and if you like ships at sea.  Highly recommended, especially if you hear the novels read (spoken) rather than reading them.  Star Trek fans will love these books!
5 This entire series was a joy to read, and I have made life long friends with the characters...something that one does not get to do very often in modern fiction!
5 "The Wine-Dark Sea" is the immediate precursor to "The Commodore", chronicling the final exploits in the Surprise's mission to the Pacific and the west coast of Spanish America. Aubrey chases a French privateer, the Franklin, commanded by a wealthy Frenchman, Dutourd, an early advocate of communism, that has seized several British merchantmen in the South Pacific. Imprisoned aboard Surprise, Dutourd tries to befriend both Aubrey and Maturin, but is rebuffed by both. Aubrey transfers him back to the Franklin, but Dutourd escapes and hides unseen aboard Surprise, which is taking Maturin to the West Coast of South America. There he will be reunited with Aubrey's illegimate African son, Sam Panda, a local Roman Catholic priest. Maturin tries to forment a revolt amongst some of the local clergy and military against the Spanish monarchy, but before the revolt can commence, he is warned by others that Dutourd has escaped from the Surprise. The revolt is cancelled. Maturin must undertake a perilous trek across the Andes, suffering severe frostbite, before he is reunited with his shipmates. Aboard Franklin, Aubrey leads his crew in a desperate struggle against a French pirate warship. This is yet another exciting installment in the Aubrey-Maturin series, and among the most suspenseful.
5 Another incomparable tale by that master of sea stories, the late Patrick O'Brian.  Part of the Aubrey/Maturin series, this one follows the book "The Truelove," which led His Majesty's Hired Vessel "Surprise" to the Hawaiian (Sandwich) Islands to protect British whaling interests there, which were threatened by a pioneer of communism, Monsieur Dutourd, who was endeavoring to set up his own idealistic society there at the expense of British interests.As this book starts, Dutourd's ship, the "Franklin," is being pursued by Aubrey in the "Surprise," on a strange, wine-colored sea in unusual weather.  Soon the reason for the strange sea and weather becomes evident as an erupting volcano causes damage to both ships.  The story revolves around British intelligence agent Dr. Maturin's attempt to influence political events in Peru, several battles at sea with the concomitant taking of prizes, battle with a pirate, deaths and injuries in battle, and the nearly deadly  struggle of Dr. Maturin's medical assistant, the Rev. Martin, with his conscience.No one knew nautical lore and  the square-rigged vessels of the Napoleonic era  (ca. 1800) as well as Patrick O'Brian.  Many of his sea battles are taken directly from the annals of the British Admiralty, and his dialogue is replete with period expressions that lend even greater authenticity to his tales.I recommend that a newcomer to this series start with  "Master and Commander," the first book of the series.  Untold hours of pleasure await you. ...
5 What a great story teller. Once you start the book it is hard to put down. I have read every one of his books.
5 I like Patrick O'Brian's style of writing.  I like the detailed stories of life in a British war ship of the 1800s.
4 &quot;The Wine Dark Sea&quot; is a slightly misleading title for this exciting continuation of the Aubrey/Maturin books. Much of it takes place on land, in Peru and the Andes to be exact, and those parts are wonderfully  written as well as exciting. The nautical sections of this novel, while  also thrilling, are really a continuation of the previous book &quot;The  Truelove&quot; to such an extent that they could almost function as one  novel! Characters are aboard whose motivations and actions will be  mysteries to those who haven't read the previous installment in this  series.To those familiar with Patrick O'Brian's previous stories,  &quot;The Wine Dark Sea&quot; will not disappoint! Just don't start here if  you're not...
5 This series was purchased for a friend who read them years ago and is now re-reading them. he loves them
5 . . .without first reading Truelove. Wine Dark Sea is the 16thbook in the Aubrey/Marturin series and as usual, the writingis as rhythmic and sensual as the sea itself. O'Brian does hisusual great job of spiking the plot with layers of meaning andtwists and turns. He is also at his best in emphasizing the'novel' part of his historical-novel niche.If this is your first experience of the series though, you mightfind the characters and motivations a bit hard to follow, especiallysince so much groundwork was laid in Truelove. Some diehardfans may be disappointed by transport of so much of the actionfrom the sea to the mountains.Still any O'Brian is better than no O'Brian at all and this is one ofthe best  books in the series.--Lynn Hoffman, author of New Short Course in Wine,The  andbang BANG: A Novel ISBN 9781601640005
4 Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin, having sailed off on a combination privateering and intelligence mission in the SURPRISE back in the twelfth novel in the saga, finally are nearly home again -- and this is installment number sixteen! It's hard to believe, too, that after so many volumes, with at least one circumnavigation and any number of roundings of Cape Horn and the Cape of Good Hope, we find Britain still embroiled in what we in the States refer to as the War of 1812. And what a journey this book narrates, from the witnessing of a new volcanic island and capture of a most irregular privateer in the mid-Pacific, to anxious flight through the Andes by mule and llama, to yet another encounter with ice-islands in the south Atlantic. Although the plotting seems thin at times and lacking in useful details, the narration is as adroit as ever, especially in the author's patented style of understatement. Not his best work by far, but very much worth reading.
5 Great story, deep character development, excellent pacing. Having read the unfinished Aubrey-Maturin novel (vol 21 I think) I great appreciate all the polishing that Patrick O'Brien did with this volume and all the others in the series.
4 I thought they would never get home! As usual, Aubrey is daring and intrepid. Maturin is up to his neck in political upheaval and birds in the Andes.  If you like this series, you will keep reading just to see what the heroes will do next.
5 Another &#34;installment&#34; in this remarkable series; I will be very unhappy to complete reading all of the volumes--the only consolation is that they can be re-read!
5 Wine-Dark Sea is the sixteenth in Patrick O'Brian's wonderful 20-part nautical series.  It is also the final in a four-part mini-series, as volumes thirteen through sixteen are an ongoing circumnavigation of the world.  In this installment, Aubrey and Maturin and the HMS Surprise finish their adventures in the Pacific, land in Peru and then round the Cape into the Atlantic on their way home to England.  For fans of the naval wars, there are some good 'ol rip-roaring chase and battle scenes.  The Maturin crowd will find their hero high in the Andes examining wildlife and carrying on his intelligence activities.  A wonderful worthy addition to O'Brian's series.
4 I like this book, it is a fine addition to the Aubrey/Maturin Novels. I have read all the books in sequence, and have enjoyed them all.
5 These novels are the best of breed, bar none. If you've read the first and haven't read every single one of the series...well, I'll never love you, nor will any of the other thousands and thousands of fans. As a blue water sailor, I join the legions of other sailors who revere these books. It's all about those who &#34;go down to the sea in ships&#34;, but with cannons and cutlasses. But if you're not a sailor you will nevertheless less love these books because they create unforgettable characters who complexly evolve as the books move along in what is a continuing story full of danger, mystery, love, despair, honor- dishonor, failure and Phoenix-like success. Read these, you won't be sorry.
4 From the opening chapter of "The Wine-Dark Sea," the 16th book in Patrick O'Brian's hallowed Master & Commander series, the reader knows that something special is going on.  Aubrey and Maturin sail their privateer, the Surprise, into waters made lethal by an erupting volcano that has just emerged from the sea, spewing lava and death.  No other writer could so effortlessly blend natural beauty and naval drama (for an enemy American ship is close by)."WDS" is a rollicking novel, even if it is one of the shorter books in the series.  There is plenty of naval action, both as the Surprise matches broadsides with enemy ships as well as fighting through the icebergs of Cape Horn.  Maturin is also charged with a daring political mission as he attempts to finance a coup in Peru - an enterprise that sends him fleeing over the Andes and minus a few toes.And then there are the characters.  And what characters!  O'Brian seems to work overtime to get almost every beloved minor character shoe-horned into this book, and nobody minds.This is definitely a book that should be read in its proper order - you will miss too much back story if you dive in right here, although if you do you will surely love the action and gorgeous travel-writing O'Brian brings to bear.Grab Master & Commander and start sailing!
5 The Wine-Dark Sea  by Patrick O'BrianThere are few prose stylists writing today who can compare with Patrick O'Brian for the smooth, evocative and fluid stories which come from his pen.  This book, a  particularly fine example of O'Brian's craft, is part of his Aubrey/Maturin  series of sea-faring novels.  Sailor Jack Aubrey, while a typically  crusty man of the blue briny, is also a well-read and witty contrast and  companion to Doctor Stephen Maturin, an erudite physician with a huge love  of the sea.  Together, the two have had many adventures, but in The  Wine-Dark Sea, they face some of their greatest challenges ever with  remarkable spirit and aplomb.  The story here is great entertainment with  lots of page-turning action, but the lush writing is simply seductive and  so easy to become lost and quite "at sea" within.  While these are often  consider "men's books," I strongly suspect that many women would be  attracted to the strong plots, grand characterization, and fine writing;  there is never the least hint of the crude or the coarse in these highly  literate, but so readable novels.  I have often suggested the works of  Patrick O'Brian to writing students as a model for crisp, fresh, lively  prose and most highly recommend this series to anyone who loves a great  read.
5 Another great story of the Aubrey/Maturin partnership. The story line is excellent and the characters develop even more. I shall be sorry for the ending of the series
5 I have purchased all 21 editions written by Patrick O'Brian about capt Aubrey. As I read them the are passed on to a friend who also enjoys sea stories.
3 This is only the third Aubrey/Maturin novel I've read and it seems I was unwise to deviate from the chronology. While it still has much that I praised in Post Captain, I didn't relish it as much because my expectations were already high. It's still a wonderful deviation from so much bad historical fiction that tries too hard to make the characters acceptable to modern audiences (rather than challenging their assumptions) - but it was no longer surprising me by doing so. I still fully intend to track back and try to start at the beginning, but Wine Dark Sea didn't stand alone as well for me - it felt more like something for the fans (and, hey, what can you expect for the sixteenth book in a series!). I found the extensive coverage of Maturin's natural history ecstasies less than engaging after a while (as opposed to the gripping engagements in the last few pages). O'Brian still throws in some of the colourful characters of the time (such as Dutourd), and also catches the wonderfully civilised way Europeans could go about killing each other.
4 Philippa Gregory is an enjoyable and dependable story teller. You know that you will meet well developed characters who act out unlikely plots and hold your interest, even if story lines become a bit predictable. A Respectable Trade, the story of a series of unlikely events set in Bristol toward the end of the 18th Century, follows this Gregory formula and solidly delivers.Mehuru is a priest in the African kingdom of Yoruba and is on a quest to save his country from the ravages of slavery when he is beset upon and captured by white slavers from England. Perhaps ironically, his own slave is captured as well. Meanwhile, back in England, landless and aging Frances Scott is wearing her welcome thin under the roof of her uncle's lordly family and thus applies for a job as governess. Instead of a job, she is offered marriage by the man who interviewed her, one Josiah Cole. Cole is a struggling shipping merchant with ambition who sees ties to the Scott family as a stepping stone on his road to wealth and respect. His cold fish sister Sarah isn't too keen on Josiah's attempt to climb the social ladder. With no other options, Frances marries beneath her station and tries to make the best of it.The charges she was originally interviewed to govern turn out to be a dozen or so African men, women and children. Sarah and Josiah believe that they can train these select slaves to be excellent house servants who speak the Queen's English and within 6 months turn a pretty profit by selling to select Bristol families. Frances, who has never considered the grisly details about how her families (new and of origin) make their money, finds herself questioning all she has known. She sure likes the comforts of upper class living... but when she suddenly realizes the "stock" have faces, names and feelings, Frances discovers new feelings of her own. Is she an accessory to a crime? A teacher? A respectalbe wife from a respectable family? Her feelings become especially new and uncomfortable when Mehuru walks into her dingy merchant dining room...The details of the story which follow are both slightly predictable and unfathomable considering the time (Mehuru quickly becomes fluent speaking and reading English and manages to be rather mobile and unsupervised for what one might expect for a slave in Bristol during the height of the trade). However, the themes which underlie the story are well worth exploring. Is the grass really greener on the other side? Does wealth equate respectability?  Does race matter? Does social class? How much risk should one take when investing? How much research? Where does wealth come from? Who really pays? Can love really over come all?In our ever growing global capitalist economy, these are important questions to consider. Why not reflect upon social justice and responsibility while reading a solidly enjoyable novel?
4 I am a huge fan of Philippa Gregory. I happened to find this book a few years ago, before it got the revamped cover and such. Maybe it was because I read it soon after The Virgin's Lover, which bored me to tears, but I really enjoyed this one!I applaud Gregory's effort in such a difficult topic. And yet I felt it was very real and accurate. I tend to stay away from the topic of slavery, but I usually never pass up books from Philippa. I'm glad I did! I happened to get through the book pretty fast, and the ending was not predictable. Gregory usually includes gobs of sex in her books, but this one was pretty much devoid of it for the most part. For this sotry, it wasn't necessary, and it worked. Once again, her attention to historical detail is more or less accurate, and I love her ability to just create expand from facts.While I appreciate the fact that Mehuru is well respected, I don't think it is all that plausible. Was she trying to redeem him for being black in some way? If he hadn't been African nobility, would that have changed his character or how he was viewed?Although I personally enjoyed the book, I can see where others wouldn't. I would suggest a reader new to Philippa Gregory read her more popular titles first.
4 Another of Ms Gregory's books which brings up the disgust from my soul.  People still do the same things today with less mud and sewage in the streets so what have we really learned?  That the early bird gets the worm and the hell with sharing.  But this greedy little guy tried to wiggle his way too far up the society ladder and got outschemed and outgreeded.
2 I really enjoyed 'The Other Boleyn Sister' and was anxious to read more from the author. This book was a waste of time! I was more than half-way through the book when I realized I didn't care what happened to any of the characters and that most of the book wasn't even logical. For instance, the lead slave seemed to learn to speak English AND write in two chapters, the love affair between the lead slave and Frances was not even a little bit believable, not to mention the 'secret'pregnancy. I can't believe this is the same author. I will try to read other books from Ms. Gregory, but I would not recommend this one to anyone.
4 This book gave a very graphic picture of slavery in England.  As always, Philippa Gregory spins a very good tale.
2 I am a huge fan of The Other Boleyn Girl, which really brought that particular period in British history and the people who populated it to life.  This is the second Gregory book I have read and it was a real letdown.At times, this book is a gripping read.  I found it profoundly chilling the way the characters would casually discuss the slave trade as if they were talking about bales of cotton.  This is when the book is at its very best.  Every time Josiah, Sarah, and Frances would talk business, I could feel myself almost physically recoiling at the very disturbing way in which they talked about slavery.  The beginning of the book was especially strong in this respect and Gregory did a masterful job of capturing the point of view of the average white slave trader of the time.  Their dehumanizing view of the Africans they were forcing into bondage was so profound that they actually believed that they were not dealing with people.  It made me nearly physically ill to think that there actually were people of this mindset, people who could torture and abuse and commit horrific acts against other people and think nothing of it.  It is a chilling period in history.  Unfortunately, the masterful handling of this issue is not enough to save the book.  The one-dimensional stock characters and unbelieveable love story bog the story down and detract from the central theme of the inherent wrongness of the slave trade.Mehuru was a particularly disappointing character for me.  He is more stereotype than human.  His purpose couldn't be more clear had Gregory written him as having the word "dignity" tattooed across his forehead.  Yet, in spite of his high principles, he falls madly in love with the woman who owns him, even though there is no apparent reason for it.  A man who loves his country as much as Mehuru does, who despises slavery as much as he does, who is as offended at the dehumanization as he was seems to me to hardly be the type of man to find a woman such as Frances very tempting.  While it does make sense that he would see some similarities between his situation and hers, it doesn't make sense to me that people who come from such different backgrounds and who have such profoundly different experiences in life would find much common ground.  Moreover, Frances does little to nothing to protect Mehuru.As for Frances, she's simply boring.  She is a stock character, plainly put.  Her role is to be the genteel woman left without means who doesn't want to become a burden to her wealthier, titled relatives.  There is much to pity in someone in such a position but Frances does little more than become pale and grave.  Jane Eyre she is not.  Even as she comes to realize how disgusting slavery is and even as she falls in love with Mehuru, she does precious little to voice her convictions.  She is too weak and too mealy-mouthed to appeal as a character and her reasons for falling in love with Mehuru are borderline offensive.  I found it hard to buy the idea that she passionately loved him when it seemed more that she liked the idea of being the one in control rather than being the one controlled.The other thing I found disturbing was the naming of the slaves.  Mehuru and Kbara are the only two given African names.  Frances's giving them Christian names is cast in an offensive light and yet the female slaves are from that point on referred to by their Christian names by the narrator, as are the children.  It seemed like they were being written off, as if because they weren't central to the story it wasn't worth the bother of giving them African names.Lastly, the Coles were a tremendous letdown.  Josiah is there merely to be an obstacle to Frances's love for Mehuru.  Sarah is a character who could have been very interesting and multifaceted had she been handled well.  She has every reason in the world for feeling the anger and resentment she feels but she is relegated to the role of shrew.  In my opinion, she could have been the best character in the book but instead she is rendered so unlikable that even her most legitimate complaints come across as purely annoying.  Had she been portrayed in a more human light, it would have made her attitude toward the slaves all the more chilling.In summary, Gregory's grasp of history is superb and she obviously put a lot of time and effort into her research.  It's a shame that her limp characters detract so severely from that work.
5 A gripping story of the horrors of slavery, wrapped around a love story.  Highly readable and at the end makes you want more.
3 While the purpose was obviously educational about the English slave trade and how slave-stealing affected Africa as well as slaves themselves, this wasn't up to Gregory's usual standard as a novelist.  As an American, I knew of the horrific conditions slaves endured aboard ship and in both America--including the North before the Civil War--and the even worse treatment of slaves and high mortality rate in the Sugar Isles.  I didn't know how Africa was being stripped of so many healthy people, those left to maintain societies there were so few the whole continent was adversely affected. The story, however, is quite thin.  Mehuru, the African priest stolen as a slave, is the most interesting character.  Frances, the near asexual spinster white governess who marries a slave trader to function as a slave trainer, is not Gregory's usual full-blooded female character.  Their attraction comes out of nowhere after his first impression of her is how ugly she is.  Stockholm syndrome?  We don't get a hint of that in the book.  They couple once, and she conceives--usually rather unlikely--as her husband is impotent.  The husband gets his just deserts, Frances suffers for her passion, and we get an Afterward saying how many escaped slaves in England were sheltered by working people, inbred with the English, and are ancestors of a lot of English people who are not aware of it today.  Probably true in America and other places where slavery existed, though there was more of a stigma to marry a black person in the US going way back. Hardly justified, but the reason Thomas Jefferson let his children by Sally Hemmings go north and pass as white. Gregory's motives are good, her storytelling gifts overwhelmed by her convictions in this book.
5 This book is so realistic in its depiction of slavery that I had to put it down sometimes. It presents the complicated situation of a woman who has no rights beyond those bestowed upon her by her husband and how she is forced to comply with his business needs all the while realizing that slavery is NOT a respectable trade as she had been taught. It's the story of her awakening and of a country on the brink of outlawing the trade. As always, Philippa Gregory pays meticulous attention to detail and the human condition.
4 Overall, I enjoyed it. Historical romance is my absolute favorite subject to read, and Philipa Gregory is the bomb when it comes to weaving the historical backdrop with a sweet romance. I learned a lot about the slave trade in England, which we don't hear too much about - since the Trans Atlantic slave trade of America is more heavily focused on than England's slave trade.I liked the fact that (like Roots) this story chronicled the journey of Mehru from Africa to his orderal on the ship and to his final destination in Bristol, England.  What I didn't like was that Mehru, who used to be a man of great importance in Africa, so easily falls in love with Frances - his white slaveowner, who wasn't always sympathetic or considerate to her slaves when they first arrived.  The way he fell fast and hard seemed unrealistic. The prevailing theme that emerged was that even the most educated black man stolen from his home in Africa is enamored with the charms of a white woman - one who considers him her property.I also didn't like the fact that Frances was weak-minded and constantly let her husband and sister-in-law take advantage of her.  But the book does highlight the fact that many Europeans were descended from the African slaves when England briefly allowed slavery in that country.  Many of the descendants now have blonde hair and blue eyes - nobody would guess their true lineage.
5 I've recently been on a Gregory binge and have so far read seven of her books. I've found this one to be the most interesting by far. The depiction of the slave ship journey was disturbingly realistic, and then when that nightmare ended, the treatment of the slaves by their English owners was another horror. I thought the scenes of the &#34;English lessons&#34; were especially good. Overall Gregory successfully described the English attitude of slaves as inventory. There were several obvious outcomes and a couple of surprises. I would have enjoyed the book more if the author had left out the romance. Doing so would have made the relationship of the main characters even more poignant, in my opinion. As in all of her books, Gregory is prone to repetition of inner dialogue as if we can't remember what's what, but the story moves along at an even pace and keeps the reader interested. The tension created as we wait for the ship, the Rose, to return is genius. Reading this book led me to research more about the slave trade and slave ships based on Gregory's suggested references. She includes discussion questions which makes this book a possibility for book club reading. Overall, I would highly recommend this book.
5 A lady no longer in the first flush of youth marries a Bristol businessman in order not to be dependent on her relatives. He is in the rum and sugar trade, as it was called. Then the new wife discovers that the third, seldom mentioned leg of this trade is slavery. This at the time was seen as perfectly respectable because the people concerned did not think of the wreckage they were making of the Africans' lives or of the fact that the life expectancy of workers on a sugar cane plantation was under three years.The situation becomes entirely more real to the lady however when she is asked to instruct a group of newly transported slaves in English and in domestic work.Interspersed we get the story of one of these slaves, an educated man among his own people and adviser to the tribal leaders, who was captured and dragged off, his value rated by muscle power. We can see the potential effect on the population of the continent when such a massive drain of intelligence and energy was under way for a long period. We also quickly despise the attitudes prevailing among the Bristol traders, given that one thought nothing of bringing a female slave to be raped as after dinner entertainment.Gregory gives us a romance, because that is what her readers expect, but as a book of social history it is a very good read. The romance I found unlikely given the times but if we suspend disbelief, it works well and we are pleased to get away from the run of the mill Regency pairings.I preferred the original cover art, of tall ships at anchor in Bristol, and that had the added bonus of making the book attractive to male readers. They won't be seen dead reading a book featuring a cover girl in a long frilly dress, on the train to work.
4 England, 1787.  Josiah Cole is a tradesman with moderate success in the sugar and rum trade.  But if he wants to be successful, he knows he has to marry a lady of quality.  So he proposes to Frances -- a thirty-five-year-old governess well in her way to spinsterhood.  She sees this as an opportunity to marry well, so she accepts his proposal.  Does she regret it?  After all, they live in a noisy, smelly warehouse in Bristol, a long way from her former gentle country life.  She also sees just how vulgar tradesmen are.  Josiah is obsessed with success and wealth.  Her sister-in-law, a spinster, doesn't seem to like her at all.  Their lives center on material gain.  And on top of everything else, Josiah seems to be dealing with the slave trade.  Now her job is to train slaves -- teach them how to speak English and become "respectable" and "educated" English folk -- all the while she witnesses a woman getting raped and the men getting whipped and humiliated.  But that's okay.  According to her husband and sister-in-law, Africans are barely human.  They are wild beasts that have to be tamed.  But as she spends more time with Mehuru, once a priest and gentlemen in the land of Yoruba, she is in for quite a few surprises.  But will a lady and a powerless slave ever be free?This is one of Philippa Gregory's earlier novels.  The author was born in Kenya and raised in Bristol, so I see why she'd write this book.  I very much enjoyed this story.  The characters are well developed (although not as well developed as they would have been had this book been written when she had more experience) and the story takes some interesting turns.  Josiah and Sarah (his sister) are very superficial, and I suppose they are meant to be that way.  Mehuru and Frances are the most developed -- both torn between loyalty to their people and doing the right thing.  I couldn't put this wonderful book down.  It kind of falls apart in the last chapters though.  How could Josiah and Sarah be unaware of the mayhem that goes on upstairs?  Are they THAT preoccupied with material things that they fail to notice something like that?  Aside from that, I very much enjoyed A Respectable Trade.  I look forward to reading more books by Gregory.  I am very interested in reading the stuff she's written that isn't based on one of Henry VIII's wives.
5 I seen this book at such a great price I couldn't pass it up. This novel had been made in to a movie some time ago. But  I like to read the book first when ever possible. I only hope the movie is as good as the book.
5 - This review first appeared in the March 2007 issue of The Historical Novels Review-Fans of Ms Gregory's phenomenally successful Tudor novels will encounter a more somber, pensive writer in A Respectable Trade. Re-issued by Touchstone, this novel set in 18th century Bristol offers a painful glimpse into the flourishing slave trade of the era, which enabled the majority of England's enterprising merchants and the nation at large to amass fortunes at the cost of unimaginable human suffering.Rather than opt for comfortable characters and pat storylines, Ms Gregory has crafted a quiet, powerful meditation on the nature of mankind's inhumanity toward our fellow man, and the compromises we make to excuse and obscure our choices. Through the view points of three main characters--Frances Scott, a fragile spinster who marries beneath her rank because of penury and finds herself caught between two worlds, neither of which she fully belongs to; her husband Josiah Cole, an ambitious, morally ambivalent and gullible merchant determined to succeed no matter the cost; and Mehuru, a sage African priest who is kidnapped and brought to England in chains by the Coles-- we are lured into a time of pretense and grim contradiction, where silk wallpaper and elegant ascendancy conceal the poison of avarice and near-insurmountable barriers of class, all of which have become dependent on commerce with human beings.While Josiah throws everything he has on the line for the sake of advancement in a society that despises his kind, Frances plunges into a fantastical and ultimately destructive love affair with Mehuru, whose elegant stoicism illuminates the devastation that slavery has wrought upon Africa. Threaded throughout the novel is the character of England itself--satiated on the so-called respectable trade it has perpetuated, violently divided over the torment it has caused, and poised on the edge of irrevocable change.
5 Another absolutely stunning novel by Gregory. I'll read anything she writes. Her characters are fully developed and intriging people. This is a story you will learn from and wonder about afterwards.
2 As a black woman, I too found this difficult to read.  On a practical level I felt that Ms. Gregory pushed too hard to make this story plausible.  I found no link for this romance, no real spark.  I found the 'love at first sight' a bit of rubbish for this day and time.  Mehuru seemed to good, a little too "Kunta Kente-ish".  And Frances was vapid and skittish, hardly the type of love match one is used to.  I loved all her other books, but I had to make myself finish this.
3 I have read most books by Philippa Gregory and like most, this one was quite well written. I cried a few times throughout this book (that is very uncommon for me) and I did like the overall story. The one downer for me, was Frances. She was so annoying! When I read books, I enjoy seeing things from the perspective of others, and learning about different people. Ms. Gregory has always been brilliant at creating very abstract characters. But I just dont understand Frances, she says that she is completely in love with Mohoru, and that this is the first time she has ever been truly happy... but she has quite conditional love.... She just really bothered me.Besides her, this book was marvelous, and I do recommend it.
2 I got through half of the book before I became so bored that I read the last chapter to find out what happens to the characters.  The whole premise of European brutality towards African slaves becomes mundane repitition and nothing new or insightful is brought to light through the experiences of either Francis or Mehuru.  It comes as no surprise that they fall in love nor is it the least bit interesting to read in light that the whole black man/woman smart, insightful slave and uncaring, raping, brutal white slaver stereotype is definitely overplayed.
4 This book was written so well that it was possible to get inside the head of both the slaves, and the slave owners. The character of Frances was particularly interesting, as you were able to see how even a 'good' person found it difficult to know what was right and what was wrong. She had been told for so long that the slaves were lesser people that she was shocked when she came to realize that they weren't.I have never read a romance story with such a difficult and unusual theme and I think Gregory did a marvellous job of portraying it.
2 Ok, I'm a true Gregory fan. I always have been since "Wideacre" but I mean...come on!Her other books were exciting and made me want to keep reading! This one...it fell very, very short. I just couldn't bring myself to care about any of the characters. Yes, reading about how all the slaves were treated was heart-wrenching, but I get it. I would like to have some sort of plot to go along with that.When I did get a plot, it was a slow moving and dull one. I knew what was going to happen before it did and that just made it even more boring. Gregory used to have such flare! What happened here?
5 This was an incredible book that pulled at my emotions.  The sadness I felt for the generations of African slaves.  The anger I felt from their own countrymen selling them for money and greed.
3 *Could contain spoilers*I went into this book with some expectation that it would be better than "Fallen Skies," which left me greatly disappointed with the sketchy characterizations. This book, however, continued that disappointment. Most of the characters in this book suffer from two dimensions (at most). Some, like Sarah Cole, remained one-note throughout. What struck me most was that both Mehruru and Frances were not pitiable in the deserving sense (as the premise surely demanded), but pitiful in the contemptuous sense. I couldn't care one way or another how their lives turned out. Mehuru's reasons for loving Frances so deeply were not convincingly drawn. And while I understand that Gregory wanted to illustrate the captive conditions that Frances suffered, she was so weak and so unsympathetic in her inactions & submission that I despised her for most of the book.Starting around page 250, I gave up on trying to enjoy it and instead decided to appreciate the detail of the Bristol atmosphere (the only evocative portion of the entire book - even the descriptions of the hellish slave holds seemed generic) and laugh out loud at the insane bouts of dialogue and erratic behavior of the characters (i.e., meek and mild Frances embarking on a wide-eyed, disheveled screaming fit at Josiah about the duplicity of the Merchant Venturers).Gregory didn't seem engaged with these characters at all, though an interview segment at the end of the book implies that she was. But the treatment of the characters seems at arm's length or, at best, haphazard. For instance, Sarah disappears for about 100 pages of the book, although the majority of the action takes place inside the house where, presumably, Sarah is still living. At the end, Frances lays in bed, heavily pregnant, and arouses no suspicions due to a convenient array of bedclothes. Perhaps Gregory intended these absurd oversights as a way to show how disengaged the characters had become with each other, but it just so happened to disengage this reader as well. By the end I was as listless as the pathetic, throat-clutching Frances. But the book read fast (a week) and I MSTed the heck out of it, so the entertainment value was high.I hear her Tudor novels are good, so I'll stick with this author for another go. But so far, it's 0 for 2.2 stars for the book. 1 extra star for added MST3K material.
3 This is an intriguing book by the author, with a story line that is simple enough. Frances Scott, an impoverished thirty-four year old, gently reared daughter of a cleric, is left to fend for herself by her dead father. Her uncle, Lord Scott, has been assisting her and has found her work as a governess, a job that she loathes. When an upstart tradesman, Josiah Cole, proposes matrimony, she jumps at the chance. It is a marriage of the utmost convenience.What she does not know is that her husband and his spinster sister, Sarah, trade in slaves, as well as other commodities. When a shipment of slaves comes in, Frances is expected to train the slaves to be servants that can then be sold to wealthy families. After all, having an African servant was all the rage in late eighteenth century England. Her instruction of her captives is a slow process, giving Frances an opportunity to get to know her slaves and the cruelties that have been inflicted upon them. She is, however, without resources to help them.Along the way, she falls in love with Mehuru, her major domo, and he with her. Therein lies the rub. In eighteenth century England, it was unheard of for a lady of gentle breeding to do so, and Frances has not the strength to follow her heart. Meanwhile, her ambitious husband is oblivious to all that is going on in his household, and involves himself in one scheme after another, trusting on some new found friendships that are suspicious at best. When he finds that his "friends" have merely taken him for a ride, all hell breaks loose.Much of the dialogue between Frances and Mehuru is pretty laughable, reading like a bad Harlequin romance. Their love affair simply does not ring true.  Moreover, the characters in the book are too one dimensional and are pretty much caricatures. Overall, the book is a choppy, uneven affair, but a still a moderately enjoyable one, if one is a fan of the author. Others may not be so forgiving. Still, there are parts of the book that are somewhat interesting, and I was sufficiently intrigued to get the Masterpiece Theatre production of the book for which the author herself wrote the screenplay.
3 This book was rich in detail but was really lacking in some areas.  I continually lost interest and was not convinced at the reality of the characters in the story.  I have read many other books written by Phillipa and have thoroughly enjoyed them.  I was unable to put down many of her books about the Boleyn girls and the Virgin Lover was great too.  I felt like this book could have been half as long and would have been complete....try Phillipa's other books, they are great!
4 This well written historical novel gives a glimpse into a less well known aspect of slavery namely, the slave trade in England. The depictions of life in 18th C Bristol are believable. The follies of the newly rich are applicable to all times and were amusing. The romance between the Yoruban slave and the mistress of the house is a bit overdone but a useful vehicle for the plot. What kept this from being really excellent was the somewhat superficial characterizations.
5 I have to disagree with others who are disappointed in this book; I have found every one of Philippa Gregory's books well worth reading.  I am aware they are fiction, and as in watching movies or television, we must be careful to not get "facts" from fictional portrayals.  Having said that, these books are always a good read and make the characters come to life.  A history student can, and should, look up more; the contrast between fiction and fact will prove an interesting study in itself.  These books provide insight into historial times, even though fiction, that have inspired me to want to learn more about the "facts."
4 Historical fiction guru Philippa Gregory tackles an important subject in this novel, treating the slave trade in Greta Briton with compassion and an eye to its historical implications. Once the merchant-venturers hit upon the lucrative scheme of importing slaves from Africa, their endeavor proves brilliant, paying investors handsomely, establishing Briton as a maritime and economic power and center for capitalism. To be sure, the industrial revolution is financed by the enormous profits of the slave trade and the bartering of plantation goods. By 1787, the trade in human cargo is exploding, heavily-financed vessels sailing from the Bristol docks to Africa in increasing numbers.Josiah Cole is a small fish in a huge pond, yearning to fulfill his ambitions by taking advantage of the slave economy. To that end, the ineffective Cole agrees to an arranged marriage with Frances Scott, a young woman with significant social contacts but no dowry to speak of. Josiah hopes to join his business acumen with her impressive contacts, increasing their potential for success. The first shipment of slaves includes Mehuru, a priest in his own country, captured, shackled and at the mercy of his new white masters. When Frances undertakes the tutoring of the slaves, Mehuru displays a notable propensity for learning the nuances of the language, serving as a go-between with the other slaves, appealing to Frances' kindness to intercede on their behalf. Through their interaction, Frances becomes more aware of the evils of the trade, meanwhile falling helplessly in love with a man who is, at best, her property.Under the suspicious eyes of her sister-in-law, Sarah Cole, Mehuru challenges Frances to examine her conscience, demanding that she set him free if she truly loves him. The clandestine affair blooms in secrecy, but is doomed by society that allows masters and slaves to coexist. While Frances examines the immorality of trading in human lives, Josiah continues to be plagued by poor business decisions, duped by those he seeks to join, the Merchant Venturers. For Mehuru, a new future looms, abolition a topic of heated debate in Parliament, activist groups like the London Society interceding on behalf of the working poor and the slaves. Certainly, great change hovers on the horizon, as evidenced by a restive France and America.Gregory paints a picture of a country in flux, greedy for economic dominance, the trade in slaves facilitating expansion on a significant level. At the same time, the love affair between Frances and Mehuru allows the exploration of the human element, the contrast of slaves and masters, lives forever changed by a system that yields tremendous profit for the investors. Ensconced in a marriage that is little better than a barter for security, Frances is beset by status anxiety, common among such women who have no financial prospects save a well-considered marriage. As isolated in her way as Mehuru, Frances falls easily into this ill-starred romance, learning too late the value of personal freedom in a profit-driven world. Luan Gaines/2007.
4 A RESPECTABLE TRADE is one of Philippa Gregory's earlier novels, first published in 1995, and re-released in 2007 now that her popularity has increased.The novel concerns the relationships and lives of Josiah Cole, Frances Scott, and Mehuru, a trio of individuals whose lives become entangled through the desire for financial gain, dubious morality, and sheer bad luck. Mehuru was a priest in Africa, captured by slave traders on a diplomatic mission. Frances Scott is a noble-born, penniless woman living off the generosity of her uncle. Josiah Cole is a sugar- and slave-trader, eager to make a name and a fortune for himself no matter what it takes. Josiah marries Frances, hoping that her noble connections will help improve his position in life, and requests that she train a group of slaves, including Mehuru, to be house slaves.The novel begins with a painstakingly detailed, and heartbreaking, description of the slave trade. The reader is transported, along with Mehuru, and witnesses the horrible conditions of the slave ships. Worse even than the physical horrors to which the slaves are subjected is the slow breaking down of the slaves' spirits. The reader watches as Mehuru, a well-educated, extremely intelligent leader in his own country, is stripped of all his power. However, Mehuru is a fighter at heart, and refuses to accept the degradation to which he has been subjected.Mehuru's journey is compared with that of Frances. As a woman of that time period, Frances is also powerless. However, her experience could never be as affecting as Mehuru's because, unlike him, she accepts, and even profits, from the status quo. Slavery is a normal, unquestioned, part of life for her. She eventually does begin to question the morality of slavery, but, unlike Mehuru, she doesn't have the strength, or perhaps the desire, to fight her station in life, which ultimately makes her harder to sympathize with.Despite the weakness in the Frances' character, the slow development of her friendship with Mehuru is interesting to behold. Their personalities are incredibly different, but because they've both been rendered powerless, they somehow understand each other intuitively.The plot is a bit unrealistic for the time period (I won't ruin the developments here) but the portrayal of the slave trade, the position of women, and the amorality of businessmen of the time make this book a worthwhile read.
3 *****Spoilers*****The book was overall a decent afternoon read but some serious logistical questions remain.*If Frances had created a "bank" with her investments why would she fall into such despair at the families ruin upon learning of the new Hot Well?*As others have mentioned the transition from slave to lover were not particularly convincing.*If someone was making 70 pounds on a strict drop off from point A-B.... Why would they train slaves for over a year for what was it low 100'ish pounds? That doesn't even make any sense.*What is the purpose of the "Merchant Venturer's" ruining Cole to the point where he couldn't repay any debt? Hence them not getting paid at all. It was all borrowed money in the end no one was paid.*Upon freeing her slaves at her death why didn't Frances bequeath them the bank instead of her new husband and SIL who didn't even bother to attend her death?*How does a woman (Elizabeth) "prepare" herself to nurse?*Seriously, who can disguise being full-term pregnant? Robes or not....I think I could go on and on. Bottom line, flaws and all it was a decent Saturday Afternoon read.
4 This was an insightful novel that paints a picture of slavery I never knew...predating Anerica's struggles. Very well written and paced.
5 I wasn't sure about purchasing this book, but what a surprise. It's so good, I am at a loss to describe it properly.
5 I found myself drawn into this story very quickly.  I liked how "human" all the characters showed themselves to be--both good and bad.At times, I felt sorry for almost everyone, and at times, I disliked many of the characters, but I could always identify with certain choices they made.I've not read many novels regarding England and the painful subject of slavery--and it's handled very well here.  I also liked learning about the shipping business in this era.This is a interesting novel.
3 I enjoyed the beginning and the middle of this book.  The author does a great job describing the main character's background and emotions.  It is full of vivid imagery.  All the characters are well developed and at times you feel as though you are right in the middle of the action.  I really wanted to keep reading to see what would happen next.At a certain point I felt like this book turned into North and South (a novel by John Jakes later made into a mini-series).  There was much predictability and it lost all its luster.  The end was a very rapid series of events which made me wonder if th author just wanted to wrap things up and move on.I really enjoyed the book for awhile and had even started to tell my friends about it.  I was thinking about placing this on my book club's reading list.  Then I hit that point and it just ruined it for me.
4 Great read. A bit different from other Gregory novels I have read (not many I haven't). Although accepted as historical fiction it is unbelieving from our era to understand that this novel depicts history as we good not imagine. This novel actually branched me out to other slave-related novels that I have/will review elswhere
5 This was recommended by a friend. It's historical theme brings to life the story of slavery from the beginning. I was on the edge of my seat through the book. Needless to say, I couldn't put it down. I am looking to read another book by this same author.
2 As an African-American woman, I found parts of this book absolutely painful to read.  I was alternately in tears and furiously angry at Gregory's unflinching portrayal of the horrors of the slave trade and the racist attitudes of those who profited from it.  I knew there could be no "happy ending" in which the slave trade did not continue, and I was sad to note that some racist attitudes are still prevalent today.  As a result, I almost did not finish the book.However, the book quickly segued into a regular old Harlequin romance - improbable at best, and as one previous reviewer noted, with far too many loose ends.  I finished it, and learned from it, but I was only entertained by it in the most eye-rolling of ways.
5 There is more than one way to be trapped.  Frances Scott is trapped in a marriage entered into only to protect her from poverty.  Siblings Josiah and Sarah Cole are trapped by their debt, despite Josiah's marriage to Frances which he hoped would bring him increased wealth.  Mehuru is a slave kidnapped from Africa and shipped to England.  Each is searching for happiness and the freedom to make their own decisions.  Circumstances and events will force all to re-evaluate their beliefs and stations in life.Philippa Gregory, as usual, is not afraid to shock the reader and spares no details when it comes to the horrors of the slaving ships and the dirty town of Bristol.  Parts of this novel are not for the faint of heart.  However, there are other themes at work here as well such as courage, love, and the strength of the human spirit.I felt for each of the four main characters and the struggles they were going through; both within themselves and with the world around them.  They all had aspects that I did not like, such as I thought Frances was weak, but it is also important to judge the characters for their own time period and not to our modern societal norms.An excellent read; you will be transported to the cold, bleak dampness of Bristol and the hardships of the late 1700's for slaves, merchants, and gentry alike.
5 I first read this book back in the 1990s when it came out and it's always stayed with me so I decided to re-read it and see if I likedit as much as I remembered. I did. This is historical fiction at it's best. The writing is excellent. The story moves at a good pace and is well told. Mehuru, an African slave, and Frances, a white British married woman and Mehuru's owner, fall in love. The book begins with their two separate stories until they merge when they meet. Another major plot point, besides the slave trade, is the drive of Frances's husband to improve his station as a ship owner and trader of goods (including humans) in Bristol, England in the 1770s. A wonderful mix of politics and romance. A very satisfying read and very sad what the whites did to the Africans all in the name of money. Perfect for book groups.
4 I wouldn't exactly call this a romance. More of a historical account of the horrors of slavery. Francis Scott marries a man that does not suit her at all. Considered old and impoverished, her new station in life is to teach the people her husband and his sister kidnap from Africa to sell as slaves - a fact Francis learns after she has married. Francis is quite caring and compassionate & soon falls for one of the slaves, Mehuru. Mehuru proves to be everything her own husband isn't - warm, caring, sensitive and attentive. The tale of this pair's faith and hope is downright heartbreaking. Knowing they can not live as a couple in England - especially with Francis' being married, Francis and Mehuru must hide their feelings for each other. Again, the horrors of slavery are shocking and disturbing . Pretty accurate in portrayal since slavery was one of the ugliest events in time. Philippa Gregory is often called a romance novelist. The title historical fiction writer would serve her better. This highly informed and talented writer's work is a pleasure to read! Although I enjoyed the novel, I found the ending to be a bit of a letdown. Too many loose-ends are left untied - rendering it only 4 stars.
4 My Summary: Mehuru is a priest in the African nation of Yoruba who is captured by (black) African slavers and is sold to an English slave trader.Frances is the niece of Lord Scott and is left orphaned and unmarried when her father dies. In desperation, she accepts the marriage proposal of a trader, Josiah Cole.Circumstances bring Mehuru and Frances Cole together, for better or for worse. Philippa Gregory tells an amazing story of their relationship in this novel.My Thoughts: I wept throughout the entire novel. When I say "wept" I'm not talking about the tears that often fall when I am touched by a story -- I'm talking about being moved so deeply by a book that I know that it will stay with me forever.I've seen Amazing Grace and as much as the movie explored the depth of suffering on the slave ships, it didn't sink in fully until I had read about it, able to apply my own imagination to the story of Mehuru and his friends. And when Mehuru met Frances, it was all over for me.This book would be very easy for me to spoil, and I want to be careful of what I say. I've been asked recently to give more detail in my reviews about what I enjoyed (or didn't enjoy) about a book -- specifically. In this book I have to say that what touched me the most was the relationships between the slaves, particularly Elizabeth (who's African name I don't know) and Mehuru. I also really liked the way that the author went out of her way to describe the way that black and white "saw" one another so differently from their own people, almost as though they were an entirely different species. As someone who is in her thirties in the 21st century, I find this so difficult to relate to, but it helped to bring me closer to real understanding of what it might have been like in the 18th century.I enjoy Philippa Gregory and look forward to reading more from her!
4 Accepting that she doesn't have any better prospects at the age of 34, Frances Scott enters into a marriage of convenience with a Bristol trader. She is soon after presented with a shipload of African slaves and instructed to school them in English and domestic duties so that they may be sold as servants to wealthy English households. With time, Frances begins to doubt the common assertion of the time that the slaves are animals and cannot be educated. One in particular, Mehuru, challenges everything she has been taught about the slave trade.Gregory's prose is once again breathtaking and meticulous. Unfortunately, the story itself was lacking in some areas. Frances is not much of a heroine; she isn't particularly likable and never seems to have an opinion of her own. I wasn't convinced of Frances' and Mehuru's love, having observed them seemingly going from distaste to affection with nothing in between.Mehuru was by far the most interesting character, and I regret that we are not allowed to get to know him better. The most entertaining parts of the story involved his acclimatization to English society. Amusing are the scenes in which he is demonstrated comparing inferior aspects of English culture to those of his homeland (and the reader is forced to agree), and his descriptions of how ghastly the pale English people look. My favorite quote: "She is a white woman," he said, trying to reassure himself, discounting his insight. "They all look sick to me."
4 This is a story of the times when slave trading was not illegal in Britain.  The new wife of a slave trader finds herself with the job of training slaves to sell to the gentry to make a profit.  She is down  trodden and powerless, and is slowly drawn to one of the slaves with whom  she falls in love with.Philippa Gregory writes well, her novels finish  tidily and are written with humour. I always like the characters I'm meant  to like, dislike the baddies and feel content with the outcome. However,  with this book, I could only see the love one way, the slave had contempt  for his owner, and then suddenly he was in love with her.  Still, an  interesting book on a horrendous time in history
5 If you would be uncomfortable reading about the capture, confinement and transport of African slaves to the Caribbean and the attitudes of the English who were enriched by it - don't read this book. I live daily with the legacy of it here in the Caribbean and since I enjoy Phillippa Gregory's writing generally and believe her research to be accurate. I therefore found myself upset with the mindset of the English slavers as depicted in this book, especially as I am sure it is historically accurate. Perhaps that is the kudo I am trying to extend. Emotionally riveting.
5 This is one of my favorite books. In addition to being an enjoyable read, one would learn well-researched historical facts about slave trade that deprived Africa of its sons and daughters of talents.Its consequences could be seen even today. This book lends a human dimension to this historical tragedy. We hear the slaves telling their stories sitting down at the kitchen table of their masters. We hear their cries, their laughter, their longing for their families and their homeland. The novel also shows the shallow thinking of those slave masters. Even the protagonist of the story, who is supposed to be a sympathetic figure, is superficial in her thinking and even hypocritical.She wanted to have it all: wealth, status, and empty aristocratic titles. Then she sought love and lust from the very people she enslaved and stripped from basic human rights including the right to have non-English names; and she insisted on keeping them slaves up to the very end. The African man is a great personality. He shocked his masters with his intelligence and wisdom and the speed with which he excelled in their language.He drew strength from the memories of his homeland. He drew warmth from the bright sun shining in the sky of his hometown while suffering the dark clouds of his new life. Those of us who have escaped in search of freedom, experienced life in exile, and are longing for own family and homeland every day, would appreciate this novel even more.
5 Wow. This book was great! I loved the Other Boleyn Girl and Boleyn Inheritance (also by Philippa Gregory) and decided to check out her non-Tudor books. Don't worry! They're still as excellent and interesting! The story might start slow (I personally was expecting the more gossip-y tone she uses in the court of OBG) in the first few pages, but it really warmed up. Mehuru is a high priestes in the Yoruba civilization of Africa, and is captured on his way to speak against slavery. On the other side of the pond, Frances marries for convenience-exchanging her high title for the wealth and security of Josiah Cole. Most of the book discusses slavery, and the different viewpoints (a slaveowner, a slave trader, a women bystander, slaves themselves, business in general, government). I'd say only about 10 pages total were spent fully on the relationship between Mehuru and Frances--it's only a few lines at most for the first 4/5ths and the last little bit. The book has a great ending, so don't give up if it seems too romance-y towards the final pages!
5 Philippa Gregory wrote another great book. What a wonderful writer. Dr. Gregory really knows her business of Historical Fiction. A must read.
1 If this were the first Lisa Scottoline book I had ever read I would not read any others.  I don't remember ever hearing the word "ridiculous" scream in my head when reading her other books, but I sure did this time.  From the implausible premise that defense attorneys would be incensed to learn that their client is actually guilty (horrers!) to the lengths said attorneys would then go to prove him guilty including breaking the law this story is ridiculous.
3 The book was a very good story but very confusing at times she is a very good author but it was just a little too much at times d.cordano at charter.net that is it
5 I'm new to the Rosato series and now have a new author to love.  Fast moving with all the twists and turns...couldn't put it down.  Ended up buying all 13 of the series.  Love Benny and her ladies.
2 I have read many of Lisa's books, and have enjoyed them.  But, this one comes across as so contrived --- too many things just fall into place -- and everything is wrapped up much too quickly at the end.  It seems impossible to me that there would be enough organ donors in the city of Philadelphia to sway an election.  Marta is beaten up within an inch of her life, and still jumps in the car and drives to the Jersey Shore --------- very implausible.  And, the ending seems thrown together in an attempt to sweep up all the debris.
4 I always like her books their fun and advensourus .Not a good speller so wish they had spell check I like the Idea of women doing thing's that you expect men to do and to read about it.
4 The only reason I did not rate this with 5 stars is that I felt, at times, I was running all over and couldn't catch my breath or make some sense of what was happening with the characters! But I SO enjoy reading Lisa Scottoline books I was able to still enjoy the thrilling story! I suggest reading this through and then retreading after a couple of days :-)
3 ROUGH JUSTICE finds Lisa Scottoline utilizing characters from previous novels(Mary DiNunzio and Judy Carrier from EVERYWHERE THAT MARY WENT)and Bennie Rosato(from the excellent LEGAL TENDER)and introducing another no-nonsense female protagonist, this time in the form of defense attorney Marta Richter. Richter is a high-profile lawyer retained by a Boston businessman when he's accused of murder during an attempted car-jacking. The crux of the novel is presented right up front--the trial is near-end, with the client likely to walk free thanks to Richter, when he drops a bombshell on her--he did in fact kill the victim, and not in self-defense. Beside herself, Richter sets out to find proof of her client's guilt, with help from local counsel Rosato & Associates, of which DiNunzio and Carrier are both associates. That's when the mess begins. Scottoline manages to introduce new, ultimately peripheral characters in almost every chapter, from ALL twelve jurors to the city mayor's chief of staff. It pretty much goes without saying that we don't care about these characters from word go, and that viewpoint doesn't change, leading to a book that is highly overpopulated and plot-malnourished. And the once likeable Mary DiNunzio is reduced to a senseless nitwit, while Rosato is just plain cold. The book manages to save itself a little in the last third, but those who expect more from the usually reliable Scottoline might not stick around long enough to find that out.
1 Rough Justice is little more than an exercise in exaggerated formulaic writing. All of Ms. Scottoline's characters are two dimensional caricatures. The heros are all female. The villains are all male. The situations overreach and are scarcely believable. The interactions between male and female characters are so misandrous that even male children are portrayed as mean spirited, dishonest and corrupt. The primary antagonists are shown to be either murderers, brutes, and  malicious malefactors of one kind or another, or utterly emasculated wimps with nothing better to do than fetch baby formula and cower before the tirades of other overbearing males. I found this book to be shallow, uninteresting and fundamentally bereft of any redeeming value. I would not recommend reading it to anyone, except perhaps those who share Ms. Scottoline's investment in misandry.
5 Lisa Scottoline is one of mu favorite authors.  I have read every book she has written.  The best are always Bennie and her Law Firm.  Looking forward to her next book.
5 I started reading Ms. Scottoline books in the middle of this series and decided to go back to the beginning of the series, I am so glad I did.Great Series!
4 I have read almost all of Ms. Scottoline's books and they never disappoint.  I have loved them all.  I read them in a few days because I can't put them down!
1 How on earth did this rubbish get published? To quote another reviewer.."I don't believe I'm still reading this thing."Warning: Spoiler !We are immediately led to believe that a criminal defense lawyer with 15 years experience is shocked that her client is guilty. She feels used and vows revenge even though the jury is due back before lunchtime the next morning. I am sure had the lawyer been male, he would have laughed with the client, but we are led to believe that this female attorney is outraged that her client lied to her!!Even the case itself is stupid. An apparent clear case of self defense. The DA has nothing and yet not only does the trial last 2 months, but the defendant has been remanded in jail for a year without bail !!The judge on the case is up for the state supreme court even though he is only a district court judge.What follows is a disastrous, unbelievable race to find evidence that will somehow enable the client to be convicted. Most of the 'evidence' that is found would never be admissible anyway.Our `hero' tampers with the jury, drives to her clients beach house, breaks in, finds papers for a boat, breaks into a boat yard, breaks into storage, finds a boat, finds a map with a pin hole, spends hours digging in the freezing cold, finds a box, finds a computer printout. Why her client has kept this printout is beyond me since it became worthless a few hours after they used it.Everyone treaks across the city in knee high snow. Spend hours outside in driving blizzard conditions.  Then, everythings falls into place, everything becomes clear and it is a race to the court house.  The end comes quickly.  Then the really stupid part, the police show up with WARRENTS!!  I mean, how? why?  There would be no warrant without an investigation and evidence. The only person who spoke to the police in the whole book was the jurist who knew next to nothing.Our hero would be charged with countless offences and would probably never practice law again.Stressing me out just writing this review.. stupid book.
5 A look at the justice system in the eyes of a professional.  Makes one realize we all have faults and deceptions can affect us all.
3 I really love Lisa Scottoline's other books and this one did have her fast pace, but it was a bit confusing. I have to agree w/ other comments about the entire plot not being plausible. The characters all kept information regarding their client a secret from eachother. They were being attacked, shot, hunted down and never thought once about calling the police. Also, there were soooo many characters introduced- at length and then not another word about them. I skipped some parts ( like an entire chapter on the heroine trying to dig up and open a lock box).Not my favorite of Lisa's , but I plan to keep reading her work.
4 I have read alot of Lisa Scottoline books.  This is an older one I believe released in 1997.  Strong, female lead characters and fast paced legal action.  Marta Richter is about to win an aquittal for her client, millionaire businessman Elliot Steele.  During jury deliberations, she finds out that her client is guilty of the crime.  She begins a dangerous and deadly race of time to find out the truth.  I read this book in almost one sitting.  It was an easy read and kept my interest.
4 The title gives you the short version, now here comes the longer one.  I'm reading Ms. Scottoline's works in order, so this is number 5.  In Rough Justice, she reprises Mary DiNunzio's character from book 1 and if my notes are right, (Ms.) Bennie Rosata's from book 3 -- which is nice because we're really getting inside these character's personalities which adds to the fun.  The basic premise this time is that a guest hot-shot lawyer from out of town, Marta Richter, has just heard from her client, who, thanks to Marta's hard work, is heading toward a self-defense acquittal for killing an alleged carjacker, a confession that it was murder after all.  She immediately spends the rest of the book trying to get back at him (not too sure about the &quot;legality&quot; of that), with help from Bennie's associates Mary and Judy.  The plot is actually quite good, with a lot of twists and turns, culminating in a very good ending that had me turning pages late into the night.  A number of additional corpses prevent this from being all sweetness and light, yet I think the outcome seemed fitting.  My only gripe was that 2/3 of the book took place during such a bitter and deep snowstorm that roads were closed and cities crippled.  Yet Marta manages to drive back and forth from Philly to the Jersey shore (!), with all kinds of shenanigans there, while the troops back at the law firm are out all night pulling the same stunts, even interviewing people at 2 o'clock in the morning!Anyhow, &quot;Rough&quot; is a welcome addition to the growing Scottoline repertoire; I'll certainly be back for more, and I can overlook a little bit of unlikely traipsing around by the women for a story this entertaining!  Try it.
4 This is a book that I can't put down, until 2 am with a 5 am wake-up.  The  premise has to be a lawyer's nightmare.  Winning a case hands down, only to  discover that your client is guilty; how can you hold your head up?  Scottoline is making a good point that lawyers DO have a conscience;  allegedly they seek justice  more than just &quot;how many billable hours  can we milk out of our client&quot;. The magnet in this story is how all  the lawyers were working independently toward the same solution, each  finding a different link.  I like Scottoline's method of ending each  chapter, just as the old-timey serials at the movies ended each week, with  the hero appearing to be heading for disaster.  And then the author  switches  to another character in action to begin the next chapter.  Since  I don't know good literature from bad literature, I have to judge what  makes my simple mind feel satisfied with the book in my hands.  This novel  has a feel-good authenticity to it.  My reason for only 4 stars?  I have to  read a second, then third, before I move Lisa Scottoline into my personal  author's Hall of Fame.
3 I enjoy an occasional well written who-done-it.  And Scottoline is usually one I pick.  But this one did not measure up to her other work.  Yet, still a decent read.
4 Marta Richter is a criminal lawyer who is about to win an acquittal for her client, Elliot Steere, a powerful real estate mogul.  In a moment of hubris, Steer admits to her that he is indeed guilty of killing a man he claimed had hijacked him.  Furious at her client, Marta is determined to reveal the truth about him and have him convicted.  What follows is a fast-paced plot, full of twists and turns.  The action switches from Marta to her associates Mary and Judy, to the presiding judge, to the assistant DA, to the jury foreman.  Each one has a vested interest in the case and each one will do whatever it takes to win.  Much of what happens falls into the category of "highly unlikely", but nevertheless it's great fun and an interesting read.  Author Scottoline is amazingly creative with her plots and characters and always provides an entertainingbook.
5 I'm a huge fan of Scottoline I have enjoyed every book she has written. I love her sense of humor. I recommend her highly
4 The book kept me reading to find out the ending. I found it fast paced and interesting in its detail.
2 This is the fifth book I have read by Lisa Scottoline. I was disappointed in it. I enjoyed the others. This one had to many things going on at one time, it was almost like trying to read five or six different stories at the same time. There would be a chapter about Marta, then one about the jury, then one about City Hall, then one about Steere, then one about Judy and Mary, then she would start over again with Marta. The material on Marta at the beach house of Steere was a joke, I know it is fiction but for Marta to do what she did in that much cold and snow is so far out it is unreal. I had really looked forward to reading this book as I enjoyed the others so much. Don't know if I will try another one or not.
5 Remember the best Law book you've ever read? Burn it. When you put your hands on ROUGH JUSTICE and start reading it, you'll never be able to put it away. Why? Cause you just don't think you're reading a book, but watching  the best Law movie you've ever watched. The book is full of twists, action,  wonderful characters that seem to be someone from your own family, and Lisa  Scottoline goes beyond: she makes you laugh by the way she describe things  and put sentences into people's mouth. SHE'S AN AMAZING AUTHOR! Remember  the guy who you think is the best author of the genre? Forget him. Buy this  book and see why I'm so in love with Lisa's books. Just don't start reading  it if you have to work the next day.
5 It is a great read with justice dominant and love of the family and associates foremost.  Can't put the book down.
3 Although this author is very good, this book was very good for an earlier writing for her (it was MUCH better than "Dirty Blonde").  I already figured out who the "bad person" was early on in the book, but it still made for good reading anyway.As Ms. Scottoline continues throughout the years with her writing, she just gets better and better.
5 Another great book from Lisa Scottoline. I'm a fan of her writing and this book was excellent. Now on to my next Scottolijne book and I'm sure I won't be disappointed.
3 this series of books just is what it is - mildly entertaining but the plots are pretty unrealistic.  i mean lawyers running all over the place getting shot at?
5 I just completed my 5th Rosato & Associates book and I am absolutely hooked! I've been a thriller reader for several years now and, unfortunately, most of my favorite authors have either died or stopped writing for other reasons. I keep trying new names with decent reviews but I'm usually disappointed because most of the new names don't seem to know how tell a great story without a huge amount of needless complexity and meaningless plots. Not here!Lisa Scottoline is the most concise author I've ever experienced. Her characters are described in a colorful and concise manner that is very special. You rapidly become attached to them and thoroughly enjoy their successes and predicaments. There is always great and meaningful humor in her stories.I hope she will keep Rosato & Associates alive in the future! I promise to read every single one!Try this author! She will probably win you over too!
4 Much like Michael Connelley'sThe Overlook (Harry Bosch), the action of Lisa Scottoline's "Rough Justice" takes place in less than 24 hours. This is a challenge for a writer and, sometimes, for the reader. (More on that later.) This is a thriller of a thriller. It is not your typical murder mystery in the sense that the reader knows whodunnit right from the start. The questions are why and how it was done, and can these issues be resolved in about 18 hours during a blizzard.Marta Richter, working with Rosato & Associates has found out that her client has lied to her and is a vicious manipulator and murderer. With the jury in deliberations and close to voting for an acquittal, Marta employs two of Bennie Rosato's assistants, Judy Carrier and Mary DiNunzio, to help her gather evidence to put her client behind bars. Marta risks her reputation and career out of jealousy and pride, and a little bit to gain justice. The result is a page-turner of mayhem, murder, attempted murder, legal juggling and the dangers of driving through Philadelphia in a snow storm. The flashbacks concerning Marta's childhood add a poignant dimension to her character and explain her desire to go all the way to convict a man she had defended.I mentioned earlier that setting a mystery/thriller in so short a time span can be a challenge for a writer and, sometimes, for the reader. Pacing is a major concern. However, Lisa Scottoline has the talent to pull this off quite easily. I had no trouble keeping up, but I was becoming restless with some of the digressive scenes that really did not add to the enjoyment of the novel or the advancement of the plot. The assistant D.A.'s domestic problems (his wife just gave birth to twins), a judge's concern about his future, a juror's dyspepsia, while they all have somethig to do with the plot, could have been easily compressed or even edited out. Obviously, by my rating, this did not detract me from eagerly reading along. "Rough Justice" isn't perfect but it sure as hell is going to satisfy any reader of mystery/crime/thriller novels.
5 This was a purchase on my Kindle; immediate &#34;whisper&#34; delivery; could not be more satisfied with my Kindle (just a plain, ordinary Kindle--yes, I am an avid reader--I wanted an e-book).  LOVE my Kindle!
1 I understand that fiction is not always true-to-life.  But this story is SO far-fetched that it just makes bad fiction.  From beginning to end, it is just nonsense. There really is no other word to describe it.  I don't understand the raving reviews by some of the people on here. They must not read very much. I have enjoyed other books by Lisa Scottoline. This one is just awful.
5 So far it is excellent. Haven't finished reading it yet but it has me on the edge of the chair.
5 I couldn't put it down.  I've been reading Ms. Scottoline's books for years now and I loved reading about the early years of Bennie Rosato.  Thanks for a great read.
5 I am a fan and love all her books. I read her series novels as well as anything else I see her name on. I am an Italian American living on the east coast and worked for 20 years in the criminal justice system. I find her Italian references and family life realistic and funny.
5 Page-Turner and full of suspense!  Millionaire, Steere, confesses his guilt to one of his four attorneys, Marta Richter, while the jury is deciding his innocence.  With less than 24 hours, she decides to prove Steere is a murderer. Obstacles soar at every turn for this group of women attorneys, a blizzard and a shooter trying to stop their efforts. Cold, tired and afraid for their own personal saftey these women are relentless in the pursuit for the true ID of the man who was murdered and the conviction for the man whom they have defended
3 Intersting premise. I enjoyed this book, with certain reservations until the end.  Don't want to give it away, but anyone who knows anything about comtemporary Amercian history will notice it... Hint: Consider how Catholics are dealt with in this &quot;world&quot;.
3 The Premise of Daniel Easterman's Alternate History novel 'K' is wonderfuly eerie.  In 1933 Charles Lindbergh, backed by the Ku Klux Klan, becomes the President of the United States instead of Roosevelt.  Under his naive leadership, Fascism explodes in America.  Lynchings are legal, concentration camps flourish, and by 1940 the possibility of America entering WWII on the side of Nazi Germany is very real.  Easterman succeeds brilliantly in creating this nightmare world where neighbors spy on neighbors and anyone who doesn't fit into the Klan's narrow view of the world is expendable.  But despite this wonderfully creeepy background, Easterman really fumbles the ball on the story.  He loses quite a bit of credibility describing, (or not describing), the way in which characters slip away from the secret police, meet, and escape at various points in the story.  Also, the basic plot seems muddled, as though Easterman himself wasn't quite sure where to take his characters to build suspence.  The climax is less than exciting, but by this point the reader isn't expecting much.  Another reviewer mentioned a glaring historical error at the end of this book.  That oversight only serves to again undermine the author's, and thus the story's, credibility even further.  Still, if you're a sucker for a decent AH story with some really good historical twists, (J. Edgar Hoover becomes America's Himmler as head of the Federal Bureau of Internal Security), you may very well enjoy this book.  It's just too bad such a wonderful premise was wasted on such a lackluster story.
1 It might be fun to speculate about what history might have been like if .... . But this book is different. It confirms all - mainly British - prejudices about Germany and - this is unfair - makes the US part of it. Only Great Britain seems to be the root of democracy. It might have slipped Easterman's mind that the English invented the concentration camps when they fought against South Africa's independence. And they fought against a lot of peoples who wanted to be independent from the Great British Rule. I have always been a fan of Easterman's. But this novel is really bad, its plot lousy, its characters ludicrous. And his German is even more ridiculous. His worst novel.
4 I found K to be a good read. I`am surprised that there is only one review, and a highly inaccurate one at that! Must have wanted the free $50 voucher,  without even going to the trouble of reading the book in the first place!  The book is not about a German conquest of the United States. It is set in  1940, against the backdrop of the Ku Klux Klan taking power in the United  States, under Charles Lindbergh, who defeats Franklin Roosevelt in the 1932  Presidential elections. By 1940 the United States is a police-state with  more concentration camps than Nazi Germany, with whom it is a sworn ally,  against Britain and the Soviet Union. We also meet John Edgar Hoover, who  is in charge of the FBIS (Federal Bureau of Internal Security) which is the  USA's equivalent of Nazi Germany's SS. In this alternate KKK-run America  the Black's have been re-enslaved and the Jew's are Public Enemy No.1, as  they were in Hitler's Germany. The plot of the story is basically the story  of John Ridgeforth, a British agent, who has been sent into this alternate  America to assasinate David Stephenson, the Vice-President. Who is on the  verge of shunting President Lindbergh aside, becoming president himself and  bringing the United States into the war on Germany's side and crushing  Britain between them. Whether he succeeds or not, i`am not about to reveal,  for fear of ruining the book for those who may be thinking about buying it.  The book is a good read for those with an interest in alternate history and  it does go a good way to explaining how a few small changes in 1920's  America could have made the scenario of this book into a reality! Which  would have seen that we would all be living in a very different world  today!
5 This was chilling to read during the invasion and occupation of Iraq and the climate of prejudice, judgmental attitudes, fear, bigotry, 'brainwashedness', loss of rights, and intolerance.  It looks to me like US going that direction (as it is in the book) fast.  Yes, I'm a US citizen
4 I was recommended this book by a friend who said that he had managed to get a number of his friend's hooked on the series. I can see why. The storyline is quite clever and the character of Flashman is an original and refreshing one. Certainly the kind of book you can easily spend hours reading.Overall I'd say this is a boy's book since the main topics relate to Flash's military and sexual adventures. However, I'm pretty sure that there are some females out there would enjoy the fun too!
4 George MacDonald Fraser's "Flashman: A Novel" is a funny ribald fictional account of a 19th century British officer and his adventures.  The book starts with Flashman joining the famed 11 Regiment of Light Dragoons in England.  Soon his adventures take him to Scotland (after a duel with a fellow officer), then to India, and finally to Afghanistan.Flashman is an anti-hero.  There is nothing redeeming about him - his entire life is focused on taking care of himself, usually with women and drinking.  He is completely and unabashedly a coward and ends up being a survivor (in real life there was only one) of the British retreat from Kabul and a hero of the siege of Jalalabad.  Despite his cowardice and lack of redeeming qualities, you can't help but laugh at him and his adventures and pull for his continued "success."
4 The Flashman series sets the conventions of the adventure novel on their head.  I expected Flashman to be a little like Rhett Butler or an Errol Flynn type - cynical, smart, self-interested, but heroic when the chips are down.  He's nothing like that - not only is he thoroughly cowardly he's also rotten to the core.  There is no trace of chivalry in Flashman.  Only the barest trace of plain decency for that matter.In the first volume of his adventures Flashman gets kicked out of school and buys an Army commission.  After cheating successfully in a duel and being forced to marry against his will, our non-hero is sent to India, where he thrives with one of his few real skills - a knack for learning languages.The main story is Flashman's adventures in Afghanistan.  Trapped in a catastrophic campaign (a real historic event) Flashman contrives, through more luck than cunning, to come out as one of the few survivors and covered in glory to boot.I didn't find it as funny as some of the other reviewers, but this is an enjoyable, well written story.
5 If you enjoy history from the perspective of a cad, scoundrel, rake and part-time gentlemen then Flashman is for you.
5 As many of the other reviewers have pointed out, this is the recounting of the first of Harry Flashman's adventures, with this particular book ("memoir") set in Britain and Afghanistan in 1839-42.  Flashman is a true rogue who routinely engages in thoroughly disreputable behavior (much like Jack Vance's character "Cugel" in the Dying Earth series), but you'll love him anyway.  Fraser's prose is extremely well-crafted and the book is, at times, literally laugh-out-loud funny (my wife asked me what I was laughing about half a dozen times while I was reading Flashman).  He has a knack for being in just the right place at the right time, and ends up playing at least a minor role in most of the important historical events of the mid-19th Century.  Terrible things happen to him throughout the course of his adventures, though somehow, Flashman always manages to come out ahead in the end, even if he's slightly worse for the wear.Fraser's history seems quite good (even elaborating on a few of the more obscure points with unobtrusive footnotes) and this is probably a good introduction for someone looking to find out a bit about British mid-19th Century involvement in Afghanistan.  You don't have to be an historian to enjoy the book, however; it's extremely approachable for the layman.Oh and don't bring any politically correct sensibilities with you when you read Flashman.  Flash is most definitely *not* politically correct.  Far from it.  He's a man of his time (well, that's a bit of an understatement, Flashman is an avowed scoundrel and coward) and his actions and language may offend some readers, so you should be aware of that going into it.I've only read a few other Flashman books so far, but I plan to continue on with them.  While most seem fairly self-contained, I'd recommend starting the series with this one, as it gives you a very good feel for Flashman's character and sets the tone for the remainder of the series.
4 Fraser managed to solve a conundrum. A novel where the main character is utterly unlikeable, arrogant, cowardly, cynical, without the least ethical code and the story in itself is epic and grand&#8230;where usually powerful and charismatic heroes save the day and the damsel in distress, here a pathetic coward is The man.Here we aren&#8217;t facing an anti-hero. No. He is just a guy with no ethics and some dumb luck. There is no angst, no terrible curse or difficult background&#8230;he is just a self centered coward.And even so, it&#8217;s difficult to stop reading this magnificent adventure where you dive into the Victorian British Empire, through duels, romantic conquests (and blunders), difficult diplomatic missions (and blunders), tough battles in Afghanistan (and blunders). Seems that there are a lot of blunders in this book; don&#8217;t miss the start of the glorious career of the inglorious Harry Flashman.
5 How many of us.. with a low chuckle and under our breath murmur... "flashy"... with a smile on our faces, whilst reading the flashman series, when our hero gets into one of his numerous scrapes?A very likeable rogue, first read flashman in 1986, cried with laughter. The introduction and flashy's confessions over "not mixing drinks" is an absolute classic line. The whole book is worth it for this paragraph alone!!The funniest book I have ever read.Later books in the series I find weaker, the author was much stronger I feel during his early writings, however, not to negate from the series, they are all funny, some just incredible and some.. well.. some a tad formulaic perhaps.
5 Well who would have thought it, I actually made it to Heaven. They let me in on a technicality, I believe. It seems I passed the test for honesty and truthfulness. All right, only to myself, but that's a lot better than the pious hypocrites back on Earth who praise the Lord on Sundays and blast the Heathen every which way till Fridays.Not that all is well, mind. The chap who said you go to Hell for the company knew what he was talking about. This place is as full of bores as the Lords before Reform.Not only bores, but some of my old sparring partners have turned up, or rather, were waiting at the gates for me with heavenly knuckle dusters. Sergeant Hudsen, for one. You'll remember him. He was the brave idiot who killed the four Ghastlies, as I call 'em, back in Afghanistan. And Scud East, though he, of course, has forgiven me.Oh well, I guess I must make do as usual. At least there are no blasted Bishops.Flashman at the Charge (Flashman)
1 Even though I'm pretty sure this is meant to be ironic, I hated it.  I hated the main character, the plot, the other characters, and the person who recommended it (a little bit).  This is one of the few books I quit reading before the end.  I removed it from my Kindle.
5 How had I never heard of these before? They&#8217;re pure fun.  Harry Flashman is a fictional British military hero from the 19th century whose memoirs (The Flashman Papers) are discovered decades later. In them, Flashman writes of his adventuring in the Afghan military campaign, going toe-to-toe with Otto Von Bismarck, and rubbing elbows/seducing/offending other historical figures. Flashman is the worst kind of lead: misogynist, a coward, racist, womanizing, opportunistic, selfish, clever, and lucky. Each of the Flashman Papers follows roughly the same story arc: Flashman, whose life is privileged and character irredeemable, finds himself in progressively worse and worse circumstances&#8212;partially of his own creation, partially of bad luck&#8212;but always emerges the hero of the story. Every book is like watching in slow motion as a friend drives your car drunk, totals it into preschool, then walks away without a scratch. The books work somewhat because of that simple formula, but moreso because they are so, so well executed. They&#8217;re funny, rife with dry English humor and absurd characters. They&#8217;re also easy page turners, so good for travel or pool reading.
4 After a period of rather heavy reading, I was ready for something different, something entertaining and which wasn't going to require too much work on my part.  For reasons too oblique to go into here, I settled on George MacDonald Fraser's 'Flashman' - the story of Harry Flashman, the bully from 'Tom Brown's School Days'.  Here Flashman's 'discovered papers' begin with his expulsion from school and entrance into the army, and continues through the disastrous retreat of the British from Kabul in 1842.A blurb from the New York Times Book Review is on the front cover of the Plume edition ("Hilariously Funny"); on the back, "Splendidly Entertaining" is Time Magazine's assessment.  This is, of course, the standard fluff we see everywhere, but in this case, I'd at least agree with Time.  (The New York Time Book Review reviewer needs, I think, to get out more.)  Even 'Splendidly Entertaining' is going to require some serious caveats though - Harry Flashman, as a man, has no redeeming values at all, and if, during the story, he ever has a chance of doing the right thing, the author specifically makes the point of having him take the coward's way out.  And, by luck, by lies, by hook and by crook, Flashman, who falls again and again into the worst possible situations, comes out of each smelling like a rose.Flashman is the anti-hero's hero - a gestalt of despicable impulse, self-serving toadyism, and a misogynistic, racist coward - although at least he never claims to be anything else.  Little, then, to inspire reading about him, though the book as a whole works well as a satire of the naively chivalric and self-sacrificing heroic tales I read as a teen.  It gives those fantastically pure adolescent fantasies a poke in the eye, so to speak, which may be as good a definition of guilty pleasure as any.To my limited knowledge, Fraser's eye on history seems pretty keen, and amidst the exaggeration, I suspect that some of Flashman's contemptible behavior was actually fairly common - especially his exalted attitude as a member of the English upper class.  Other aspects of Flashman's actions are probably atypical or drawn out to absurd conclusions, at least to the extent that they were all inherent within one person.  But, as the antithesis of all that is implied by the words honor, duty and glory, Flashman probably illustrates the temptations that most of us either resist or succumb to, as the case may be.  That, I think, explains best of all why, as an adventure series, Flashman continues its popularity.As the first in the series, 'Flashman' is fresh enough and exciting, but I could tell that even by the end of this installment, the 'out of the frying pan and into the fire' method of storytelling and the unrealistic circumstances that continually propel Harry into the hero's spotlight were beginning to wear thin.  I'm sure that there will come a day when I pick up the next in the series, but I think it would be best to let quite a bit of time go by first.  Even if every book that follows maintained the same standard, I think familiarity would set in quickly and degrade the concept.  And, satire or not, it is often offensive.  A little of it goes a long way.  In the end, I don't know that I'd recommend 'Flashman', unless I knew who I was recommending it to, although, as a diversion, I found it effective and entertaining.
5 Liar. Scoundrel. Drunkard. Braggart. Cad. Harry Flashman is all of these things, and yet one is compelled to follow his every move as he wends his way through this outlandish story. He is, quite simply, a man you love to hate. Born to a world of privilege, Harry drinks, wenches and lies his way through life aided only by his uncanny luck, family name and social status. (In fact, he reminds me of a certain person currently occupying the White House.) All in all, it is a fabulous read for anyone who enjoys scrupulously researched and footnoted (though apocryphal) historical fiction with a wicked sense of humor.
4 Some find this book to be very humorous good fun while others are highly offended by the racism and violence against women. I have come to the belief that it is a highly cynical look at human nature and institutions set in a historic satire. Some reviewers think that it is hilariously funny. This is not how I would characterize this novel. It is a clever, yet often disturbing, tale about the weaknesses in human character and in our most revered institutions; the royalty and aristocracy, the military and competency, marriage and fidelity, meritocracy and self sacrifice, courage and heroism. All are turned on their heads in this novel that spares no one nor any human created institution.It is easy to focus on the character of Harry Flashman since he is a rogue, scoundrel, cheat, liar, rapist, racist, coward, snob, womanizer, murderer, and adulterer. However it is the institutions around him that are also under the microscope since the British Empire was managed by incompetent aristocrats, convinced of their own personal and racial superiority, who brought about great hardship and pain to those of the lower classes whom they dominated.I found the historic aspects of the novel very interesting and verified that many of the military characters and terrible events in this novel were factual. The book is very timely since both the Soviet Union and the United States have been bogged down in Afghanistan for decades.Fraser is a clever writer, a great one for details. He makes Flashman have only two good qualities, he is an excellent equestrian and linguist. However these two qualities are needed so that Flashman can make one escape after another and so that he can converse with the enemy so that we get both sides of a conflict. The racism of the British Empire is highlighted and made even more obvious by the cruel yet strategic actions of the Afghanistan leadership as they push the British out of their country.I am disturbed by the n-word which is used throughout the book to apply to anyone of dark skin including south Indians who are racially Caucasians of dark skin. I think I am disturbed by the use of this word because it is offensive and hurtful. In this book, written in 1969 after the critical battles of the Civil Rights movement had been fought, it is used to illustrate the power of privilege and class to dominate and suppress others, to their great detriment.The book is primarily about military incompetence in a time when the officers purchased their commissions and the working class served in the lower ranks on the front lines. The character of Hudson, the soldier who accompanies Flashman in the final chapters, is such a perfect contrast to the incompetence of the officers around him.I gradually became more engaged in the book once I was able to frame it as satire aimed at privilege and class and the institutions designed to perpetuate classism by claiming a faade of meritocracy. I also saw a shift in the book as some of the victimized women showed their hidden abilities to survive in a male dominated world. Finally, the book builds the case that meritocracy is often an illusion dictated by chance and false impressions.
5 In looking over my reviews and not seeing Flashman listed was shocking! How could I ever overlook the single greatest fictional character that was ever wrote about.And this is from an avid Sherlock Holmes fan.George Macdonald Fraser does not get anywhere near the credit he deserves as a writer because he was not "politically correct".What he was though was a GREAT story teller who also could write.You may or may not like Flashy as a person but you will have to say he was a great character and maybe the luckiest man who ever lived.If you want action and adventure,ride with Flashy! Any aspiring authors would be well advised to read GMF's Flashman's series to see how a story should be told and how to write a good book.Some of this trash I see that authors try to pass off as a novel are laughable compared to GMF.There are many pretenders out there but unfortunately there are few George Macdonald Fraser's.May he RIP.
5 In this the first of the Flashman books, George M. Fraser reintroduces the world to the arch-cad first mentioned in &quot;Tom Browns School Days&quot;. A character of such dubious distinction that you can't help but  love him. We begin with Flashy's return home after expulsion from the  prestigious Rugby school and end up at the disasterous retreat by the  British from Kabul. Along the way, we are treated to some not so flattering  profiles of various historical personages as well as Flashy's amorous  encounters. All told with tongue firmly planted in cheek by a masterful  historian who makes the social contradictions of the Victorian period come  vividly to life.You will laugh and you will shake your head in  consternation, but I promise that (if you have any sense of humor)you will  enjoy this book. Be sure to check out Flashy's other adventures as well!
5 If your a Flashman  junkie, the book is just the thing .The  likeable coward takes you through more of his mishaps with  unbelievable results only G. Fraser can pull off.All the characters are flawed, ,just as life is flawed.Fun reading.Did Flashman father Errol Flynn?
5 What a great read! In 1969 English author George MacDonald Fraser published the first (of eleven) novels on the life and career of Harry Paget Flashman! Flashman was first seen in print as the bully boy in Thomas Hughes' classic novel "Tom Brown's Schooldays."The Plot: Young Harry Flashman is expelled from Dr. Thomas Arnold's Rugby School where he has been sent down for drunkeness.The young wastrel enlists in the army following in the footsteps of his dissolute father. Flashman is stationed in Scotland where he seduces and weds Elspeth Morrison. This less than brilliant but beautiful blonde is the daughter of Mr. Morrison who is a manufacturer. Flashman is sent to India and later to Afghanistan. He is captured by Afghan rebels and nearly tortured to death. Flashman participates in the British Army's retreat from Kabul resulting in a massive slaughter of the troops, Indian sepoys and British women and children. Flashman returns home a national hero for his efforts in the first Afghan War. He is nevertheless a scoundrel who is a rapist, coward and a seducer of women all ages, shapes and sizes! His wife Elspeth has been unfaithful during his long sojourn abroad. Flashman is received by the Duke of Wellington and is presented a medal for valor given him by young Queen Victoria. Give Flashman credit for being honest about his military exploits!The Review's Assessment of the Novel: I found this book to be at times hilarious and at other times it blazes with adventure worthy of a nineteenth century James Bond (the author Fraser wrote the screenplay for Octopussy). Flashman is the narrator of his career poking fun at British Victorian hypocrisy and incompetence in the British colonial army. He is able to paint with a broad brush the sights and smells of exotic locals in Afghanistan and India. Flashman serves as the first person narrator of his amazing career. Though the book is fictional the author claims he discovered the Flashman papers in the 1960s. The papers were suppposedly written by the elderly Flashman during his retirement.The Flashman novels are a delight!  The series is not for the squeamish or those adverse to coarse language. The Flashman books are well written and researched. If you want to enjoy a few hours in the company of a rogue who will entertain and enlight you then be quick to sign up in the British army alongside that magnificent cad Harry Flashman. Enjoy!!!
5 The idea of the chronicle of the rise to fame, wealth and glory of the base bully of &#34;Tom Brown's School Days&#34; is surely one of the most imaginative ideas for a series of novels anyone ever had.  Too bad the author passed away before he could tell us how Flashman later became a colonel in both the Confederate and Federal armies during the War of Northern Imperialist Aggression in the 1860's.  The end notes give a fascinating glimpse into the history of the Victorian era.  Of the entire &#34;Flashman&#34; series I rate this one, and &#34;Flashman and the Redskins&#34; the best.  Great adventure, great skullduggery, and delicious irony--a great read.
5 George MacDonald Fraser's &#34;Flashman&#34; novels are gems- great history wedding to absurdly hysterical storytelling.  Meet Harry Flashman: coward, womanizer, gambler, drunk, thief, and hero of the British Empire.  In this first adventure, Flashy joins the army, seduces a Scottish lass and is forced into marriage by her industrialist father.  Soon our hero is assigned to  the fighting in Afghanistan, where he succeeds though sheer chance.  A brilliant character and a phenomenal start to wonderful series &#34;Flashman&#34; is must reading for fans of military fiction, or lovers of great comedy novels in the English tradition.  Absolutely first rate!
3 I read the first Flashman novel out of curiosity about the series from all the reviews I've read. It was well-written and funny in parts, but I don't personally care much for Flashman, so won't pursue the series.
2 I've been enjoying the Flashman series from my local library, and was looking forwards to the Kindle edition. But 12.99 is just too expensive to make it worthwhile. I'd pay 5.99, but not more. Also, has Kindle figured out how to implement the Notes feature such that it's easy to use? For the print books the notes are key to connecting the fiction and the fact, and you have to be able to easily jump back and forth. Earlier Kindle books weren't too good at this, and I hope that this has been addressed in this series.
5 The author of this brilliant series, George MacDonald Fraser, passed away on January 2, 2008.  I think I speak for many readers here when I thank him for years of reading pleasure.  Flashman made me laugh, uproariously, but while I was highly amused, I was also taught so much about this extraordinary age of the British Empire. The Crimean War, The Indian Mutiny, and so many other episodes were brought vividly to life.  Fraser used his cast of characters to show both the gallantry and the absurdity of war. His books sparked an interest in history which I hold to this day.  So, rest in peace, G.M.F., ...Thanks and Cheers!
1 I had high hopes for "Flashman," hearing the series described as having the wit of Wodehouse, lots of rousing adventure and historical accuracy. But with an early scene of Flashman slapping around his girlfriend and then playing a cruel trick on a fellow officer, my enthusiasm waned. Things just got worse with more beatings of women, lots of racist ranting and some unconvincing swashbuckling. Fraser seems to find humor in thuggery and charm in crude brutality. Harry's just not an appealing character, and the "historical detail" is not worth having to put up with him. And as this was written in 1969, the lavish use of the n-word seems a particularly interesting choice. (As I am also a big fan of Chuck Palahniuk, Outkast and Adam Sandler, you can't dismiss me as some kind of PC prude.) The rousing adventure is usually of the "farmer's daughter" type and the settings doesn't come to life. Why would I read another book about a nasty frat boy when it just really isn't any fun? Try T.E. Lawrence ("Seven Pillars of Wisdom") or Robert Byron ("Road to Oxiana") if you want genuinely amusing Brit characters in exotic locales.
5 Thoroughly enjoyed reading this highly amusing fictional account of the Anglo-Afghan War. Flashman is undoubtedly an Anti-Hero, but he's a very funny Anti-Hero and completely consistent with British attitudes of the period.
5 ... the school bully?  George MacDonald Fraser (April 2nd, 1925 - January 2nd, 2008) answers that question for one of the most famous bullies in literature.  "Flashman" is the book which kicks off the series of books in which Fraser lets us know what happened next in the life of the Bully from Thomas Hughes' "Tom Brown's Schooldays".  Harry Paget Flashman is the anti-hero of this series of books, and it all starts here as Flashman takes up the narrative, after correcting Hughes on one important manner and proceeds to tell the story of the rest of his life.  This volume, the first of "The Flashman Papers" series, deals with the years 1839 - 1842 and takes us from dealing with being kicked out of Rugby through his service in the first Anglo-Afghan War.Fraser does a wonderful job of taking Thomas Hughes' school bully and creating a life consistent with someone who never grows out of the same type of behavior.  The narrative is humorous and from a character perspective open and honest, as who would know better than Harry Flashman the cowardly actions he takes throughout his life, and the undeserved rewards which he is given.  The key to the story though is that Fraser is true to the character as defined by Hughes.  Although certainly a despicable character, he does have the ability to use his charm, and he has an incredible amount of luck which prevents most people from finding out his serious deficiencies of character.One fairly minor point which detracts slightly from the overall effort is that there are a few too many references back to Hughes.  It suits its purpose well at the start of the book, but becomes unnecessary and in some cases interrupts the narrative when it occurs later in the book.  This minor deficiency is more than made up for in the artful historical lessons, complete with footnotes, which Fraser teaches in the telling of the story.  The reader is having enough fun that they fail to realize that they are getting a fairly decent description of historical events and key figures in the disastrous result of the British Army's occupation of Kabul.If you enjoy history, and don't mind reading from the perspective of a despicable character, and perhaps occasionally rooting for him, then "Flashman" may be a good choice for you.  I am looking forward to reading his continuing adventures in "Royal Flash", the second book in the series.  This one rounds up to five stars.
5 Wow, now this is a hero that is just as human as the rest of us.  Of course, I do not admire him for the terrible things that he does (ok, I admit it, I do, but only off the record), but I am tired of heroes that are just impossibly moral with ethics that are 200 years out of place.  Old Flashy is one of us.  He is honest about how he feels, the fear and anger and everything else seem as believable as if we had faced those same circumstances.  He fails to overcome these fears and prejudices, but how many other authors really address these issues in such a cool way.This is probably the way most officers are in any army anywhere in the world.Fraser transports us directly into Afganistan, with not so much detail to bore, but just enough to think that you are right there along with Flashy.
3 Well, even when read in 2010, this book indeed has its funny and quite hilarious moments. But such are minor episodes and comprise only about 10 - 15% of the text.  In the main "Flashman" is a serious indictment of Britain early in Queen Victoria's reign, approximately 1840. British imperialism and the stupidity of fighting native foreigners on their own soil is Fraser's theme that exemplifies pure British oafishness.Its relevance to 2010 Afghanistan is amazingly uncanny and very scary. What on earth are Americans (and the UK too) doing there today other than repeating age-old mistakes, waging a winless war and dying?  But, back to "Flashman."One has to simply tolerate Flashman and his misogyny, beliefs, conduct and idiotic philosophy. So much of his anti-woman rhetoric is simply abominable today, even if it reflected some reality of the early 19th Century and even in its comedic format. Would this book have been funny back then?  Or, in 1969 when it was published?  Does anyone think misogyny is funny now?There is also a strong homoerotic flavor in much of the story and plenty of the subsequent garbage and name-calling surrounding love and attraction between men, fitting to the era. This tone was especially obvious between Flashman and Sergeant Hudson.What rings true and fully entertaining is the scathing critique of Jolly Olde England, the unspeakably snobbish upper class brainlessness of Britain, the class distinctions, the disgusting racism, its colonialism, the mind-set of Brits who were ostensibly in charge of its empire, and the soon debunked superiority of all things British. Just look at the U.K. now for affirmation of the folly of its colonialism and its subjugation of all who were not properly born white British "Gentlemen and Ladies."Rather than focusing on the truly funny passages in "Flashman," a reader should relish in its sober history lessons.  For that reason alone, this book is worth reading.If you are content to simply read this story as a comic book, replete with stand-up comedy put-down sarcasm, that works, too.All in all, it's a 3 on Amazon's rating scale.
3 As an account of the disastrous Afghan campaign of the early Victorian era, this novel succeeds beyond expectations. In terms of character and plot development, one sometimes gets the impression that any movie of the Indiana Jones series is more realistic. Only for history buffs (like myself).
4 Have you ever wondered what it was really like in the Victorian age? How the heroes of the "Charge of the Light Brigade" and "Last stand at Rorke's Drift", to name a few epic events in British military history, really behaved when they weren't fighting for Queen, country and the honor of their regiment while keeping a stiff upper lip?Well, meet Flashman: scoundrel, cad, drunkard, incompetent, coward, anti-hero and (even for those times, but even more so now) totally politically incorrect. And those are his good qualities. At the first sign of danger and/or trouble, his instinct is always to run like hell to save his own skin and the devil take the hindmost. Mothers & fathers, keep your daughters (and husbands your wives) as far away from him as possible, because he chases after anything in a skirt and uses every trick in the book (and a few out of it) to get laid. The Flashman Papers are his memoirs, and he "tells it like it is", sparing no punches.And you really can learn a lot about history from him, for while trying to keep his skin intact, he manages to land smack in the middle of some of the most famous historical events (Flashy was there at the charge of the Light Brigade, at the retreat from Kabul in 1842, at Custer's defeat at Little Big Horn to name just a few) and rubs elbows with some of the most famous people of that era: Raglan, Queen Victoria, Lincoln, Custer, Kit Carson - to name just a few.For example, in "Flashman", you get a historically accurate look at how the British got kicked out of Afghanistan in 1842 during the First Afghan War (Bush take notice: "history is a mirror of the past/and a lesson for the present" as an old Persian proverb goes).So, read "Flashman", the first novel in the series about the adventures of Harry Flashman, as he lies, steals and wenches his way through the Victorian age.Anyway, having read this book I'm still not sure what to think about Flashman: if I like to hate, or hate to like him. What I do know is this: I want to read the next adventure of the Flashman Papers! So I've ordered the next couple of books in this series. The only reason I gave this book only four stars, is because this series can only get better!
5 Harry Flashman is the quinticential anti-hero: a liar, cheat, adulterer, poltroon, theif and braggart.  He is also seen as the very model of Victorian virtue.  And therein lies the appeal and delicious duplicity that has made the Flashman papers so popular.  We, the reader, are in on the joke.In _Flashman_, the template is set for Fraser's other Flashman novels: Flash's unceremonious expulsion from public school, his "shotgun wedding," and the wildly undeserved accolades for bravery and gallantry while Flashy engages in every manner of dubious and lecherous behaviour.For fans of historical fiction, military history or slightly off-colour humor, I highly recommend it.
5 Harry Flashman, aka Flashy, is a coward and a cad, not to mention one horny devil. His sense of self-preservation is exceeded only by his most incredible luck. 'Flashman' begins the series of tales that relate Flashy's exploits. The book begins with Flashy being kicked out of school, cuckolding his own father, joining and being thrown out of the 11th Hussars, but ending up in India and then Afghanistan with British Army.The tale is told from the long lost Flashman Papers written when Flashy is 80 years old. He is shamelessly honest about his youthful dishonesty, cowardice, treachery, and womanizing. Sometimes I would begin to think 'well, Flashy is really just giving voice to the same fears that every soldier feels in the face of imminent battle and likely death', but then he'll do something dreadfully base, contemptible, detestable, dirty, dishonorable, low, mean, sordid, vile, and wretched and then I remember just what a despicable character he has - funny, magnetic, and almost loveable, but despicable nonetheless!Absolutely hilarious. Highest recommendation. I can't wait to read the next book in the series, Royal Flash.
5 At first I was put off by the idea that we are invited to laugh at the antics of an anti-hero who is, among other things, a rapist.  Fraser's artistry overcame these qualms. Partly he accomplished this for me by never making excuses. Flashman is villainous through and through. He is a coward and groveling toady.  None of the horrors surrounding him are glossed over. Children die and strong men cry.At any rate those are my excuses for enjoying such politically incorrect entertainment.  It is thoroughly enjoyable entertainment. It is also a good history of the first Afghan War, something which may have resonance for Americans today.  Americans may be less familiar with some of the nuances of Victorian English society that Flashman was up against.  He was the villain of a book, little read today, "Tom Brown's Schooldays" that extolled the joys of  the school established by Thomas Arnold, a single-sex boarding school in which every teacher was an ordained clergyman.
4 I enjoyed this book set in the British colonial period as an adventure story set in a historical period.  It has lots of action, interesting characters, and the author moves the story along.  The main character, Flashman, is a slimy, unethical jerk; which at times gives the story a comic line; but other times, you get fed up with him.
4 Yes there are some politically incorrect parts here but even though this book is some 30 years old it seems to be meant that way.  Set in Victorian age England it has so many delightful tongue in cheek moments it will have you in stiches.  The fly on the wall historical stuff also gave enjoyment to this amateur history buff.  I'd recommend and cant wait to get to the next installment of the Flashy series and see if they are all this much fun!
4 Why an 8? Well Flashman takes some time to digest but once you've accepted the &quot;hero&quot; for what he is it is a wonderful trip through History. Fraser has a keen eye and makes the period come alive with richly researched detail. You end up wishing that there was indeed a Flashman. A British Gentleman, O.B.E. and all that, once told me Flashman was one of his favorites.  Take that as a high compliment Mr. Fraser. My only gripe is that the long awaited Civil War novel has yet to appear. Try one, they are very re-readable and at the moment available. Flashman at the Charge and Flashman and the Great Game will provide a very enjoyable start after the first Flashman.
5 A friend of mine essentially forced me to read Flashman, after talking the series up for years and I am quite glad I picked the novel up.  It truly is a &quot;rollicking&quot; read, always amusing, often hilarious.  Flashman is a highly decorated British war hero who, in his eighties decided to set the record straight and reveal what a cad and coward he is.  His exploits are extremely funny--without even trying, he manages to convince the whole country of his bravery in Afghanistan when it couldn't be farther from the truth.  Enjoy this one.
5 The most witty and amusing anti-hero out there. It is also a good way to learn about the British Empire.
5 One of the best 'historical' series ever written, 'Flashman' rates right up there with the Patrick O'Brian Jack Aubrey series!  I won't spoil the tale, but basically, Flashman is the beginning tale of the long career of a thorough cad and scalliwag, bouncing from one disaster to the next throughout the world of the 19th Century in a manner somewhat reminiscent of 'Forrest Gump,' though with none of the naivete.  Because of the various events Flashman becomes involved with, it is almost impossible for his career to be anything other than what he is (anything more 'noble' would have been killed off in infancy!), and it is splendid to see the hypocrisy of the Victorian world exposed for what it was... preposterous noble sentiments glossed over with religious overtones, all concealing a rapacity, bigotry and greed that has rarely been seen in any other time frame.  Excellent history (you will learn a lot!), splendid imagery, and altogether, you can't ask for much more in this genre!
4 "Flashman: From the Flashman Papers 1839 - 1842" is fun book, suitable for  the beach or a long trip, with first rate action writing. My favorite  section shows how Flashman, following his instinct for selfishness and  self-preservation, became the sole English survivor, as well as the hero,  at doomed Fort Piper in the assault on Jallalabad (pages 183-215 in the  Plume edition). I was also moved by the descriptions of the poorly lead  British army in its suicidal withdrawal from Kabul (161-183). One  complaint: In this first "Flashman" book, Flashy's lechery begins as  amusing, but eventually turns dark and disturbing.
5 ... as the inimitable Harry Flashman himself said of General Elphinstone, commander of the British forces in Kabul during the First Anglo-Afghan War, in which Flashman was an unwilling participant. "If you had taken the greatest military geniuses of the ages, placed them in command of our army, and asked them to ruin it utterly as speedily as possible, they could not -- I mean it seriously -- have done it as surely and swiftly as he did. And he believed he was doing his duty." (p. 186 of my Harper paperback edition)The prose is glorious and gory. The satire cuts breathtakingly close to the bone. Coward, cad, rapist, liar, reluctant soldier and enthusiastic womanizer, Flashman is a hero for our age.Caveat: Flashy's sheer, thoroughgoing badness may be too much for some readers. Those who wait for him to reveal a heart of gold, or even a trace of the nobler sentiments that Arnold Hughes must (surely?) have taught him, will wait in vain. However, Flashman is as honest in his observations of others as of himself: he notes nobility and goodness, etc. where he sees them (usually in corpses).If you like Molesworth, you'll love Flashman. (Molesworth might have grown up to be Flashman, if he were born a hundred years earlier.) This series should also appeal to readers who appreciate the humor of V.S. Naipaul, Kingsley Amis, and Evelyn Waugh.
5 I read this book for the first time, many years ago.  And, as with all Flashman books, I don't want to call them novels.  I have read it many times.  I downloaded it to read again during my fourth visit to Afghanistan and enjoyed it as much as I did the first time.  I sometimes call it my guide book - and I am not being entirely facetious - for, when I look at the hills overlooking Kabul, GMF's descriptions of the Elphinstone retreat comes to life.  Perhaps some of the later Flashman books  have more substance, gained as GMG expanded his works.  But this, the original, will always have a soft spot in my library and mental savouring of key observations.
5 Harry Paget Flashman is a galloping good time. A true slacker for the ages. See how far a british soldier can get with a good ear for languages, fine horsemanship skills, and a heap of good luck. Learn how to apply the famous "Flashy half-nelson" which he employs whenever possible. (One hand squeezing her arse and t'other fondling one of her poonts) Reading any of the books in this series will buff up your knowledge of late 19th century history.
5 In a good week, I read two books. So, over the past ten years, that makes...well you do the math. Out of all of them over the past 10 years, I have to rank &quot;Flashman&quot; among the top 10 if not the best outright. Fun, exciting, naughty and more. This was my first venture into the irreverent world of Flashman, but not the last. I am eager to read the entire series after this enjoyable initiation. During this literary rollercoaster ride, you might even learn a historical fact or two!
5 Flashman is one of those books (and series) that constitute a guilty pleasure. Here is a protagonist who is everything a hero is not: cowardly, deceitful, immoral, even downright treasonous. Truly a disgrace to his uniform, his country, and the human race in general. And yet somehow Fraser makes Harry Flashman sympathetic, at least some of the time, and as we read about him we can't help but want to know how he is going to escape his latest self-imposed calamity (even as another part of us wants him to get his comeuppance).Part of this is humor. Flashman is surrounded by classic Victorian colonialist upper class figures whose actual historical behavior was frequently even more despicable than the fiction of Flashman himself, and Flashman wastes no time in criticizing these figures in the most colorful of terms. And so when he fools them and comes out ahead in the end, a part of us cheers. But part of the brilliance of Flashman is that he is so much a man of his times himself, with all the racist, sexist, colonialist, Eurocentric rubbish that the 19th century entailed. As I said, it's a guilty pleasure.Finally, Flashman (and its sequels) have the added benefit of being well researched, and Flashman fits almost seamlessly into the events he describes. Fraser breathes impressive life into the real historical figures with whom Flashman interacts, and prompted me at least to do more research into things like the British retreat from Kabul. The footnotes are both enlightening and fun in themselves, adding a nice touch to what purports to be autobiography but is in truth just jolly good fun.
5 I have read these books many times over the past twenty five years and now that they are available on Kindle I am buying them all again and this time I won't have to sell them for want of space.Flashman is like no other hero or villain.  He is just Flashman and has spawned a cult following everywhere books are read.  Once read, never forgotten and one just has to seek out the next in the series of the published 'memoirs'.These books have istorical value as Flashy is inserted into various battles and revolutions all over the nineteenth-century world.  We can thank him for many world events unfolding as they did, by design or accident but he was always there to save the day by saving his own hide.
5 The 'Everyman's Library' cloth bound editions are superb, made to last the way so few things are, lately.  A slick, well illustrated dust jacket over cloth covered hard stock, acid free paper to prevent yellowing, these are reader's books, not "shelf queens"If you enjoy the Flashman series enough to own a few, this is the book to buy.  If you are unfamiliar with Flashie, I recommend the books highly, for that matter, anything by George MacDonald Fraser is well worth the time.
5 Some of the best military fiction I have ever read absolutely amazing and stunning.  Great author too, no one else except Fraser could make a bunch of hardened military history buffs care about a self confessed amoral coward.Flashy is also funny, witty and really has a way with the ladies which makes up for a lot.  A rare thing for military fiction is also the incredible attention to historical accuracy in these books.It is also with great sadness that I read of the recent death of George MacDonald Fraser but as long as his books exist a part of him will always remain.
5 The first book in what is almost certainly the finest series of historical comic novels ever written. Over the series, written over a 30 year period, Harry Flashman becomes one of Victorian England's most decorated military heros while in actuality he's its most craven coward. There's scarcely anyone of importance in history that he doesn't eventually meet. The books heavily satirize Victorian society and morality. Flashman himself is not only a coward, but is also a bully, a scoundrel, a cheat, and a lecher, and only those things on his good days. While he revels in wallowing in the Garden of Earthly Delight, he invaribly pays heavily for his sins by winding up at virtually every British military disaster, and a few American ones as well, of the 19th Century, and it appears there were an astonishing number. "Flashman" and the rest of the books are highly accurate historically and heavily footnoted.This book introduces Mr. Flashman, a character, borrowed or stolen perhaps, from one of Victorian England's most famous boy hero novels, "Tom Brown's School Days" where Flashman appears as one of Rugby's worst villians and greatest bullies of young stalwarts like Tom Brown and projects what he must have become after being tossed out of Rugby for drunkeness in "School Days". After convincing his father to pay for a commission in the calvary, he bounces from one problem to another before winding up in India and eventually in Afghanistan, where he is swept up in Britain's first Afghan war.In the 1830's, England decided to indulge in a little regime change and set up a new king in Kabul, propping him up with British troops and English gold, before sending out one of its worst generals, Lord Elphinstone, to take command. Eventually, everything crumbles around them and the army decides to retreat out, on foot, in the winter, leading to one of England's greatest disasters, as only one man managed to return to India on his own, while thousands died in the snowy passes. In "Flashman", it turns out there were two. How he survives is a comic delight.There are legions of Flashman fans across the world, particulary in expat communities. I've never been in a country where I failed to find them. However, be warned that these are among the least PC novels around in many respects, even by current standards, much less Victorian ones.
5 After reading the 1 star reviews, I had to defend my old friend Flashy.  I picked up the first Flashman while serving as in the infantry in Vietnam, and knew that I had found a kindred spirit. Flashy knew that it was every man for his own self and that soldier takes his pleasure where he finds it.  It is true Harry is a racist, a rake, and a coward -- but who isn't?  And I learned to play the dozens in Dong-Ha and know the name of Guy Gibson's dog?noble was nothing but feeling no shameand nothing was sacred but stayin' alive (Guy Clark)Seriously, the Flashman books are great adventures of the essential anti-hero.  You cannot help but pull for Flashy.  He tells the truth about his career and character and makes no apologies. Of course, if you read Fraser's memoir of his own service in WW2 Burma, you will understand the true motive for the Flashman books (besides making money).  The Flashman stories are spoofs that use a Baron M&uuml;nchhausen effect to allow Fraser to show his admiration for the British (and Gurkha and other native) soldier. No one could have written stories about a hero who was in the first Afghan Campaign, the Charge of the Light Brigade, the Battle of the Little Big Horn, and the Sepoy Munity (to mention just a few) without the character being ridiculous. Flashman escapes one misadventure and then mistreats a woman (or tries to revenge an old slight) and lands in another dangerous debacle.  Of course, most of the women extract their revenge and his foes do their best to kill or ruin him.  But Flashy is handsome, quick, strong, and a great horseman.  He has Sir Richard Burton's flair for language and like Burton learns them best in bed. Flashy likes his cigars and brandy and the brothels -- but he isn't a hypocrite.  He is honest by his own code.Someone suggested reading "Seven Pillars of Wisdom" for a "true" adventure.  True?  Did Lawrence ever tell the truth?Yes, Flashman is great but Fraser's two best books are his memoir "Quartered Safe Out Here" about the war in Burma and his novella "The Candlemass Road."  The Candlemass Road is a truly great book and demonstrates Fraser's talent (but do not read his "Reavers " which I pretend does not exist).  Fraser also wrote the screenplay for the "The Three Musketeers" and some lesser movies.  If you like simple (simpleton) heroes then stick to Hornblower (I prefer Captain Jack Aubrey), but if you want historical action and a true knave (and toady) then Flashy is your man.By the way, the first Flashman book was so well received in the U.S. that at least one historian thought it was factual.  George MacDonald Fraser (1925-2008, RIP)!
5 Harry Flashman is an unspeakable cad, an insufferable liar, an arrant boaster, an odious racist, a craven shirker, a narcissist, and an unrepentant BRIT! He's the sort of man, if you met him, you'd be compelled to thrash him if you could or else toady to him as he would to you if your situations were reversed. There is, in fact, nothing to him but "flash", at least as he presents himself.When I finished reading the Aubrey/Maturin novels of Patrick O'Brian, my daydreams cast me as recombining the two, Aubrey's body, Maturin's mind; we can be honest about our daydreams, can't we, gents? Now I'll have to imagine myself as a Trinity, with the soul of Harry Flashman, nasty as original sin.There are already 87 reviews of this book, and I fancy I'm the last male bookworm in the English world who'd never heard of Flashman until recently, so I don't feel obliged to summarize the plot or certify the accuracy of the historical context of this first book in the series. Anyway, the pleasure is in the language, sentence by sentence, not in the action.I can hardly tell you with what shame-faced glee I look forward to reading the further adventures of this despicable grifter! I plan to order all of them as soon as this review is processed.
5 The first in the Flashman series is (surprise!) the best, and it nearly becomes Art-with-a-capital A.  Sure, these are all good, naughty fun (rooting for the greatest anti-hero in print) and excellent historical fiction (the footnotes, while part of the joke, also certify the accuracy of the portrayal of events).  But the first is so well-constructed and well-written that it is really literature, in the way Tom Jones (another guilty pleasure) is.The other two novels included here are wonderful, and if you are just starting out with Flashman, they make a great introduction.  No need to read them in chronological order (heck, they weren't WRITTEN in chronological order).  But eventually, you will be hooked and you will want the rest of the series.But here you get three excellent novels in a nice edition.  And that's the other reason for the five-star rating.  If you are familiar with Everyman, you know that they give you some excellent books with nice details--the kind of book you will want to keep.  And yet, because they are relatively inexpensive, you can enjoy a hardcover on your shelf instead of the ratty paperbacks you bought in college.  And while you are reading it, you can indulge in the luxury of a ribbon for a bookmark and some excellent paper on the pages you turn.So a real treasure of a novel (the first Flashman) with others that are just great fun, packaged together by Everyman.  A winner all around.  And having a nice copy on your shelves will give you the opportunity to sell Flashman to your friends and to impressionable young people, which would make Flashy proud.
4 Having read Tom Brown's Schooldays and thoroughly enjoyed it, I was initially perturbed by the idea of Flashman being developed into an anti-hero figure.  Such spin-offs very rarely work (eg  any non-Conan Doyle Sherlock Holmes story) but this is a triumph; a comical and superbly researched romp through Victorian India.  The continuation from Hughes' original novel is handled with skilful aplomb and Flashman's narrative voice is, on the whole, highly entertaining.  My sole quibble would be that the narrative voice can become somewhat confused at times - on more than one occasion, Fraser nudges Flashman out of the way.  Negative criticisms regarding the book's lack of political correctness are almost beneath contempt - to turn Flashman into a politically correct figure is to detach him completely from the nineteenth century in order to pander to the puritanical expectations of the humourless and the insecure.
4 Probably there is little I can say that hasn't already been said in one or two of the other reviews below.  The story reminds me of the movies that were made in the thirties, starring Cary Grant and Victor MacGlothlin.  Stout upper lip, carry on for England and the Queen (and all that rot).  Best of all, Flashy is such a bounder, but is forthright enough to admit it.I can see why this series is so popular, because it never takes itself seriously.  If you keep in mind as to the 'times' it was purportedly written in, you can get by some of the terrible stereotyping that occurs in the story.  But, I would never look to have Flashy made 'politically correct', he is who he was.
5 Only recently discovered GMF. Flashman is a great read. Hard to put down.  I look forward to reading more Flashman adventures.
4 This series of novels by the author George Macdonald Fraser describes the adventures or misadventures of an English soldier during the victorian era. It is hilarious and entertaining reading for those who like a combination of historical fiction and comedy.Written from the viewpoint of the main character himself these stories takes him through the crimean war,the Indian mutiny,the American conflict with the Native Americans and other situations all across the globe. From Madagascar to Afghanistan Flashman is there and always in trouble.The only one who gets away from death more miraculously and more often than Flashman would be James Bond.Reading this series one comes to understand the basic nature of Flashman himself all too easily.By his own admission he is a rogue or scoundrel,and a coward who by sheer luck manages to remain a decorated soldier and hero in the eyes of others who know him least.For this reason his story is an entertaining and comical one but he is not a figure who can evoke any sympathy or respect from the reader. Sometimes one can only feel that the trouble he gets himself into is what he simply deserves from being the way he is.He is more a buffoon than a real hero,vain or arrogant and always lecherous.If his wife happens to be tolerant of his infidelities it is perhaps because she is just as bad as he is( again this is by his own admission).The author has done an excellent and very detailed job in combining historical facts with fiction in this particular series. There are footnotes in the books that refer the readerto actual people and events that existed at the time the stories take place.To me Flashman is a very memorable figure indeed,he may not capture your heart or sympathies but he might just give you a few good laughs instead.
5 The Brits have come up with some brillant book series. Above all others: Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey & Maturin.Harry Flashman is next in line of excellence. Satirical historiography, serving well as quick guide through the Empire's history. Just choose any trouble spot that English soldiers were remotely related to in the 19th century, and Harry was there. Think of the English Afghanistan desaster, the Indian Mutiny, the Crimea War, the Taiping rebellion, the Mahdi rebellion, even the civil war in the US is in Harry's range. Drinking, cheating, fornicating, lying, betraying, bullying his way into and out of trouble and up the army career ladder.The author just died recently, which reminded me of Harry. Try him!Let me make a simplistic statement: had the Russians read Flashman, they might have reconsidered their stupid invasion of Afghanistan. That would  have kept the CIA idiots from supplying arms and training to Taliban. That then might have kept ObL out of Afghanistan and away from 9-11 ideas.It might have kept arms and drugs smuggling in Pakistan on smaller levels and might have kept Pakistan a safer country. It might have reduced trouble in Kashmir and between India and Pakistan. Benazir might still be alife, as might her father.See how easy history could be?(This is meant as an obituary for George MacDonald Fraser.)
5 Flashman is quite possibly the most despicable human being of all time.  I love it.  One of the funniest books Ive ever read, and still the best of the Flashman series.
5 The Flashman novels are entertaining, educational, humorous, historical, and bawdy.  Harry Flashman is not a character you are intended to like, but you sympathize with his point of view as often as not.In the end, you can put up with him only because he suffers so much form his fears and hardships.  Along the way you get a jaundiced view of British political and military leaders of the 19th century, from a commentator who knows his subject.Harry Flashman, is a scoundrel, cheat, bully, cad, lecher, toady, and coward, who manages to get caught up in every major military campaign.  In spite of himself, Harry finds women and honors falling upon him at every turn.  All undeserved, but then that's the way he prefers it.
5 The people who bought one Flashman book bought them all.  So will you.
4 I liked this book regardless of the myriad offenses it contains.  &quot;Flashman&quot; offers a wild ride from beginning to end.  However, it must be read with a sense of humor.  Throw aside political correctness and laugh.Flashman, following expulsion from school for drunkenness, enters the military.  Following a shotgun wedding, he is sent to India where he expects to make the best of it with a concubine and an adequate number of servants to see to his comfort.  His posh assignment crumbles quickly as he is further transfered to the wilds of 19th century Afghanistan.In Afghanistan, he survives incompetent military superiors, snakes, the elements, ambushes, torture, a vengeful woman, and most amazingly, himself.  He is everything he admits to being -- a drunk, a rogue, a lecher, a bigot, etc.The book is chock full of every vice and evil imaginable.  Flashman uses and abuses (even rapes) women.  His &quot;heroism&quot; is really misinterpreted cowardice.  He thumbs his nose at God and country and leaves women and children to die.  Nothing admirable here. Every other paragraph contains a new form of violence. But, again, read the book with sensitivity pushed to the side and you will see the irony.  This book can be laugh-out-loud funny if the reader wants to see it that way.The first of a series, I'll probably read another Flashman book when another change of pace is needed.
5 Great story of a dastardly  manipulative coward with more luck than he deserves. If you liked cliff hangers as a kid, you'll like Flashman.
5 I'm outing myself here, but the Flashman books are one of my favorite fictional series! They combine accurate historical detail (I *do* love my historical education delivered via light entertainment whenever possible) with fabulously bawdy, outrageously offensive plots that make me laugh out loud even as I pray that no one is watching me so I don't have to explain why I am laughing (because it's almost always something emphatically NOT politically correct). Flashman is the anti-Beau Geste/"noble Englishman" archetype - a coward, a bully, a fraud, a bigot, and a shameless opportunist - and yet, no matter how many ignoble situations he becomes entangled in, he always manages to emerge smelling of roses. Jolly good fun - and don't make the mistake of skipping the footnotes, either!
5 Review of George MacDonald Fraser's "Flashman."As a student and admirer of the Victorian Era and anything Anglophilic I have long awaited the day of purchasing and reading the published "Flashman Papers" from manuscript form.I have seen Fraser's book advertised and critiqued for many years.  I set my decision to delve into the book as sort of a guilty pleasure and I was not disappointed.  If this genre interests you, then you should be quite pleasantly surprised.The abstract from the book itself clearly tells the prospective purchaser what to expect: "Flashman follows Flashy as he lies, steals, duels, and wenches his way from 1839 England to India to the wilds of Afghanistan.  Along the way, he survives military incompetence, ambushes, torture, venomous snakes, and vengeful women...and emerges against all odds as a bona fide hero of the realm."A most enjoyable read.  Flashman absolutely ranks with Ian Fleming's famous protagonist.Five stars without hesitation or reservation.
5 Thank goodness for Harry Flashman. If not for this man's self-depreciating, lurid, immoral, wanderings through psuedo-prim &amp; proper &quot;Victorian England&quot;, I might have believed the &quot;Howard's End&quot; version of that era. Harry proves that we as a race are merely inches ahead of wild boar in the evolution. Quite frankly &quot;Flashy&quot; makes James Bond seem like a prig.
5 Flashman bungles his caddish way through Afghanistan. His life is charmed and every dirty deed he does is erased by a selfless hero. It has a deep point about how ridiculous it is to believe in 'war heroes'; especially the ones who live to tell the tale.
5 If you have never read a book with an &quot;anti-hero&quot; you may find this book a real page turner. I was hooked immediately. The later books decline in quality pretty quickly as the novelty wears off, but this one is a classic.
5 "Flashman" is simply the funniest novel I've ever read. It's hard to describe just what makes this book, and series, as enjoyable to read the 4th time as the first. Perhaps it's that in a country in which we're obligated to navigate our way through so many left-wing taboos and politically-correct strictures in addition to the homage we must pay to ordinary societal hypocrisies, it's refreshing to read someone (even a fictional character) who takes off his mask and gives voice to his own real opinions, no matter how thoroughly objectionable most of them are. Flashman is a blackguard and scoundrel par excellence. However, Harry Flashman does not completely repel the reader- except for the most P.C. wilting violet. There isn't a human being alive who doesn't at least understand his sins and know that they exist at a more or less deep-down level in our own hearts, even if we don't approve them. I frequently find myself shaking my head and saying "I can't believe he did that!", but laughing at the same time.However, one of the brilliant conceits of this book, and of the whole series, is that even while our protagonist denigrates courage, sacrifice, integrity and all the other life-threatening virtues, his cynicism and mockery are juxtaposed against some of the Victorian Age's most exalted examples of such virtues, for which even Flashman sometimes offers some grudging admiration. The reader can't help but stand in awe of the courage of men such as the "Thin Red Line" at Balaklava, the last stand of the 44th at Gandamak, John Brown's raid, James Brooke of Sarawak, the Charge of the Light Brigade, the beseiged of Cawnpore, and many other half-forgotten or obscure heroes of the era. I can't believe that the WWII veteran MacDonald Fraser presents these characters and episodes so that we join Flashman in his mockery.In any case, Flashman's misadventures are amazing, his asides hilarious and the whole tapestry of the incredible First Afghan War educational and extremely exciting. MacDonald Fraser is a master of plot and dialogue and a detailed historian whose particular power is to surprise. This is the first and best of all the Flashman novels, which is not to detract from the sequels, given the extremely high standard of this first book.
5 Read this 30 years ago (at least) when it first came out and loved it!  Subsequently read every one as they became available and am delighted to see that this first one is being re-issued as an Audiobook.  Can't wait to  listen to it all over again!  Am sure I will agree with the previous  reviewers about the reading since accents add a wonderful dimension to any  book.  I am a rabid Flashman fan!
5 I discovered and read George MacDonald Fraser's masterful &quot;Flashman&quot; series in my teens (I'm now crouching this side of  forty), at the same time I first read Ian Fleming's James Bond novels.From Bond I've learned how to play baccarat, how to pull an Aston Martin  out of a skid, and how to climb through a tunnel of scorching hot  metal.I have never in my life had to do any of these things.On the  other hand, from Flashman I've learned lessons I use every day of my  life:* When the trouble starts, keep your head down, or better yet, in a  totally different country.* Never be afraid to accept credit for  something good you did. That goes double for something good you didn't.* Never volunteer.* Wine, women, and song? To hell with the  song.* There's no shame in living as a coward. Beats dying as a hero.* Always have an escape plan. If not, steal someone else's.Game, set, match: Flashy.
5 Well, he's finally gone.  George MacDonald Fraser died a couple of days ago at 82.  Like the good trooper he was, he kept cranking 'em out right 'til the end, concluding his stellar writing career with FLASHMAN ON THE MARCH and THE REAVERS.  No longer will we fans be able to look forward to yet one more tour-de-force from this master craftsman.  Aye, well...as Flashy would say.  Not only was GMF a master of the written English word, he was a master storyteller in the old tradition--unmatched when it came to entrancing his readership with his eloquence, humor, irreverence, brilliant characterizations, and meticulous historical research.  He hit one out of the park the first time he stepped up to the plate with FLASHMAN back in 1969.  This is still one of the very best of the twelve Flashman novels, though the least of these is ten times better than the best effort of nearly every other author I can think of.  I'll greatly miss GMF's writing, particularly Flashman, but he left a wealth of fine books in his wake (including what I think may the best, most perceptive and heartfelt personal memoir of World War Two combat ever written: QUARTERED SAFE OUT HERE), all which we can still enjoy and learn from.  So I'll have glass of brandy tilted up to George MacDonald Fraser tonight--with a wary nod to Flashy, who's apt to be lurking around on the periphery somewhere--and take comfort that after he claps arms with Foshie and Grandarse and the rest of Nine Section, he'll probably spend the rest of the winter comparing notes with Thomas Hughes and Raphael Sabatini...not to mention Palmerston, Grant, Lincoln, Lakshmibai, Spotted Tail, Bismarck, and Yakub Beg--just to name a few.  Godspeed, Mr. Fraser, and thanks.
5 Flashman is a rogue, bounder, and cad: the archetypical anti-hero.  Duplicitous and sneering, yet publicly charming, the most noble thing he does in this opening volume of the Flashman Papers (12 in all) is to seduce his father's mistress.  After that, its off to foreign parts - India and Afghanistan - surrounded by historical figures and partaking of historical events, all told with wit and mocking insight.In the 1960's George Macdonald Fraser set out to write some stories set in the golden age of the British Empire - well, golden from a certain point of view, anyway.  To do this, he set an anti-hero loose in Victorian England, and gave him free reign to do as he would, so long as he reported truly.  The Flashman Papers were the result - and apparently on first publication, some papers assumed that this was not a work of fiction, but a true history.Sexist, racist, and whatever else, Flashman is unique.  He gives us a new pair of eyes on which to view the past, and GMF tells the story in fine style.  In addition, the history that Flashman occupies is true, and (comparatively) rigorously footnoted.  Here Flashy is leaving school (as told in Tom Brown's Schooldays) and joining the Army, getting mixed up in the great events of the day.This is superb reading, true history written as fiction.  It is both laugh out loud funny and sombering, a wonderful window into the past.
5 The interweaving of history, alternate history and good old fashioned fun is extremely well done.  It is sad that we never got to read Flashman in the American Civil War.
2 I've come late to the Flashman series, having only found out that George MacDonald Fraser has written some dozen books with Flashy in the lead.  I'd never heard of him or his title character until reading a review of a new book in the series in Entertainment Weekly.  So where to begin with so many titles to choose from?  At the beginning usually helps.  Other reviewers have rated this, the first, as still the best, so I felt comfortable with my decision.  And the book is good.  It just didn't resonate with me and so I was looking forward to it ending.  Back when I bought the first one I had hoped that I would enjoy it so much that I would go right out and buy the next one in line.  But alas, no, not for me.  Flashman is a rogue and a scoundrel and a cheat and a  liar and even a rapist, and the story leaps from one wild adventure to the next, with plenty of action and skin-of-the-teeth escapes and daring-do exploits.  But for all that there was nothing to really keep my interest.  Maybe the flaw was mine, but now I remember why I haven't read a historical novel since James Michener.  What I did find interesting was that even today, much like in England's colonial times, countries are still fighting over the dirt parking lot with mountains that is Afghanistan, and losing their shirts.
4 How accurate is the look at our history and culture that Flashman author George MacDonald Fraser presents in this volume?  Is it just self-indulgent fiction?  Or does it reflect the real world so accurately that our non-fiction mythology doesn't permit us to see ourselves in it?You don't need to have been in Afghanistan in the 1840s to know the answer -- it's in the book reviews, the bulk of which find "From the Flashman Papers 1839-1842" not depressing but exhilarating and "hilariously funny" (NY Times).  The answer appears in the newspapers' news sections as well, as we re-live over and over again the story Fraser tells, sometimes even in Afghanistan!How tickled the author must be at his impunity from blowback against his verbal savaging of the world around him!  And how charming that, while Fraser knew that Flashman would enjoy the same impunity, he gave his fictional character the innocence to be surprised at it.
5 Flashman first appeared more than 40 years ago, the inspiration of George MacDonald Fraser, who picked up mention of a minor character in Tom Brown's Schooldays and ran with it through several volumes of historically detailed and enlightening, and perhaps unrivaled literary fun. The lead character, whose memoirs these are purported to be, is cowardly and creative, craven and cruel, and yet -- to most -- appealing. Although some react quite negatively -- you can check the one-star reviews -- odds are that you will be entranced by this rogue, even more so if you are a student and lover of history. Highly recommended, and that goes for second, third, and nth re-reads.
3 Looking for a light, historical adventure tale, I decided the Flashman series might fit the bill. One book was all I needed. Although this first Flashman takes you into what is supposedly a true account of the British empire's disastrous exploits in Afghanistan, I could hardly warm up to a character so self centered, cowardly, and ammoral. He's clear about himself, at least, never purporting to be anything more than a complete cad, quick to see the faults in others, quick to exploit openings for self aggrandizement. He serves as a foil for the other characters who act with honor and courage, never learning from them. And Flashman's attitude toward women, who are nothing more than sex toys, was particularly unforgivable. The book was supposed to be funny, but I never laughed. Perhaps I couldn't get into the spirit of the satire on British society. The only thing going for it was the description of how the Afghan tribes fought against the British, which has lessons for our own wars, our own hubris, in the region.
5 People are always asking authors, "Where do you get your ideas?" The answer is, "We steal from those who have gone before us." My novelScoundrel!: The Secret Memoirs of General James Wilkinsongrew out of my love for George MacDonald Fraser's Flashman novels, which I cannot praise highly enough. Flashman is the ultimate anti-hero--a coward, bully, liar, cad, and all-around bounder--who nonetheless manages to emerge with fresh laurels after every mis-adventure, eventually retiring as a respected and admired general in the British Army.The key to any anti-hero is the author's ability to make the reader like (or at least identify with) a character who is, by definition, a villain.  In this, Fraser succeeds in spades.  Thanks to his brilliant use of humor, he transforms a character who has no redeeming traits into someone who is so delightfully villainous that the reader can't help but fall in with Flashman's malevolent point of view.  Flashman is a self-proclaimed scoundrel, opportunist, and coward--and proud of it.  And yet, ironically, it is these very character flaws that make him such an insightful observer of the historical figures and events of his time.  He doesn't care a fig for anything but himself, so his views are not colored by patriotism or idealism or heroic myth.  Rather, he views it all with a sort of sneering dispassion--the very voice of history itself.Fraser is a startlingly good writer.  His descriptions absolutely transport you back to the good old days of the British Empire--and the bad old days, too.  The Flashman books present a surprisingly balanced view of not only what made the Empire great, but of the rotten underpinnings that eventually doomed it.  There are no apologies for what transpired.  Fraser is a firm believer in the now unpopular doctrine of historical inevitability.  "I don't condone it," says Flashman, speaking about the mistreatment of native peoples by the white race, "and I don't condemn it either.  It happened . . . (Some will say) it was all the white man's fault for intruding, but by that logic, Ur of the Chaldees would be a damned crowded place by now."The Flashman books have everything a reader could want--humor, adventure, solid history, and great writing, all presented from a uniquely entertaining and enlightening perspective.  Books simply don't get any better than this.
4 A colleague described Flashman as &quot;Forrest Gump on drugs&quot;, which isn't quite correct.  Like Forrest Gump Flashman (..a fictional character) magically turns up at all the most memorable moments in history.  However  unlike Forrest, Mr. Flashman is cad and, surprisingly, a marginally  likeable person (whereas Forrest Gump is completely sugar-coated).This  first Flashman novel quickly reviews Flashman's childhood and how he, quite  fantastically, enters the military and dives into rather incredible battles  in the outer reaches of the 19th century British Empire.  What really  shocks the reader is that while Flashman isn't real, all the horrors (and  shame) of this British battles (in Afghanistan) were real.  Truth is indeed  stranger than fiction.The author tells the story in a rather  tongue-in-cheek fashion.  Flashman is an immature rascal and skirt-chaser,  with a tendency to get out of trouble through unbelievable luck.  His  travails are meant to be unbelievable, and all in good fun.However after  reading Flashman I noticed that there are no credible female characters in  the entire novel.  All the women are either conniving bimbos, or ugly and  &quot;not worth bothering&quot;.  While maybe this can be partially  forgiven in light of the leading character being a sexist brute, I believe  most women would find this novel to be mildly offensive (at best).  For all  others, read and enjoy.  I certainly look forward to reading the next in  the Flashman series.
2 I found the book very interesting....well at least the historical part of it.  I enjoyed Flashman recounting his experience, and the tongue in cheek nature of his swindling, cowardly nature.  So for this part of the book I would give it 4 stars (maybe even 5).But I found his womanizing so distasteful that I won't read any more of the series and couldn't recommend it to anyone.  I found his unending attempts to use women (seducing, beating if they refused him, and out right rape) so distasteful that I gave it the two star rating (and since I would never read another in the series because of this-even if given free, maybe this should be a one star rating)
5 "Flashman" by George MacDonald Fraser is based on a very simple but brilliant concept.  Harry Paget Flashman is the Rugby School bully from the 19th century novel "Tom Brown's School Days".  The book is about our upright English lad and his experiences at the Rugby School.  About two-thirds through the book, Harry Flashman is expelled for public drunkenness.Anyway Mr. Fraser took this character (the literary rights have long since passed into public domain) and has written a whole series of comic historical novels based on what happened to Harry Flashman after his expulsion from Rugby.  The book begins with Brigadier Sir Harry Paget Flashman's citation in Who's Who.Harry Flashman, the craven coward and bully became one of the greatest and most popular heroes of Victorian England.  The series are his secret memoirs of what really happened.  One thing he makes clear.  His success was based on the very character flaws that made him feared, despised and ultimately expelled from Rugby.What's also clear is Sir Harry had the unfortunate experience of being present at most of the British military disasters of Victoria's reign as well as the American Civil War.Harry Flashman is an unrepentant liar, cheat, coward and rou&eacute;.  He has no conscience and he doesn't want one.  His rotten core is hidden behind a handsome, martial and very manly exterior.  He is a polyglot, a savant with languages.  In a month he can learn any language well enough to pass as a native.This comes in handy when he has to talk his way out of a jam.He can also ride anything on four legs.  This uncommon skill with horses is an excellent skill for the fast getaway.As for this book, Harry is home in disgrace after his expulsion.  His alcoholic father reluctantly agrees to buy his avaricious offspring a commission in Victoria's Army.  This was a common practice at this time.  The aristocracy bought officer commissions in the British Army.  As in Harry's case, the officer's family generously supplemented his low salary so that he could live as a proper gentleman.  Harry's plan is to join a fashionable regiment stationed in England where he strut around and engage his lusts, whoring, drinking and gambling combined with occasional rounds of wenching.Well his significant character flaws propel him into a sequence of events that lead to him winding up in Afghanistan at the time of the First Afghan War.  This sequence of events and how Harry survived to become a `hero' is the story.The central theme of the series is a question.  If great things are accomplished, does the motivation of the purported 'hero' matter?At this point some background about this novel and its gestation is necessary.  George MacDonald Fraser is the son of a doctor and a veteran of WWII.  After giving up his commission in a Highland Regiment, he became a reporter.  His lack of university education ultimately caught up with him.  He found himself in his later thirties trapped in a dead end job with no hope of promotion.He decided to do something about it.  While he was a poor student, he still is extremely gifted in the arenas of history, literature, writing and dialects of the English language.  He decided to write "Flashman".  He worked on it at every opportunity but gave the novel up when he was hurt in an accident.Eventually he through away the manuscript in frustration.  However his wife retrieved the book and began to read her husbands project.  Well God bless her!  She realized immediately what her husband had created and encouraged him to complete it.(Stephen King's wife, Tabitha, was doing the same favor for him ironically at about the same on the other side of the ocean.)Writing a novel and selling it are two different things.  Despite the fact everyone that read it liked it, no one knew how to market a comic historical novel.  Eventually a publisher was found after the manuscript had literally traveled around the world.  It became a European best seller and his books have sold steadily in the US.  GMF left his dead-end job to write full time.Every book in the series is dedicated the wife who made it possible.Earlier the word `gifted' was used to describe GMF's talents.  That is too weak of a term.  A much better word is `genius'.  Mr. Fraser took a fictitious character and wove him character into actual historical events.  His depth of knowledge of history and its events are extraordinary.  He accurately retains the minutiae of the period.  Probably the finest statement of this is the New York Times review of Flashman.  It was given a rave review by a history professor who believed it was a non-fiction memoir of a true historic character.Read the Flashman.  You won't regret it.
5 This is an excellent trilogy of three of George MacDonald Fraser's best in the Flashman series, including the first book.  There are several books between Flashman and Flash for Freedom and Flashman in the Great Game that demand to be read, but the beauty of Fraser's Flashman series is that you can read them in any order.  The historical characters are brought to light in amazing detail, and his ability to portray the action in each book is what makes all the Flashman books a must read.  This marked the 3rd reading of Flashman for me, yet it still is as exciting as it was in 1973 in the Gulf of Tonkin.
2 I bought this on the recommendation of a friend. He was right, I liked it a lot, but this is not a thirteen-dollar ebook. It's just not. There may be thirteen-dollar ebooks (I have yet to encounter one) but this isn't one. It's pretty good. If they were five bucks, I'd buy 'em all tomorrow. If they were eight, I'd probably buy them over time. I'm not paying thirteen dollars for a decades-old pulp adventure book, I don't care how good a pulp adventure book it is.That being said as pulp adventure goes it's really fun. If you're independently wealthy, have at.
2 The history and the frame of this novel was composed and written with clever genius.  The explanation of the British presence in Afghanistan was informative too, so I wanted to like this book.  I know it's satire, understand the protagonist is an opportunist , know it was written before feminism was as advanced as it is today (etc.) and the book draws you in and is a riveting adventure story with lots of turns and surprises--  but Flashman's superiority complex with women, though totally appropriate to advance the author's drawing of his personality--  isn't at all amusing to a woman.
5 Flashman is a terrible, terrible human being who does many, many terrible things. Fraser's unique genius is making this waste of skin and his nefarious deeds side-splittingly funny. I think that many readers, though they might never admit it, will find themselves rooting for Harry Flashman (on occasion) despite all his myriad deficiencies.Fraser's book, aside from being wickedly clever comedy, is also peppered with lots of interesting historical detail and insight into the more famous, powerful, and "respectable" folk who are, when all is said and done, probably responsible for greater crimes than those of our (anti)hero. All this in the inimitable voice of the dastardly Flashman.Good stuff.
5 This is the book that starts the Flashman series featuring the cowardly opportunist Harry Flashman.  Gifted with a handsome physique, sharp wit, superb horsemanship, and an uncanny linguistic prowess, Flashman embarks upon his military career and ends forcibly married and then sent to the far corners of the British empire before and during the Anglo-Afghan war.  At times you'll debate whether you even want Flashman to survive as he backstabs his fellow Brits, uses his native allies, and attempts to molest any half-way attractive woman.  No, he's not a noble heroic archetype.  Flashman is a selfish, arrogant, and conniving pseudo-aristocrat.  The superb account of the British retreat from Afghanistan during the 1st Anglo-Afghan war is fascinating.  The characters are all drawn from historical figures and George M. Fraser breathes amazing life into all of his characters.  No one-dimensional figures here.  No one is entirely good or bad.  They are human.  It's rare to see such honest writing that is sometimes uncomfortable and disturbing, but always wildly entertaining.  Flashman ends up in the thick of the Anglo-Afghan War and along the way he meets all of the well-known British and Afghan/Pathan historical figures of the time.  If you want to learn history the fun way and want to read a book you won't be able to put down until your eyes start to burn, then this is the book for you.  My personal favorite so far in the Flashman series (I've only read one before), this is a novel I won't soon forget.  This series deserves to be on the silver screen, but knowing most film-makers they wouldn't do it justice and they'd turn Flashman into a real hero, which he is most certainly is not!  Great stuff!
2 I was so excited about reading this book. All of the other reviews give it so much praise. Plus, it seems like a book I would like; I love historical novels, have a good sense of humor, love adventures, and am always drawn to a good satire. Unfortunately, nothing about this novel lived up to my expectations.This novel follows Flashman through his adventures with the British Army during their Afghanistan War. My problem with the novel is based solely on the character Flashman, but that's a big problem since these are his memoirs. As all of the other reviews point out, Flashman is a total rogue. He is a coward, he's dishonest, he is a murderer, a rapist, an adulterer, a theif, etc. You name a bad trait, and Flashman excels at it, and he always gets away with it. That is where I differ in opinion with everyone else about this book. When Flashman rapes a woman, I'm afraid I have problems laughing when he gets away with it. I always wanted him to be caught, and given what he deserves. The fact that I could feel no sympathy for the main character (protagonist???) just ruined the novel for me, and I'm astonished that so many people just love this novel. I guess Flashman's behavior is supposed to be something of a satire over the male's behavior of the 19th century, but there isn't much depth to the satire (and less in Flashman's characterization). I know that a lot of people have obviously found a lot to enjoy in this novel, I can't think of anyone that I would recommend Flashman to (not even my enemies).
2 Reasonably well written but a bit too on the &#34;adventurer&#34; side for me.  Interesting but dated, not a bad choice for someone interested in historical fiction.
5 Last year I read the first of the O'Brian Aubrey/Maturin novels. I really could not understand what all the fuss was about. Reading similarly positive reviews on Fraser's Flashman series, I initially hesitated, afraid of another O'Brianesque disappointment, but here I thank my fellow reviewers for their convincing arguments.Considering it at first glance, Fraser set himself an almost impossible task to combine an accurate history lesson with the memoir of a drinking, whoring, raping, conniving coward. Yet, the results are both highly informative and extremely entertaining/funny.Flashman has a clear predecessor in Hasek's brave soldier Svejk. Yet, Flashman's sense of self-preservation and -promotion, add a contemporary edge, that make him so appealing to mankind entering the 21st century. When reading biographies of contemporary icons like Bill Gates and Steve Jobs, you often wonder what really took place at the critical moments of their heroic careers. I would not be surprised, if those two -and many, many others for that matter- each had armies of Flashmans in their closets.The history writing in this book really has the classic feel of two of my high school staples: Ceasar's &#34;de bello gallico&#34; and Xenophon's &#34;anabasis&#34;. The comedy writing sometimes equals the level of Gargantua, Don Quichote and Tom Jones.There are so many gems throughout the book that it is hard to choose a favorite, but for me Flashman's attempt at fornication on the horrific retreat from Afghanistan is one of the greatest tour de forces in the history of comedy writing. After reading it, even Sigmund Freud might have considered adding another chapter to &#34;der Witz&#34;.
5 Harry Flashman, a decorated officer in the British military during the 19th century, sits down to write his memoirs for posterity. He informs the reader that while he may be many unadmirable things-- coward, liar, so forth-- he is also going to be honest. Most of his life he'd lucked into situations that allowed him to be looked upon as brave and heroic, and had been sure to keep up appearances, as doing so had its benefits, but now, at the end of it, he doesn't much care if the truth be known. Which is in keeping with how he's lived. In Flashman's world he acts only out of self-interest and self-preservation. With no self left to preserve or to be interested in, why not be candid? Whatever future generations think of him, it won't affect him and his fortunes, because he'll be dead.This first volume of the Flashman Papers starts at the beginning (oddly enough) of Flashman's army career and takes us through approximately the first three years of said career, two of which are spent in India and Afghanistan at a politically dangerous time. The events and many of the characters in the book have their basis in reality. For example Queen Victoria, Lady Sale, General Elphinstone, the Duke of Wellington. The running theme is incompetence, which for me is a topic that never ceases to amaze and amuse.People who find sexism and racism intolerable, even if we aren't meant to agree with it, would do best to avoid this one. For everyone else, I reckon you'll likely as not enjoy reading about Flashman's adventures.
4 Flashman is purposely a despicable, unlikeable fictional character who helps us understand the unbelievable British arrogance that led to the 1842 military disaster in Afghanistan, sadly reminding us that history repeats itself.
5 Flashman is the first novel in the series by George MacDonald Fraser and it is absolutely addictive. I can't wait to dig into the remaining 11 volumes. Flashman is a Victorian era rogue, who finds himself in the most remarkable circumstances and settings of his era. In this first offering the reader follows Harry Flashman from public school to the army. He is the most self-interested and the luckiest man in the Queen's army as he travels and wenches his way through England, Scotland, India and ultimately Afghanistan. The remarkable thing about  Fraser's writing is that both the historical settings and the adventuresome aspect of this story would hold up on it's  own if it were just an historical novel. Instead it is a lively ,humorous and sometimes raunchy romp through the most difficult and challenging outposts in the British Empire. Flashman is the ultimate opportunist but is also an incredibly engaging character.  I only hope the rest of the series can live up to the standard set here.
5 The Flashman novels provide a rogues view of the British Empire in the 19th century.  A warning however, these books are not for the PC crowd.  This is perhaps what makes them so funny, and at the same time interesting and informative.  Mr. Fraser has combined burlesque/comedy with historical fiction here, and he has done it masterfully.  Of course we do not condone Flashman's behavior, but at the same time he provides an amusing insight into the times he lived in.In this first novel of the series Flashy relates how he got statrted in the British army with Lord Cardigan's 11th Hussars.The story expands as he is posted to India after marrying below his station.  Flashy then finds himself in the sequence of events which lead to the desasterous Kabul expedition of 1842.  Much has been made of how the British lost an entire army on this occasion to the supposed prowess of the Afghans.  In fact of the 14,000 that comprised the Bombay army, fewer than a quarter were combatants, and only one British regiment, the 44th Foot, were involved.  The rest were hangers-on and camp followers.  It is no surprise that the Afghans were able to destroy this motely force.  This does not detract however from the appalling incompetence shown by General Elphistone and co. The book accurately portrays the timid leadhership displayed.However, the British did come back to Kabul a year later and they crushed every Afghan force set against them.  So much for Afghans being unbeatable! Being that much of this novel is set in Afghanistan, the story makes for unteresting reading today.  While Flashman is a ficticious rake, he provides the medium by which the author can create some truly good historical fiction.  The events related have been carefully researched by the author, with only minor liberties taken here and there.  The narrative makes for fast and enjoyable reading.  Try not to let the Flashman character distract from the historical events which are being realted here.  Again, if you are soooo politically Correct it is doubtful you will get anything out of these books.  But if you like a good laugh and good historical fiction, Flashy is for you!
5 But he tells a good tale.  He makes me cringe - he's not a wink and skedaddle coward, who sticks his friends with the bartab or hides in the supply wagon when the shooting starts - he's the kind of coward that will leave men screaming his name as he gallops away, the kind that will get men killed, and then laugh at them for being stupid enough to believe him in the first place.  He's THAT sort of coward.And he's a rapist.  Not a slap and tickle "don't...stop...don't stop!" kind of rapist.  He's not some over-eager frat boy.  He rapes women truly against their will, and then beats them if they cry too loudly.So, enjoy this for what it is - an amusing historical yarn, but don't be fooled into thinking it's about someone you would like in real life, or in print for that matter.  Flashman is a loathesome human being.  I've never read a book that caused me to wish the hero caught, convicted, and executed.  That's the way I felt - I wanted him exposed and whipped and hanged.  So explain to me why I'm eagerly reading the next novel in the series!"Flashman" is a good time, starring a very bad man.
5 I'm not sure what it says about me, but I seem to fall more for anti-heroes than for heroes themselves.  Whether it is Lee Child's creation Jack Reacher, or Bernard Cornwell's murderous Richard Sharpe, or Shakespeare's Falstaff, I just find these guys so darn compelling even though I'm perpetually glad they don't live next door.George MacDonald Fraser's drunken rake, Harry Flashman, joins the ranks of the truly great anti-heroes of literature.  A handsome coward with impeccable timing to get himself in the worst trouble imaginable, Flashman was not born great, will not achieve greatness, but is more than willing to have greatness thrust upon him by others.  He's also the kind of guy who, when accused of being drunk on gin and beer, will go to great pains to correct you - I may be a drunk, but I am not so uncivilized as to mix my drinks.Flashman's story is told as "the Flashman Papers," so the novel is one long narrative - Flashman has written his autobiography.  And what an autobiography it is!  Kicked out of school for drunkenness, Flashman enters the British army only after wheedling a handsome annuity from his father and taking his father's mistress.  To Flashman, the army is a chance to look smart in a uniform and have an idle, safe career as an officer's aide - plenty of time for perpetual bachelor Flashman to dally with bored officer's wives and daughters.  So Flashman chooses to join up with a British unit that just returned from India, on the reasonable grounds that these guys just finished their stint in hell, and nobody's going to ask them to go back into harm's way.Flashman's plans go awry in two major ways.  First, he finds himself betrothed to the gorgeous Scottish wench Elspeth, who is as naive and stupid as Flashman is cynical and cunning.  The conditions of the engagement perfectly summarize Flashman - he has his way with Elspeth, and when her uncle tells Flashman that he can either marry Elspeth or fight a duel, Flashman naturally chooses marriage.  Then, Flashman must leave Elspeth behind (no worries there) because Flashman gets sent abroad with his regiment - first to India, and then to Afghanistan (major worries there).While in Afghanistan, Flashman takes part in one of England's worst military blunders.  Britain's army is carved to pieces, thanks to the sheer incompetence of its commanding officer.  Flashman is, very relunctantly, forced to put his skin in harm's way.  The fact that Flashman survives is not surprising - he's writing his autobiography, after all.  But it is the way he survives - by being the most cowardly soldier imaginable - that gives the novel its spice.  The fact that, as a survivor, Flashman keeps getting saddled with charges of heroism just adds to the fun . . . and Flashman's manners are too refined for him to correct anyone of their misapprehension.A must-read for fans of historical fiction, "Flashman" is the first novel in a highly praised and much-adored series.  Check it out.
4 I've been reading the Flashman books for close on two decades now, after learning about them in an interview with Richard Lester (who directed the disappointing movie version of Royal Flash). I can say with certainty that George MacDonald Fraser significantly influenced not only my writing style but also the way I view the world. Fraser taught me to reject sugar coatings, mindless patriotism, and deification of historical figures, and to look at past events with a new and critical eye. Note that most heroes ARE anti-heroes to some degree; they just had friendly biographers to hide their flaws. The genius of the Flashman series is that the heroic/mythic veneer is stripped away to reveal the human underneath. (Flashy, of course, takes roguishness to an outrageous degree, which is a major reason why the series is so funny, though sometimes the laughter is shocked laughter.)As for the writing, well... IMHO, Fraser is one of the best writers of the late 20th century. Nobody does battle scenes as well as he does. No one explains political motivations as well. Nobody makes history more palatable or weaves it into the story so naturally. And there are few characters as well drawn as Flashy, who is strangely likable despite his behavior.For the record, I'm a woman, and I don't have any problem with the depiction of women in this and the other books. It's fiction, and Flashy's behavior has to be taken in the context of the times. (Frankly, if he'd behaved like, say, the wholly unbelievable folk who populated the historical travesty that was Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman, I'd've been bored stiff after three pages.)So read this first book to familiarize yourself with the character, but know that it isn't the best-written of the series. Fraser really settles in with Flashy's voice in the second book, Royal Flash, and just gets better from there!
4 Harry Flashman, bon vivant wastrel and ne'er do well, is the protagonist in this satire of mid-19th century English society and colonialism.  Published over 40 years ago, the story is as raucous and entertaining as the day it went to print.In this, the original Flashman novel, we are introduced to the primary school bully who is bounced from Rugby School at age 17 for drunkenness (among numerous other faults) and subsequently enlists in the 11th Light Dragoons.  From this point, hilarity ensues as we follow the exploits of what can only be described as one of the most character deficient cads ever in print.From a comfortable home office posting with the Dragoons, Flashman is relegated to the colony of India after a brief, disastrous stint in Scotland.  Destined for a miserable position with the company troops of the East India Company, Flashman uses his charm and wiles to attach himself to a high ranking British officer, only to discover he is bound for Kabul, Afghanistan.  What follows is one of the most humiliating chapters in British military history, and Flashman is in the center of the debacle.Never before have I encountered such a likeable cad.  At every juncture, Flashman seeks fame, pleasure and riches at the least risk to him, and is not above larceny to acquire them.  Most refreshing is his candor and self recognition, expressing scorn and disbelief at those willing to risk life and fortune for noble or selfless causes.  A rollicking good read.
4 Man, this book is fun to read.  The "hero" is actually someone who is quite detestable, but the that is part of the fun.  The book is thoroughly enjoyable.  I will read more Flashman adventures.
2 I picked this up as perhaps the first in a series of racy reads, but it's author (meaning Fraser not Flashman) is too reticently victorian in attitude. The story is risque and winking rather than ribald. Flashman reports how bad he is, but it's mostly words. He casts himself as a coward, but in fact is the only guy on all the scenes of critical events (even if he fled there). There seems to be some accurate history here (footnotes even), the generals are so quakingly incompetent they must be real, and the epidemic warlordism still rings true. I won't read more Flashman because life is short and this text is so smarmy, racist, and pointlessly offensive.
5 It was great fun and embarrassing to read this first book in what I am sure is an impressive series. Why embarrassing, you may ask; well I am an Indian.Fraser certainly knows how to write a great satirical historical fiction. I have no idea about the Afghan war and for all its worth I would believe Flashman's papers as the truth. Fraser writes it that well. Flashman confesses to being a coward and a scoundrel and impressively is hailed as heroic, brave and loyal. This itself seems to bring truth to his story. It is so fantastical and detailed that one may believe his words by the end of half the novel.I being from the lot of India's black n***** savages am quite impressed by the perspective of the Englishman - a soldier and a gentleman. His description of that era is accurate in its disgust. The action, in bed and battle, is a very telling account of a foreigner in a hellish land (hell for the Englishman, home for some others).It starts off with Flashman's disgrace and elimination from school. He has a flash of an idea to take it easy in a cozy regiment. Depending on his dad's fortune he gets the colours and can't help continue being a scoundrel. He is then further disgraced by getting orders to go to India to assist the East India Company. Here the story keeps getting funnier, interesting and irresistible. His adventures in India seem to bring him glory whether he keeps going worse or not. Hailed for learning the native tongue he is rewarded by an assignment to Afghanistan. Poor fellow is a victim of his own success.Soon the Afghan chapters turn rapidly as you breeze through his adventures with the Gilzais and Ghazis and Kabulis. He turns every misadventure into glory without lifting a finger. It's as if an angel of scoundrels watches over him. Every mistake he makes turns him to be more appreciated by the Afghans and the British alike. The description of the battle, the siege at Kabul, the retreat, the escape from Gul Shah, the Jallalabad fort fiasco and his constant good luck in cowardice is captivating. He keeps getting laurels for what any idiot would get flogged and hanged for. His ease with the natives and British Generals get him into cozy deals where he keeps getting patted and congratulated.If anything, forget the outrageous humour, you should read the book as if it is a dated James Bond novel. Okay so Bond is brave, but Flashman - he doesn't have to be. Fraser writes out the fiction with great accuracy to dates and events and people involved. It is a fascinating read and insight into the feringhee's vision of Asia.Other than that the characterisation is beautiful and plot smooth as silk. Elphy Bey, Hudson, Sale and Lady Sale, Akbar Khan, Gul Shah, and so many more great characters with their description as young Flashman speaks it is incredibly delightful. The book seemed to tell too much in too few words cause for all that happens, it takes only 294 pages to tell. I intend to read and collect every book in this series. The ending I thought was rightly tame, with the vile Flashman doubting his own wife after coming back to London 2 years later. It further establishes his character and how he lacks a backbone or honour.An Indian I am and proud of it, but Flashman is funny as hell and I won't deny it. Fraser is a brilliant writer and could probably lecture history at the best Universities, but here he let's us enjoy an unparalleled satire of the British soldier in India. Also, Indian canteens today would not really sicken a pig, but a European may well stay away from it. Cheers to our health and to that of Flashman.
5 I picked this up after reading a very positive review of the latest Flashman in "The Economist".  I had a vague awareness of the series, mostly I think from seeing the books on display, but had never taken it even the slightest bit seriously, perhaps due to bawdy covers that bely quality literature.Anyway, after reading "Flashman" I can't believe this series has not become more popular and not achieved Tolkien-like popularity and acclaim. I thought this book was just fantastic.  I share with many other reviewers the sense that it is one of the funniest if not the funniest books I have ever read. I still can't get over phrases that went something like "I rode into the camp terrified, which was luckily mistaken for exhaustion" (note: this is my own innacurate paraphrase of the line)"Flashman" is a unique combination of quality literature with a unique character (and unique cast of characters) within accurately and insightfully described historical settings wrapped up in hilarity. I look forward to savouring the remainder of the series
5 This is the first book in the Flashman series. There are about 12 or so in all, and they follow Flashman's life and adventures in sequence.  To fully understand his flashback references (no pun intended), you should read them in order.I think that Fraser is one of the greatest Historical fiction writers of modern times.  You almost end up believing that Harry Flashman was a real person.  A supposed "autobiography," Flashman is brutally honest and candid about himself and others around him, but this is his opinion.  He is certainly a realist.Written in the first person, he is often philosophical more than he should be, and this sometimes gets a little boring.  But Fraser's writing is top notch in his readability, plot development and continuity, attention to detail in History, background and settings, and character development.  Flashy's adventure are vividly brought to life in real Historical settings, much like "Forest Gump." His theme seems to be that there is another story to the History that we have learned, and that heroes are more often created by others than by themselves.There is much to be learned from the Flashman Series.  If you want your fuzzy understanding of 19th Century History and Geography more clearly impressed in your understanding, read the Flashman series--but be prepared for frequent erotic asides.
5 Can't believe this book. A story that grabs you and you can't stop thinking about it  until you put the next CD in to listen to.  A 51yr old lady with a disabled husband who cannot work and they just plod on but  she finacially supports them both.What an adventure.  Anyone who is in  a slightly stale marriage  LADIES listen to this.  I don't suggest that you do what she did.  BUT  wow..  the mind boggles I laughed out loud so many times then said  OH NO OH NO  so often.Brilliant Brilliant  Brilliant  Must read for any Married lady over 30 read. You will never forget this book. Mind blowing
5 This is a disturbing novel which raises many questions about identity and personality as well as illness and its role in the lives of the individual concerned and its effect on those around them.  Isobel Latimer has done well as a literary novelist but now her income is declining and she has kept the fact from her husband, Philip, because he is ill and she doesn't want to worry him.  In a moment of madness she decides to create a new persona for herself and write a very different type of novel.  Her agent, Troy, backs her whole heartedly and gets involved in Isobel's creation - the glamorous new author Zelda Vere.Which is the real Isobel?  The dowdy middle aged author of highbrow fiction?  Or the exotic, mysterious and not very intelligent Zelda Vere?  Is Philip really ill or is it all in his mind?  Is Troy, the respectable literary agent or is he someone much deeper and more ambiguous?  Isobel soon finds she has opened a Pandora's Box and once opened it is going to be impossible to stuff all the contents back and sit on the lid.I loved this book and read it over a couple of days.  It is well written and I liked Isobel and felt sorry for her.  I thought the author portrayed the relationship between Isobel and her husband extremely well.  The sexual roles are ambivalent and intriguing.  To people used to reading `Fifty Shades of Grey' the sex scenes will seem quite tame but they were adventurous for mainstream fiction when this book was first published in 2000.The novel can be read on many levels.  It is a good story and can be read as such but it also has a theme of identity and personality which has a wider resonance if applied to the creation of online personas.  Authors regularly use pen names and create false personas for themselves if they want to write something different from their normal genre.  This book is about what happens when that creation gets out of hand and takes over the lives of the people involved.  If you're looking for a historical novel similar to those for which this author has become famous then you will be disappointed but if you are looking for an intriguing novel with a literary background then you may enjoy this one.
4 This was the first book of Philippa Gregory's that I read that was not set during Elizabethan times... I have loved her books the Other Bolyen Girl and the Queen's Fool, despite some anachronisms, found them impossible to put down and utterly engaging.well, Zelda's Cut is set in the 21st century, but is no less engaging.  Isobel Latimer, the 52-year old frumpy writer of literary books, is a butterfly waiting to emerge, and when she writes a pulp novel for money and takes on the personality of Zelda Vere there's a delightful Cinderella story.Her hypochondriac, whiny husband Philip and the inflated pool he spends all her money on is a great counter-balance.Two things strain plausibility a little, and unfortunately, they are central to the plot.  We're asked to believe that gorgeous, extravagant Zelda is such a type that anyone in the right clothes can play her, so that when Zelda's bisexual agent Troy puts on the wig and clothing, nobody notices that it's a different person.  I tend to think people *would* notice if the person they were talking to suddenly grew four inches, their voice got deeper, etc.  Unfortunately this is a crucial plot point, and I just didn't buy it.  It's also crucially important that Isobel doesn't even know the numbers to her Swiss bank account, and I couldn't quite believe that either.  Because of these two things, you can see the big "twist" coming from miles away, so I enjoyed the second half of the book much less and even flipped to the end.  I did read it all anyway, but without so much the element of surprise.That said, Isobel is a terrific, enjoyable, likable character, one you can definitely relate to, and Gregory knows how to spin a good yarn!
3 I knew before starting this wasn't your typical Philippa Gregory that we have come to love.  But, I needed a Z title for my alphabet challenge and lets face it, there's not a lot to choose from. This book was a little bizarre and little racy. You have the author/housewife and her alter ego having an affair with her agent while they are both dressed in the alter ego's clothes. Add that to the disabled husband who suddenly improves while hanging out with the pool man.  Plus, you have the constant discussions of money.  It seems like everybody needs some (and by some I really mean large quantaties).  What you get in the end is a twist of events that leave you slightly disturbed and thinking WTF? I couldn't stop reading it though.  You can see the end coming but you can't stop yourself from watching everybody fall in the process.
3 A silly story. But sometimes silly is fun. A charming, but predictable farce juxtaposing "serious" literature and "trash" that sells--all by the same author.
3 I very much enjoyed reading this book - it was well researched and really interesting.  My rating reflects my disappointment that the book seemed to simply stop before any resolution of the plot was reached.  The author added a post-log which indicated she liked to leave her readers imagining what happened to the main characters after the book ended.  And in most situations, I can live with this.  However, the end of this novel left a question quite literally of life and death hanging ... and I felt seriously unsatisfied.  Looking online, can't find that there is a sequel.  So, if you enjoy a good story but are OK with wondering after the ending whether the characters lived or died ... have at it.!  I would like to have had a more satisfying ending.
3 This was my first Erskine book.  And, based upon what I've heard about her other books, this is not her best work.  It was enjoyable, but at times the story and characters just didn't hold together, and I found myself incredulously shaking my head.  As someone who really likes to lose himself in a book, these moments popped me out of the story with thoughts like, "That would just never have happened."A good illustration has to do with two of the main male characters, Andy and Toby.  The heroine in the story, Anna, has a pair of important possessions, an ancient Egyptian scent bottle and a diary from her great, great (maybe one more great) grandmother, Louisa.  These two men often exemplify a level of male chauvinism that would most certainly turn off any woman.  Andy, in particular, repeatedly takes one or more of Anna's aforementioned possessions--"for safe keeping."  There is simply no way that Anna, an intelligent woman, would allow this to continue happening without at least getting assistance from the appropriate authorities.Also hard to believe is the fact that Anna had not read Louisa's diary prior to the time of Anna's trip to Egypt.  The diary is also not written in any sort of style with which anyone would write a diary--in other words, in 3rd person.  I'm very willing to suspend belief for a good story, but the stretches in this book were really too much.With that said, the story offers some wonderful images of Egypt and was still able to hold my attention.  It's not one I'll reread, recommend, or keep on the shelf, but I did deem it worth finishing.
4 This is an exciting novel which grabs your attention from the word go ! Recovering from a recent divorce, Anna decides to follow in the footsteps of her famous great,great grandmother, an artist of some renown and make a trip to Egypt. She embarks on a luxury cruise from Luxor to Aswan, carrying with her two of her great grandmother Louisas' legacies- a glass scent bottle and her diary. The story then switches backwards and forwards to encompass the stories of both women.I found it to be a book that I couldn't put down and on several nights, was horrified to see that it was 2am and not only was I still engrossed, but was literally bug-eyed with the drama of it..be warned !!
3 In did not expect this book to rely on the occult and arcane to resolve it's plot, that was a cop-out. Even as a fantasy book it is a stretch for a reasonable resolution of story line. I enjoyed the picture the author painted of the Nile area and temples. I appreciated the two main characters past and present in their quest for independence and acceptance. I think this part of the story line was done well and interesting.  The male characters were completely non entities, either non-believable or not well conceived. The situations in which the author put the two women were not very believable in their time and place.
4 If you like mystical stuff mixed with romance, you might like this book. I enjoyed it, but there were a few things that bothered me.The story is really two stories that are combined.1. Louisa's story takes place in a diary, and is set in the Victorian era, when people traveled to Egypt but still wore corsets and all sorts of formalities were observed. This was by far the best part of the book. It was romantic, and the love story between Louisa and Hassan was very touching.2. Anna's story takes place in the present. Anna is reading Louisa's story in her diary. (Louisa is her great-grandmother). Anna follows in her footsteps to Ancient Egypt to recover from a nasty divorce. When she gets there, weird, mystical stuff starts happening to her because of a scent bottle that she has brought with her. In addition to that, there are two men who are after her affections. And maybe something more. The thing is, I didn't like either of them. They both seemed really unpleasant to me, while Anna just lets them into her life. I couldn't understand why she gave either of them the time of day! One grows nicer, but it seemed out of character for him to do so.Despite that, I did enjoy the book. There were some hair-raising moments that were fun. The setting was delightful. And the Victorian romance made it a worthwhile read.
3 While there were parts of this book I enjoyed, overall I felt like much of it was unrealistic or poorly written. The story weaves real life with other worldly beings - Egyptian priests, gods, and goddesses - and I enjoyed this part, it was fun to get wrapped up in a story that wasn't so serious or heavy. The chapters which focused on the main characters Great-great-grandmother were well written and very enjoyable, unfortunately some of the characters were so poorly written they felt completely unrealistic.Toby, one of the love interests of the main character, changes so often and is so moody I wondered if he suffered from some sort of mental disease. The other love interest, Andy, is so obnoxious, eager, presumptuous, and cocky I often wondered if he was actually a 16 year old boy rather than a grown man.The story also drug on, never providing any real changes or plot, just the same thing repeating over and over again as if the author was unsure you understood what was supposed to be happening. The ending however was what ultimately made me give the book a 3-star rating. There is no real ending, it's as if the author couldn't figure out how to end this slightly fantasy-driven story and so she opts not to. In the author's note immediately following the book she even states that sometimes it's hard to know when to end a book - clearly she's trying to explain her lack of an ending by this statement.
5 I have always wanted to go to Egypt. This book does a great job of creating the mystery and mystic of this exciting place. The story will live in my mind for a long time to come.
3 Barbara Erskine re-explores her favorite themes of obsession, romance, and the supernatural in this 500+-page novel told against the exotic backdrop of the lush Nile banks and the fascinating monuments of Egypt's ancient kings.In 1866, famous artist Louisa Shelley, newly widowed cruises down from Luxor to Ashram. She recounts her travel adventures through her paintings/sketches and in her diary. In particular she revels in the telling of a newfound love and his gift of an ancient scent bottle.Now in modern times, Louisa's great-great-granddaughter, Anna, at odds with her own life, returns to the scene of her ancestor's adventure, bringing the diary and the scent bottle back to Egypt where their return initiates a chain of events which threaten Anna's very life. Feelings of greed, obsession,and jealousy stir amongst the passengers on-board Anna's cruise, but the main force unleashed whirls from the hub of the scent bottle, the contents of which is protected by two malevolent priests who drain the lifeforce of all those who come within the bottle's sphere of influence.This particular foray into the supernatural is written very much in the more hurried style Ms Erskine employs in "On The Edge of Darkness". The characters are not as finely drawn as in her earlier successes, "Lady of Hay" and "Child of the Phoenix", nor does it contain the mind-chilling fear generated so frightfully well in "House of Echoes". Here, the frenetic state of the cruise passengers due from "exposure" to the priests and the bottle seems trite and a little too indignant to be considered realistic. There is a lot of angry repetitive conversation and a lot of toe-treading right from the start which in a normal holiday environment would not exist and could only be thought of as contrived by the author to suggest the dark behind-the-scenes workings of the priests. Even so, the events flow quickly and remain somewhat interesting due to the technique of interspercing Louisa's diary entries with corresponding moments during Anna's tour. One final problem---As the story runs on, accruing one catastrophe after another, it dies abruptly with no apparent ending or resolution other than an afterward by the author where we are told we like the characters must acknowledge the priests' evil and decide that some form of semi-unification amongst the book's persona will eventually and successfully combat it. While this ending may seem "real", it is nonetheless not a satisfacatory literary ending. The priests may or may not be subdued, nothing is rectified concretely and consequently,the reader feels taken for a ride with an appropriate destination in sight, but, alas, disappointingly never quite reaches the goal.Hopefully, Ms Erskine's next endeavor will render a more satisfactory conclusion and rekindle that fresh interest in the unknown/occult that her earier works evoke.
5 A thrilling novel involving.  Ann Fox retraces a journey her great grandmother made in the mid-nineteenth century - a Nile cruise. She carries with her two of her great grandmothers possessions - an Egyptian scent bottle and and illustrated diary of the original cruise that has lain unread for over 100 years.  There is a chilling secret of the little glass bottle.  While on the cruise two men show a disturbing interest in the mementoes. Most frighting of all, Anna finds herself the victim of a spectral presence that grows in strength and threat as the dramatic stories from 3 different eras intertwine in a terrifying climax.I enjoyed the story very much.
3 Good and fast read.  If you like mystery and history loosely tied up into fact based novels this is the one for you
4 The writing is not perfect, although the plot is excellent. This story could have gone SO many more places than it did which is why you probably don't want to take important time to read this.Without spoiling the plot (again, which had SO much potential!), I just felt there was too much unresolved mystery around the antique scent bottle which was causing all of the problem.  I understand that the author was trying to feed little bits of information to keep the mystery alive, but I felt too often, too little was resolved.It also seemed WAY too much was happening in the cabins on the boat that was sailing up the Nile.  At one point I said to myself "Does Anna EVER get to just be in her cabin without someone knocking on the door?"  I was getting annoyed at the interruptions and it wasn't even my cabin!  There were other weaknesses but if you are on vacation reading this book, they are easy to overlook.On the bright side, I loved the story of the great-great-grandmother as it was fed to us through her diary.  WONDERFUL story set in Victorian times.I felt the author had trouble bringing everything to a satisfactory conclusion at the end, but again, something that is easily overlooked if you have not devoted otherwise important time to this read.My final suggestion:  Go ahead and read it if you have mindless time and you haven't spent over $1.99 for the book.  An easy read and clearly 3.5-4stars.
5 What more can I say? This story drew me in immediately, I didn't want to put it down! The characters are relate able, the story is very well written, the details are lush...I am ready for the sequel!!! (hint to the author ;)
4 Recently divorced, Anna Fox needs a change in her life.  Once her dear Aunt Phyllis suggests she visit Egypt, Anna can't get that location out of her mind.  In the mid nineteenth century her great grandmother Louisa visited Egypt and created a wealth of painting of the sites she visited.  She also left a travel diary, which Phyllis bestowed to her.  Hidden in the depths of both women's stories are those of the ancient priests Anhotep and Hatsek.  Both died a violent death at the hands of the other, yet their souls have remained bound to the earth until they have settled that which they left unfinished.At first I thought that this was a 'time travel' story, rather it is a story that is told in three different time periods.  First, the priests who lived over 3000 years ago, Louisa who travelled to Egypt about 150 years ago and finally Anna in an unspecified modern year.  I had no trouble knowing when I was at any time.  Ms. Erskine used a different 'voice' for each time period.I loved the comparison of the locations during the varied time periods.  It must have been wonderful to visit the sites long before they became overwhelmed by tourists.  The descriptions were so vivid that I was able to imagine myself within the story as a passenger on the ship.  Makes me long to add Egypt to my travel list.The only thing I didn't like about the novel, was the resolution of the 'scent bottle'.  I understand that it couldn't be broken or lost, but I was expecting for a final answer.  All in all, a most enjoyable read.  I am next looking forward to reading Lady of Hay, an earlier book by Barbara Erskine.
3 This is the first book by Barbara Erskine that I've read, and this one was as an audiobook (17 hours) rather than a paperback, which can make the experience different.Overall I was interested enough to keep reading, the setting of the book in Egypt today and of 100 years ago (through the two narrators, Anna and her great great grandmother Louisa) was very well written and it was easy to get lost into the world of Egypt whilst listening.Anna, the modern-day heroine, is on an Egyptian cruise and takes Louisa's diary with her, which she has not previously read, along with the scent bottle that has been passed down her family from Louisa. The story of Anna unfolds at the same time as Louisa's - Anna reads Louisa's impressions of the places she visited in Egypt whilst going there herself. I enjoyed the contrast between the far less touristy Egypt of Louisa's visit in the mid 1800s, especially as this was before the building of the Aswan dam and subsequent moving and changing of many of the sites for Anna's visit.For me, however, the supernatural element of the story didn't work very well. Louisa was given the Egyptian scent bottle by her Egyptian guide Hassan as a gift - the bottle turns out to be ancient and to be a relic that is haunted by two priests who killed each other within a temple 3000 years before. These priests are trying to come back to life and their essences are fixed around the bottle. They tend to appear and disappear again with regularity, giving Anna some spooky moments, but there doesn't seem to be a great deal of reason for the choices of when they appear.There are parallel love interests in the story, although Anna's two beaux seem rather irritating initially. In fact, Andy, one of these men, is incredibly annoying and patronising and I found it almost incomprehensible that Anna continued to talk to him as the cruise went on. It also seemed rather amazingly convenient that another person on Anna's tour happens to have experience in Isis worship and has a mini Isis altar, as well as incense, with her on the tour. How unlikely is that!Some people have complained that the story didn't properly end but I thought this ending worked well. You don't know what's going to happen in the future and it continued the sense of mystery.Overall I did enjoy the book but I think I found it rather slow and turgid in places and the central theme of the book, the priests and the bottle, got a bit repetitious. Worth a read but not something to grip you from start to finish.
2 I read the free preview on my kindle and liked it so bought the book.  I enjoyed the beginning but toward the middle - I was at 41% and was surprised that I wasn't farther along- it just seemed to stall and be so much of the same thing.  Main character Anna lacking confidence, scared not knowing whom to trust.  Soap opera dialogue between characters.  I didn't finish the book.  I couldn't take it any more and figured there was a better book out there to read.
5 I was introduced to Barbara Erskine's books by a friend in Scotland, and I love her work.I read this book one summer and enjoyed it so much I booked a Nile cruise the next spring.  Our cruise followed a route quite similar to that in the book visiting Luxor, Karnak, Aswan, the Valley of the Kings, even the felluca to Philae. The book's descriptions of the ancient temples and sites are spot on!I have reread the book since our trip and enjoyed it just as much as the first read.  I'll read it again and again. I just wish all of Erskine's books were available on Kindle in the US.
5 Whispers in the Sand by Barbara Erskine was first released in 2000 to rave reviews. When I saw that Sourcebooks was offering a review copy, I was so excited. Why?? Barbara Erskine is my favorite author and has been since I read Lady of Hay. In fact, I remember that I had to order the book online with my first computer. I had to order it from the UK and when I did receive it I was thrilled. It took me a few years to read it...not because it was a bad book but because I wanted to savor it and didn't want it to end. I think I even took it along on my first trip to Ireland. Finish it I did and I think it was also one of my first reviews on my blog. I am not a reader who will reread a book but Barbara's books I definitely will.That said,  chapter one opens with this paragraph:" May there be nothing to resist me at my judgement;may there be no opposition to me;may there be no parting of thee from mein the presence of him that keepeth the scales."" It is thirteen hundred years before the birth of Christ".....The chapters of the story are told in alternating voices; Anna Fox, as she is on her cruise in Egypt as a vacation away from the stress of her life, of Louisa, Anna's great-grandmother who took a similar cruise in the Victorian era and lastly the ghosts of the dead priests. All these stories combine to tell a powerful spooky story of love, hate, evil, curse's on ancient relics and secrets of a diary. The way that the author told the story had me immersed from the first page and I could not wait to pick it up again, even staying up late to finish it. The research is impeccable and the writing is easy to read, I felt like I was right there with Anna as she discovers more of her great-grandmother's story. I give this book 5 stars and I highly recommend it for fans of historical fiction and specifically the Egyptian era. You will not be disappointed!
5 I loved this book! Excellent story and wonderful characters.  It brought back so many memories of the time I was in Egypt and so many feelings that I had forgotten. It really is a mystical, magical land, of course none of the things that occurred in the book happened to me but in this ancient land one never knows what may happen.I must say I didn't want this wonderful, well written book to end.
2 Started Whispers in the Sand and really got into it. Wanted to keep trying to get back to it and read what happens next. It did bring me along and let me figure out some things on my own, rather than out right telling me what the author wanted me, "to get". I like that in a novel. But OMG, to keep going over and over the same thing as the book progressed. Then to end it the way it ended. Just a thread in the air. The Author also felt a explanation was warranted. I thought that was weird too. It was as though there was a beginning, middle and then, infinity. I just felt it could have been handled a lot differently. I am afraid to put in the time to read any of her other books, for fear that I will be left with the same taste in my mouth at the end.
5 This a response to the reviewer who said the diary was written in the 3rd person. Its not the diary, that we read. Anna has the only copy of the diary and it is written in the first person [see first entry of diary]. Barbara has written the diary portions of the book like its done in film. We the readers are transported back in time to watch the action unfold while unseen Anna is reading the passive diary. Diaries are not written with conversation.
4 I've been reading Erskine's books for years and finally got to this read.  I'd give it a 3 1/2 star rating.  This story follows Anna Fox, who decides to take a trip to Egypt (following in her great great grandmother's footsteps) after a divorce.  Her cruise starts out as normal but soon there are disturbing incidents involving a scent bottle and a diary, both belonging to her ancestor.  Between the other people on the ship (who can she trust?) and the possible spirits guarding the scent bottle, there is plenty of discord and mystery.  But along the way we learn her great great grandmother Louisa's story, which is also interesting.  Not my favourite of her books, but a pretty good read all in all.  Lots of Egyptian history and some interesting characters helped make this a pretty good read.
4 Anna Fox is recently divorced and free from her controlling husband, but she doesn't know what to do with herself. Her aunt suggests she retrace a Nile cruise her great-grandmother had taken years before. She says yes, but doesn't realize just what awaits her in Egypt...Ms. Erskine writes a very solid novel. Every word she uses is there for a purpose and she weaves pictures of Egypt and its scenery, imbues you with a sense of danger, and makes you wonder if anyone is safe on this journey. Her plot is well thought out with lots of nooks and crannies for secrets to hide in. And she uses the diary from the past for good effect in this cruise in the contemporary time period. If you are at all familiar with Egyptian myths, they have gods they honor. Not all of them are nice gods, either. The gods are at work in this story also.When Anna gets on the plane to go to Egypt, she meets her first odd character. He's not the least bit friendly or even socialable sitting next to her. But he has interest in her great grandmother's diary...The author starts Anna out as a shy type after years of her husband controlling her and telling her what was appropriate for her life as his wife. As the cruise continues, she runs into other men of this type, but she starts to come out of her shell and lets them know she won't be treated that way. By the end of the story, after fighting gods and attempting to keep her artifacts from being stolen, Anna is returning to a woman with full confidence that can make her own decisions. The transition is fun to read about.All the characters in the "diary" and in the current day are believable and strong. The gods follow the traditional legends and are just as nasty as they were in those stories. It's full bodied story with lots of twists and turns that holds your attention until the last page.I especially enjoyed the Egyptian lore and the visit to the country. Why not get yourself a copy of this book and go on a Nile cruise, too?Originally posted at The Long and Short of It Romance Reviews
3 I picked this book for my kindle and had high hopes.  The idea of travelling to Egypt and discovering hidden secrets seemed like a winner.  In this respect, the history part of the story succeeded.  I like the book and would recommend it but I found it a bit long and the characters a bit incomprehensible.  Anna is nice but why does she continue to entertain Andy's bad behavior without explanation.  I wished a little more for the characters and also wished it to be over sooner than it was.
2 This was one of my VERY rare forays into "chic-lit"!I came by this book in the "flotsam-&-jetsam" library on a small remote Pacific Island, and because I usually enjoy anything with an Ancient Egyptian theme, I souvenired it and brought it home to read.It starts OK, ...with the literary technique of running two parallel stories, ...one in the present and one in the past.They are linked by an artifact which belongs to the two protagonists, ....which may or may not be genuine, ...(but of course you immediately know that it is!)There is actually a third minor story, set largely in ancient Egypt that is retold at the beginning of some chapters. It aims to explain the presence of two spirits who are forever tied to that artifact.Anyway, off up the Nile we go, ....in a sort of an Ark-type plot, with various characters eager to get their hands on set artifact for unspecified reasons.(Yes, Agatha Christie's "Death on the Nile" does come to mind...)Still, it's a good set-up and it could have been more than an interesting premise, but then the author just gets onto some sort of rotary turntable and repeats and repeats the same things for chapter after chapter.It's intersperced with readings from a old diary belonging to the person from the historical story, which may hold the clue to the whole business in the present-day counterpart. Just why the modern day girl (Anna) doesn't sit herself down and read the whole damn thing all at once is beyond understanding. It would explain everything, and being on a long languid cruise up the Nile she would undoubtedly have had more than enough time to finish the thing.But no, ...we just get instalments which are read long after they would have been of value to the mystery.The settings are well described, ...(the author actually took a trip up the Nile), but the male characters are very poorly drawn, either very one-dimensional, or with such extreme qualities as to appear more schitzophrenic loonies than real people.Toby was certifiable,(until his make-over at the end) ...while Andy such a over-bearing presumptious man-boy-prat that I would have gleefully drowned him in the Nile long before we got to the First Cataract!Anna is attracted to him of course!The novel makes great use of the occult and ancient Egyptian curses, ...and a later one involving a recurrent phantom cobra no less!(Still capable of a lethal bite though, phantom or not!)  These elements are allowed free reign in the story. Ancient ghosts appear, possessions take place and it must be said that co-incidence and highly unlikely occurences are resorted to in driving the narrative.I was very tempted to bail out about half-way through this repetitive tale of the "helpless" little lady (Oh woe is me,.. who can I trust...etc. etc.?)There are just not enough new developments or even suspense to keep you interested.However, I plowed on and finally got to what I hoped was "the ending". (It's quite a lengthy novel.)Ending? Did I say "ending"?There just isn't one. After the author resorts to a black-out, amnesia and/or some sort of a mental breakdown to get her heroine quickly back to London, the "Mills-&-Boon" technique is allowed to set in and everything "ends" happily (and quickly!)as the girl gets the man,...but not before a few more of those highly unnecessary and VERY unbelievable co-incidences are shoved in for good measure.There is just no resolution of any of the former fuss on the Nile, ...and of course that damned ubiquitous artifact "re-surfaces" (literally!!!) in what can only be described as a highly unlikely manner.This, together with the dubious story of the ancestry of the suddenly Mr. Nice-Guy Toby is really pushing the bounds of credibility!Anyway, ....this is definitely NOT for those who like their women characters "strong", ...FAR too much of those neurotic fainting ladies bordering on the brink of a nervous breakdowns for me.In fact at the risk of appearing sexist, I'd have to say this book is not for blokes at all.And really only for women whose hearts tend to go all a-flutter at the "tall mysterious romantic stranger met on a vacation to an exotic land" type of thing.
4 WHISPERS IN THE SAND by Barbara Erskine is a masterful interweaving of three connected stories of ancient evil surviving through the ages to surface again in the present.After divorcing her rat of a husband after fourteen years of patronizing, faithless marriage, Anna travels to Egypt for a trip down the Nile to follow in the footsteps of her great-great-grandmother, Victorian artist Louisa, as described in Louisa's sketchbook. Anna also brings along Louisa's old Egyptian scent bottle, which experts have claimed to be a fake, but which excites the interest of not one, but two men on Anna's cruise ship while awakening a long-dormant evil.Vivid descriptions draw you right into the exotic sights, sounds, scents and searing heat of the colorful Egyptian desert of past and present, even showing the man-made changes between the Victorian period and now. The suspense never lets up as more and more of the malevolence surrounding the scent bottle reveals itself in parallel to Louisa and Anna, as their journeys mirror each other's.I love the intrepid Louisa, who fights back against the human villain, malicious magic and the restrictive Victorian mores in her search for happiness. Anna is another matter. She's my least favorite type of heroine, the doormat. Given her history, I can understand her letting the villain bully her at the beginning, but she never develops. At the end, she is as much of a doormat as at the beginning.WHISPERS IN THE SAND  will keep you reading right to the last page to find out all the surprises, and Louisa is breathtaking. But the novel would have been much better if Anna had developed some backbone by the end of the story.ARC provided by Sourcebooks
1 I loved "Lady of Hay", so when my library bought this one, I borrowed it immediately.  What a waste of time!  The plot just keeps repeating itself over and over and then just...........ends!  There is no denouement, no tying together of loose ends, nothing.  It just stops.  She gives a feeble excuse as to why she did this, but come ON.  I think she just wanted her paycheck from the publisher.
4 I love Barbara Erskine's writing and this is the first of her books I've read. The story is compelling and I was really getting into it (to the point of wanting to stay up late to read) but I'm afraid the ending left me flat.  I'm going to give her a chance because of the wonderful writing style and the historical fiction she delves into.  As a matter of fact, I've bought all of her books for very little money and they are all hardcovers.  (BTW, I had absolutely great service from all the sellers.)  I'm reading two of her books at once and they are wonderful.  Some of the books are tomes and when I am really loving a book, I want it to be 1000 pages!  Love you Barbara Erskine!
3 Anna Fox needs a break from London and the ex-husband, and decides to journey to Egypt and retrace the trip along the Nile taken by her great-great-grandmother Louisa . On a whim, she also decides to bring along an ancient scent bottle Louisa had brought back with her - and there's a big mystery surrounding the bottle as it seems to take on a life of its own. Anna has a single cabin on board ship, but *people* sure do seem to come and go as well as things going bump in the night - is someone on board ship hot to get their hands on the scent bottle and Louisa's diary? Who is leaving fragments of incense behind? Are these people real, or a ghostly presence?Anna reads Louisa's diary in bits and pieces and through her we *see* her story. Louisa was a widow and a painter and whilst touring Egypt and fell in love with her guide Hassan. Hassan was the one who gave her the scent bottle, not knowing its *haunted past*, but there soon comes onto the scene the evil Lord Carstairs who dabbles in black magic and is very very determined to get his hands on the bottle no matter what the costs.And that's as far as I'm going, if you want to know the rest you'll just have to read it for yourself. This started off fairly well, and I liked the mystery, but things went a bit downhill about halfway through with too many plots and sub-plots, as well as an over abundance of secondary characters. Erskine fans will recognize her standard tropes of the dumped-by-her-cheatin'-husband-heroine-who-spends-the-rest-of-her-life-as-a-doormat-for-other-people, along with the standard duo of men (one good and kind, one a jerk)  interested in said heroine with plenty of spooks and things that go bump in the night - hey this one even has a magic snake!A quick easy read when one is in the mood for a bit of brain candy, and the Egyptian setting was the very best part. Not her best, but Erskine's fans should enjoy this well enough.
5 Newly divorced Anna Fox is being encouraged by everyone to take a vacation to mark the beginning of her new life.  She chooses to go to Egypt to retrace her great-great-grandmother's footsteps aided by the diary passed down to her along with a small, blue scent bottle.  As one of the few single women on her tour group, Anna knows to expect attention from the men in the group, but some of it seems extreme, especially their unusual level of interest in the diary.  As she reads the diary, learning more about her ancestor's trip, she also learns the sinister history of the scent bottle and the curse that is said to accompany it.  When Anna starts seeing strange apparitions and feeling like someone is watching her she wonders if she's losing her mind or if there could be more truth to the ancient Egyptian legends than she ever thought possible.This was a suspenseful tale filled with exotic images of Egypt and the mysteries surrounding the famous artifacts and tombs.  The story switches between modern day Anna's adventures and then the late 1800's through Anna's reading of the old diary.  I enjoyed how the stories tied together with the troubles that the scent bottle brought both women.  While the story is captivating and suspenseful, don't let reviews about it being really scary deter you; this is not a horror novel, a spooky tale to be sure, but more of one to curl up by a fire and read on a rainy weekend to scare yourself just the right amount.
3 Anna is a recently divorced wwoman who decides to go to Egypt on a vacation for refreshment. She also takes a scent bottle and a journal of her great great grandmother, Louisa. Louisa made her journey to Egypt during the mid nineteen hundred and she was accompanied by her guide Hassan. the scent bottle isnt an ordinary one, its very sacred and Carstairs want it. The scent bottle was a gift from Hassan to Louisa. The scent bottle belongs to the lords. Anna keep on reading Louisa's journal and meanwhile her adventure continues too as so many people in the ship envied her scent bottle and she has been pursued by Carstairs. The adventure begins........
4 This is my first book by Barbara Erskine but if given the chance to read another I will certainly do so. I found myself thoroughly loving (most of) the characters and certainly the locale of this book. I have a fascination for books that take place in Egypt; so mysterious, so old.  In this tale Anna Fox is recently divorced and is feeling totally diminished by an ex-husband who used her as nothing more than a social secretary.  Encouraged by her aunt she takes off to Egypt to follow in the footsteps of her somewhat famous great-great grandmother, Louisa Shelley, a water-colorist. Louisa has left a diary of her experiences and a mysterious scent bottle.The story is told in three parts; Anna's current day adventures, Louisa's Victorian tales and the mystery of two Ptolemaic priests who are looking to reclaim the scent bottle and it's "Tears of Isis."  The three stories are seamlessly bound together as Anna starts seeing the sames visions of the priests that Louisa did.As Anna reads Louisa's diary and becomes more involved in Louisa's life she becomes more afraid of the ghosts of the priests. In her current world her new acquaintances on the cruise ship in Egypt including two men who both want different things from her -  including Louisa's diary - try to woo her for their own purposes. Just who can Anna trust?This was a fascinating book with a good story at its core. I enjoyed Anna's present and Louisa's past. Anna's relationship with Toby (one of the two men) was fun and well developed. The other man, Andy was not as well developed and he seemed a bit one note but it didn't detract much from the overall book. I found myself turning the pages wanting to know what would happen to Anna and what did happen to Louisa.
5 I know there are some people that found the book predictable and then outlandish, but I found that I could really let my "figure-it-out" sense take a holiday. It was so nice to enjoy a book for what it is. I LOVE mysteries where the author doesn't foreshadow a whole lot, but instead gives you the information when s/he wants. That's why I enjoyed this so much. I wasn't trying to figure out what was going to happen next, but enjoying the book's pace. I know some reviewers have said the book moves too slow, but, but if something like this was going to play out in real life, I think that's how it would unfold; slowly, making it creepier, and the characters need time to decide what they're going to do.  I enjoyed the characterizations A LOT, and I found this book difficult to out down!
4 I enjoyed this book about a haunted scent bottle. The story is told from 3 different time periods, and that makes it even more interesting and intriguing.  At times it was creepy, eerie, and even a little scary. I thought the plot and ending was very complete and left me with no unanswered questions except what would happen next.... At times it was a little confusing about the different gods, priests, places, etc. but mostly I believe because I listened to this book instead of read it, so it was not as easy for me to refer back to earlier parts if need be. Learning and exploring through Egypt with the characters was enjoyable. I agree that at least some of the main characters were annoying, but I didn't think it was too odd that Serena was familiar with Isis or other egyptian rituals, etc. It made sense to me that it could easily be possible since she was on a cruise to egypt and probably had some kind of interest in the culture, history, etc. There is also a romantic aspect for the two main characters. Overall I enjoyed this ghost story and would recommend it to others. This was my first book by this author and already plan to read others by her.
4 First thought after finishing this book: "I so need to visit Egypt!!!"My Thoughts: This was my first experience reading Barbara Erskine and it won't be my last. I really liked the way she wrote the story using a diary of Anna's great-grandmother as the focal point and in which she was able to link the past with the present. I know that some people do get tired of "the diary" being used in books but for me it never seems to grow old. I honestly felt like I would recognize these people and places if I were to visit them today because Erskine writes with a very descriptive flair. While at times I wanted to throttle Anna and tell her to get a backbone when it came to one of the overbearing and pushy male passengers, for the most part I enjoyed her character and couldn't wait to see what she would discover next. This was a great book to get lost in for an afternoon and made me want to Google the places that Anna and Louisa encountered on their Nile voyages.Recommend? Yes, I would recommend this book to my friends. Especially those that love the use of a found diary as a means to bring the past and present together into a satisfying story!!
5 An interesting double story, past and present interwoven, as both heroines travel the Nile in search of answers to an age-old question. This is the kind of book you want to read slowly and envision every scene. Definitely a book worth reading.
4 I read "Lady of Hay" long ago and was looking forward to reading this book by Erskine.  While the plot and characters were great, I felt the last half of the book was somewhat repetitive. I got a little impatient with Anna's attitude toward Andy. Her dismissal and acceptance of his actions seemed more appropriate to Louisa's generation.  The author does have the ability to transport the reader into the setting, and I enjoyed the brief jaunt into Egypt.
5 This was very believible. I was so captivated I thought of the characters all day long. I can't wait to read more by this author!
4 The book was fascinating about the historical perspective of ancient Egypt..... and comparing that to the aunt's life and the heroine. Three time frames of life and how the magic and mystic of Egypt touched them all. Mystery, romanance, social expectations, modes of travel became comparisons of these two women's experiences. The appearances of the ghosts/guards/gods of the past and their magic added to the intrigue and allure of this book. The ending felt rushed and too short. There was more to explore in the events portrayed in this book.
4 Nicely traditonal setting for us cosy fans.  Perhaps a bit thinly written, but a very good puzzle plot (maybe it was an off day for me, but I was fooled).  Witty ending takes a somewhat cynical view of progessive views on criminal rehabilitation.
5 Troy - Roderick Alleyn's artist wife - is painting a portrait of Hillary, the eccentric owner of a country house called Halberds.  It is snowing and close to Christmas and there is to be a house party which will include a distribution of presents to the local children by one of the guests dressed up as a cross between Father Christmas and a Druid.As the guests start to arrive it is clear there are tensions which are not helped by the guests' knowledge that all the servants are murderers who have served their sentences.  When one of the visitor's servants disappears Troy wishes her husband, a Scotland Yard detective could be there too.This is an excellent country house mystery with an ill-assorted collection of guests and residents.  Troy feels totally out of place especially when unpleasant notes start to appear under people's doors and practical jokes are played on unsuspecting people.  The air of menace is well done and the plot is excellent.  I had worked out who was the murderer before the end but I could not really see how the murder had been carried out.  When all is revealed everything falls into place and the clues are clear.A well plotted and well written story with an excellent collection of eccentric characters.  Troy and Alleyn himself - not to speak of Inspector Fox - are good value as always.  If you enjoy Agatha Christie, Georgette Heyer's crime novels and Patricia Wentworth's writing then you may enjoy Ngaio Marsh.
4 When Troy Alleyn agrees to visit Halberds to paint the portrait of eccentric proprietor Hilary Bill-Tasman, she doesn't realize what an odd household she's visiting. As it happens, Bill-Tasman decided to solve his domestic servant problem by staffing his house with paroled murderers. When after a series of frightening pranks and a stint as the Christmas Druid, Alfred Moult goes missing, Troy's husband Roderick is called in to see if murder is at hand.While perhaps not exceptional (the situation is a bit overdone, and it's rather easy to guess the killer) _Tied up In Tinsel_ is a typically well-written Marsh mystery. Well worth a read.
3 First, let me be clear. I do like this mystery. In fact, I very much like all of Ngaio Marsh's body of work. However, this audio narrator chose to pronounce the leading character's name differently than the author intended, which unfortunately was distracting to me, and interfered more than a bit with my listening enjoyment.The case in point is that Chief Detective Inspector Roderick Alleyn's name ought to sound like Allen/Allan. Ngaio Marsh gently pointed it out in another of her novels featuring Alleyn (Vintage Murder, c1937) by including not one, but three, mentions at different points that individuals hearing Alleyn's name wrongly assumed that it was Allen. Even the passenger list for his Pacific crossing had his name misspelled. In the storyline, Alleyn hadn't corrected the shipboard listing from "Mr. R. Allen" to his actual name because he welcomed the anonymity it afforded him. Vintage Murder is set during a journey while Alleyn was traveling abroad for health reasons but had recently led several highly-publicized murder investigations back in England. Alleyn wants the peace of being casually taken for a "Mr. Allen" of no particular distinction or notability.In addition, the source and the reason for choosing Alleyn's name and its pronounciation are explained by Ngaio Marsh in Death In The Air.Enjoy Tied Up In Tinsel, this mystery at Halberds Manor. Enjoy the storyline and its glimpse into the long-gone elegance of the 1930's. Enjoy Alleyn and his artist wife Troy, and each of the quite remarkable characters assembled at Halberds Manor over the festive season.
5 This was the first Inspector Alleyn mystery I ever read so it holds an extra special place in my heart.  Marvelous characters and a great mystery make this one of Marsh's best.  The character of Troy Alleyn, a respected portrait painter, starts off the tale never expecting to be plunged into intrigue.  She more than manages to hold her own until her husband is called in to solve the case.  Quirky players, a little twisted holiday spirit, and the standard Ngaio Marsh wit make this book stellar.  A must read and a great first book for Marsh newcomers.
4 Very entertaining mystery that takes place in a wealthy eccentric's  enormous home.  Troy Alleyn has been commissioned to paint Hilary (a man)  Bill-Tasman's portrait during the Christmas holiday.  While she knows that  he's eccentric, she doesn't count on the fact that he likes to staff his  house with ex-convicts (&quot;onecers&quot;)from the local prison.  When  their crimes start repeating themselves in the great house and a missing  person turns up dead, Inspector Alleyn is unwillingly pulled into the  picture, taking charge of the investigation.  I would have ranked the book  higher, except that the identity of the murderer became fairly clear a  little too early.
4 The basic premise of a house staffed with one-time murderers (oncers) was certainly intriguing, and giving Troy, Alleyn's painter-wife, a larger part was refreshing IMHO, but the overall novel left me a bit unsatisfied for some reason.  As in several Marsh books, there are numerous Britishisms, possibly some are also anachronisms--from the time of writing?), understandable but not (to a modern American) comprehensible.  Still, one can generally ignore such things in order to enjoy the story itself.  But the characterizations are too intricately woven into a good mystery novel to separate the two in one's general impression.  This appears to me to be the case here because the characters seem more like caricatures.  Were such people really like (and spoke like) this in Marsh's England?  Maybe.  I wasn't there then.  But, it seems hard to believe.  Furthermore, the ending left me wondering how Alleyn figured out all the details beforehand.  I'm not speaking about who the murderer is, I'm referring to all the gory details.  Don't get me wrong, it's Marsh's usual solid mystery, but not IMHO one of her best.  I do like the very last paragraph very much though--it brought a smile to my lips.  This novel is also included in multi-novel books such as:FIVE COMPLETE NOVELS  SCALES OF JUSTICE  DEATH OF A FOOL  TIED UP IN TINSEL  GRAVE MISTAKE  PHOTO FINISH.
4 Ngaio Marsh (1895-1982) wrote this one just ten years prior to her death. It's a formula cozy murder, much in the vein of her other Inspector Roderick Alleyn/Detective Fox series entries.THE STORY here is that a rich aristocrat (Hilary Bill-Tasman) has re-purchased his noble family's run-down former estate and he's restoring the Manor House (Halberds Manor). Along with that he's bringing a young and beautiful wife into the home, a caveat of which not everyone approves. To add even more to the accoutrements Hilary has hired Inspector Alleyns' wife, the renowned Troy, to paint his portrait (a Marsh theme that we've seen before inFinal Curtain, 1947).To commemorate the event, Hilary has invited his close relatives to celebrate a community Christmas at his not-quite-finished home, where the locals and their children are provided with gifts and subsequently fed a nice supper. Instead of Santa, Hilary opts for an ancient folklore Druid character to deliver the gifts. Providing the domestic service at the event is Hilary's staff, comprised in part of five men who have previously been convicted of murder -- but they've all been rehabilitated... or have they?In any case, Hilary's eccentric and aged Uncle F. Fleaton Forrester ("Uncle Flea") is supposed to play the Druid role but he falls ill and his personal manservant, Moult, has to take on the task at the last minute. Moult has been somewhat at odds with Hilary's unusual house staff members but it comes as a great surprise to all when Moult comes up missing just after the gifts are distributed.Of course Inspector Alleyn, who has just arrived back in England, ends up on the scene at the snowed-in and isolated mansion and he reluctantly takes on the case -- but his ability to solve the case is hampered as the level of cooperation is not high from the distrustful house staff, all of whom are naturally distrustful of the police.This mystery flows along nicely and one can read it over a couple of evenings -- the hardcover edition (Little, Brown and Company, 1972) runs for 222 pages. As usual, Marsh has crammed this cozy murder with lots of terrific wallpaper and atmosphere.While this isn't a "must-read," Marsh fans will clearly enjoy this entry and I can recommend the book to anyone who enjoys a good, fluid, British cozy murder.
4 I debated about what rating to give this book because even now, a few years after I first read it, I'm still not sure whether I liked it or not. I can say this with absolute honesty -- it is one of the strangest books I have ever read.I liked the first half. It started out seeming like a fun hard-boiled P.I.-type novel set in a zany science fictional alternate universe, filled with action and wacky hijinks. In this world, everthing is divided into different neighborhoods. There's Action Center, where everything is all about business and being productive; Color, where artists live and experiment with, you guessed it, color; Red Neighborhood, where you can get anything you want if you've got enough money; and so on. Everyone is divided into these little sub-sections of humanity and almost no one ventures outside of their little corner of it. All you know is your Neighborhood. I liked the concept of the Neighborhoods, and the author certainly seemed to have a lot of fun with it. But that's just the tip of the iceburg.Every other novel I've ever read follows a pattern. A roadmap, if you will. Once you've read the first few chapters, once you know what kind of book you've got, you know in general where it will end up. You may not know all the twists and turns of the plot, but you're familiar with the general landscape. Not so with _Only Forward_. This book ended in a completely different place than it began. It began with wacky hijinks and wisecracking P.I.s, but it ended...somewhere else entirely. I don't what to be more specific than that, so I don't spoil it for unsuspecting readers out there. I'm still not sure if I'm glad I went there, but it was interesting, without a doubt. Original, unquestionably. Intense, with plenty of food for thought.At the beginning of this review, I said I wasn't sure what to rate this book because I wasn't sure if I liked it. I'm still not sure. But I gave it a 4 because I didn't dislike it, and I still think about it and ponder the issues it raised to this day. _Only Forward_ is unusual. It stays with you. It's worth a read for that alone.
3 First off let me clarify one thing: This book is both science fiction and fantasy.  If you're a fantasy fan, you probably won't have any trouble with this book.  The sci-fi portions of it are quite creative and not at all hard.  If your a science fiction fan, though, tread carefully!  The last half of this book requires some serious suspension of disbelief.Now, as for my opinion of the story, I have to say it was a bit of a rollercoaster ride for me.  At first it was a little hard to get into, because Smith applies a bit of quirky British humor in spots, and though I usually enjoy that it doesn't quite work for me here.  However, once I came to terms with this, the first half of the book was really great.  I enjoyed the action, the characters and The City - and the action!  Then, in the second half, it took a nose dive.  Frankly, I found the whole notion of Jeamland cheesy and unpalatable.  And I like cheese!  *Ahem*  Anyway, by the final fifty pages or so, things seem to get more or less back on track, and the ending had me flipping pages as fast as I could.In summary, parts of this book deserve two stars and parts of it deserve four, so overall I have to rate it a three.  Would I recommend this one?  Not unless I knew your tastes well enough to think you'd like Jeamland more than I did.
1 I just finished this book and I must ay that it was a spectacularly boring  collection inane sentences.It starts off ambitiously enough, written in  a general and uniquely abstract style, it lets you know from the get go  that its first-person, narrator-unreliable. Good enough, always nice to see  new forms of writing in the field. Then, however, it plummets.Like many  inept Brit science fiction writers, the author attempts to turn everyday  optical illusions and quirky perceptions into witty existential-scientific  theories, and abstract social theories into reality, without any  interpretation. I guess because Douglas Adams pulled it off in Hitchhiker's  guide, book editors now let any hack from across the pond try it.  Unfortunately, as is usual, it failed. Instead of thgought provoking,  amusing prose on things we never think about, we are weighed down with  boring chaotic nonsense. Only Forward shows all the brilliance of a  shorted-out low watt bulb, covered in mud.The plot is choppy and lacks  any coherent purpose, the characters are dull, one dimensional, and devoid  of interest.  In this reader's opinion: the description on the back of the  book is a heck of a lot more interesting than the book itself. Maybe next  time the author will try writing that instead of the disjointed nonsense he  slopped inside.
2 The Library Journal describes ONLY FORWARD as an "...sf action thriller in a color-coded near future, where independent neighborhoods vie for dominance in a dangerous and deadly high-tech world." Well, I actually read ONLY FORWARD and, while there are neighborhoods that are very distinctive, there wasn't much vying for dominance going on, nor is this what I would call a "thriller". It was mostly a live-and-let-live arrangement among the neighborhoods, and any excitement generated in the first part of the book was dissipated in the vapid second part.The neighborhoods are all featured primarily in the first part of ONLY FORWARD, wherein Stark (the main character) tries to locate and bring home missing technologist Fell Alkland. This part of the book is mildly amusing, but suffers from a degree of predictability. Moreover, the neighborhood concept suffers from a lack of internal consistency, which makes it hard to take seriously. One, for example, is controlled by gangs and completely chaotic, with killings and destruction the order of the day. The trouble with such a "neighborhood" is that it would be reduced to an uninhabitable pile of rubble within a very short time. Another "neighborhood" exists in total isolation; walled off from its neighbors and keeping its citizens in total  ignorance of the existence of an outside world. Hard to figure how this is managed when it becomes clear that the neighborhood is (surprise) not self-sufficient and must trade with other neighborhoods to maintain itself. Inconsistencies such as these are  common in the first half of the book.The latter part of ONLY FORWARD throws the unsuspecting reader into Jeamland. Jeamland is a fanciful dreamworld; a surreal vision conjured up out of thin air that, like a dream, has no internal consistency. Indeed, the Jeamland environment shifts with the slippery ease of an oil-slick on the surface of a running stream. There's a lot of action here, but it isn't particularly compelling because the prevailing reality changes  at the whim of certain characters and it's hard to accept that one character can be harmed by another character's dream.Some folks apparently really like this book. It's even won awards. Not in my Jeamland, however (in my Jeamland, I just won the Lotto and I'm off to Sacramento to claim my prize). I confess that I'm mystified as to what folks see in it. Someone wrote about ONLY FORWARD that "...the story blazes with visionary intensity." Well, there may be some intensity (if you can get past the absurdity), but there's nothing visionary about it. Very little of what it contains could possibly occur in any imaginable reality. In fact, this isn't science fiction at all. It's fantasy of the most extreme sort. Even Tolkien's fantasy world is internally consistent and functions by some recognizable rules. Little of that exists here; none in Jeamland."Properly warned ye be, says I." The first part of ONLY FORWARD was far-fetched and predictable, but worth three stars in my book. I found the Jeamland part more mind-numbing than mind-bending, though. If surrealism is your cup of tea, go for it. At least you've been warned about what you're getting into. But, if your reading tastes are anything like mine, this is a two star book. You're on your own.
3 Stark is a troubleshooter who has a specialty in recovery of things that people can't find. In this case he is tasked to find a scientist.However, it is not that simple, really, the City he lives in is very bizarre, indeed, with different parts being completely different and having completely different rules. As in rules of reality, more Cynosure or Wonderland than just the bad neighborhood or slum type of thing.Didn't quite work for me, but is not bad.
5 If you like your plot straightforward, don't bother reading this. Only Forward is a surreal journey, one that only an author such as Smith, who possesses a great deal of talent, is capable of pulling off. The first half is something along the lines of your traditional cyberpunk noir mystery storyline. However, Smith writes this in a lighter tone than usual and has a great flair for being humorous. The second half is a mind-bending twister of a read that flings you in and out of reality. A fantastic read, for great characterization and loads of originality.
5 Gripping from the first page, this classy and unique combination of speculative fiction, adventure, and thriller will keep the reader's attention.  Some of the author's ideas and insights are extremely thought-provoking.  I originally took this book out of the library -- I enjoyed it enough that I ordered a copy for my personal library, and sent one on to a friend.  Read _Spares_ next -- very good, very disturbing, and very different from _Only Forward_.
5 In a future world a lot weirder than the present, only a lunatic or a  desperado would seek the services of Stark. Somehow, when he is on the job,  everything seems to go screwier as Stark makes a sentry dog seem more like  a gentle house pet.Thus, when Actioneer Zenda Renn introduces Stark  to Darv and C of the Action Center's Intelligence Agency (ACIA), he knows  they must be in extreme trouble, which they are. Apparently, three days ago  someone abducted Senior Actioneer Fell Alkland who was doing highly  classified work. Stark is to find out who kidnapped Alkland, how they did  it, and bring him back alive.Stark thinks the case has nothing to do  with abduction, but knows that any inquiries in any of the Neighborhoods  can be very perilous to one's life even if the case appears quite simple  like this one. However, even the ultra-cautious Stark is not yet aware that  Murphy's Law has been renamed for him because he soon becomes the target of  friend and foe alike.If anyone had doubts before ONLY FORWARD was  published that Michael Marshall Smith owns the absurd futuristic  who-done-it sub-genre, they will not think so after this wild novel. ONLY  FORWARD is weird, yet also amusing and entertaining. The story line is  filled with a strange world loaded with intriguing but hard drive error  gizmos inside a wonderful mystery. Stark is a great protagonist while the  support cast provides depth to this surreal world. Not for everyone, Mr.  Smith satirizes the mystery and science fiction genres while ripping every  ONE OF US with its acerbic tongue in cheek plot.Harriet Klausner
4 What a fascinating book.I'm giving this one a good review because I thought that elements of only forward were greater than the sum of it's parts. As a collective, the novel really doesn't hold together all that well but when you examine it's finer pieces there are some really beautiful things at play here.I picked up Only Forward because I am presently going back and reading all the Philip K Dick award winners. For those of you who don't know, the award is given each year for the best annual sci-fi novel that did not receive a hard cover publication. Dick never received a hardcover publication in his lifetime which was why the award was created. I've read some phenomenal books as a result, including one of my favorites 'Altered Carbon' by Richard K Morgan. Altered Carbon is brutal, hard-boiled, and very conventional cyberpunk and I think that when Michael Marshall Smith gave some of the readers who left bad reviews here a taste of something similar they fully expected him to run in that direction.Instead, at almost exactly the halfway point, Only Forward slips right off the deep end. All of the conventional worlds and detail that Smith has established are eliminated and it's almost as though we start completely from scratch again. It's quite a leap of faith he makes with his readers to expect them to come along for the ride and I have to admit I found the next 75 or so pages to be a little bit of drudgery.Eventually he started to reel me back in with characters and backstory that I found extremely compelling. Perhaps I was in just the right mood for it but the ending was a perfect pitch of sadness and satisfaction, despite the fact that (due to the unreliable narrator) Smith jammed a TON of exposition into the last 50 pages.So I suppose I was finally able to suspend my disbelief enough to let the themes play out and just come along for the ride, though I can understand enough why some readers just couldn't. Upon reflection I found that the sci-fi aspects of the book were actually pretty conventional and cliche, almost satirically so. It's the plunge and what follows after which was really unique and satisfying.There is a lot here that DOESN'T work though. While I found the Douglass Adams-y aspects of the writing entertaining (the bug finder made me laugh out loud), eventually they just dissapear and also it just DIDN'T fit together with the brutal and hard boiled aspects of the first half. To go from humorous jokes about the main characters shirt to women defecating on each other (an isolated element here but still) was just too much of a stretch for me. Also some of the material suffers because Smith just attempts to do too many things at once and it becomes unclear exactly WHAT he's shooting for. If the cyperpunk-ish city is meant as sci-fi than aspects of it (the cat city) need a clearer explanation for their existence than what he gives. If the incidental to what he was really trying to accomplish than (in my own limited opinion of course) he shouldn't have spent SO much time establishing it's rules.If this all sounds vague and unclear than you have some idea of what it was like to read the second half of the novel.Either way I found each of the individual elements of the story interesting individually even if they weren't cohesive. There were moments that I found Michael Marshall Smith actually managed capture horror in a way that you're conventional blood drenechd "horror" novels can only stab at (pun intended.) There are nightmares here that left me a little sick and uneasy as though they'd been my own. Parts of it are really funny. And some of it is really exciting. If you can get past the fact that it is inconsistent and just take the story as it evolves you may just have a good time.
4 Starting with very original ideas the author takes us to a new Earth where hi-tech and violence intermix together to provide a futuristic story.It starts with promising prolong that somehow keeps you tuned up through the first half of the book. Through out this first half, Michael Smith builds very interesting and deep characters. Each of these characters has his/her own complicated personality and life story. Except of few unreasonable facts - that I could not really accept - the story builds good tension and is mind provoking.Then, somewhere around the middle of the book Michael Smith makes a sharp turn and changes this sci-fi story to something more like `Alice in Wonderland'. I found this very annoying and hard to accept. Still I kept on reading as I was really attached to the characters and HAD to know their destiny.This book deserves two stars for the plot and two stars for Michael Smith's polished, unique and fun writing style. Ideas are clearly conveyed, human life and survival is always at the center of events and day-to-day thoughts are brilliantly woven into the story line (in a rather compelling way)!
5 I agree with some other reviewers that there is a big difference between the first half of the novel with the Neighborhoods and the second half with Jeamland.  Perhaps this could have been two novels.Anyway, the author has a unique way of thinking and an original style and I greatly enjoyed reading the whole thing.John Christmas, author of "Democracy Society"
2 The first part of the book is good, when Stark is looking for Alkland, but when Stark decides that Alkland has a problem with his dreams the book is boring and so it keeps till the end, how can a person write so many words and don't say anything? I don't know why I finished this book, but I did. Sincerely, this book is a waste of time.About the future? This book doesn't have anything about that, everything happened in Stark's dreams and in the dreams there are no future, present or past.
5 I was blown away.  A friend I was living with found it on a remaindered book trolley outside an Australian suburban mall, and told me to read it.  Since then, I've bought five copies to distributed to friends.  My best  book of 1995 was Snowcrash; this was 1994.  An amazing book.  I reread it  about every six months, and get something different every time.
4 &quot;Only Forward,&quot; Smith's debut novel, is a sometimes funny, sometimes terrifying futuristic thriller that weds cyberpunk with horror a la John Shirley. A work of surprising depth, &quot;Only Forward&quot; is a literary funhouse where nothing is as it seems; the reader's role is to hold on tight (outguessing the hard-boiled narrator is next to impossible). Loaded with uproarious satirical shocks reminiscent of Neal Stephenson's &quot;Snow Crash,&quot; &quot;Only Forward&quot; ultimately reveals itself as a work of moral and aesthetic maturity with enough humanity to counterbalance its unbridled surrealism.
4 If you are into science fiction you will like this book. It is a complex and rewarding story, taking you through many weird settings. The story is kind of slow in the middle, but the last couple of chapters, when the book explains it all is amazing
1 Serious lack of writing talent - it felt like it was written as a wannabe screen play. Completely lacking in any subtlety, insight or technique.  Interesting for a teenage mind maybe but not for anyone who really enjoys a well written book that doesn't just lay it all out on the table for you
4 No review of Only Forward would be complete without mentioning the word &quot;surreal,&quot; so I'd just like to get that out of the way up front. But there's a differnece between surreal and wack, and Smith has wack down to a science.Smith is from Britain, so it's understandable that there might be some British slang in. But making the slang contemporary throws the reader off a bit (since it's ostensibly set in the future, see). On top of that, I was reading an American edition of the book, so many (although not all) of the Britishisms were Americanized. The final result is a book written in partially Americanized contemporary British slang, which leaves no room for doubt as to which side of the 'wack' line this book falls.Another hallmark of reviews of these sorts of books is the phrase, 'I don't want to give anything away, but...' There's so much going on in this book that it's hard not to. I'll do my best to keep revelations to a minimum, but read no further than this paragraph if you want to stay spoiler-free. The short answer is that this book is great. If you love science fiction, this'll be a keeper.So, quick and dirty introduction: Stark, the book's narrator, is a sort of a futuristic hard-boiled private eye. He's got contacts everywhere, he's 100% sure of himself at all times, and he seemingly can get any job done no matter how unusual. His speciality, apparently, is finding lost people, which brings us to this story wherein things don't go quite as they'd been planned. Enh, gotta have conflict somewhere, right?Smith paints an unusual world in this future Earth. Most of the land is covered by The City which is, itself, divided into Neighbourhoods, each of which has its own rules and regulations. But there's nothing normal about these neighbourhoods -- there's Cat, which is apparently run by cats; there's Action, where you can be blown up if you visit for too long; there's Red, which is run by gangs and thugs. C.f. the 'wack' statement I started out this review with. Of course, Stark has contacts everywhere, so the sense of danger is combined with a sense of extreme confidence, and the reader is just swept along, absorbing the events.Cross that with an unreliable narrator -- an admitted unreliable narrator -- and you end up with a story that's nearly as bizarre as it thinks it is. Obscurity is built up, layer upon layer, until you're not sure what is real and what Stark's just making up, or what Smith is making up, and then you pause and realize that of course Smith is making it all up, so why should we care about Stark anyway and then you take a deep breath and put the book down for a minute and watch TV instead.I'm a TV addict, what can I say?Seriously, though, it's tough to know what to believe, even at the end where Stark pretty much gives the game away. Or, at least, claims to. There's always the undercurrent that there may be something more to the story, but this is a review, not a critical analysis, so I won't go further than that here. That's not to say I haven't been thinking about this, off and on, ever since I finished reading the book.At the end of the day, all you have to go on is the text of the story, so you have to either believe something or just mark the book down as a waste of time. And it's not even close to being a waste of time. Smith has managed to tell a story where the reader must constantly reassess what has transpired. You read along, assuming one set of facts, and then learn something new which changes what has gone before and you think to yourself, &quot;Ah, now I get it.&quot; And then Smith lets another bomb drop later on and you think to yourself, &quot;Oh, now I understand.&quot; And so on, and so on. By the end, your disbelief suspenders have been given an incredible workout.
5 Ok, its been 10 years or so since I read this first, and possibly only The Road by Cormac McCarthy had a more lasting effect on me after the first read, I knew I had just read something quite extraordinary. Then funnily enough, events in my life went on to mirror those in the book, which I didnt realise until I read it again and it just tore the guts right out of me. Yes, there is plenty wrong with this book, its a book of 2 halves etc etc. But they fit to make a whole greater than the sum of those 2 parts. Ok, no, I didnt go to Jeamland, or the future, but ultimately this is a book about love. he also loves his set pieces as well, you are reading a beautiful passage about the nature of love and loss (you know the one) and a little mental scroller is going though your mind like the one in Waynes World where it says "Oscar Scene" or something like that, but never the less, it is beautifuly realised and these passages articulate beautifully what sometimes you cant when your heart has been broken. Hmm. I lapped up MMS's other stuff, Spares, One of Us etc, and the like and good though they are, its just MMS re-writing Only Forward.  That doesnt take away from the brilliance of this book though. I am wanting to read it again as I speak and I know its in a box in the shed, damn.
5 Found this book at a used book store.  It's the Britishversion, with the funky black cover, and the only things on it werethe title and the phrase &quot;May we introduce Stark.  Oh, and by the way, good luck....&quot; I flipped it open to skim the first couple pages and it hooked me.  I was laughing in the store.  I had to buy it. It didn't disappoint me.  It was a convoluted book, alternately funny, nasty, and tragic, with a cast of characters that constantly surprised me, and a flurry of intriguing new concepts.  The one that sticks out most for me was this: &quot;The reason that it seems to take less time to return from a place than it was to get there in the first place, is because the way back is actually shorter&quot;.The second time I read it, the comedy wasn't as sharp, which was fine, because it made the real story, the tragedy, stand out all the more.I'm not doing this book justice at all.  I can't.  Buy it, borrow it, do anything to wrap your hands around it.  And read it. And read it again.  I'm going to.
4 Strange, funny, fascinating, thought-provoking; doesn't really fit into one genre. Started out too satirical for me, but somehow hooked me and I'm glad it did - go with the flow and it takes you interesting places
2 I got this book on spec the basis of the reviews and had high hopes, but ultimately ended up feeling that I'd been robbed of my time.  The problem was that about a third of the way through the book it completely changes complexion.  This isn't necessarily a problem.  After all, the movie _From Dusk Till Dawn_ changes completely half way through and that's wonderful.  The problem is that this changes from an interesting and fairly witty-seeming novel into a sort of self-indulgent stream of consciousness book in which the author seems to be exorcising his own demons.  He's welcome to do that, of course, and I plodded my way to the end of the novel, but when I got there I simply felt like I'd wasted my time hoping for the book to get back on track.  It never did.
4 I started this book with the idea that it would be a time-killing bubble-gum SF novel, but by the end, I was engrossed by the main characters and I found the Big Reveal to be very well done and quite devastating.  A very, very well written novel.
3 I am reading this book now. The author has got a vivid imagination. There is definitely something interesting about him. Linguistically he sort of do unpredictable things. I think this author could actually grow into something really good. Perhaps he needs more depth and seriousness. And he needs to harness his imaginative powers. I guess I would prefer for him to stay in a realistic world.
4 So, you start reading this book with your Douglas Adams head on.  At least, I did.  it's a bit sci-fi, you see, but with comedy asides.  It's not until you get about halfway through that you realise you actually care  about the characters in a way that you wouldn't normally, it they were only  there for comedic effect.  As soon as this happens, you will find yourself  unable to put this book down, as it gives the most accurate description of  dreaming that i have ever read.  This book lulls you into a false sense of  security,  but don't be fooled, it has very dark moments.  Also, as the  book is written in first person, as soon as you have a plot premonition,  you are admonished by Stark, the main character, for missing the bigger  picture. Fantastic book, great author.  Read all his stuff.  (&quot;Spares&quot; next, if i were you)
4 This story is a rarefied view of what might happen as culture degenerates into hundreds of separate world views.  The narrator's name, Stark, was short for stark-raving-mad.  Each of the other characters represented a turn in the maze which drove Stark insane.  Jeamland, as a transition way station to his many future pocket universes, was packed full of possibilities for creating a complex character.  Stark was not one man but a series of Russian doll selves, each representing a period in his growth from childhood.  As to the mystery element, yes, at first the reader wonders in what direction the story will turn next but finally realizes that it doesn't matter at all.  The most daring insight presented is the discovery that molecular computers are churning out the bits of data that makes up Stark's brutal existence.  Once Stark's mind leaps through the Jeamland portal into the future there is no return to either sanity or the present.The exposition revealed in chapters 21-2 belonged in the opening to this weird tale.  The reader deserved to know outright that Jeamland was a mind portal leading to the far distant future.  The happy ending demanded by Hollywood agents was not convincing.  The division of this future City into unique, idiosyncratic neighborhoods was very creative.  Smith envisions the future as made up of pockets of people who shared similar neurosis and psychosis. The novel was a collection of a hundred short stories stitched together by the mind of the narrator Stark.  I read it thinking: so much more could have been done with this material.
5 As the jaded consumer of hundreds of thrillers I'm something of a tough audience, but Mark Burnell's debut novel was a genuine page turner and I was very impressed with it. Yes, the plot bears more than a passing resemblance to &quot;La Femme Nikita&quot; and yes, the book is a little too long and drags a bit in the middle, but Stefanie Patrick is much too interesting a heroine and Burnell much too good a storyteller to let small quibbles get in the way of &quot;a crackling good yarn.&quot; The book is about how a drug-taking prostitute a few steps from her final fix is transformed into the dreaded Petra Reuter, unstoppable international assassin. There is plenty of sex and violence and a plethora of repulsive terrorists - in short, enough to keep the average thriller fan happily engaged for hours. I'm looking forward to Mr. Burnell's next foray with bated breath.
1 I've read hundreds of thrillers, and this one started out relatively slowly, I almost gave it up in the first hundred pages because it seemed like it was just plodding along, but the writing was good so I kept at it.The middle got really good, the writer was really rounding out the character and all the pots put on to simmer got boiling (the neighbor was a bit obvious, the reader never thinks he's wholly who he seems to be, the only question is who is he spying on Stephanie for, but it's a nice touch), he sets up a jim-dandy climax at the end inside the airplane...... then kicks you in the gut with an ending as credible as a Hamas press release.  You feel completely cheated, realizing that he's set you up for 400+ pages for a thin, limp little pro-Palestinian terrorist screed, he's sacrificed any credibility his character had (which was quite a lot, the scenes with Iain Boyd are wonderfully written) for the sake of jihadist PR, and you can quite understand why so many of his books, all published quite recently, seem to be out of print.  After being jerked around so badly and clumsily by the ending I'm certainly never going to read or buy anything else he writes.And it's not just his political viewpoint, if the positions were reversed it would still be the most fake, insulting, unreal ending outside of a North Korean propaganda film.  Shame, since once he got going this book was really well-written.  Lilies that fester, however -- had the main character been any less believably drawn you wouldn't feel so lied to at the end.
4 I read this book, motivated by a review in The Economist, 10 years ago. That its climax (the book was published in 1999) involves Middle-Eastern suicide bombers and a plot to hijack 12 planes was prescient. The author creates unique characters and, for the time, situations. The central personage, Stephanie Patrick, is roused from her existence as a substance-using/abusing prostitute who is fleeing a past with no future by a journalist doing a followup to the plane crash (which she narrowly avoided) that killed Stephanie's family. The journalist is murdered, she seeks revenge only to be abducted by a shadow entity, Magenta House, which does all the dirty--and deadly--work other government agencies prefer to avoid. She is then trained as a secret agent to kill quickly, even unquestioningly. Her assignments take her all over: Brazil, the United States, Paris. One important note: The head hijacker, toward the novel's end, explains his motivations to her. They are not religious; he is not seeking martyrdom. What he wants is vindication against a west that has treated the Middle East and its citizens shabbily, often in favour of Israel. Commentators have advanced this alienation and anger as a major reason for 9/11 and related terrorist activities, and though this theory is arguable, it does help to make "The Rhythm Section" a singular, still timely thriller
4 The beginning is a bit slow, especially the part where Stephanie trained to be an agent.  However, once the story gets pass that point, the story gets more and more interesting, and I think the ending is great!  What I found annoying is that the author put too much techinal information about the different organizations and such.
2 This book should have been a lot longer or a lot shorter.  The first 3/4 of the book was devoted to developing the main character, but with her multiple identities, the switch from one to the other was jarring at times.  There was too little background development of how she fit into each identity.  The italicized passages changing the point of view to her internal thoughts tried to smooth over this flaw, but it failed.  If more time had been spent exploring these identities, the book would have been longer, but it would have been smoother.  On the other hand, this plot device could have been discarded entirely for a better, but shorter, read.  Once the book got started, however, the last hundred pages or so were great.
4 I haven't read "Nikita," but this has the best of both the Dragon Tattoo novels and Shibumi.  Patrick is very much Dragon Tattoo's Salander in her distorted view of the world and competence; and every bit as much Trevanian's Hel in Shibumi--an idealistic hyper-competent assassin.  In neither case is it possible to predict plot twists, but both have satisfying--but not perfect--outcomes.  I kept turning pages....On the distaff side, Burnell could  use a good editor.  Grammatical and spelling errata have gone unchecked, which is awkward to notice in reading a novel.  And descriptions occasionally get far more detailed than I could follow without a map; the book doesn't  have one.  Over all, though, I'll read more of his work.
5 One of the best books of the genre I have ever read.  Read this book!
5 Great way to have all of Poirot's 51 short stories. With publishing dates and extra info, this is a very complete collection indeed.
5 It is a very nice book with fifty one histories selected from the ones published in The Sketch and the Mistery Magazine, is her usual writing but has very very entertaining selection for us fans of this type of literature.
5 The book arived in excellent condition and had all of my favorite stories.  I reread Agatha Christie from time to time and it is nice to have them all in one place.
5 Many of these stories I watched thanks to the great UK TV series, but ultimately the best way to experience Hercule Poirot is to read the great books by Agatha Christie. She said if she had to choose she would favor Miss Marple above Hercule Poirot, the difference being (amongst others) Miss Marple is perfect for short stories and Hercule Poirot for novels. If you read this book you will see Agatha Christie did a great job in writing short Poirot stories as well. Highly recommended!
5 The complete adventures of Hercule Poirot, ably assisted by Captain Hastings. Read how Hercule exercises his 'little grey cells' in order to solve unsolvable crimes. Your own 'little grey cells' will be taxed trying to keep pace with Monsieur Poirot.A must read for those advocates of crime and the thought processes required to bring the miscreants to justice.
5 As always Poirot's reasoning is full of surprises, although his &#34;little grey cells&#34; do things which are too extraordinary to be always believed. But then we are dealing with a thriller which does not have to be too truthful. Also the fact that these are short stories make the book ideal to be read on a voyage for instance.
5 This is the only edition that brings together all 50 of Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot short stories.  Well worth the buy!
5 First the one negative - the story they claimed hadn't been published in decades has in fact been published, but with a few changes (different detective mostly) so it's not a story you will never have read before.Otherwise this is a great collection.  It's wonderful to have all of the stories in one place.
5 Agatha Christie needs no introduction, these short stories provide a great opportunity to sample her genius in quiet moments. Well worth the investment.
4 There is quite a bit of raunchy in this one. Of course you have a good sister and a bad one. Lots of unexpected "bumps" along the way. Worth reading but the movie is nothing to compare. A book is always so much better.
3 I have to admit that I was disappointed by this book. I've been eating up historical fiction about the Tudor period lately, and although I find the era fascinating, Gregory's books have been somewhat hit and miss to me. I found it EXTREMELY difficult to find a single character in this book to like. The fact that so many liberties were taken with the history was somewhat off-putting (although I realize that's the &#34;fiction&#34; part of historical fiction). Yet, I still couldn't put the book down. I just really wish that I'd had at least ONE character to really root for. I liked Mary - sort of - by the end, but at the beginning I just wanted to smack her, and Anne is portrayed as a total harpy.
5 This is the first Phillipa Gregory novel I read, and I tore through it. I really enjoyed how Gregory takes actual historical events and then uses her skill to create a story that absolutely captivates. It's hard to remember, at times, that it is fiction, and wonderful to learn more about a period while enjoying a fantastic read.
5 I wont give away too many spoilers from this book as I think each reader should make their own opinion on it. If you are looking for a truly 100% accurate historical account of the Tudor Era sadly there is no book out there to find. It isnt for lack of trying but there are no longer "witnesses" to actual events to corroborate or refute anything written. So in my opinion all "elizabethan/tudor" books are going to have some fiction in it somewhere.I personally enjoyed this book tremendously, more than I thought I would. I have been an Elizabethan Historical Re-enactor for more than 10 year now and as part of our training and education we are all drilled with the fact that accurate historical record keeping was not a fine tuned science. Considering the mindset of the era it would be difficult to be accurate. Henry VIII for example changed his (and England's) laws and religion to suit his desire's and needs this part is historically accurate. Monarchs sadly were very selfish and abused their power in order to justify their "sins".In this book, Henry VIII is portrayed as an over-bearing, randy man who let his loins run his head while his heart tried to run England. This seems to be somewhat true as most nobility were held higher as they were appointed (in most cases) to their station by a monarch and as monarchs were chosen by God himself to rule. It has never been a mystery or secret that Henry had many mistresses and it was even "rumored" that he had several illegitimate children by these mistresses. Children that were raised to believe they were the child of the mistresses husband.I was intrigued by the portrayal of him in this book. First and foremost he was the King of England but he was also a man and a man in power can only be as great as his Council. The portrayal of the members of court and the tidbits of information that were placed in his ear would explain some of his irrational actions. The members of the court were vultures and only cared about one thing, how to gain the favor of the king and not caring who they sacraficed or stepped on to get that favor.The other job of the court and nobility was to protect their own so they could remain having it all. Just as easily as they were rewarded they could be stripped of everything in the same breath. They would twist and contort whatever they could in order to protect their king thus protecting their interests and holdings. So planting irrational bugs with the king was doubly beneficial.The Howard Family and the Boleyn Family possibly did offer their girls up for Henry's taking. It was not uncommon to betroth your children by their 1st birthday and have them married by 13-14 years of age. So The Boleyn's turning Mary into the King's paramour would have benefited the family greatly. Mary was young and not so naive being already married but her being curious makes sense. If you look at it as from the time she was a child she was "trained" to be a doting, devoted wife and mother. In that order, the children came second to the man's needs and female children were only good for marrying to wealthy title holding men. The girls were also taught to obey and never question, the husband was right and never wrong and the wife was never right.Mary was raised to never refuse the requests of the men in her life (her father, her uncle, her husband, her king). She certainly didnt come across as being an innocent in any way, but the guilt she felt must have been real and true for "betraying" Queen Katherine. Another woman who was raised and taught to never question or refute her husband. They were actually taught and believed that it was a man's nature to have a wife and a mistress. Similarly to the beliefs of some women today are still the same. Thus the reason that cheating seems to be somewhat acceptable.Anne was portrayed as a selfish, shrew who looked down on everyone but the king and herself. This may or may not be accurate, in the past she has been seen as a shy, innocent girl who was used and taken advantage of. This book shows the reverse side of the possibility that she did everything she could to gain and keep her station in life. She possibly didnt care who she hurt to get what she felt she was deserved. It is a twist on what is believed to be true, again sadly no one knows.Witchcraft was very popular in the time whether it was accurate or not. Even if you were known to grow certain herbs and plants you could be accused to witchcraft. If a man took fancy of you as a female and you were not interested and he became what we call infatuated or "a stalker" then you could be accused of witchcraft simply because you were kind or beautiful. I did not see any "proof" of witchcraft in this book it was merely insinuated and an accusation that tied in with finding reason to execute Anne.In regards to the "monsterous fetus" delivered by Anne that has been referred to as the "demonic baby" this part is possibly inaccurate. As is the insinuated story line behind its conception. But it was not unheard offor a woman to become pregnant by another man in order to provide a male heir to her husband. The story line that it was her brother's child is what I believe is purely fiction but it ties into the accusations that Anne and George were executed for so made for a great twist in the historical fiction story line. Miscarriages were common and a deformed baby could be nothing more than an under developed fetus. In an era of the fear of witchcraft, a deformity was deemed as proof of cohorting with evil and satan.The hint and out right blatant homosexual undertones that were leveled at many of the men in court is also possibly inaccurate. However I personally found the possiblity as being literary genious. Its not as if male/male and female/female relationships werent around in that period of history. It simply was totally taboo and kept very hush hush. Society in the time was not as accepting and forgiving as today's society is therefore it would make sense that even nobles had skeletons in their closets that were only known in small groups of well trusted circles. In fact homosexuality can be found as far back in history as the Bible, look at Sodom and Gomorrah.It was also true for the time that a man and woman could not be married without the approval of the fathers and in some cases especially those of nobility had to be approved what every monarch was on the throne. Many people had secret marriages and were "ruined" especially if it came into public light.In closing as I stated in my title, if you are in doubt about this book check it out from the library and read it before buying it. Even if you just read part of it and then buy it to finish it is still the same. I personally bought it because I wanted to add it to my collection of historical and historical fiction library. I also had a waitress tell me that it was a worthwhile read and therefore didnt hesitate. I have yet to see the movie yet but am looking forward to seeing it when it comes to dvd.
2 I will start by saying that the book is entertaining.....if you care nothing about historical accuracy, you'll probably really enjoy it!  Gregory took what is an incredibly interesting topic and turned it into a sleazy, tabloid read.  Gregory just twisted or omitted facts to suit her novel and that really annoyed me.  It is widely recognized that Mary is older than Anne.  There is no proof that either of Mary's children are Henry VIII's. When Anne banished Mary from court, Mary never returned, but in the book, she is summoned back and witnesses Anne's downfall.  Completely inacurate.  I found it appalling that in the book, Mary even sends Anne a letter while she is in the Tower. I've read many Tudor experts say that Mary never contacted either George or Anne at all after they were taken to the Tower, and Mary's daughter Catherine most certainly was not there.  Also, it is commonly accepted that King Henry declared Anne the care of Henry Carey after his father died, there is no evidence to support that Anne demanded him and "stole" him from Mary.  The author just adds in these ridiculous tidbits to continually portray Anne as some crazy, horrible shrew. Gregory put several known lies about Anne in the book. There is also no historical evidence that Anne gave birth to a "deformed monster", nor that it was fathered by her brother George.  I felt this was a cheap way to "dirty" up the novel to make it more interesting.  Upon her own execution later, Jane Parker admitted she lied about George and Anne Boleyn's alleged incestuous affair.  So I don't think Gregory had any reason to insinuate that it actually happened other than to make her novel juicier.  I can't respect that at all.  I concede not much is known about Mary Boleyn, so it must have been challenging to create a whole book from her perspective, I just wish Gregory had respected the widely accepted facts from the era and not basically made her own cheapened version of history.  What saddens me is that a lot of people who don't know much about the Tudor era will accept much of this novel as fact when it is not.
5 Of course, we all know the Boleyn sisters' fate and yet, Philippa Gregory keeps us on tenterhooks all along this wonderfully written story. Mary, the  "other Boleyn girl", voices her worries, fears, wishes and dreams in such a way that we can feel and see everything she feels and sees in a very vivid way. It is like being transported to Henry VIII's court.Of the many books I read and buy, only a few I keep for my personal library. The rest I give away or trade amongst friends and relatives. This one is for keeps!
5 I have heard a lot of people grumble about the inaccuracies in this book, but you have to remember when you read it - it it FICTION.  The book follows the life of Mary Boleyn, older sister and consort to King Henry VIII.  The events in this book are accurate, but the book is told from the viewpoint of Mary herself and nobody can be certain how she really felt about her lot in life as a pawn in her families quest for power.  I thoroughly enjoyed this book and look forward to reading additional novels by Ms. Gregory.
2 Go into this novel understanding that the writing will be stylistically poor, the characters one-dimensional, and the plot development a bit static, and you can still eke out some enjoyment from it.When I began reading, I realized how shockingly little I actually knew about the subject and wanted to learn more about these fascinating people. Unfortunately, I had to go outside the book to do so. Not a single character breaks out of one-dimensionality. No one is developed past a single defining trait, which quickly become dead horses as, at every opportunity, Gregory repeats them for you. On page 10, all that can be said of Mary and Anne is that each is respectively sweet/naive and cunning/ambitious. Read another hundred pages and still no more can be said of either.This lack of fundamental development plagues her writing in all aspects, but I won't list them and rant. I can understand the one star reviews some give. However, if she must write poorly, at least she writes poorly about an interesting microcosm in history. Though the characters will still be soulless strangers to you upon finishing, hopefully you'll share my experience of having a piqued interest in this period that you can pursue.While I was amused by it and am glad to have read it, I can't in good conscience give a rating of 3 stars. It is a below average work. If you're looking for a beach read (unchallenging, reads quickly), this is probably your book.
4 This is a book to escape into and enjoy until the very last page. When you put it down, you will experience that familiar sense of loss that you get when a great story is finished. It is full of complex characters and family intrigue. The characters are well-crafted and defined; their inner conflict is believable. This is historic romance at its best, and I urge you to spend a few dollars to experience the pleasure of escaping into the inner landscape of a jilted woman in King Henry's court. I give this 4 stars rather than 5 stars because it does not contain the absolute accuracy of that era- but being in the historic romance genre, such authenticity would probably impair the page-turning quality of the book.
5 This is the first novel of Philippa Gregory's that I have read.  I loved her style of writing, and the story she told.  This book was very hard to put down.  This is a great book for all.
5 Historically correct or not, I loved this book.  The story of Mary Boleyn and her affair with King Henry VIII and her sister's subsequent marriage to him is one of the most intriguing book I have read in years.  Despite its length it was a quick read and a page turner.  I had owned the book for many months before picking it up to read because I have been so busy that I was afraid that it was so long that it would take a long time to read it (after all my subway commute is only 20 minutes so I cannot fit too much in) but it really went amazingly quickly and I found myself reading it every spare minute I had. I liked the way it was divided by seasons and the attention to detail of where the court of England was at a particular time.  This book gave me more insight as a social commentary than any other book I have read.  Women are pawns politically, religiously and socially.  This is a must read for anyone interested in the period.
5 I spent days sitting alone contentedly reading this book and it never got old. It's one of my now favorites.
5 I was pleasantly surprised by this book. I'm really into history and this gave me an insight into a period of English history I never really paid attention to before.As to the book. I had no idea that Anne Boleyn even had a brother or sister. History just focuses on her so much you forget that she had a family. Gregory's novel made Anne and her family come to the forefront and kept them there for me. I really looked forward to reading the next chapter and finding out what was going on at court now.It had it's good parts and bad. Mary was a bit simple for me sometimes. Always wishing to see the best in people I felt that had she been a bit more ruthless she would have faired a little bit better against her sister Anne. Of course, as we all know, she's the only one to fair out well at all once everything is said and done. But Gregory does turn this little known sister, into a sort of heroine for meeker and milder people. Mary will never be an Anne, but her personality was able to keep her close to those she needed. And her meekness was also able to give her an insider's outside view of the machinations at court. Something you couldn't get if the story were being told by Anne.Anne, (upon second reading) was really bitchy in this book. I felt Gregory almost demonized her, when other's showed her good and bad side.(I'm referring to Jean Plaidy's novel Lady in the Tower and Showtime's The Tudors.) Anne wasn't all bad, but in this book you'll get more of the bad than anything. She nearly nothing but ambition, pride and selfishness. You almost wonder why Henry even fell in love with her. Until you remember they were really two of a kind. I believe this may have led Anne to her downfall as Henry coudn't suffer anyone to equal, or outdo him.Henry, in this book wasn't as spoiled and obnoxious as I first though. Reading this again I realize that he was coming to terms with his deep, true self. He isn't the Golden Prince he's been led to believe, but he's truly more selfish and unforgiving. I think parts of this realization drove him mad. Even to the point of killing his wife to gain another when he simply could have shut her away.George, I liked. I was sad he died, homosexual or not. He was actually one of my favourite characters. I think I would like to see a book written from his perspective.Katherine, a much better woman than I, or any other woman I know. Gregory's show of her was phenomenal. She showed Katherine with the dignity and grace a queen should have, and the dignity and grace she was bred with. I really admired her character, and the person.The other characters like Jane Parker, who truly turns out to be just as vile as the other characters say; Thomas Boleyn and his wife, the Duke of Norfolk and William Stafford really bring this Tudor novel to life.
2 Where to begin?  Mary was not the youngest Boleyn, but the oldest.  She was not an innocent teenager when she began her affair with Henry; she had already earned a bad reputation during her youth in France.  There is no convincing evidence that her family pushed her into Henry's bed, or that they were rewarded for doing so.  Her father and her husbands were already faithful servants of the king; the titles and lands they received from him were no more than what would be expected for their service.  The king made some provision for Mary's daughter Catherine, who was almost certainly his, but none for her son Henry, who probably was not.  There is no evidence that Anne ever slept with Percy, or that she poisoned anybody, or that there was a secret band of homosexuals gathered around her at court, or that she ever considered incest with her brother.On the contrary, the Boleyns were known for their devotion to the Reformers' cause, long before the king's eye landed on the younger daughter of the house.  As queen, Anne gave generously to support the New Learning and appointed Reforming priests where she could.  She was little liked by the mass of the people, who never really gave her a chance, but there were also those who respected her - such as Archbishop Crammer, who owed his career to her intervention.  For a better account of her and her sister, read... almost anything else.  But specifically Mary Boleyn: Mistress of Kings by Alison Weir or To Die For: A Novel of Anne Boleyn by Sandra Byrd.
5 After reading Gregory's The Other Boleyn Girl I became almost obsessed with the Tudor period in England and it aroused an even greater interest in English history than I had held before.The novel is told from the point of view of Mary Boleyn, sister of Henry VIII's second queen, the infamous Anne Boleyn (Mary herself was one of Henry's many discarded mistresses). Gregory's book is both moving and poignant and possesses a great wealth of historical detail and research, while at the same time being totally engrossing. Some of the historical events, such as Anne's erratic behavior and borderline incestuous relationship with her brother George, are slightly exaggerated. In actuality, Anne's charge of incest with her brother was basically brought on to blacken her name and damage her reputation beyond repair. One must remember that Anne was deeply hated by the English people and her name has been greatly slandered, mainly because of her haughtiness and overconfidence. However, this version of Anne is still great fun to read.Through Mary's eyes readers are given a first-class seat into the world of Tudor politics and court intrigues. The ride is truly magnificent and I heartily recommend The Other Boleyn Girl to all book lovers. It is somewhat lengthy, but the chapters fly by as you are immersed into the sixteenth century court.This is Gregory's best effort out of all of her Tudor-themed books.
5 I picked up "The Other Boleyn Girl" after loving "The Queen's Fool" and I was not disappointed. I found myself shirking all of my duties to stay in bed curled up with "The Other Boleyn Girl." I stayed up late into the night to follow the characters. Mary Boleyn was a wonderful character and her sister and brother no less fascinating. Gregory paints a vivid portrait of 16th century England and of Henry VIII's reign. History and fiction blend perfectly in her artful hands. You will not be able to put this down. You will not be able to get anything done while reading this book. Do not expect it to be as good as the film BECAUSE THE BOOK IS WAY BETTER!
5 I must admit that I don't usually read historical fiction, but I kept either seeing and hearing about this book. Of course I had some general knowledge of King Henry VIII (and all the wife-killing) and I had a very vague sense of his second wife Anne Boleyn, but never would I have expected to become totally involved with characters from that time period. The main characters were so vivid and their personalities were so familiar, the novel could have easily taken place today.The Boleyn siblings (Anne, Mary, and George) are brought to the king's court at an early age to help fatten the family purse. Mary, in her early teens, is encouraged to cozy up to the married king. She bears the king two children--a daughter and a son. One would think having a son would please a king--but sadly an illegitimate son cannot be heir to the throne.While Mary's been handling the bedroom duties for the king, her sister, Anne has been plotting on her position. Cunning Anne not only finangles her way into Mary's spot, but using her superior feminine wiles, she also manages to overthrow the reigning queen.Brother George "looses his head" over another man.When Anne, now Queen Anne, can't deliver an heir to the throne...well, it's off with her head.Mary's story ends well, but with all that family dysfunction and mayhem going on in the castle (heads rolling at the king's whim) it's a miracle Mary was able to leave the castle physically and emotionally unscathed.This was a great historical read with some unexpected steamy sex, which added more spice to an already spicey tale.
5 I have never been one interested in historical fiction, but I bought this book after the blurb on the back peaked my interest.  They don't teach you about Anne's sister, Mary, in high school history class.  Immediately I was hooked on this novel.  Though obviously fictional, Gregory does a great job of getting most of the background about the time period correct.  She is a master story-teller and her prose just draws you in.  I found myself rushing home from work so I could get back to my book!  I thought all of the characters were quite believable, except maybe Jane Parker, and I sympathized with Mary and Queen Katherine.  Some of the other reviewers seemed to be put off by a few inaccuracies, but I think if the reader looks at this as a work of fiction influenced by the time period, they will not be bothered, and probably won't even notice.  I know I didn't.  Also, to address the issue of George's homosexuality, Gregory DOES speak to this in the back of the novel in the interview section.  She says that there is a school of thought that believes this theory and that is the one she chose to base that storyline on.  I felt she explained herself rather well.  Anyways, buy the book, it will keep you up at night wanting to know what will become of poor Mary and her corrupted family.
2 I decided to read this book because I was really interested in seeing the movie. I did not know much about the history of the Tudors nor Anne Boleyn. But I could tell right away by reading this book that the author, Philippa Gregory is extremely biased towards Anne Boleyn. She's turned her book into a critique of how women, such as Anne, who are struck by ambition into some kind of incestuous monster who is ready to push anyone out of her way. To me, there are two types of books: page turners and books that move very slowly but have a lot of substance. The Other Boleyn Girl is the latter. I kept reading this book because I have this unwavering commitment to finish a book, hoping that the end will somehow redeem this craptastic fest of trash. This book really teeters on the border of a trashy romance novel. I will never read anything by Gregory again.
5 The Other Boleyn Girl is a fascinating tale of the role that Anne Boleyn played in Henry VIII's court, but that's not until at least halfway through. First, the reader is taken on an emotional and captivating journey through the life of Anne's younger sister Mary, who, at age 14, is taken away from her husband to serve as the king's mistress.Mary is clearly in love with the king and enjoys the fact that she has temporarily won a round in the sisterly war against the older Anne. Their brother George, who has issues of his own, is a key player in controlling the Howard family's involvement in and control over the throne of England.Told from Mary's point of view, we finally see through King Henry as a womanizer, and Anne as a political player to the death. None of the characters however, is predictable at all. Mary grows wise with her age; George vacillates back and forth between brother, lover, and politician; Anne feigns love for her family and her king, only to later commit shocking atrocities in the name of power.Katherine of Aragon becomes a beloved but pitied figure in Mary's eyes, and a pawn in the wicked game the Howards play. The reality of her position on the throne is revealed quite deftly by this talented author.Although the historical account of Henry VIII, Anne Boleyn, and the fight for the throne of England are familiar to almost everyone, the reader will find many complexities in the characters and the unpredictable plot that make the story riveting right to the very end.
4 It's hard to understand why Mary Boleyn was relegated to the sidelines of History.  The sister of the beheaded Ann Boleyn, the aunt of Queen Elizabeth, and the mother of two of Henry VIII's illegtimate children, including a much coveted son, should rate more interest.  But such was the strictness legitimacy laws at the time, that no child who was definitely illegitimate could inherit the throne.Gregory tells the story of Katherine of Aragon, Henry VIII, Ann Boleyn, the formation of the Church of England and intrigueat the Tudor court from the point of view of this salient but much neglected Historical character.  Her Mary is really just a child at the beginning of the novel, and she never outgrows valuing love over power.  Her value for love and genuine caring for the effect of her behavior on others contrasts sharply with the hypocritical selfishness and merciless intriguing within the all too glittering Tudor court, and more ironically with her family, the grasping and ruthless Boleyns/Howards who pimp out their daughters to the whims of their excruciatingly spoiled and divinely selected monarch.  Ironically Mary finds that she must use her abilities as a courtier to defend and hide her own values, not to mention her children, from the court as well as her family.  Meanwhile her sister Anne marches inexorably towards historical immortality and personal destruction.Mary is a sympathetic and interesting character, and Gregorydoes a good job of painting the vivid attractions and tragic flaws ofthe Tudor court, including the manipulation of religious law forpersonal gain.  At times Mary's ability to outgrow the pettiness of her training and environment seems underexplained, at others one would like to hear more detail about court personalities and customs.  Nonetheless The Other Boleyn Girl is well written and an enjoyable reading experience; highly recommended for those who enjoy dabbling in Tudor England.
3 Gregory brings the Tudor Court alive in The Other Boleyn Girl. Very well researched, she sprinkles the text with little details about fashion, buildings and even flowers that take you back to the 16th century.
5 If period dramas are your thing you will enjoy this book, facts were well researched.Intrigue at its best, great read.Philippa Gregory never disappoints
5 This book is definitely a page turner. Despite the fact that it was hard to swallow the fact that they kept calling this 13 yr old girl a woman. I cringed every time I read that. But I was still totally engrossed in the story. I've found another author to add to my list.
5 With every page of this novel, I fell more and more in love with the story and grew more and more unwilling to put it down. The characters, even now, are on my mind and I suspect I will likely go into withdrawal for more. It ended too soon, and yet I devoured it as quickly as I could. I am anxious to read the author's other works and am officially a huge fan of this historical fiction genre.
2 I was reading this book again the other day and after initially being sucked in, I was vividly reminded of how much I disliked it.The history is accurate, the writing style is both gripping and crisp. What is it, then? I suppose the characterization really bothers me.Whether it is Mary Boleyn, Hannah the Fool, Amy Dudley, or the main character (can't remember his name) from Earthly joys, in several different Gregory books I have read, the central character is the Exact. Same. Person. Give them a different name, a different background, but the exact same personality/values/relation to the world and characters around them.The person is unusually honest, kind-hearted, and guileless amidst a sea of corrupt people who admire him/her. The main character is generous to a fault, cares deeply about either Mary Tudor or Katherine of Aragon (depending upon which of the two is in the book), and looks down upon the antics of Anne Boleyn or Elizabeth Tudor (depending upon which one is in the book). The main character is always recognized by the historical figures as uniquely honest and wonderful in that way only Gregory's protagonists are. The main character does something self-sacrificing and generous and Katherine/Mary (or in Earthly Joys, Cecil) stands in awe or admiration of that other person's nave and unique generosity.That characterization is TIRED. And I think she is capable of more; I wouldn't be so sick of it if she wasn't a good enough writer that I've read four of her books.For God's sake, Ms. Gregory, you have amazing talent-- take on a new protagonist! Stop inserting the exact same character in every single one of your novels!In this novel, she wants to have it all ways with Mary Boleyn. Gregory wants her to be a guileless and innocent sweetheart amidst all these corrupt people (guileless to the point of utter stupidity for a Tudor courtier-- questioning why her family would want her to cheat on her husband with the king? Come on! Short of a mental impairment, she would understand at least the basics of the ambitious world she inhabits!) Yet Gregory also wants Mary to be a calculating and clever courtier like all the rest... She just makes Mary clever/wily whenever it suits the plot, and innocent whenever she wants to prove to us how wonderful Mary is. You can't have it both ways.She wants readers to get an "insight into the psychology" of these people, yet she makes Anne Boleyn a cookie-cutter villain (to the point where her book presents as the truth anti-Anne Boleyn propaganda invented by Boleyn's CONTEMPORARY enemies in the 1500s) and she makes Katherine of Aragon a cookie-cutter saint. If you want psychological realism, give them -depth- or give up the pretense that your own personal likes/dislikes are not coloring your characterization of them.My complaints aside, I will tell you that I was pretty sucked into it even a second time around... She's a good writer. I plowed through the first half of the book before the characterizations really started to irritate me.I'd still take this novel any day over the abomination that is "The Virgin's Lover"... Good God, but that one makes me cringe. However, I'd recommend both Gregory's novel "The Queen's Fool" (same protagonist, as always, but a better novel) and the wonderful "Earthly Joys" before this (same protagonist, again, but so many unique things in that book to make up for it!)So, get "The Other Boleyn Girl" for a quick read, great historical accuracy, a blatant smear job on Anne Boleyn, glorification of Catherine of Aragon, and an annoying glance into the plot-shifting psychology of the exact same character who narrates every other Gregory novel (at least the ones I have read).But if you want a sublime Tudor era novel, go for Susan Kay's "Legacy".
5 I loved this book and could not put it down. It is readable, entertaining and plausible. I have a particular interest in Ann Boleyn and have read many of the major works (historical and fiction) on Henry VIII and Ann Boleyn. I enjoyed reading about these historical figures from Ms. Gregory's well researched perspective.  The rivalry of the Boleyn sisters is riveting and believable. The author brings to life the intense competition within the Howard dynasty and between the leading noble families...the Howards, the Seymours and others. Even though I knew how the book was destined to end, I was eager to turn each page.
3 The Other Boleyn Girl / 0-7432-2744-1They say that history is written by the victor, and thus do we have two very separate histories for the engaging character of Anne Boleyn. The first history, written immediately after she was cast from power, is that of a cruel, commanding, incestuous witch. The second history, written after the ascent of her powerful daughter Elizabeth, is that of a pious, kind, faithful wife. The truth is most likely located somewhere between these two caricatures, but it's important to note that "The Other Boleyn Girl" is much less interested in finding historical "truth" and much more interested in telling a compelling story.Make no mistake: this is not history. For the sake of her story, Gregory has taken several major "what if?" questions and has run wildly with them. For instance: What if Anne was an evil and conniving contrast to her sweet and innocent sister Mary? What if Mary's affair with the king had been one of deep love and tenderness, only to be shoved aside when Anne deliberately and cruelly supplanted her? What if Mary's disappointing marriage to a displaced noble was not one of disgrace, but rather a marriage of true love and happiness, in marked contrast to Anne's famously ill-fated marriage? These assumptions are not good history, but they do make for an interesting framing device.The characters here may be inaccurate, but they are compelling. Henry comes closest to accuracy, with his mercurial moods and petty childishness. We are lead to understand that Henry is a bad monarch because he lacks the self-awareness to realize that the flattery laid upon him by his courtiers are not the truth. Mary is the madonna of the story: sweet, innocent, desirable, spiritually virginal, and with such a bad head for politics that even her lover calls her a 'sweet idiot'. Her incompetence with politics feels largely like a plot device so that matters can be carefully explained to the reader, but the device isn't too awkward. Anne contrasts as the whore of the story; cruel, conniving, vicious, tempestuous, and also surprisingly stupid, despite her ability to lead Henry by the nose for the first part of the novel. It doesn't make sense that she can be fantastically charming prior to marriage and yet descend quickly into a withering shrew afterward, considering the stake she has in keeping her husband happy, but we are lead to believe that the distracted Anne is descending quietly into madness.The story moves at an enjoyable clip, and the tale of one sister waiting patiently in the wings while another grabs all the glory to her eventual ruin is an old motif but still plays out well here. We worry for Mary; will she find happiness, will she find love, will she escape her family? We fret for Anne, because as hateful as she is here, we hate Henry all the more. While I would have preferred a more historically accurate novel, I still enjoyed this one - you may too, as long as you remember that this is bad history in order to make a good story. A Boleyn "alternate reality", if you will, and nothing more.~ Ana Mardoll
5 I absolutely could not stop reading this book & was sleep deprived until it was finished!  Then I could not stop thinking about it!  This book offers a fresh look at the tale of Henry VIII, Anne Boleyn, and the inner-tickings of Tudor Court life.  I have often been annoyed with other authors of historical fiction for taking situations that were little more than the pimping and selling of aristocratic young girls for family advancement and wealth, and turning them into romantic courtly love.  Gregory approaches the scheming of the Howard family with brutal honesty, and manages to realistically capture the confused feelings of infatuation, flattery, frustration, hurt, and love in an adolescent girl as she is preyed upon/courted, used/loved, and discarded by the King and her family.  I would also recommend reading the series on Josephine Bonaparte by Sandra Gulland if you enjoy non-stop action, emotional involvement with characters, and a realistic view of the complex personalities of dynamic rulers.
4 Read the book in one seating.  Fiction, non fiction and history all thrown together; how great.
2 I had been wanting to read this book for a long time.  I am familiar with the story of Anne Boleyn and Henry VIII, and was looking forward to a masterful retelling by a reknown author.  A friend had read it and raved about it.  Amazon readers are raving about it.  I wish I could rave about it.  Unfortunately, I was very disappointed in this retelling for several reasons.  Firstly, I found the writing style simplistic and unauthentic.  Sometimes it seemed that the characters were speaking in 21st century phrasing.  I found the characters themselves to be unrealistic and underdeveloped.  There was no depth to any of them, such that I really didn't care what happened to any of them.  Anne was a grasping, hysterical, diabolical, selfish user. George appeared to be no better than a hanging-on go-for, interminably lolling around in his sisters' bedchamber.  Henry himself comes off as an easily manipulated, not very smart, spoiled brat. He demonstrates no kingly qualities and is usually either whining to Mary about his lack of an heir, raging at Katherine, or following Anne around like a love-sick, helpless puppy.  Mary, the main character is made out to be a sweet, generous, unwilling pawn of her evil family.  Although she was pushed into her affair with Henry, she really wanted nothing more than the simple life of a country matron surrounded by her beautiful children. She seemed to be completely in love with Henry at one moment, and then totally emotionally indifferent to him the next. Her relationship to her first husband, William, is nonexistent one minute, and loving and devoted the next.  I found it amusing that she could claim complete devotion to Queen Katherine, continue to betray her time and again, and then come sniveling back professing her great love and respect. The only character which I did feel a sympathy for and was protrayed with sensitivity and grace was the character of Katherine. Other major characters in the drama were relegated to minor incidental roles, such as the powerful, brilliant Cardinal Wolsey, the sinister mastermind Thomas Cromwell, and the courageous, honorable Thomas More.  They all became background props for the silly one-dimensional story of Mary Boleyn. The momentous event of Henry's declaring himself head of the English church, and the devastating power struggle that surrounded it is dismissed in one sentence.  On comparing this story to Antionia Fraser's excellent "The Six Wives of Henry VIII", one learns that 1) Mary was actually the elder of the two sisters, 2) Mary had led quite a sexually promiscuous life in France before returning to England, even having had an affair with King Francis 3) Henry never acknowledged Mary's son as his.At the end of the book (which I really only skimmed because by this time I couldn't stand it anymore) Mary manages to predictably retire to the country with her lovely family and new husband, whom she's conveniently madly in love with, and live happily ever after while the rest of her family goes down in flames.  Oh well, I guess such high virtue as Mary's provides its own reward.
5 This book was addictive and full of surprises. A different but interesting viewpoint of what might have been those years ago.
5 Not much has been written about Mary Boleyn.  She was very young and married when Henry cast his eyes on her.  She was then sent to court to be a lady-in-waiting to Queen Katherine.  She was very fond of the Queen but had no choice when Henry wanted her to be his mistress.She had 2 children by him - first a girl and then a boy.  While she was recovering from childbirth, Henry turned from her to her sister, Anne.In one of the unforgettable scenes in the book, the Boleyn family calmly discusses which sister should be the one for Henry.  And when it is decided it should be Anne, Mary asks, "What shall I be?" and the answer from Anne:  "You'll be my lady in waiting.  You'll be the other Boleyn girl."Mary always did as she was told but her real longing was to live a peaceful life in the country - far away from court - with her children.  But once Anne became Henry's favorite, she controlled Mary and her children like pieces on a chessboard.Anne became very cruel.  The Boleyn family was ruled by blind ambition and anything and everything they did was done to gain access to the throne. Mary was kept from her children and from the man she then fell in love with to serve Anne.One of the amazing things about Mary is she was the only one of her family who just wanted to be common.  She managed to stay friends with Queen Katherine even when she had Henry's children.  And when Anne and her family had completely lost favor with the King, Mary survived.An absolutely riveting book.  Don't miss it.
1 This is a re-post and a revision of a review on this book that I put up in 2006, and which has somehow disappeared off Amazon. At any rate...I'm a fanatic about anything dealing with Henry VIII, and when I saw "The Other Boleyn Girl," I looked forward to reading it. I liked the premise that Gregory suggested -- describing the story of the doomed Anne Boleyn, Henry VIII's second wife, through the eyes of her sister, Mary Boleyn Carey Stafford.I'm sorry I wasted my time on this book, but am thankful I didn't waste my money. Gregory's research is decent -- unlike other reviewers, I realize this is "fiction," meaning the author can do whatever she thinks makes sense. The lack of blow-by-blow history didn't bother me. What did was that the characterizations were trite and one-dimensional, with the major players in the novel thoroughly unlikeable.Anne Boleyn isn't regarded favorably by many scholars for many reasons, some of which were justified, others not. But Gregory's interpretation of Anne as evil and arrogance extraordinaire was a little much, even for those who find plenty to dislike about her. In other fictional accounts about Anne Boleyn, most authors have the good sense to make her a sympathetic character, at least near the end. Getting beheaded can tend to put a character in a sympathetic light. But in "The Other Boleyn Girl," the portrayal of Anne was so dreadful, I was almost glad when she lost her head at the end of the book.But Anne wasn't the only one that suffered in this novel. The portrait of the entire Boleyn family was dull and one-dimensional, like something out of a bad soap opera. Instead of painting a ruthless picture of an ambitious family trying to claw its way to the throne, Gregory decided to formulate Mamma and Papa Boleyn as a Simon Legree type, throwing Mary to the wolves whenever and wherever possible. The portrayals were so theatrical and overblown, it was almost funny.Then there's Mary, who was really hard to like. I wanted to see some backbone in Mary, as she was not only the heroine, but the narrator. But she was portrayed as a wimp, rather than a pawn with a mind of her own. A flakey, whiney, hard-to-like character. And I have to agree with another review I read -- the position Gregory put Mary in at the end of the book stretched the bounds of credibility of even the loosest historical fiction.About the only redeeming quality was the author's portrayal of George Boleyn, Anne and Mary's brother. George, at least, had some fire and facets to his personality, unlike his sisters.In all, I'm wondering how this actually ended up in the hands of a movie producer and actually made it to the theaters with such a stellar cast. The plot has always lended itself to making a good movie. But in this effort, Gregory just didn't do well.
3 I liked the book at first, but it just seemed to drag endlessly in the middle. **SPOILER ALERT** I just got sick of hearing- summer- spent with the kids, god I love them. Fall- Anne's trying to get the king, but it falls through, summer- spent with the kids, god I love them, Fall- Anne's trying to get the king, etc etc. Also, I know she did not want to make Mary look perfect, but there seemed to be an emphasis on she's stupid, she's a whore, but everyone loves her because she is adorable. Anne was evil, manipulative, etc, to the point of being unbelievable or that I just didn't care anymore.  The end might have been better than I think, but I found myself skimming it just to get it over with. Anyway, I can see where people would like the book, it just didn't do it for me.
5 Like a Dirty Little Secret I loved this book but found myself having several "OMG moments" while reading some of the devious details of life at Court.
5 I loved this book. I like most of Philippa Gregory's books but this is, by far, my favorite. You really feel like you know every character. She does a good job of making you feel for each of them and see their side of things. A lot of people critizing for historical inaccuracies but this is a historical FICTION book, not everything in it is said to be true. It is loosely based on a true historical event. I definitely recommend this book.
5 My oh my, what else can I add to the previous reviews? The book is indeed incredibly interesting, compelling, deep, fascinating, with characters that come alive. The book grabs you from the very first page and doesn't let go until you finish it. I usually cannot read such long, long books, but this is the exception. The book is fiction, but based on real history. You know the basic story, how it ends, and yet it is too compelling to put down: you want to know all the details and somehow hope to find out that history could change. Philippa Gregory is a GREAT writer. This will be my favorite book for a long time and I will recommend it to everyone.
5 I haven't read much historical fiction. What comes to mind recently is "The Terror" and "Pillars of the Earth" (both excellent). I would put this one in with those. This was one of the fastest-flowing, impossible-to-put-down stories I've read! The surprises and strange situations were endless but plausible. I won't go on about the premise of the story but this was a highly recommended read. The amazing part is that the facts are indeed true. I've already ordered the "Queen's Fool" which from what I understand is the next in order.
4 Disclaimer: I love historical fiction; so I don't know if this would be a great read for anyone, but...I loved it as a historical fiction fan. I have stuck with mostly Italian in the past, but this was a very exciting "jump" into British historical fiction--specifically the CRAZY world of the Tudors and Henry's 6 wives.I was totally enthralled with this book--but not until around page 200. So the first bit I was having a hard time buying into it because I thought Mary was kind of annoying and weak. But as the book progresses, she ages (obviously) and her relationship with Anne, the Boleyn family, the King, and pretty much everyone around her is really fascinating. She finally grows some "balls" and you're rooting for her to escape the treachery of the Boleyn family and FIND LOVE. It sounds cheesy here but there is seriously nothing cheesy about this book.I know that I love a book when I'm constantly looking up the history in encyclopedias and finding other books in this area. I was a little disappointed to hear that there really isn't much documented history pertaining to Mary in real life, but from what I have read (very VERY preliminary), Gregory is right on and has solid backing for what she has written. Also, I am very impressed with historical fiction writers who use the actual historical character as the center of the story versus using a fictional character and having things happen around them.  It seems much harder to do it the way Gregory has done and it truly is a masterpiece--entertaining and historically accurate!READ IT!
4 I am a grad student in european history and loved this book.  Of course, it is not totally historically correct; as pointed out, Mary is the older sister, not younger, and Henry was born before her daughter.  But the impression of romance - correct, from what historians can tell, is true about her marriage with William, her second husband.  They did live happily ever after, as far as one can tell.  Story, while a long book for some, I read in two sittings and will read again.  What a great movie this book would make!
5 This is the first time I have ever read a historical fiction, and I don't know why it took me so long.  I couldn't put this book down.  I usually read suspense and this had suspense and much, much more.  It is probably the best book I have read in about 5 years.  Definately a change of pace.  It is a long book, but before you know it, you will be reading the last page.  I definately recommend it.
5 I absolutely loved this book, I know that some if it may not be true, but it is a very good account of the time and life of Anne Boleyn and the others around her.  Excellent read!  I have added it to my collection of 16th century novels and biographies.
2 This book reads like a romance novel and doesn't have much depth. The characters aren't very well defined and they seem two dimensional.  I've read other much better historical novels than this.
5 Until this book, I have not really gotten into historical fiction, but once I started reading, I was captivated.  The way the story is woven, the characters pop to life.  Very well done, I look forward to reading many more of Philippa Gregory's books.
5 Although we don't know if the "other" Boleyn girl refers to Anne Boleyn, or her younger-by-a-year sister, Mary, Mary is chosen by author Philippa Gregory to narrate this book.  She is a close observer and participant in the Boleyns' schemes to advance the family during a period of turmoil as Queen Katherine of Aragon is unable to produce an heir to the throne of King Henry VIII.This is a very easy and engrossing read.  I think it's better enjoyed by lovers of historical fiction, but will be appreciated by anyone.The book begins with a teenage Mary, who is newly wed to William Carey and part of Queen Katherine's court.  Her sister, Anne, is being summoned from France, where she attended at that court,  so she may join her sister as one of the Queen's ladies-in-waiting, but really so that the family may make her an advantageous marriage.  At this point, "Annamaria" and "Marianne" are like yin and yang, frick and frack.  Not for long.As the ambitions of the Boleyns and the Howards (the family of Anne's and Mary's mother) to advance their place in society grow, Anne and Mary are set loose as rivals to each other at court for the sole aim of capturing the attention of the King.  The Boleyns sense, as do many other families (like the Seymours) that the Queen's inability to produce a son will open the door for one of their daughters to step in.Although Mary is married, her husband is forced by her family to take a backseat to the King as the King initially takes a shine to the "golden-haired" Mary.  The affair continues as she bears him two children.  There is a moment in the story when the King, who by this time has had a son and daughter with Mary (albeit illegitimate), privately expresses to her his belief that his marriage with Katherine was cursed and should be annulled.  Even though Mary knows that, during this moment, he is vulnerable, she just cannot seem to seize the moment and suggest to him that she step into Katherine's shoes.  Maybe she's prohibited by her undying (and inexplicable) loyalty to the Queen, or to her husband, or by her sense of right and wrong.  Or maybe it's just Mary's good sense as she knows what a risky and dangerous proposition that would be.The drama builds as Henry's court becomes more raucous, dangerous and intriguing, no thanks, in part, to Anne. The King eventually loses interest in Mary as Anne puts on the "full court press" to usurp Mary's place as the King's favorite, in part, out of jealousy, and in part, out of her growing impatience with the family's failure to marry her as she continues to grow older and less desirable.  Anne gradually gains the King's attentions as she has no problem helping him understand that Katherine must be put aside.  The more Anne grows in the King's esteem, the more ruthless she becomes in her ambition and demands.  I found it clever that the author painted Anne to be venomously ambitious and hateful throughout the bulk of the story, but by the end, you buy the author's premise that she got a raw deal.  Also by the end, I unexpectedly despised Jane Seymour more than Anne, even though Jane was painted to be no more threatening than a fly whereas Anne was mean and nasty.It is clear that the author adores Mary, so much so that she seems to suggest that England would have been better off with Mary as Queen, and that Henry would not have had any reason (because she was so even-tempered and had bore him a son) to toss her aside.I think the author gets into a bit of a jam by making Mary the narrator/observer because then she must make Mary important and indispensable to all the key players in the story.  For instance, even though Mary is supposedly despised by Anne, she is also called upon by Anne to assist her, of course, on the eve of every historical event (no doubt, so Mary can observe and talk about it).  Also, Mary, a mere mistress, seems to have the King's ear and counsel, even after their affair had ended, which is a bit awkward to the story.I do ultimately think that it was interesting, although imperfect, to tell the story from Mary's perspective, as it is notable that she was the only Boleyn sibling to get out alive.  She must have been an clever person to achieve that.Ms. Gregory has sold me on her ability to craft an engrossing historical fiction novel.  I just can't decide which of her books I'll read next.
4 Because Gregory's other books tend to be of the romantic genre I haven't read her before. This one was recommended to me, and I am glad to have read it. From start to finish I was entranced by the story. She is an excellent writer and knows how to move the plot along quite seamlessly so that 600+ pages seemed like nothing.However, call me old fashioned, but I do like some historical accuracy with my historical fiction. While I enjoyed her ideas and theories about character motivations, I do think she was a bit heavy handed. While Anne certainly was not the innocent victim as she has been protrayed elsewhere, she certainly was not the evil witch in the book. And the author seems to absolve King Henry from all blame in the things that she supposedly did alone. As far as Mary, its well to remember that little is really known about her, aside from the fact that she did have at least one child by Henry. I did like how she made Katharine of Aragon a much more complex and interesting persxon. But then,  I question her portrayal of the Howards as totally cold, calculating and vicious. There are always at least three sides to every story, and its good to remember that this is one of them.That being said - if you like good writing, can gloss over the historical inaccuracies, can accept a young narrator who seems to have unusually 21st century sensibilities for her time period, and remember that this is fiction, I'd recommend this book. Excellent summer read.
5 Recommend to all who loves history & romance - not too much of history, not too much of romance, but really an emotional page-turner! I was totally obsessed with it and bought all other books of this series. My biggest surprise was to see the film with the same title - nothing to do with the book and everything totally rotten, cause and reason interchanged etc.
5 I had a wonderful time reading this book!  Gregory makes the characters come alive!  What a talented writer.  I'm not a history buff, but once I started reading this book, I couldn't put it down.  I googled online after reading this book and found her book to be pretty much in line with the historical records.  The important thing to remember, however, is that this is a novel and NOT a documentary. It's not easy making history interesting, but Gregory makes you feel as if you were right there.  If you are going on a long plane ride, take this book with you.
5 Gregory is a true artist.  The story engages the reader from beginning to end, with twists and turns, plots and undertones.  I couldn't put this one down.  Although fiction,the book is filled with historical citations and questions that have never been answered.  The book is thought provoking, and offers a well painted portrait of 16th century life.  Gregory has once again created a moving novel.
5 I did not want to put this book down. It is not a real page turner because you want to find out what happens in the story (the story of Henry VIII is well known), but you immediately empathize with Mary Boleyn and want her to find her own way in a world where women are not valued except for their ability to further the family's ambitions for wealth and power or create a son for Henry VIII.The Other Boleyn Girl is narrated first person by Mary Boleyn. The characters are well developed for the three Bolyen siblings - Mary, Ann and George. Although all three of them are thrust into the crazy inner workings of the court of Henry VIII, they all have different challenges and reactions to their own family's ambitions as well as the greed, corruption, immorality and narcissism of the court of Henry VIII.It's interesting to see the story of Anne Boleyn from a different perspective and the author does a great job of telling the story through the eyes of the less infamous sister. This book is of course fiction, but it brings this time in history to life in a very entertaining way.This is the first book I have ready by Philippa Gregory, but I am now a fan. I am looking forward to reading other books written by her.
2 This is one of those books which I felt started off really badly - and so any other brilliance in it was very much marred by the bad start. I found the first part which is a description of an execution rather curious - although it is clearly written to shadow a scene at the end of the book - but Mary Boleyn - the narrator of the story is watching an execution and waiting for Henry to commute the sentence...which she apparently believes he will. I cannot recall a single instance where in the middle of an execution he did this - there may well be but they certainly don't seem to be well documented. So right at the start I was a bit nonplussed.In the very next chapter Mary describes herself as 'the youngest Boleyn girl&quot; who is waiting for her sister Anne to return from France. Now this is patently wrong. Mary was the eldest girl - she went to France first in the retinue of Henry VIII's sister who married the King of France. Anne Boleyn, her younger sister, followed later.  Francois, the king of France even described Mary Boleyn as the most promiscuous woman at the French court - and this was at a time when the French court was highly promiscuous.After that I found myself very much at odds with much of the material in the book - I found it hard to enjoy what was patently a plot device (making Mary the younger sister) to try to build up some kind of rivalry between the two sisters over Henry's affections.There was a great deal that was well written and an interesting interpretation of what very little material there is on the Boleyn life at court (of any of the family) and one of the most memorable instances is when Anne and Mary are talking together and I think it is Anne who points out that they are valueless really except that they are interchangeable by their family who wish to get on at court and thus will throw either one or the other under the eye of the King to try to get preference. There is also a great deal about the rivalry between the Somerset family and the Howard's (Anne and Mary's mother was a Howard) and the changing fortunes of each family as they managed to get their profferred female into Henry's bed.Interesting but disappointing at the same time.
1 For a classier historical novel about the Boleyns, I recommend The Lady in the Tower by Jean Plaidy.
4 I had read other Phillipa Gregory books before, but this is really the best one there is.  If you are at all interested in the Tudor period you should read this book for it's lush portrayal of the period, even though it lacks some historical accuracy.  The story of Mary Boleyn's life, along with that of her more famous sister Ann, is fascinating, and will interest any history buff.
5 I enjoy the historical with the novel makes it a lot easier to learn history.  I have read other books by Philppa Gregory and will read more
5 I was fascinated by this book, both by the history and the fiction.  I thought Philippa Gregory did a wonderful job of recreating the court of Henry VIII.  She paints a vivid picture of the ruthless ambition of the Boleyn family as well as the egomaniacal King Henry.  They were all more than a bit frightening.This is the story of the rise and fall of Anne Boleyn as told by her sister Mary.  Mary the younger of the two sisters was the first to find favor with the king.  Her sister, as instructed by their father and uncle, won him over while Mary was giving birth to his child, all while his wife Katherine of Aragon sat by his side at the throne.I liked the Mary Boleyn that Gregory creates for us.  She is able to see her family's all consuming ambition and where it leads them. She sees how her elders use her and her siblings in order to gain position, land and wealth. She examines her own loyalties and her betrayal of the one woman she loved like a mother.  She was able to see history repeating itself for her sister. And she was horrified by the things her sister did to gain the throne and in her attempts to produce a future king. Mary is a sympathetic character and has a very interesting vantage point from which to tell this story.I enjoyed it and will be reading more Philippa Gregory.I had been putting off reading this book because of how long it was.  I thought it would take a while to read since it is 661 pages long but it was very easy to read.  (I was able to read four hundred pages in two days.)If you like what I like I think you'll like this.I am off to read The Boleyn Inheritance now...
4 A Pleasant read against a wonderful background of history, all the romance and intrigue one would expect in the Court of King Henry, as well as the realistic drama of the underhanded plots of families trying to catch the eye of the King by peddling their young daughters.  A wonderful read for those who love the genre.
5 The Other Boleyn Girl, is hands down the best piece of historical fiction I have ever read. Upon reading it, I have been searching for other books of its genre and subject matter to delve into.Gregory made these characters come alive for me, and made me understand how difficult it was to live as a woman in the early 1500s. Mary was especially well crafted. At 13 years old she went from her forced marriage to being thrown into the King's arms as his mistress. The inner struggles she fought between being true to herself and her heart, or true to her family were especially poignant.Anne Boleyn, the most famous and tragically terminated sister, is portrayed in such a venomous way. She would stop at nothing to get what she wanted, and to rise in power and prestige. In the end it killed her. But her character, as portrayed by Ms. Gregory, was compelling and convincingly ugly, despite her beauty.King Henry VIII also jumped off the pages. He came off as a spoiled brat, even as he grew older, who always got what he wanted. He and Anne were well matched for each other as no level of deceipt was too high.Ms. Gregory was brilliant in choosing Mary as the narrator of this book. In doing so, the manipulative and scheming nature of Anne was able to come alive, as was the unorthodox lifestyle chosen by George Boleyn, the brother. The relationship amongst the Boleyn siblings, in and of itself, could fill a novel. The complexities of a family struggling to maintain individual identities, while working to bring the family up to the highest level of stature is intense.This book is a page turner; it is incredibly compelling, deep and fascinating. I learned a great deal about the monarchy of Henry VII as well as life in the court during that time period. At the same time, I found myself incredibly entertained and saddened when I reached the last page. I cannot wait for more from Ms. Gregory.
1 I did not like this book at all. In fact, I left it behind in a hotel in Britain hoping that someone else might find it more entertaining than I.
3 I don't think I liked this book as much as the others that Gregory has written. It was from the point of view of Mary Boleyn. She was shown as a whinny and almost immature woman, being over shadowed by her evil sister, Anne. We all know that Anne Boleyn was an incredibly awful woman. She was power hungry and had almost no soul, so there was nothing for Mary to be except for the obedient sister. I don't care if there are people that disagree with me, all I know is that the book wasn't very historically accurate on Mary's part, but was spot on on Anne's. I love Philippa Gregory and will continue to read her books on the dangerous life in the court of Henry VIII.
5 I bought this book as an assignment for my moms' book club.  I could NOT put it down!  If my history books had been this interesting in high school, I probably would have considered majoring in history in college!  Gregory's writing is absolutely delicious.  She enhances the historical facts with dialogue and really gives you a sense of how these characters lived and interacted. Now I am completely fascinated by historical novels. Another recommendation from my book club is Abundance, about Marie Antoinette.  (Even if you don't read it, please know that Marie is NOT the one who said "Let them eat cake!"  That infamous quote was actually uttered by a man and incorrectly attributed to her.  She actually loved the French people.)  Anyway, this novel is much better than the movie "The Other Boleyn Girl," which I did see, so if you saw the movie you should still read this book to really get the details of the story!
1 This book was the biggest crock of terrible historical fiction I've even had the misfortune to read. A friend lent it to me, knowing of my love for all things Tudor. A waste of paper and time--with each terrible page my blood pressure increased notch by notch. It wasn't even well written! By weaving her mis-information into this story, Ms. Gregory will only keep people whom are unfamiliar with Anne Boleyn's life even more ignorant of the facts. Historical fiction doesn't mean "change the story around to whatever you want." I've read some really great historical fiction where the author RESEARCHES the FACTS to try and tell a possible version of the truth. Not so here. So don't waste your money. Why do authors find it necessary to write for the lowest common denominator? It should have no stars.
5 Very good read. The author intricately melded historical events with her skillful storytelling. I could not put the book down.
2 I'm surprised how well this book is reviewed. It is an interesting topic and Gregory obviously had to do some research to write a historical novel. However, I wished she had also remembered to work on her writing skills. I found this book to lack intimacy, which is so strange considering it is written in 1st person. At times, it was so detached and seemed to just be a run down of details. I didn't feel anything for Mary or the other main characters. Mary's voice completely lacked a personal touch. I didn't understand the main character's internal being, and the book was over 600 pages. Really good writers can make you feel for and understand a main character in a short story. With this book, I felt like I was reading a rough draft that hadn't yet been flushed out and revised to include richer word choices, better character connection, metaphor, etc. It just really lacked something.That said, I found the topic interesting so I went and saw the movie. The movie, though only 2 hours, demonstrated more of the character's thoughts and passions and fears and motivation than the book did. Usually it is the opposite - a book gives you so much more than a movie possibly can. Not in this case.
4 Most people have heard of Anne Boleyn, the second wife of King Henry VIII who was infamously beheaded when she failed to bear him a son (and whose daughter, Elizabeth, went on to become a great monarch).  But few are aware that prior to Anne's rise, her sister, Mary, was the King's mistress and allegedly bore him two children.  This novel seamlessly blends fact and fiction to tell the story of the Boleyn family, whose ambitions and aspirations caused them to put two daughters in harm's way.  However, the story centers around the rivalry between the two sisters as well as their relationship with their brother, George Boleyn, who was executed just prior to his sister.  A captivating tale about this fascinating period of history.
5 For any lover of historical fact or fiction, or, as in this case, fact/fiction, this is an absolute MUST. Pretty, blonde and compliant Mary Boleyn, a minor member of the powerful Howard family of the Duke of Norfolk, is brought to the English court of Henry VIII after being brought up at the French court, as was the custom in those days. She becomes the mistress of Henry who has tired of his older wife, Katherine, who has, as yet, failed to produce a living male heir. Mary gives birth to a girl and then a boy in quick succession but is shortly after, supplanted in the King's affections by her scheming, seductive and ambitious sister, Anne, who is determined to become Queen. By this time, Mary is tired of Henry's petulance and foul temper and is pleased to step back and take second place. Anne's ambitions quickly go to her head and she proceeds to alienate the court and the general public with her uncontrollable rages and demands. With Mary as her lady-in-waiting and her brother George, a young man with homosexual tendencies and an unhealthy interest in his sisters, as her immediate circle, the birth of a daughter, Elizabeth, does nothing to favour her in the eyes of the King who is desperate for a son to succeed him. The remainder of this long novel is the tragic tale of the inevitable downfall of Anne who seems to rush towards her doom, pushed by her incredible pride and lack of concern for anyone else, even her family. Whether or not the personal details of her life, including the purported incest with her brother, are true, remains unproven but at least Mary does find a true love and it's an historical fact that she and her husband lived a happy life with their children and were greatly favoured by Elizabeth I, their half sister and cousin
5 It's shamefull to say but I bought this book when I saw the movie come out, and thought I would read the book then go see the movie. From the beginning I felt myself compelled into the world of the Tudor Dynasty and the madness of King Henry VIII. Though the book isn't historically acurate it did make me want to read more into the situation between the Pope and the King of England and more about the six wives of King Henry. I thought the book was well written about the lives of the sisters and the ambitious family that took every advantage given to them and only saw their children as politcal gain in the game. I thought Gregory did a wonderful job and I'm now starting another book by her.
5 I love historical fiction and this book is wonderful. I fell in love with the characters and couldn't wait to finish one page so that I could read the next to find out what would happen.  Even though I knew what would happen to Anne Boleyn, I was fascinated by "the other Boleyn girl" and her story and the story of Anne Boleyn through her eyes as well.  There is so much drama, emotion, intrigue, sex, and just life in general in this book.  Phillipa Gregory really made their world come to life for me in the pages of this book.  If you want a good read then read this book.  I am now going to read the other books by this author and see if they are just as good.
5 I am a writer and an avid reader, and this is simply one of the best books I've ever read. I was enthralled from the beginning to the end without a lapse. It created such a vivid picture of the people and their time that I feel as if I was there, that I knew them. The writing is faultless. The only problem with it is that it is over! I've finished it, and I can only wonder when again I'll have a reading experience as complete.
5 The Other Boleyn Girl is absolutely fantastic! The full account as told by this novel, transcends the on-screen film adaptation by leaps and bounds; if you haven't read this book you are missing out on 3/4 of the story. As with many film adaptations, this book outshines the on-screen performances and the story it tells. This novel is full of manipulations, political manoeuvring, deceit and heart-wrenching treachery; as the Boleyn's rise in power so to does their risk of safety and death by treason. Torn loyalties and familial affection become twisted into a grotesque mask of hatred, jealousy and spite. The flowing narrative is uninterrupted by any sluggishness and keeps the reader absorbed from start to finish. As the plot progresses a sense of impending doom grows; it gets diverted from time to time but it keeps building until the very end. With breathtaking prose, the Author creates a world and its various English settings with a poignancy that flows over you like cool waters in a brook; the picturesque beauty of the outdoor scenes nearly had me in tears. When a family is willing to throw away their morals, values and sell there very souls for a chance at the wealth, status and the throne of England, who knows what can happen. I 100% enjoyed this novel. I can't recommend it highly enough!If you enjoy Historical Fiction, romance, intrigue or any of the above I implore you to pick up a copy as soon as possible.I very highly recommend this book!!!(10 out of 10 Diamonds) - Absolutely LOVED it!! 2008-2009 Bobbie Crawford-McCoy (Book Reviews By Bobbie).All rights reserved.
5 I love historical novels, but it's been a long time since I've read such a good one as this.  Anne Boleyn is a fascinating character.  The author succeeds in showing us two sides of her; the one you can't help but admire, and the one you can't help but loathe.  It was a great idea to get the story from the perspective of her sister.  I would recommend this to anyone.  Best of its ilk since "Forever Amber."
2 I've read other books by Phillipa Gregory and like them, but I was very disappointed in this one.  I love British history but this one contained too much focus on the sexual explorations of the main characters.  Okay, I know Mary Boleyn had affairs, but I honestly don't need to read about how the king excites her nor about she and William sneak off every chance they can to have sex all night long.  I don't need to hear descriptions of sexual intimacy that includes everything but "doing the deed."
5 A fantastically written look into a less-developed side of the Henry VIII saga.  Virtually everyone is familiar with Anne Boleyn, the first wife of Henry VIII to be decapitated.  However, few people are familiar with her sister, Mary Boleyn.  The novel is based on historical events, but is historical fiction.  It is a brilliantly imagined work that delves into the darker side of the Boleyn family and their quest for power at all costs.Philippa Gregory is a gifted story-teller with a flourishing imagination.  I devoured this 600-odd page novel in a matter of hours.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone curious about this time period.Her writing is fulfilling, keeping you guessing at every turn.  It is amazing that she is able to keep the reader so intrigued when one can be fairly certain how events will unfold.  (But you may be surprised!)Pick this novel up and you will not be disappointed.  Enjoy!
1 I would not recommend Phillipa Gregory's much-hyped The Other Boleyn Girl. I'm the sort of person who keeps reading a book that doesn't make a good first impression, hoping it'll improve. Some six-hundred pages later, I realized The Other Boleyn Girl never got good. Please don't waste your time! Gregory summed up executions of significant characters with lines such as "He was executed the next day." Nothing triggers any emotional response in the reader! It's extraordinary. It seems as though Gregory went out of her way to make this possible.Of course, it's a matter of opinion. I simply found it to be void of anything of substance. I wasn't made to care about the characters or how the events played out. And only sex carried the plot along!Also, I think a good amount of the book was from Gregory's imagination, not historical facts. I'm not trying to suggest Anne was never executed or she didn't have a sister or anything of the sort. And I know in this genre much is left to the author's imagination and interpretation; it has to be. It's not as though there's a record of everything that was said and done by everyone surrounding any given event in history. But Gregory herself, when asked how she researches for her books, said she first goes to secondary sources. She never mentioned using primary sources. Yes, they can be biased (if they're from someone's perspective they're going to be), but they're first-hand accounts. Who better knows how something played out than a person who was in the middle of it, witnessing it? In addition, her dialogue is inconsistent. It's ridiculously modern at some points, then flowery at others. I know it can't be written Shakespeare-style; it has to be readable and understandable. But I think we could be a little more sophisticated! No one said "stuff" back then, for example, as in, "All this stuff is making me mad." She couldn't work a little harder than that??If you want the stereotypical historical fiction whose foundation is built on fancy dresses, sex, and scandal, this soap-opera mimic is perfect. If you're like me and want to learn something in the process, however...As I've made obvious, I was sorely disappointed. Just thought I'd pass my warning along. I don't want anyone else wasting his time!
5 The Other Boleyn Girl is a historical fiction piece narrated from Mary Boleyn, and younger sister of Anne Boleyn, the second wife (and later the beheaded wife) of King Henry VIII. It gives a glimpse of the drive of the Tudor families, and their willingness to do anything to obtain power within the royal family.Mary Boleyn, a girl of only fourteen, and already married, finds that she is the object of King Henry VII's attention, and must become his lover for the advancement of the Boleyn family. This always wavering attention of the King later falls upon her older sister, Anne, whose seduction and drive eventually leads her (head) to the chopping block.Part fiction, part history, this book is a captivating read that I couldn't put down
5 I didn't expect this book to be so well written and clever! This and The Boleyn Inheritance are the two most enjoyable historical fiction novels I've ever read.
4 If you are a fan of historical fiction, you will love this book.  Lots of intrigue, deceit and lust!  I loved every minute of this novel!
4 Philippa Gregory has written a delicious novel of sin, adultery, and ambition. True, this is not lofty literature. True, it is not "historical" truth. But, it IS enjoyable. Despite the length, which may lose some readers, I did find it kept me engaged. What an insane time to live, particularly for women, who were forced to use their bodies for their family's advantage. They were pawns in a larger game, and it is no wonder that some, such as Anne, sought a position of power from which to control their own fates. Gregory does a wonderful job in developing her characters. I particularly like that she has the "losing" sister tell the tale. I really felt the characters' pain, their triumphs and failures. I was rooting for them until the end. A well-crafted tale that will leave the reader satisfied, but still wanting more...
5 Philippa Gregory has taken a well known story- about Henry VIII and his second wife Anne Boleyn- and created an enthralling read.  The story of the seduction of Henry VIII by Anne Boleyn is told through the eyes of her younger sister, who also has 2 children with the king.  Both sisters are pressured into pursuing the king by their family which is hungry for power.  The narration delves into the motives and mindset of the main characters.  This may be history, but it reads like a world class novel!
3 Its really disturbing to me how many people accept Philippa Gregory as a historian, rather than a writer barely above the quality of a Harlequin romance novel. Historical fiction has a time and a place... and it gets on my nerves when people try to tell me &#34;facts&#34; about Henry VIII or Anne Boleyn they learned from PG or The Tudors.As a book with only the faintest shred of basis in actual history, it's nice. The story isn't bad if you approach it from a purely fictional point of view. If you are looking for fascinating REAL accounts of the Tudor family, read Alison Weir.
5 This book, first and foremost, brings to life the pure beauty of Britain; the old houses, wildlife and its rather bizarre history and has made me very proud of where I come from.The Other Boleyn Girl is extremely readable and tells of the rise and fall of the Boleyn family.  I have never been much of a person for history but this book certainly interested me and went beyond anything I could have learnt in history class.I recommend this book without really saying why (for fear of ruining parts) but coming from a history know nothing I say it is definitely worth a read if you want to know about the greed of one man and the unstoppable ambition of one tragic family.
5 If you enjoy historical fiction, you'll love this book! I got so engrossed I found myself thinking inside the story during the day...when I'd been reading it in bed the night before.  The story is fast-paced and exciting, yet touching and real.I highly recommend this book.
1 As a buff of Tudor history, I was shocked from the first page how incorrect the information was. Mary was not 13 or 14 when she became the mistress of Henry VIII - and, accepted historical information indicates that Mary was the OLDER sister, not the younger. What happened to the years spent in France and her being mistress to the King of France? Needless to say, just the first few pages frustrated me so badly that I ceased reading the book and shall not bother finishing it. This author has done a better job following historical information in some of her other books - I just can't imagine what happened here. And now, to think that the movie will project this information to people - but then, if they're not history buffs, they won't know any difference. It's like the cable series about The Tudors and the actor portraying Henry VIII is a scrawny little man instead of someone over 6 feet tall and well built! Oh well - Anyway, I would not recommend this book to anyone for any reason.
5 The whole time I was reading this book, there was an old saying that kept coming to my mind: Pride goeth before a fall. That is exactly what I thought of Anne Boleyn. Now mind you, this was my second attempt in reading "The Other Boleyn Girl." I had heard so many rave reviews about this book so two years ago, I picked it up and couldn't get into it. For one thing, it portrayed Anne Boleyn as a scheming and crafty girl, instead of a victim to a man's lust for a son to be his heir. After reading "The Queen's Fool" ~~ I got snared in with Gregory's writing and just had to try "The Other Boleyn Girl" again. This time, I was hooked.I love reading historical fiction. I know that it's fiction based on the few historical gleams that any author could find. I know that the real story may never be known in its fullest truth. So knowing that, I can sit back and enjoy this immense novel about two sisters who vied for the King's attention. How much of it is factual? I don't know. Do I care? No. It's not as if I am going to write a biography on the Tudors. Do I find their lives ~~ supposed and actual ~~ interesting? Oh yes. I have been a devoted fan of Alison Weir and Antonia Fraser, as well as Jean Plaidy ~~ they've whetted my interest in history. So, I know that this book, based on a lot of historical studies, is a work of fiction. If I didn't want to read fiction, I would read different authors ... so my point is, this is a fun book to read.This story was narrated by Mary, the "other" Boleyn sister. She was newly married and just shortly after Anne returned to England from France, Mary was selected to be the King's lover. Between her uncle and her parents, Mary was a biddable girl who did what her elders told her to do to further the Howard/Boleyn family connections in the king's court. As a very young lady-in-waiting, Mary was prime picking for a king's lust. In this novel, Mary gave birth to two children, a daughter and a son. During the recovery period after her son's birth, Anne decided to further her family's interest and her own personal interest by going after the king. As you can imagine, the relationship between the two sisters were never quite the same after that.While Mary was at her sister's beck and call, she fell in love with an "ordinary no-body" ~~ William Stafford, a rural landowner. But bidden to do Anne's calling, Mary was in the midst of all the court's intrigues. From her eyes, she told the tale of how Anne came to power and how she intrigued the king to the fatal end. The longer Anne fought to be queen, the more corrupted she seems to be. The more corrupted Anne seem to be, the more reasonable Mary seem to be and more mature of the two.This was a hefty book but oh so much fun to read! It is definitely one of the more enjoyable books I've read this year. I am glad to add Philippa Gregory to my never-ending list of authors to read ~~ she writes well and very convincingly of a time period that little is known. She is a great story-teller ~~ and definitely one to recommend.3-30-07
4 "The Other Boleyn Girl" is a delightful and entertaining historical romance, that explores the life of Mary Boleyn as well as her more famous sister, Anne. It does not seem like Philippa Gregory did extensive research, as the book was rather short on description of life in the Tudor era. But the characters and their relationships were interesting, and kept me turning the pages until the end.
5 For anyone who enjoys the Tudor era, this is a mandatory read.  A must.  The writing takes you into the 1500's as though you were actually there, living and watching as things happened.  Philippa Gregory builds personalities you want to befriend and those you want to avoid.  A great read.
5 This book was an excellent read. As a result, I am going to purchace the other books by Philippa Gregory.
5 Our book club read this and everyone absolutely loved it!  A common comment was that this was a book that ordinarily we would never have chosen on our own.  I am not a history buff and so the setting threw me off a bit.  However, along with everyone else, I was very surprised that the book took off soon in the beginning and I couldn't put it down.  I can't wait for the movie and can't wait to read another.
5 &quot;The Other Boleyn Girl&quot; by Philippa Gregory is amazing. It's over six hundred pages long, but not one page of it was dull (like most long books turn out to be). I felt like I was right there experiencing everything with Mary and her siblings. It's hard to describe such a beautiful book in less than a thousand words. Just buy it. You won't regret it, I promise.
4 It amazes me that young girls survived these times. I liked Philippa Gregory's writing of the events of this erea
4 It's hard to write historical fiction in a way that makes the book hard to put down, but this story rarely slows its pacing.  I flew through the pages.  Many reviewers have complained that the story was inaccurate.  Although it was historical fiction, it nudged my curiousity about the Boleyn family.  Now I'm interested to learn what was true and what wasn't in this novel, because the story was so compelling.Choosing Mary as the narrator was an interesting choice; Philippa Gregory gave a little-known historical figure a great personality!There was one thing about the novel that made me reduce the rating to 4 stars instead of 5.  Some of the scenes felt like a paperback romance.  And some of the language choices didn't seem to fit the era.  Call me picky...But was it enjoyable?  Yes.  Would I recommend reading it?  Most definitely!
4 I realize this is a fictional account of court life during the reign of King Henry VIII given from the POV of Mary Boleyn, younger sister of well-known Anne, but enough facts are included in the book to make it all the more fascinating.Mary, a young recently-married teen, is depicted as the innocent pawn put into play by her calculating family with hopes to gain the attention of the young, virile king and secure a higher position for the family. Court politics decree that Mary is better suited for the task as she is already married and once the king has tired of her she can return to her husband. However, an unmarried maiden taken mistress would be &quot;ruined&quot; and unfit for marriage once discarded. What's more, Mary's husband doesn't dare speak out against the arrangement. Instead he must freely give his wife to the king and is compensated with a new title and land. The children she has from the &quot;royal union&quot; bear her husband's name. How generous.And that's only the beginning. The book abounds with the constant rivalry between the sisters coupled with the unbreakable bond of familial unity, all witnessed within the setting of the strictly choreographed and often corrupt court.As fascinating as it is to peek into this amazing world of court life with all its intrigue and outrageousness, it's also interesting to read about Mary and to follow her as she matures into a woman who discovers true happiness in the simple pleasures found with a loving and beloved spouse and children, free of the choking ambitions imposed on her by her greedy, power-hungry family.Overall a delightful, hard-to-put-down novel.
4 I've read a bit about Anne Boleyn and the rest of Henry VIII's court and many wives, so I was intrigued by this book in spite of the flashy movie tie-in cover.  Like most, I had no previous knowledge of Mary Boleyn's life. The factual evidence that Mary was Henry's mistress for 2-3 years, together with the timing of the births of her first two children would certainly give great credence to the theory that they were Henry's children, as well as the many honors which were granted to her family during that time.  It would also seem very unlikely that Henry would have tolerated Mary bedding both him and her husband during the years of Henry's favor.Regardless of the accuracy of Ms Gregory's narratives relating to the maneuvers of her father and uncle in getting her into Henry's bed, or what Mary may or may not have thought about the role of women in her era, I think the author is owed a few bows for bringing this bit of history to wider audiences than serious Tudor scholars. Certainly the 4 or 5 biographies of this era that are in my personal library scarcely mention Mary at all.  Ms Gregory has written an interesting and very readable tale, one that kept me turning the pages.
4 The story line is well written, and I enjoyed the book overall.  The characters are a bit hard to identify with, more flawed than admirable.  However, the thing that bugged me about this book is that the story does not follow historical convention at all regarding the series of events that took place during Henry VII's reign.  So enjoy the book as a fictional novel, and don't use it to supplement your history lesson!
5 This is a great example of not only wonderful historical fiction but a great book. I really loved Mary and her story. It is cleanly written and fun, I actually felt like a member of Henry's court.
4 I really liked this book. I thought it was intriguing, fastpaced, and it really pulls you in right from the very beginning. The only reason I gave it 4 stars was just because there was some sexual stuff in there I thought Gregory could have left out; although sex and bearing children is one of the major themes in this book, some of the content was unnecessary. Apart from the unnecessary sex content, the story was great and gave an exciting glimpse into the Tudor world.
4 I went to the movies not too long ago and I saw this movie, and I knew instantly that the book was a must-read. I was just fascinated by the whole story and the whole time period, and also the injustice of it all.So I got the book, and I started reading. And I made a discovery. My discovery is that the book is much better than the movie. In the movie, every one's feelings are extremely exaggerated, and there are parts that are cut out that would have made me like the movie even more.But I'm going to just forget about the movie, because I don't want to compare the two.The book, as a whole, was very very good. It was 661 pages of absolute historical fiction loveliness. The characters were so real, and so easily dragged forward in time to be exactly like a family now, in the twenty-first century. The story is timeless and addictive.Now, the negative. This book was long. I know that all of my friends would say "Well, Harry Potter is longer, and you read that in a day and a half". But with The Other Boleyn Girl, it took me longer than I would have liked. I found myself reading it just to be at the end, and although I was addicted I also wanted the added benefit of being done finally, so I could move on.Other than that, I found nothing wrong with it. I won't judge it for historical accuracy, because I know little to nothing factual about the time period. All I know is that this book was addictive and entrancing, and a book that I would definitely recommend, as long as you're up for the challenge.
4 This is the fascinating story of the ambitious Boleyn family and their rising star, Anne, who managed to seduce a king, but could not keep him in her grasp. The story is told from the perspective of Mary, Anne's sister. Mary was Henry VIII's lover for awhile, before her ambitious family decided that it should be Anne, not Mary, who would seduce the king in an attempt to marry him and become queen. But although Anne succeeds in this and gives birth to a baby girl - Elizabeth, future queen of England - she cannot give Henry the boy heir he so desperately needs. And we all know what becomes of her as a result.Interspersed with this story is Mary's story, how she was forced to become the king's lover even though she was already married, her love for her children, her growing weariness with court life, and a blossoming new love. Brother George is also a big part of the story, and it is he that Anne and Mary turn to in times of need.More than anything, this is a fascinating read because of the overwhelming ambitions of a family that cannot leave well enough alone. The book gets off to a bit of a slow start, but by the time you're a third of the way through, you are sucked into the story. Even though you know how it ends, you can't put the book down, thanks to Gregory's gripping storytelling skills.
5 I have to admit that I have looked at this authors books before in the bookstore, but never bought one. So when I found this book for $7.99 as a Kindle download, I caved in and bought it. Glad I did! I throughly enjoyed reading about Mary Boleyn and her more famous sister, Anne and their brother, George. When I finished the book, I looked  up Mary Boleyn on Wikipedia and read up on her and her family and also Henery VIII. Now I am reading another Phillippa Gregory that is the sequal called, The Boleyn Inheritance. An added bonus about historical fiction, is that it is so much fun to look the characters up on Wikipedia right from your Kindle and learn all about their lives. Very cool
5 This is one of the best books I have ever read. I was captivated by the first page. This book took me back to a time in history that left me in total awe of what the women of those times had to endure. Loved it.
5 I was intimidated by the size of this novel, but was very quickly drawn into this tale of Mary, the lesser known of the Boleyn girls.  The author does a fabulous job of making these historical sisters come to life and presents a compelling tale beginning at Anne Boleyn's introduction to the English court, always showing them as three-dimensional people with real desires, needs, and inner conflicts due to their outer circumstances.I found it so intriguing to learn more about this time period and the relationship of Anne to Mary, and to their family, and  to the royal family.  As with many of Gregory's books, I feel like I know these people who lived long ago and want to learn more.
5 The fact that so many have posted positive reviews speaks volumes about this book. And since there are more than several synopses, I'll forego that. Gregory has written a riveting historical about the Boleyn siblings, Anne, Mary, and George, and the relationships between King Henry VIII and, first, Mary as his mistress, followed by Anne, a crafty plotter who wanted nothing more than to be queen. We all know the tragic end to the story, but Gregory's retelling of this brief time in history is magical.
5 This book is wonderful. I couldn't put it down. Now I want to read everything I can about that period, and I wonder if there are other books about Mary Boleyn. Great book! Sorry I missed the movie, but I'll get it on DVD.
5 The Other Boleyn Girl is a very interesting book, that is also very fun to read. Being only 14, I thoroughly enjoyed it, and would compare it toGossip Girl #1: A Novel (Gossip Girl Series)but in medieval times. A great book, must read.
5 I just finished The Other Boleyn Girl and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  I don't usually go for historical fiction since history is usally dry and fiction is not meant to be taken as more than creative license.  But Phillip Gregory has blended both mediums masterfully.  I found using Mary as the narrator, the infamous Anne Boleyn's sister very clever since so much is historiclly documented about Anne and very little is actually known about Mary.  We are told that Anne is older and was sent to be trained in the French court and that Mary is the younger sister being married at aged 12 and placed as Queen Katherine's lady in waiting. I have always found Anne Boleyn's tale fascinating.Gregory is not a historian, so if she erred somewhat on the order and dates of some of the demises of the famous clergy or wars, so be it. At times I forgot I was reading fiction I got so caught up in the political intrigue and the Howard family's lust for power at the expense of their own kin. Her portrayal of George Boleyn was very colorful though there is no way to know if the allegations of him being homosexual or whether he actually did engage in incest to help his sister Anne beget a son to save her posisiton are true. The sibling rivalry between Anne and mary plays true. Anne uses her sister so meanly in her asirations to become queen, yet Mary is still supportive of her sister to the very end as Anne falls from grace and is executed.We see Mary, who truly cares for the king being pushed by her family to keep the interest of the king for their selfish rise in power and then callously pushed aside by both the king and her family when neither have further use for her.  While Anne is ruthless, and self serving, Mary matures and eventually develops the courage to take control of her life by marrying the man she loves and defying her overbearing family.  I recommend this book this anyone who is drawn to this famous period of history and wants to see it "come alive" in print.
5 Unlike quite a few of the reviewers before me, I found this book quite entertaining and a good read. While it might not be entirely historically correct, Gregory still manages to capture the essence of the English court and the games played in order to pursue power. She also divulges into a very intense sister rivalry, a rivalry that is unparalleled in history. I think these two points were Gregory's primary goals in the retelling of the story of Anne and Mary, not to give an accurate historical account of Anne Boleyn and King Henry VIII.If you are looking for the perfect history of King Henry VIII and his most infamous wife, Anne Boleyn, then go buy a history book. If you are looking for an entertaining, fast-paced historical novel that captures the spirit of the 16th century English court I would highly recommend The Other Boleyn Girl.
5 I couldn't put this book down. Although I'm resorting to cliches, this book practically read itself. In fact, I found myself scooting out of the office to read a passage or two. Based on the life of Anne, Mary and George Boleyn as well as the court of King Henry the VIII, The Other Boleyn Girl is a beautiful, enthralling read.Mary, Anne's younger sister, is the enchanting main character in this novel. Philippa Gregory does an incredible job bringing her to life and transporting the reader back to England in the 1500's. This fictional account of Mary's affair with King Henry is as enticing as it is romantic. The Other Boleyn Girl's telling of the most celebrated and notorious romances in England's history is well written and insightful - not to mention mesmerizing.From life at the court to life in the fields, The Other Boleyn girl has it all: love, adventure and intrigue. This is by far one of the best books I have read this summer.
5 Philippa Gregory is a genius. The best historical fiction author by far. This novel was amazing, so much rich detail from King Henry XIII to the Boleyn family and the offspring. Its magestic and enthralling. Makes you wish you could go back in time (not necessarily to be a Boleyn) but just to be in the court and to experience the wonderment that is Philippa Gregory's Tudor Engand.
5 I've been in the mood for a good historical novel lately and I found it in spades in The Other Boleyn Girl.  This is the story of the swirl of plotting and romance around Henry VIII, Anne Boleyn and the many others with an interest in unseating Katherine of Aragon and making Anne Henry's new queen.  I love a historical novel that makes you truly feel the times and this book does so; moreover the rich writing and portrayal of historical detail is meshed in a plot that while familiar to any student of history, is still suspenseful because you come to care for all the players' fates.  The master stroke was telling the story through the conflicted viewpoint of Anne's sister, Mary, who was Henry's lover before Anne.  She can see what is both admirable and loathsome in those around her at court, especially Henry and Anne themselves, and since her side of the story is less well-known, the suspense comes in seeing how she will make it through the tragic turn of events when Anne is inevitably rejected.  A truly excellent historical novel.
5 I just finished this book yesterday and I can't get my mind off of it. I absolutely, 100% loved this book. It has been a while since I have read a really great book and I had hoped that this one would be a good one. Well, it had exceeded my expectations and now gets to join my "favorites shelf" in my book shelf. This book was so rich, in suspense, tension, desire, human nature, and above all: love. This book described Mary's-the main character- love to her multiple partners so splendidly. It was as if I was feeling each on my own. It was beautiful and magical and everything love is. This was such a great book, and the movie is coming out on February 29. So, in summary, if you just don' know which book to read and this is sitting there, or if you are just looking for a great book, this is the one you want to pick. Trust me, you will love it. I very thoroughly regret finishing it so soon!
4 Personally, I think the story of the Boleyn girls and Henry VIII is dramatic enough on its own and doesn't require the added fictionalized details to make the story better, but this was still an interesting book.I agree with the another reviewer who remarked that if you take away the Tudor setting, Gregory is not all that different from your standard romance novelist.  Mary was an interesting choice as narrator, but too many times I found myself wanting to smack her for her behavior.  Somewhere around mid-book, she evolves into some sort of beloved saint; whether that's true or not, I don't know, but it didn't endear Mary the character to me.  Anne, originally a complex and flawed woman becomes a shrieking cariacature by the book's end.  When she finally loses her head, it's almost anti-climactic.  Given her portrayal, you want something worse to happen.Aside from the birth order debate, there are some other small inconsistencies, like the spelling of Mary's daughter's name and the ambiguity surrounding her son's parentage and where he ends up.  Would Henry VIII really allow his second son to just trot off to a farm with another man playing daddy?  It was a point that bothered me throughout this book; Henry was desperate for sons and I found his complete dismissal of Mary's son to be odd.Historically, Mary did marry William for love and they did go on to live relatively happily ever after.  Sadly, for me, Gregory lapsed back into romance novel-speak in that last part of the book.  The language was so flowery, the situations so improbable that I had a hard time finishing this book.  There was no evidence that I've ever read that Catherine/Katherine was present with Anne at her beheading, and the notion that some guy on the street would be allowed up on the scaffold to haul one of the ladies in waiting away was simply ridiculous.  The story could have been told just as dramatically without those devices.All in all, this is a very good book and full enough of historical accuracy that I'd recommend it on that basis alone.  I would, however, also recommend one of the excellent non-fiction books on Henry VIII and his wives as an accompaniment to put some of the events of this story into true perspective (Alison Weir's book is especially good and easy to read).
5 Mary Boleyn was the daughter of Thomas Boleyn and the sister of Anne.When she was 12 she was married to Sir William Carey. At 14 she was asked by her family to leave her marriage and become the mistress to the King of England Henry VIII. Over the next several years she had two children by him, a girl Catherine and a boy Henry.Soon after the birth of her son Mary watched as her sister Anne used her charmes to get the king away from her. Mary was forced to watch as Anne went from mistress to wife and mother to Pricess Elizabeth before loosing her head for adultery.While Anne was with the King Mary fell in love with and married a servent to her Uncle Howard and had a daughter by him.While this is not all historically accurate it is well researched and gives the reader a chance to look at what life was like during the reign of Henry VIII
2 It took a really long time for me to get into this book, I guess because I never really liked or bonded with the main character. She isn't really a likeable person, neither is her family. The entire first half, I just wanted Anne to be queen so that we could move on from her stalking the king. Then once she was queen, I found that I was more interested in Jane becoming queen. Too bad there isn't a story about her...Over all, an ok story. Maybe I just wasn't in the right mood to read it right now.
3 "You just keep on being sweetly stupid, Mary. You do it beautifully."Mary Boleyn is one of Queen Katherine's many ladies-in-waiting. But things change when she catches King Henry VIII's eye. Her family, led by Uncle Thomas Howard, quickly push her into becoming the King's mistress, but Anne, Mary's sister, is never satisfied. Set amidst the turmoil of King Henry's early rule, we follow Mary through her affair with the King, the strife between King Henry and Queen Katherine, and the marriage of King Henry to Queen Anne.The best way I can describe this book is "guilty pleasure". There is so much to dislike about the book, and yet I was entertained for the entire part. Not to mention, this book made me research Tudor England and the whole drama with King Henry VIII and his many wives, and any book that makes me interested in looking up history or researching the backstory gets a bit of a boost in my book.PLEASE NOTE: I am no historian, nor am I particularly well-versed in this era. Therefore, I am not going to get into much detail about whether or not this book is historically accurate. There are other reviews that go into FAR better detail about whether this is accurate to history; I will defer to them. But I do caution: if you are expecting 100% accuracy, I would encourage you to pass this book up. Just the itsy bitsy bit of research I have done doesn't seem to quite match up to what PG presents here.With that out of the way, let's get on to the good stuff!First off, I really didn't like our "protagonist", Mary Boleyn. In Gregory's story, Mary Boleyn, the sometimes "other Boleyn girl" (though the term was applied occasionally to Anne), is the younger sister of Anne (this is one of those areas where historians will tell you that most likely, Mary was the eldest--and in this book, I really felt that Mary acted more like the eldest than the youngest). She is married to William Carrey and quickly attracts the eye of the King. Her family then tells her to seduce him and bed him, which she does. But after the birth of her second child, Anne whisks the King's attention, and Mary is left in the background.I'll admit, I like it when characters aren't perfect, aren't the best or smartest in a field, aren't able to make the right decision each and every time, have actual flaws. But Mary really tries the patience. According to history, Mary was the beauty but not so bright (it was Anne who was the brains), but Mary in TOBG seems unable to put the simplest conclusions together.For instance, when William Stafford leaves to secure a farm for a "court lady" he's been interested in, Mary IMMEDIATELY assumes he has been seeing someone BESIDES her and snubs him. OF COURSE, we know that William, who knows Mary's desire to be a simple farmer's wife, was actually purchasing the farm for HER. (In Gregory's defense, this Misunderstanding did not last very long.)Another count against Mary is her passivity. I know women in this period do not have the freedoms that modern women do, but Mary was a complete doormat. She rarely even tried to defy her family. Most of her actions are either A) forced upon her or B) reactions to other people's actions. She doesn't initially WANT to seduce the King, but her family forces her. She balks at helping Anne, but her family tells her to. She wants to see her kids, but her family won't let her; therefore, she doesn't see her kids.What is almost worse is when Mary complains about how she can't do anything, how if she had her own free will, she wouldn't have done X. She could have put up a little more defense, tried a little harder, pushed a little more. Or she could have just been kicked out of her family. But personally, I like Queen Katherine's response to Mary's BS best:"If you had not been tempted, you would not have fallen. If it was not in your interest to betray me, then you would have been loyal. Go away, Lady Carrey. You are no better than your sister, who pursues her own ends like a weasel and never glances to one side or the other."And that leads to my other complaint. Mary likes to think she is way better than her sister, Anne...but most of what Anne does, Mary has done before. Or she gloats (and I mean GLOATS) about what she didn't do. Such as:+ When Anne was sent to Hever, Mary writes Anne every week and gushes about her pregnancy and how the King lurves her so much.+ Enjoying how Anne has to wait on her, then being p!ssy when the tables are turned.+ Being upset when Anne gets married to the King, but legitimizes her affair with the King (in fact, I never felt that Mary was at all guilty for sleeping with the married King or committing adultery against her own husband).+ Being upset when Anne is pregnant with the King's baby, but when she was pregnant, she rubbed her sister's nose in it.And then we have how she has an affair and can't BELIEVE how her husband William Carey is upset at her (uh, duh?) or her claim to be loyal to the Queen even though she is sleeping with the King. For the latter, she even names the child she bore through Henry after Queen Katherine! (How tacky!)But it seems that Mary is supposed to be the perfect, sweet sister. She is loyal to the Queen, even turning against her sister. At one point, Mary becomes a confidant of sorts to the Queen, and the two giggle about how awful Anne is--sure, that's believable! We also know Mary is "good" because she wants to abandon court life for country life after a mere 3 month stay at Hever! And then, when she becomes a farmer's wife, she ADORES making cheese and cooking and has NO PROBLEMS with all the work she suddenly has to do. And while Anne meets a terrible end, Mary gets a happily ever after--her children, a loving husband, a little farm, and all the things she ever wanted.Instead of being the perfect, sweet, innocent, beleaguered sister, Mary came across as a dense, two-faced, passive hypocrite, unable to do anything for herself, who somehow got everything she wanted but didn't deserve.But as much as I despised Mary, I adored Anne and Queen Katherine. Sure, Anne is personified as a bawdy devil, a woman desperate for power and the Queen's throne instead of an intelligent, highly religious woman who really did love the King, but I felt that a lot of what she did was understandable. She was smart and cunning; when her family didn't support her (and for a good portion of the book, it seemed they did EVERYTHING to make her life miserable), she made her own way using her own wits and skill. Mary needed guiding throughout her entire time of her affair; Anne was more than capable of handling herself. Her struggles to give birth to a son were heart-rending; her desperation understandable (not that I really believe she slept with her brother or was a witch). As for Queen Katherine, she was a respectable woman, a good wife. I felt bad for how King Henry put her away in favor of Anne.As for the rest of the characters, they are pretty one-dimensional. King Henry is ALMOST ALWAYS called a "boy" by Mary, which was irritating and disturbing. King Henry, I always got the impression, was a pretty strong, charismatic guy. I'm sure he had some childlike aspects, but I felt nearly every other time Mary saw him, she was comparing him to a child. If Mary found him so childlike, how could she have a years-long affair? Ew! Jane Parker is so snoopy and awful; Jane Seymour is so virtuous and sickeningly pure; Uncle Thomas was pure evil; George honestly felt campy gay (I'm surprised more people didn't find out about his orientation); William Stafford is so "wonderful" and "manly", I wanted to be sick. None of them really stood out; none of them felt like people whom I could interact with and meet on a daily basis.A key component of this story, the whole reason I believe it was written, was to show the competition between the two sisters, to compare and contrast. But while The Cranes Dance did an EXCELLENT job of showing two sisters who love each other but feel threatened by each other as well, this book flopped. I felt like both girls hated each other viscerally, until one of them would do something unexpectedly nice to the other or say how fond they were of their sister (and mean it).Another thing that I felt really hurt the story was one key historical component. I know I said I wouldn't nitpick history, but I felt this component REALLY affected the story. There is NO WAY Mary's son would have ever been considered an heir apparent to the King, even if he were to marry her after the fact. The King already had an illegitimate son through Bessie Blount; he would have been the first in line if illegitimate children were in line for the throne. So all of the family's crazy talk and effort to get Mary married to King Henry and how their illegitimate son would be heir is silly and ultimately pointless. Sure, if the King married Mary, she MIGHT have another son, but that is the only way for an heir to come.After Mary's affair with the King, the story really stops being about her and is instead about Anne. I guess it makes sense, but when the story tries to return to being about Mary, it is boring and so drowned in sugary, sweet sappiness, I thought I was going to go into a coma. Mary and William are a boring couple. They meet, they fall in love, life goes perfectly for them (with a few mild speedbumps that are IN NO WAY Mary's fault). William is not at all frustrated with Mary for being unable to do simple household tasks; Mary loves being a housewife and getting her hands rough and dirty. William is A-OK with Mary's earlier affair; Mary has no problem giving up court life to live in the country. Oh, and they have AMAZING MIND-BLOWING SEX. The relationship COULD have been interesting; these two characters come from wildly different worlds. But because Mary has to have everything turn out perfect for her, there was no drama.I must commend PG (or her editors, future books will tell which of those is true) on the brisk pace. Very rarely does the book just sit around and do nothing; for the most part, the story moves and is pretty engaging. I might not have liked some of the characters, but I WAS interested in seeing how they would turn out. And I listened to this book to the very end with little regret for the time I put into it (and I've regretted many a book I've sat listening to through to the end).One more thing: Susan Lyons, you are an amazing narrator! Pat yourself on the back!I do not recommend this book for history buffs or hard-core Tudor enthusiasts, but for those that don't mind some mindless, deliciously catty entertainment, this is a decent read. At the very least, it will make you head to the library or the ebook store or to Wiki to do some research of the time; at the best, you will have spent a few hours (depending on whether you are reading or listening, of course) immersed in a time left behind long ago. I certainly don't regret the time I spent listening to it or the new knowledge I have of the Tudors.Brought to you by:*C.S. Light*
5 This book was given to me by a friend and I put off reading it for a while - it wasn't &quot;my kind of book.&quot;  Luckily for me, I  started reading it and couldn't put it down!  This is the story of Anne Boleyn and her sister, Mary Boleyn, and their drive to attain the King and the throne.  But, it's more than that - it's a very well written history of the people and events of the time and is fascinating to read.  There's nothing dry or boring about this book. Try it - you'll like it!
5 While learning a little history, the fictionalized account of the characters is also entertaining. The entire series is really good.
5 I read this book years ago, my first experience with the author.  I love everything that Philippa Gregory writes.  I bought this copy because it's a signed copy.  Woo Hoo!!
5 I could not put this book down! Even if it didn't stay true to the facts, it was still an engaging read that I recommend to everyone I come across. I have never read historical fiction before, but this was a delightful introduction to the genre.
5 I purchased this book some years ago to read during a long car ride because the book was long, and I am a fan of historical fiction (and non-fiction too, for that matter.)I was pleasantly surprised. The book is well-written, engaging, reasonably fast-paced, and I didn't notice any jarring anachronisms or inaccuracies of the sort that usually ruin historical fiction. The story is interesting, to boot, although I was not especially gripped by the love-story aspect.Having not had the privilege yet of reading any Jean Plaidy, the closest author I can compare this to is Sharon Kay Penman, and I have to say that if you like Penman, Gregory's THE OTHER BOLEYN GIRL will not disappoint you.
5 Excellent book, well written, wonderful progression.  I've read a number of her books and been delighted by them.Two more words required as the Amazon software writers must be inept or remedial to not be able to write software that allows one to just say &#34;wow&#34; and let it go at that.  Seems like when Amazon comes hat in hand begging for a review, using my time they would make it easy for me as the writer instead of mandating this or that.But maybe like the two dollars they stole from me via their audio department.  The audio book did not work they kept my money, customer service is non existent but that may require English speaking people.
5 Okay, so while you may not use this novel as a reference while writing a paper on English history, if you need a book that will keep you enthralled you have most certainly found it.The Boelyn family wants nothing more than to elevate themselves within the English social hierarchy.  As players in the court of Henry VIII from a very young age, siblings Anne, George and Mary know how to play the game well.  When young Mary catches the eye of the King while at court, the family, under the guidance of their ruthless uncle, meet to determine how to best use Mary to further the family's social agenda.  What follows is a thrilling tale of love, murder, betrayal and sibling rivalry.  Descriptions of the English court and the actions within will keep readers immersed and interested.  The horrific exploitation of women and children and the social acceptance of it all is both riveting and nauseating.  An excellent piece of historical fiction, not to be missed.DYB
5 This book is great! I love all of Philippa Gregory's books but this one was just amazing. I was having a hard time putting it down! She did a wonderful job at taking you into the time of King Henry's court and making you feel that you were actually there listening to the conversations and watching all of the scandal unfold before your eyes. I recommend this to anyone!I am a BIG fan of Anne Boleyn. I actually make Anne Boleyn jewelry based on pieces she wore on the tv show The Tudors. [...]
5 The Other Boleyn Girl, set in the years 1521 to 1536, focuses on the Boleyn/Howard families and their endless quest to climb the social ladder in King Henry VIII's court.  In particular, this book deals with Mary and Anne Boleyn, two sisters who could not be more different in looks and personalities.  They are Boleyns due to their father's side and Howards due to their mother's.  Anne is the dark-haired, seductive beauty who marries the king and is later executed for witchcraft and adultery.  Mary, the younger, fairer Boleyn sister, is actually the girl who starts the Boleyn chapter in English history.  Mary, married at a young age, catches Henry's eye with her pretty fair looks and charm, and her relatives, the Howard family, seize the opportunity to make Mary Henry's mistress and to glorify the Howard/Boleyn names.  Even after conceiving two beautiful children, Mary does not achieve a higher status other than the king's mistress, so Anne takes her place.  Anne, with her deadly ambition, is determined to outshadow her fortunate sister and leave her mark in history.  The king divorces his faithful but barren Spanish wife of many years and breaks from the Roman Catholic Church so he can marry Anne, and she will do anything, even go to the gates of Hell, to bring a son for the sake of the English throne.Meanwhile, Mary, no longer the Howard favorite, discovers the simple pleasures of life on a farm, and she decides to follow her heart for once and marry her true love.  However, she is forced to watch the poignant rise and fall of her best friend and rival, Anne, in the whimsical English court.  Anne is constantly kept on her toes, both literally and figuratively, to please the king.  Henry acts like a spoiled child who will stop at nothing when he wants something, especially that something being a legitimate son to the throne, and one wrong dance move means certain death.This book wonderfully illustrates the deadly ambition that seizes many families like the Howards and turns the daughters and sons into mere pawns of an intricate game.  Some of them escape alive, like Mary and her children (and her new husband), but others like Anne end up greeting the scaffold and not leaving it alive.  The Other Boleyn Girl shows the whims of love and lust; Mary eventually discovers true love (to my joy), and she is the only fortunate member in the Boleyn/Howard families, as her brother bitterly notes.  I love the magic and the suspense of the book.  It is one of the few books I have stayed up many nights in a row, sacrificing precious hours of sleep, just so I could finish reading it.  Philippa Gregory blends historical fact and fiction so well; she truly makes Mary, an obscure character in English history, come alive.  Although this book is about 700 pages long, it is a true page-turner that keeps the reader wanting more.
5 I am not into historical fiction--or at least I wasn't, until I read this book.  It was a pick for my book club and I honestly was not all that excited, although I had heard great things about it.  I read the first chapter and some of the second and passed it on to a friend, deciding I would read it later on, because I just wasn't into it.  She gave it back to me in less than 3 days (the book is over 600 pages), telling me that it was incredible and that she couldn't believe that I had put it down...that said, I decided to give it a second shot, and I am SO glad that I did.  It is, by far, one of the best books I have ever read.  I honestly could not put it down and my poor children had macaroni and cheese two nights in a row (I really couldn't stop reading to cook), and watched a little extra TV while I read it...I got completely sucked in and could not get enough of it.  I found myself googling the characters to learn more about them.  Prior to reading the book, I knew a little about Anne Boleyn--mostly about the horrible fate she suffered.  After reading it, I felt as though I had actually LEARNED something about a period of time that I just was completely unfamiliar with.  Philippa Gregory's imagination--her ability to creaate dialogue and to fill in the gaps with such incredible detail and such well-written descriptions of the period--beyond impressive.  She has an ability to create a captivating tale from such a famous part of history with such famous characters--in such a way that you truly can't put it down.  I think her choice of Mary to narrate the tale, instead of Anne, was what made the book.  Mary's perspective starts out so young and naive and after all she sees, endures and learns, she ends up much wiser than anyone realizes or ever gives her credit for.  Gregory's development of Anne started with me feeling badly for her, then hating her, then almost feeling badly for her, again.  There are so many characters in this book, and she does such a great job describing them and bringing them to life.I am in the midst of reading another one of her books, which, so far, is equally as good.  Philippa Gregory has converted me to a fan of historical fiction!
5 I bought this book several months ago, but just couldn't find the time to read it.  I planned on reading it before the movie, of course that didn't happen and I was tried of friends talking about how much they enjoyed the book.  So, I picked it up during my spring break and couldn't put it down!  I'm not really familiar with Tudor history so I didn't have any background information to compare it to.  A couple of other reviews have called the book trashy and not accurate in it's historical information-I didn't expect it to be a accurate, it's a fictional account of King Henry VII, Mary and Anne Boleyn relationships.  I loved the trashy elements of the book and can't wait to read the sequel.  I've never been a fan of historical romances, but I look forward to reading some of her other books.
5 Forget about your life, forget about sleep. This book will take over until you have finished reading every last word. I like historical novels that pull me into the times, the setting, the mood.A few reviewers found fault with the historical accuracy. I am no expert. I am glad they set the record straight. The author should consider adding historical notes. But this is worth reading as is 'The Queens Fool'. I'll get around to her new one in this series eventually.
4 I was looking forward to reading this before I saw the movie. I am glad I did because now I have a better understanding of the Howards and the Tudors. I have the DVD called "The Six Wives of Henry VIII" and that gave me some insight on Anne Boleyn before I read this. She seemed alot colder, harder and edgier in the book than the way she was portrayed in the movie. This was an enjoyable, entertaining book, though some of the parts felt hollow and repeated. I believe the book could have been shortened and still have been a good read. But I really did enjoy reading about the family and their secret conspiracies that went on in the King and Queen's court. It kept you wondering what would happen next!
5 I simply couldn't put this book down!  Just read one bit at the bookstore and I promise you won't be disappointed!It is well written, creative, and NEVER a dull moment in the life of the court! I loved how the author revived the Boleyn family and created such wonderful characters that you want to see succeed in life!  You want to meet them, spend the day with them, and help them!  It was just a lovely book and I can't wait to read more of her novels!!!
5 I thought this was a very interesting and engrossing book.  I have recommended it to friends who also enjoyed it.  Gregory has a way of putting things in a non-traditional perspective that is very appealing.
3 Perhaps because so many friends raved about this book I expected too much.  All in all it is a good read and held my interest with its novel approach of telling the story of the Boleyns through Mary.
5 Couldn't put the book down. Read it in 2 sittings. One of the most interesting and enjoyable books I have read in a very long time.
5 I was engrossed page by page with the story, King Henry and his relationships with Mary Bolyn, then Anne, then Jane Seymore. I was totally fascinated by the lifestyle of the courts, and how the boleyn family probably lived...Totally fascinating and best book of her series!!!
5 I loved this book - great writing, nice development of plot, and a slight blurring of fact with fiction makes this a wonderful book.
4 This jewel of a book has rendered me a total Philippa Gregory junkie. An impulse buy prior to a day at the beach, The Other Boleyn Girl proved to be mesmerizing and completely absorbing. I inhaled the 600+ pages in two days. I thought I was fairly familiar with Tudor history, but had not before heard of Anne Boleyn's older sister Mary, let alone known that Mary bore Henry VIII children. The sisterly rivalry, the unbridled ambition of Anne, the treachery of court life all come alive in this massive work that is as light as a feather to read.  Warning: you will want to immediately go and purchase The Queen's Fool and The Virgin's Lover (the sequels) as I did. Buy all three of these books, assemble a wool throw, some chocolate, tea, and curl up during a rainstorm. You will lose yourself.
5 This book immediately became one of my all-time favorites. I've read it many times in its physical book form, this is the first time I've read it as an e-book. I knew I had to add it to my Kindle library. I adore the Tudor era, and Phillippa Gregory's writing style immediately grabs the reader and pulls him/her into that world. This is the only book about Anne Boleyn I've read that tells the story from her sister Mary's perspective. So one gets the feeling of a personal view of Anne's life, but at a slight distance, through the eyes of someone close to her. And we definitely see the rivalry between sisters! This is an excellent book, and I highly recommend it to any Tudor/Renaissance fan!
4 After just reading "A Thousand Splendid Suns" by popular author Khaled Hosseini, visiting the world of Tudor England in Philippa Gregory's "The Other Boleyn Girl" leads one to believe that the world of women definitely was and is in need of revamping for very different reasons, all of which yield the same result.  In "Splendid Suns" Hosseini describes the plight of women in a misogynist society where the wearing of the burqa is as de rigueur as wiggling into the latest couture jeans and the punishment for disobeying the males-in-command borders on life-threatening beatings. The women of Hosseini's Taliban controlled Afghanistan band together to facilitate a sense of individual freedom--they cover for and comfort each other, understanding that the men in their lives selfishly expect them to endure.  Likewise, in "The Other Boleyn Girl," Ms Gregory creates a similar world--not one where women are abjectly brutalized physically (a beheading or two notwithstanding), but one where the female sex is used to again promote the goals of their masculine counterparts.  Like pawns in a chess game, the two sisters in this 600+ page-turner do what they must to advance their family's status within the hierarchy of the English royal court even if that means resorting to whoring, lying, spying, thieving, poisoning and any other manner of debauched and unethical behavior which exemplifies the old Machiavellian adage, `the end justifies the means'. It seems that women, regardless of a Western or Middle Eastern mindset are meant to perpetuate one thing and one thing alone--the further propagation of the male population.With this theme driving most of the historical novel's plot line, Ms Gregory makes use of the voice of the sensual Mary Boleyn, younger sister to Anne and already a married woman at fourteen to narrate the tumultuous time period in English history where the king becomes the dominant power, imposing his will over both Church and State.  Merely a voluptuous child herself, her uncle and father slyly push her forward into the son-starved sight of Henry Tudor, married to the aging Spanish princess Katherine of Aragon, who has failed to produce the requisite prince to be crowned future king. The king's attention proves too much for Mary's naivety and without regard for own well-being, she loves him fully like the girl she is--completely clueless to her family's ultimate goal until sister Anne is brought to court from her long stay in France and pushed forward, this time not as merely a mistress but as a potential queen.  With amazing clarity and eye-opening revelations fully depicting the subservient, albeit manipulative role women actually played in the quest for the ultimate power, Mary relates her, at times, innocent yet conniving part in this chess game for the future throne and her eventual sad realization of its high stakes.Gregory does a fine job of allowing the reader to empathize with the frustration of the Boleyn sisters, and their devoted brother George as they contend with the ambitions of the older members of the Boleyn and Howard hierarchy and their rivals, the Seymours.  As one sister drives forward with the single-mindedness of a football runningback, the other wearies of the machinations of the court and desires only a peaceful milkmaid's life in the country with a family of her own to love. Fully understanding their lot in life, all three Boleyns pander themselves while they curry for the king's favor, all the while putting first their loyalty to their roots at the expense of their personal happiness.Or perhaps, for them, family success was the only way to attain personal happiness.  Although each of the characters does reveal in some of the more somber moments of this roller-coaster-ride for supremacy their most private yearnings, for the most part, the game being played reigns paramount to all concerned parties.  Day and night, the Boleyns eat and drink the promotion of the scheme to manufacture a male Boleyn heir to the throne and forever found a ruling dynasty in Britain.And what a tangled web they weave.Ironically, in the wake of all this conniving for future kings, the sovereign that arises in the epilogue of "The Other Boleyn Girl," to take over the reins of the English monarchy as one of its most formidable rulers is none other than Elizabeth I, the product of Henry VIII and his second wife, the infamous Anne Boleyn.  So be it for all that hankering for the male presence, as I doubt any male could have accomplished better.Written in 2001, this novel obviously predates the currently popular BBC produced series, "The Tudors," which chronicles Henry VIII's need for a prince and his willingness to defy Church and State in order to meet his objective.  I wouldn't be surprised if the popularity of this book directly motivated the producers of this series to present to a new generation of television watchers the story of this errant king and allow them to marvel at the similarities to today's corrupt moral standards just as an earlier one shook their heads over the landmark 1970 Masterpiece Theatre presentation of  "The Six Wives of Henry VIII."  Ever a popular tale, the Henry's saga has been retold many times--the theatrical film starring Scarlett Johansson and Natalie Portman debuting on February 28 of this year will mark the second time Gregory's novel has been adapted for the screen.Bottom line?  Don't look for historical accuracy in this very enjoyable look at rivaling sisters Mary and Anne Boleyn.  Instead view Philippa Gregory's fictionalized kingdom for its very universal theme of women as the weaker sex, their affiliation to family and sense of duty towards their religion and country.  Like Hosseini in his current bestseller "A Thousand Splendid Suns," Gregory portrays her women in a very approachable fashion, allowing the reader to delve into their slightly soap opera-ish world and get hooked from the get go.  Once immersed in the storytelling, we are privy to the pain these women are forced to endure and the machinations they contrive to forge a future for themselves and their families in a male dominated scenario that unfortunately holds as true in the present as it did in the past.  As basic situations do not change, necessity does become the mother of invention.  Recommended as an extremely readable glimpse into the fictionalize life of a woman whose goals change as her view of the world matures.Diana Faillace Von Behren"reneofc"
5 The Other Boleyn Girl is told in the first person narrative of Mary Boleyn.  It is a fictional account of the life and times of the monarchy during the reign of Henry VIII.Anne is power hungry and beautiful but her true character, as revealed by Ms. Gregory, portrays a woman who is willing to do anything to be Queen, an ugly interior masked by a pretty face. As we all know, her quest for this power cost her everything in the end.Mary is the softer side of this family.  She comes across as more or less innocent in the ways of the court and eventually decides to follow her own heart instead of the path intended for her by her incredibly controlling family.The rivalry between the sisters is felt continuously throughout the story.  The parents and the girls uncle use the sisters for their own greed in their constant seeking of social stature and of course, political gain.  The treatment and the role of women in this society is well written about here. The story telling and characterization are superb.Read this book, you will not be disappointed.
2 Today there are still jokes about how Anne Boleyn lost her head, but life as a wife of Henry VIII was no laughing matter. In The Other Boleyn Girl, Philippa Gregory gives a fictional account of Henry's most famous queen from the perspective of her sister, Mary. Gregory tries to capture a sisterly dynamic understandable to contemporary readers. Anne and Mary are opposites in appearance and temperament; loyal to one another out of obligation, not love; and, we are told, lifelong rivals. Oddly, that rivalry never quite materializes here other than in spiteful and venomous words and feelings. While Anne seethes with ambition and resentment, Mary is too passive a personality to be a match for Anne, nor does she try to be. As portrayed, the conflict between the sisters is more petty than powerful.Gregory's choice for Mary to serve as narrator, as though it were her memoir, detracts from the sense of history. A Tudor-era aristocrat like Mary does not seem likely to set her story down in such detail after the events have passed. It might have been more effective to frame the story as a researcher's discovery of Mary's journals and letters. When handled adroitly, this type of framing device can make the characters and story more immediate and less obviously fictional. Another alternative would have been the omniscient third person, which might have been more convincing. As it is, I could not suspend my disbelief in Mary's voice, with its anachronistic nuances and sensibilities. She sounds more like a modern author than a 16th-century woman remembering the recent and difficult past.Therein lies another problem--Mary never explains why she wrote all of this down, why she delves into such detail, or who she expects the reader to be. It might have made more sense if she had said she wanted her legacy to be the true story of her and her family's role in Anne's rise and fall, that she wanted her own name to be remembered, or that she was writing for her children and Anne's daughter, the Princess Elizabeth. We never know her purpose, which is strange because we learn from her that the Boleyn family does nothing without a reason. Given how poorly Mary's memories reflect on all the Boleyns and Howards, including herself, it become even more of a mystery why Gregory chose this format.The Other Boleyn Girl draws readers in the same way that 1980s night-time dramas drew in viewers. Never particular about morals and influenced by time and events, Anne becomes as ruthless and desperate for power as any soap villainess, with her family's encouragement and support. Mary, once favored by king and family, is tossed aside when she proves to lack the will and desire to usurp the queen's place. She chooses her own path, never losing sight of her rivalry with Anne and never envious of Anne's sacrifices and sufferings.Historical inaccuracies aside, including details about Mary and her children, Gregory fails to capture the larger world in which the Boleyn drama was enacted. She refers to France and Spain and their rulers, and the pope, but the complexity of the world outside Henry VIII's court and its politics is relegated to the background, brought forward in snippets only as needed. Henry himself is portrayed as hunting, gaming, and dancing from morning until night, with only an occasional concern for the kingdom's business or for the intrigues of his enemies and allies. The world here seems narrow and confined because it is only the world Mary sees--Mary, the other Boleyn girl who pretends to remain naive and who tries to focus on her own life, only to be drawn again and again into Anne's drama.Gregory tries to use the story of the Boleyn girls to illustrate women's issues during the 16th century. As Mary notes, women are only pawns in the marriage game, played to achieve position, power, and wealth. It's clear, however, that men who lack power are pawns as well; George Boleyn and Henry Percy are forced into miserable marriages. The lesson here is less about the vulnerability of women to the whims of men than about how people of both gender were played for power.Despite Gregory's comments about the charges against the Boleyns, found in the book's end matter, Mary witnesses (and, significantly, remembers in detail) enough clues to know whether Anne and George were guilty of the crimes for which they were beheaded. This is disappointing, because Gregory's hints, if not her stance of ambiguity, ignore the logic and the politics behind the charges.Even at the end, Gregory misses an opportunity. Mary does not hear Anne's last words and does not include them in her work. This makes no sense, as they were recorded and can be read today. Gregory fails to weave in the available documented details that would have added real-life drama and interest to the story. Why would Mary not reflect on the final message of "the other Boleyn girl," given her inside knowledge of Anne and her willingness to write about her and the other Boleyns?With its compelling historical setting, The Other Boleyn Girl had the potential to be an engaging if inadequate and flawed historical fiction. Don't rely on it, as I have heard some do, for your knowledge and understanding of Henry VIII, his court, or the Boleyns.
5 Once again, as with "The Queen's Fool", I was blown away with the amount of daily historical detail and the captivating storyline. By focusing on a character, Mary Boleyn, that doesn't have quite the historical presence as other individuals from that time period, the reader gets to know the other characters through Mary's naive eyes, therefore the reader gets a new perspective from which to view this historical era. It's a perspective that humanizes these individuals, and has added to my love of hisory.I really don't know what it is with Philippa Gregory, but she can truly tell a story that is hard to put down.
4 So the Other Boleyn Girl is really well written, as soon as you start off the book the details are great and it just draws you in like a hook, Gregory really hit the nail on the head with the story itself, I really liked her little twist on George and his irritation with girls :)Though the historical details are extremely inaccurate, but if you don't mind the historical inaccuracies then this book is for you. This book follows mary Boleyn, by the way, not anne. I got  this book due to the fact that I watched the movie and thought it was about Anne, also it shows mary in a much nicer light then what she really was.
3 I'm not into the 'bodice-ripper' genre or historical fiction for that matter. But friends recommended this book to me, and I thought why not I'll read it on vacation. While the dialogue is fairly low-brow and the exposition at times veers dangerously into 'bodice ripper' territory, I was hooked early on. This is a pretty good (though not historically accurate) read, on a fascinating topic: the court of Henry VIII. I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this book.
5 This is the first book in the series ofthe Boelyn girls that I was referred to.I liked it so well, I have since readthe others!
4 This is the first bit of "Tudor" fiction I have read, and after finishing it I couldn't wait to read more so I hit my local bookstore and bought "I, Elizabeth."At first I couldn't really get into "The Other Boleyn Girl." It's a little slow moving at first and 1/2 way through I wondered where it was going. Mary is not the most engaging of characters. She a bit of a wimp in the beginning and a complete pawn in her family's political games.The book is basically Mary's story for the 1st 1/2 and Anne's story--told through the eyes of Mary--for the 2nd 1/2. Anne's story is truly what makes this book readable and the final 250 pages chronicling the events leading up to her execution are exciting. I basically read the last 1/3rd of the book in one sitting.Can't wait for the movie!
4 this is a great book for you.  I really don't like historical fiction.  I like history, and I like fiction but prefer them not to be intertwined other than the occasional historical reference within the context of a fiction work.  That said, I read this because it was a selection for my book club and did enjoy it.  Seems the author has done her research on this era and she weaves a believable tale.
5 i didn't love the movie but i loved the book. the book is mary's side of the story & from her perspective. way better. i loved this book.
5 I rarely read historical fiction or even watch historical movies.  But I got this on a whim and just loved it.  It is a fabulous story of sibling rivalry between Anne Boleyn and her sister Mary.  Their family basically sold them out to win the favor of King Henry VIII.  But I loved the interaction of the sisters and their brother George, who must have been gay. If you like a saucy romance and imagining what it must have been to be a woman in the King's court in those days, I highly recommend this book.Power Path to Love
4 These novels are a fun way to look into history!  Enjoyed this book and others about the Tudors. Would recommend.
4 Fast-paced, dramatic, and with an entriguing look into the culture of the court of King Henry VIII, this book is a great read.  The apparent factual inaccuracies noted by other readers takes something away from it, as I think it shows a lack of respect for the history.  However the story is fascinating and most of the characters wonderfully textured (I don't agree with some that they were one-dimensional: Henry was a powerful goof, George lovably ambitious & loyal and Anne was my favourite of all; so powerful and sarcastic!  She was more of a heroine than Mary for me. I wanted to be her lady in waiting!).  You won't want to put this novel down.  Like Henry, the Boleyns snared me too!  4 stars.
2 This abridgement completely butchers the book.  I have never before experienced an abridgement that left out so much important information and that was this choppy.  Although the reader is quite good, I can't recommend this form of this book.
5 Most of the time i read shorter books because i get bored easy. I read this book because a few people i know enjoyed it. I also never read history kind of books but im hooked now. I loved this because it had lust,history and a good story line. This is a must read.
4 I have enjoyed some of Gregory's other books, and found this one good as well.  Even though you know Anne is doomed from the start, it is hard to put down.  Although I realize there are some fictional liberties taken, I learned some things I never knew about the period and the history of the Bolyens.
5 Really, I have never read a book faster.  The flow, the characters, the descriptions, eveyrthing was written perfectly for this work of FICTION.  Yes, some of the facts can be speculated but nothing was none for sure anyway!  People are disputing tiny details of 16th century Europe instead of concentrating on the personal and heartwrenching struggle of these characters, particuraly Mary.  I loved it anyway.. and I just picked up The Queen's Fool to read too.
1 This book was a disappointing read. I found it to be historically inaccurate- The Duke of Buckingham was not a close relative to the Boleyns, Mary spent time in The French Court and was a minor mistress to Francis I. She married Carey while she was Henry's mistress. Anne was the younger sister, but was not fifteen when she came to the English court; she was probably closer to 20 and was a maid of honor tho Henry's siter Mary, the Dowager Queen of France. It's almost like reading the People or Us version of Tudor history. I've tried to read a few of Ms. Gregory's novels and I have not enjoyed them. If you want a good read about Anne Boleyn, read Eric Ives'wonderful biography or some of Alison Weir's works.(Even though she is not very sympathetic to Anne.) The truth is much more interesting than the fiction.
5 Sex and intrigue in 16th Century England. What could be better?I work the local Renaissance Faire and have been interested in the Renaissance and Elizabethan period for years. This book brought to life people I had only read about in dry school texts. Ms. Gregory was able to pull me in to the lives of those at court with their gossip, lies, and scandals.Henry VIII and Anne Bolyn seemed made for each other, both so full of ambition--blind ambition. It's amazing the pressure a country and those closest to you can produce when the throne is on the line. I wouldn't want to be them, but to hear their story in this work of fiction based on history was fascinating.
3 I bought this book in an airport Powell's Books, so I was in a bit of a hurry. I was intrigued by the theme and the book had good shelftop reviews. I guess I need to be more aware of the line between historical fiction and popular history, since I prefer the latter muchly. Being a student of language and language use, I was especially disappointed by the dialog and even the internal thoughts of the characters in this book. I still read it rapidly for the narrative line, but I kept feeling I was getting the Disney version of the story. As a student of literature (albeit 18th century) I would have thought Philippa Gregory would be more attentive to style than she was. Some people will love this book, but if you require at least a semblance of authenticity, it isn't for you.
2 PG to me seems to want to rewrite history to make Mary Boleyn more important than she actually was.I wonder what PG has against Anne Boleyn. She seems to sympathize way too much with Katharine and Mary. The idea of Anne as a wicked stepmother persecuting 'poor innocent Mary' is false as Mary's treatment worsened after Anne was beheaded. Also, while Mary was no monster, she is responsible for the deaths of her own people. She is not innocent by any means. The young Mary deserves pity, the adult Mary does not.Anyway, PG takes every rumor about Anne and presents them as fact and even invents a new one, such as Anne adopting Mary's son. There is no basis in fact for this. Having read her later works, it seems to me PG despises Anne and her daughter Elizabeth. I understand this is fiction, but many people who are not as educated in history as myself may take this as fact. I am very concerned, especially since Anne is long dead and cannot stand up for herself.As for the book-- I am not squeamish in regards to sex. But PG has written a porno, not a novel.  For example, "Put your fingers in your cunny...." I had to skip over half the book due to scenes like this. PG, please leave this to your readers' imagination. We do not need to know what Henry and Anne Boleyn did in the bedroom!There is one thing I will say  for this book and that is that it got historical fiction going again. That is why I give this book a very generous 2 stars.
5 As a Tudor fanatic I was a little leary about reading this book, unsure of what to expect. What a delightful surprise to find out it was one of the most amazing tales I have ever read.Incorporates history and fictional so smoothly that you would swear the author was really back in 1525 writing it as she saw it happening. This is a must have in anyone's personal book collection.
3 I was intrigued by the idea of reading a book about Mary Boleyn.  Unfortunately, this is a book mostly about Anne Boleyn, as narrated by Mary - the book ends with Anne and George Boleyn's beheading, although Mary survived them by a number of years.  I was really disappointed by this; I would actually have been more interested in reading about her later life, which is rarely covered in history books.  Ah well, I see that Karen Harper's Passion's Reign, recently reissued asThe Last Boleyn: A Novelhas gotten good reviews; I'll give that a shot.It's not very good history - I give it three stars only because it was it was readable and held my interest at the beach.  When I got home, I rushed to my books on the Tudors; no, I was not remembering wrong, this is filled with errors, as other reviewers have pointed out.  I will point out another: I know of no evidence that Anne wanted to adopt her nephew, nor do I think it would have made her more valuable to Henry.  Outside of the fact that it is not clear that the boy was Henry's son, he already had an acknowledged illegitimate son, Henry Fitzroy, Duke of Richmond.  Henry seems to have doubted that he could successfully leave the throne to Richmond, so I cannot see how the belated acknowledgment of another illegitimate son would help.  Her nephew was Anne's ward, but widows were not usually the guardians of their minor children at this point, indeed they were often given into the "care" of avaricious strangers, so it seems as likely that Anne was being protective as predatory.  I leave it to the reader to decide whether historical inaccuracies bother them or not, but I think they should be aware of them.Gregory occasionally picks up on some interesting angles: Mary is somewhat ambivalent about Katharine of Aragon.  On the one hand, her family is trying to bring about the Queen's downfall, on the other, she admires Katharine and feels guilty about her participation.  I also liked the scenes of Mary with her grandmother when she is in exile from the court.I am something of an Anne Boleyn fan, but I understand why people don't like her.  What I can't understand is that none of the anti-Anne writers seem to be able to imagine her as a three dimensional person - I thought that writers always had trouble making the virtuous as interesting as the villainous.  Anne should at least be a clever and alluring (but not beautiful) seductress a la Milady DeWinter in the Three Musqueteers.  In this book, as in Suzanne Dann'sThe Queen of Subtleties: A Novel of Anne Boleynand numerous others, Anne is once again a caricature of a shrill, coarse harpy - how could Henry have stood a single hour with such a person?  The story is a bit crude and torrid for my tastes - the sex scenes were too many and too detailed and sometimes downright implausible.  The relationship between the sisters never makes much sense - it's not so much complex as inconsistent.Overlooking the historical errors, it's not a particularly good novel, but certainly not the worst that I've read.  It certainly didn't inspire me to read more of Philippa Gregory.  I finally picked up her novel about Katharine of Aragon, but I didn't think that it was even as good as this.For Philippa Gregory fans and people (and we are legion) who read just about anything set during this era.
5 I'll admit it right now...I'm not big into historial books..romance or not...fiction or non-fiction...I just don't get into it.  I was given this book as a gift (thank you a million times over!), and I was interested as I had remembered seeing the previews for the movies.  It took me a while to really commit to reading it, but I once I did I was completely fascinated!  I could hardly put it down!  I expected to get hungup on the language, but the story and the writing really moves...it just flows nicely.  The story and the characters pulled me in, and I found myself devouring every detail!If you enjoy historial novels, you'll love this one!  If you think you don't enjoy historical novels, give this one a try!  You'll be glad you did!
4 As both a student and teacher of history, I approached this novel with more than a little trepidation. Historical fiction is frequently a genre that takes such liberties with the history that all that is left is the fiction. The film "Elizabeth" is a case in point, where Mary Queen of Scots finds her death being depicted not as a trial and eventual execution in February 1587, but rather as a bedroom dalliance with Australian actor Geoffrey Rush. Dramatic licence is one thing, but to so distort the historical events to such a degree is too distressing, especially when many of my students having seen the film accepted this version of events as real.Philippa Gregory has done a fine job with this novel, however, by steering clear of any sensational tracks, but rather maintaining a steady and reasonable course throughout.Based around the unfortunately sketchy character of Anne Boleyn's sister Mary, the titular "other Boleyn girl", this is a novel that captures well the flavour of the intrigues and personal ambitions of those at the court of Henry VIII. Mary, the pawn in her family's quest for rank and privilege, is promoted ruthlessly to capture Henry's eye and in time becomes his mistress. Mary bore Henry two children, a boy and a girl, before his interest waned and the Howard family instead promoted Mary's sister Anne into Henry's bed. A demoted Mary is then coerced into aiding her sister's cause at Court, all the while becoming more and more disillusioned with palace life and wanting instead to forge her own future with her children in the country.The story keeps fairly well to the major historical events between 1521 and 1536, and the portrayal of Henry is done well, reflecting the physical and intellectual vigour of his youth, and his decline into the bloated monster he became.A quibble is the portrayal of Anne as a calculating harpy throughout the book. One senses that Gregory wants us to suddenly feel a measure of sympathy for her as she meets her fate in the Tower. This is impossible, and as a reader one can only feel what Henry did at the time of her execution, and say "good riddance".Over-all this is a very fine piece of historical fiction that expands on an interesting footnote in English history.Incidentally, in a recent customer survey by New Zealand's largest bookshop chain (where I worked for five years), this novel was voted 38th favourite book of the last year.
5 The Other Boleyn Girl tells the story of Mary Boleyn, sister to the infamous Anne Boleyn, second wife of Henry VIII. Mary becomes caught up in a series of political intrigues, as her family plots to become more powerful, especially against the Seymour family. Mary gives birth to Henry's child; in the meantime, Anne swoops in to take her place as Henry's mistress.Serving as backdrop is Henry VIII's court in the 16th century, where Henry and Katherine of Aragon's marriage is coming to an end. Tired of Katherine for not being able to produce a male heir, Henry breaks away from the Catholic Church in England and starts his own, so that he may divorce his wife. Philippa Gregory describes all of this in startling detail, as we watch Anne and Mary Boleyn vie for the King's affection. Power and status is what drives everybody involved. Its a fascinating look into life at court under the reign of Henry VIII.We get to see what Anne Boleyn was really like. Of course, we've heard stories, but I was amazed to see just what kinds of things she could do. Mary was the best kind of narrator for this novel, as we got to see firsthand the court and its going-ons. We often see Katherine of Aragon depicted in the history books as the frumpy, housfrou; here she becomes a real, genuine, loyal woman, who wouldn't give up her religion, no matter how much she loved her husband. That spoke of real character and courage on her part.The book takes us up to Anne's beheading. Again dissatisfied with the fact that he does not have a male heir, Henry trumps up charges of adultery against Anne. The ending is frightening, an account of what such a gruesome moment might have been like. It is said that, when the executioner lifted up Anne's head afterwards, the mouth moved. Gregory uses exquisite details to describe this event, and many others throughout the book.I've read many other works on historical fiction, and none other compares to The Other Boleyn Girl. It is very definitely a book worth reading.
4 I love Historical Fiction and this was a great book.  It made me more interested in King Henry and all his wives.  In high school I always that that he had beheaded all his wives. See what an interesting book can do?  I went out and bought Alison Weir's book called The Six Wives of Henry VII just too continue where this book left off.
2 Like many others who have read this book, I've been fascinated by the Tudor era and have read quite a lot about it. I enjoyed the idea of a story written from the perspective of the sister and it was interesting up to a point, but then....Anne Boleyn is portrayed as such a hideous harridan that it's almost unbelievable that Henry VIII would have put up with her. Philippa Gregory has also taken every single accusation and rumor thrown at Anne during her trial (when her enemies were hell bent on character assassination) and uses them all as fact.  (brief spoiler), When Anne essentially gives birth to Rosemary's Baby/Eraserhead I actually laughed out loud.A good attempt, but ultimately this book disappointed me.
5 This is the story of the rise and fall of Anne Boleyn as seen through the eyes of her less-well-known sister, Mary.  It is a tale of passion and intrigue.In the beginning of the book, Mary is an obedient daughter of the Howard/Boleyn family.  She marries William Carey at the age of 12.  A few years later, when ordered to do so by her family, she leaves his bed to become the mistress of the king.  In its quest for power, the family considers its daughters to be disposable fodder - used to attract and hold the king.  It is only later, as Anne succeeds her as the king's favorite, that Mary decides to follow her own path.  This contrasts with the fates of Anne and her borther George - who sacrificed all in their quest for power.The book also brings to fresh life the familiar Tudor personages - Henry VIII and his first three wives Katherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn, and Jane Seymour.Highly recommended for those who enjoed historical fiction.
5 As a history major and an avid reader of historical non fiction, I was extremely hesitate to read a piece of historial fiction.  However, I was pleasantly surprised.  I wish that more professors in college would have required us to read books like this for our history classes...it would have made class so much more exciting.The Other Boleyn Girl tells the story of Mary Boleyn, the often forgotten sister of the much talked about Queen Anne Boleyn, Henry the VIII's second wife (just one of six!!).  The story begins with Mary's family pushing her into the King's bed, even though she is a married woman. While many so that Mary was a whore and she gladly went after the King, Gregory instead portrays a woman dealing with a constant inner struggle between what she feels for her husband and for herself and what she feels for the King.  In the end, family pressures get the best of her and she finds herself in an intense and oddly satisfying affair with the King.However, soon Mary's sister, Anne returns to the court and catches the eye of the King.  The second half of the book centers around Anne's relationship with the King and with Mary.  Mary is suddenly pushed aside as her sister quickly climbs the social Tudor ladder faster and faster eventually being crowned Queen.Upon finishing this novel, I immediately started investigating King Henry and Anne Boleyn myself.  This piece of literature made a time period that I had often thought to be dull and boring, exciting and interesting to me.  I recommend that anyone interested in history pick up this book and give it a try.  I promise you won't be disappointed!!
1 Now, I do not mind some artistic freedom, I.E. condensing the time frame, adding new characters and events as long as the truth remains intact. Not so here and as a modern woman it SICKENS me to see a nobody like Mary Boleyn who, during her time, was known as a slut and stupid, easy tramp, being elevated to be innocent heroine while a a fascinating, brilliant woman like Anne Boleyn is turned into a tasteless, swearing, slutty bitch. Where is Anne's wit, her elegance, her charm and her lively humor? Hasn't poor Anne been maligned enough? And this author even believes that she committed incest and adultery, something that NO historian worth his money would agree with? Warnicke, the historian Gregory based some of her theories on, frigging distanced herself from this drivel, what does that tell you?Another thing that BUGGED me senseless: The portrayal of Henry as a pedophile, screwing 13 year old Mary Boleyn. YUCK.Badly researched, distorted, perverted and sickening drivel posing a literature. And of course this pile of rotten garbage will be a huge movie next year, trash always secures profit while the truth may not be "interesting" enough. It took centuries to clear at least most of Anne's reputation from all the filth thrown at her by ignorant fools. Now all that work will be rendered useless by this awful book and the upcoming film. BRAVO, Miss Gregory, I hope you're happy! Absolutely revolting and disgusting!
5 Everything I have ever read by Phillipa Gregory has captivated me. None more then this book. History was always one got favorite subjects in school. I think th is gives an interesting point of view on the way life would have been in England during the rule of Henry the VIII
3 I like this story as a story. It entertains and keeps me reading. As a book that is suppose to be about history though it isn't as good. I'm no history student but I know enough to know alot of what is put in this book is made to sound more important than it is in terms of Anne herself. Many of the rumors and such.The characters were interesting and except for a few places that got a little slow the story moved along pretty good. I can say it was a good story but not great because I kept feeling like the writer was making so much of it up that it was messing with the real people of history too much. I know its fiction but even so I think a writer should only go so far in making up the stuff no one can be certain about.So its a good and entertaining story but not enough real history that it kept me feeling that most of what I read was invented by the writer.
5 Having never read historical fiction before, I was marveled by Gregory's work.  I started it wondering if it would grab me enough to hold me for 600+ pages.  Instead, I found I was drawn to this book like practically no other - every spare moment I had was spent reading it and I finished it in under a week.  Gregory spins her tale seamlessly and enchantingly and her book has piqued an interest in Tudor England that I never would have had otherwise.  She made every character spring to life and I felt like I was inside those courts everytime I opened the book.
1 After recently discovering and enjoying the wonderful TV series starring Jonathan Rhys Meyers, I found myself on a bit of a Tudor wave so, looking for good books, I've read "Wolf Hall", which was beyond amazing and "The Other Boleyn Girl", which was... well... for lack of new words that would have to be invented to describe this "novel", I'll have to settle for s-star-star-t.The book is supposed to be about the life and times of Mary Boleyn, the (younger? why not! poetic license and all that) sister of the more famous Anne, and is written in her POV.I could not even finish it, dragging myself through half the pages, until conceding defeat, for even someone only fleetingly familiar with the period, like myself, found some of the goings-on so outrageously invented that I almost wanted to cry out 'no way could this happen!'.The only redeeming value of this piece of.... literature is the easy writing and the sometimes witty and clever lines.Perhaps I have been spoiled by the magnificent historical novels, with real historical characters at the center, I have read previously, like "Masters of Rome" series or the Cicero Trilogy or "Wolf Hall", but I also have read enough Dumas to recognize when the power of imagination is going just far enough and when it is preposterous.Or perhaps it's just the author's ambition and pretension that got in the way - had she but categorized her book as 'a romance novel taking place in the Renaissance period' or 'a book like those nauseating ones with men dressed like pirates on the cover' or anything else really, but not a 'historical novel'. I personally would not have been tempted to read it then.To sum up, this is nothing more than a glorified self-insert RPF (Real Person Fanfiction) and I would not recommend it to anyone over 15 years old.
5 Captivating story of how the two Boleyn sisters, Mary and Anne, captured the heart of Henry VIII to fulfill their family ambitions. Mary is the "softie" who more or less genuinely falls for Henry and is used by her family to elevate themselves in Court. That's despite Mary being married, bearing two children for the King and despite her being a very young woman. Anne is quite the opposite of Mary, in that she is extremely ambitious, controlling and uses the King to fulfil her personal rise to fame. Without revealing the ending, this is a truly captivating story that will teach you a lot about life in court, power games, family ambitions during the reign of Henry VIII. I usually do not read historical fiction but made the exception for this book and I was not disappointed. Highly recommended.
5 Wow! What a stunning book! Phillippa Gregory has managed to pull off a nearly impossible feat - weaving a tapestry of Tudor England, the struggles of Henry the VIII to sire an heir with the tempestuous Anne Boleyn, and the long-ignored sister of history, Mary Boleyn - in a way that is fresh, immediate, fascinating, and amazingly contemporary. Gregory gives us an utterly real cast of characters, with foibles and failings aplenty, but for all their flaws, we still feel, care and love them as we would difficult siblings. The machinations of the Tudor court and Henry's obsession with fathering a son (no matter the cost) combined with the ruthless ambition of the Howard/Boleyn clan makes for a riveting, bawdy ride through some lesser known rooms of Tudor history. Gregory is equally effective at painting (with a gossamer touch) the lot of highborn ladies at that time; often no better than cattle to the market of Royal ambition, we feel deeply for their lot, and cheer when Mary Boleyn - obedient daughter sent to bed the king - ultimately rejects everything for love. It is greatly to Gregory's credit that I quickly forgot I was reading about historical figures, they seemed so real and utterly human that even as I was hating some of them, I worried for their (foregone) fate. This is a splendid read, lucid, passionate, and deeply moving. Brava, Phillippa Gregory!
5 I would put this novel up there in my top two or three picks. If you really want an interesting view of King Henry the Eighth and his wives from a new perspective, read this book. It hooks you right away and never lets up. I didn't want to do anything but read till I finished the story, and the details are still so fresh in my head even though I read the book two years ago.The movie was surprisingly well done, though, understandably, much was left out. The character of the mother was also different.I highly recommend this novel.
5 This is  part of our history, we should know more about where we came fromand why.  That is why we study history
1 I'm going to be upfront with readers of this review, I am not a very smart girl. So many of you giving negative reviews really know your Tudors' History. Everything I know about the Tudors stems from *cringe* the television show (love it), Wikipedia, and various other websites around the internet.But even I, with my very limited knowledge of Tudors History, was seriously annoyed with the mistakes in the book - especially when you consider how self serving they were to the picture perfect main character. I have never seen ANY historian claim (even on Wiki dang it!) that Mary was the younger of the sisters. If I remember right she was actually likely the eldest of the living Boelyn children. This makes sense considering that Mary was the first presented at court and the first married. As another reviewer said her being the youngest adds nothing to the storyline so why not just get it right? I think PG was trying to make Mary as innocent as possible and being just a young teenager made her more likeable to the reader perhaps. However pretty much everything I've read about Mary agrees on the fact that she had some miles on her (classy terminology FTW) when she arrived to the English court. I think the fact that she married someone who was generally deemed below Boelyn level is proof that this is true. It's pointed out how great the Boelyn/ Howard family a million times in this book and someone as pretty as Mary was said to be would have probably fetched a husband from an even better family...unless she had a bad reputation.In PG's mind sisters are apparently polar opposites. Since Mary is blonde, sweet, and shy, Anne is dark, vile, and loud. I have to say this author really does not seem to like Miss Anne Boelyn very much. This Anne is nasty to everyone, clever but somehow incredibly stupid at the same time, thinks negatively of everyone around her, and even tries to seduce her gay brother several times (what the heck?) in the book. Also, pretty much every thing that Anne was accused of, things that most historians agree are probably false and made up so she could be executed without much argument, are true in this novel. If a person only read this book and never anyhting else about Anne Boelyn they would not have a very good image of her, when in reality Anne was said to have done lots of nice things in her short reign as Queen of England.As I said before, I am not very smart. I do not usually pick up on misogynistic language and themes - even obvious ones (Snow White anybody?)- but in this book you're practically slapped across the face with it. Mary is quiet, shy, conventionally beautiful, listens to her male handlers (for the most part) and gives into the King's sexual desires as soon as he asks. She is rewarded with beautiful children, a loving husband, and a nice quiet life in the country (because being a farmer's wife in the 16th century was easy as churning butter I guess). Anne, on the other hand, is mean, agressive, sexual (while withholding herself from the king so as not to be another used and disgraced woman), and most of all DARES to think of herself as equal to or (le gasp!) better than the men in her life. No, these behaviors would have NOT been acceptable in Tudor England from a woman, but this book was written in the 21st century by a female author, no less. A little perspective please?So yes, go ahead and tell me that maybe I'm just too dumb to understand this novel, but I think i'll stick with other adaptions that don't take such a negative veiw of poor Anne.
3 Now, before anyone jumps down my throat for giving this book a poor rating I want to say from the start that I realized it was a novel and also a fictitious one at that.  I mean, it says "A Novel" and "FICTION" on the cover so it's pretty tough to not realize that this is a book that is based very loosely around real events.Since that is out of the way I can go on to say that the book was, truly, based on real events.  It spans the years of 1521 to 1536 during the reign of King Henry VIII and as we know he went through wives like he went through underwear.  The most controversial of which was the transition from Queen Katherine to Queen Anne who is one of the Boleyn Girls.  If you even know the briefest of histories of this world you most likely know this so I'm not giving anything away.  It starts, however, as Henry's eyes drift from his first Queen to that of Mary Boleyn, sister to Anne and George.  This is where the story's perspective comes from.  Mary is a bit of an odd duck for the time period and for the setting of the court.  She likes nature, doesn't mind acquiring a tan, hard work, and is repulsed by gossip.  However, she has been trained from the age of four to be a courtier and so she leads a double life of superior elegance and quality in the court while secretly hungering to flee from it to chase what it's like outside of the walls of castles.She will be continuously accused of not having "ambition" from her family while Anne has absolutely all of it and George rides a fine line between being like Mary and being like Anne.  A sense of duality and opposites exists in the sisters which drives the story forward in an intricate web of family ties, devotion, self-assertion, dominance, and greed.  Scandal gets interwoven along with a great deal of politics which doesn't weigh the book down, thankfully.  This is the reason it has three stars.The reason two aren't filled in with color is because the book is terribly dull for several hundred pages.  The book itself is too long and it seems like there's a regurgitation of the same old spiel which doesn't make you feel for Mary and her wish to live in the countryside, but rather to close the book and never open it again.  When it finally does start getting good it doesn't exactly exceed expectations.  You would think scandal, threat of death, love, passion, and greed would powerhouse a novel, but in this case it doesn't.  The most feeling I got for any of the characters was the way that women were treated--like chattel property--but that's all.  The novel has enormous potential, but it can't rise to the occasion on poorly written mechanics and drab hints of such incredibly useful storytelling techniques that are never actually grasped.Perhaps if the book was shorter it would be more enjoyable, but it isn't, so be prepared for a long haul of a lot of characters running around, secrets not being told, pregnancies, bland love affairs, and familial relations in a Renaissance England.
5 This is one of my favorites!  What made it really intersting for me is that it is the first Historical Fiction book I have read.  I was pulled in from the first page and felt like I was in the story.  Philippa Gregory is a wonderful writer and I plan on reading many more of her wonderful books!  I stayed up many late nights reading this book and I highly recommend it!
4 I breezed through this book and I found it a great read.  I had a hard time with some of the stuff, like being married at twelve and the beheading, however, I enjoyed the view point from so long ago and how very difficult women had it.  I have leant this book out and haven't gotten it back!
1 I lost this book after about the first 50 pages. I think that I did it on purpose. If I want to read fairy tales I will go back to the Brothers Grimm.
5 This is the second read for me. I enjoyed it just as much as the first time. I have always been facinated with English History and this fit the bill.
5 While everyone knows the story of Anne Boleyn and how she was beheaded by Henry VIII after he divorced his long-time wife, Katharine of Aragon, this book tells the story from her sister's point of view - very different from other books on this subject.  Other reviews have included more details concerning the story so I will not include them here.  This was a very entertaining portrait of a tumultuous time in England's history (certainly certain portions were fictionalized) but I found it a fascinating story that I did not want to put down until I finished it.  And I promptly ordered other books by this author on this same era.
5 Don't be deterred by its length, The Other Boleyn Girl is a worthwhile read.  With this novel, the reader gets history, mixed with drama and adventure.  As a reader, you grow to have true feelings for these characters, while you might know what historically happened to them.A fine novel!
5 Ms. Gregory delivers another epic to her fans with the tale of the Boleyn sisters. Anne and Mary, both "queens" of love vie with and against each other for the legendary lords of Britain. Anne's story is well known, but Mary's romantic exploits thrilled and shocked before her sister came to womanhood. Gregory's well-researched historical detail adds to the atmosphere of her story. Highly recommend!
5 Excellent! A historical probability novel. It is a fascinating account of the Boleyn family's lives. This novel offers an eye opening insight into the absolute power of the Tudor monarchy.
5 Even if you are roughly aware of the history and know the outcome, this book is great.
5 I must say, before reading this book, I was never interested in reading historical fiction of any sort (the only historical time period I was ever really fascinated with was Ancient Egypt) but after having failed to see the movie version of "the other boleyn girl" while it was in theatres, I decided to give the novel a chance, and I was glad I did. I thoroughly enjoyed it, from minute to end. In fact, I couldn't put it down. Despite the novel being pretty lengthy, I finished it in two days.It gives a very detailed, fascinating glimpse of life at one of the most famous courts in history. Although yes, ill say it is very dramatic (pretty much an old-fashioned soap opera). Nonetheless, its beautifully written, so much so that you can feel yourself going back in time, and imagine yourself at the court, amongst the characters.Since reading this book, I have read several other novels having to do with this time period, a majority of them having to do with Anne Boleyn (one of the main characters in ths book). To me she is the most interesting of all the wives of King Henry VIII. Which leads me to the one thing I must say that I didn't like about this book....the way that Anne Boleyn was potrayed. But anyhow, I will let you decide your opinion of her yourself,and I recommend that everyone reads this book, regardless of whether or not your a fan of historical fiction.I also recomend that you read Philippa Gregorys other novels, especially "the boleyn inheritance" and "the queens fool"
5 I don't usually read historical fiction, but a friend gave me a copy of this book and I couldn't put it down! In fact, I find a lot of fiction mediocre at best. I am tired of murder mysteries, don't like most of Oprah's bookclub picks (a few exceptions but...) and above all, love a good story. The last fiction book I enjoyed this much was probably Memoirs of a Geisha.I bought 8 copies today for friends and colleagues as holiday gifts. Obviously, I recommend it.
5 I picked this book up thinking I would want to put it down in disgust, but I ended up reading it cover-to-cover.  Sure, at times Gregory slips a little in her rendering of Henry VIII's court, but her details create an entire and believable world of histoical fiction.  Told from the point of view of Mary Boleyn, Henry VIII's mistress before he took up with Anne Boleyn, the book chronicles her rise and fall as royal favorite.  Her fall, however, is neither disastrous nor over-dramatized, and her fate is kinder than that of her sister.  I was most impressed with the dialogue, which was NOT littered with useless "Thee"s and "Thou"s, but which carried the illusion of Renaissance speech while being, in actuality, quite modern.  O.K., this isn't great literature, and it isn't great history, but it IS a great read.
5 I first fell in love with this book several years ago and actually keep it as my fall-back re-read at least once a year. The movie in no way did the book justice.
5 I could kick myself for not reading this book sooner! I've had in on my TBR list for a long time and kept putting it off, thinking it wasn't really my cup of tea.... boy, was I wrong! From page one, I was hooked! Phillipa Gregory is amazing! The Other Boleyn Girl is such a beautiful book. Gregory's ability to mix fact with fiction is just unbelievable. I now find myself fascinated with the Tudors and Boleyns. Gregory has opened up a whole new genre for me and I am now reading everything I can on the subject. Even if you don't become a Tudor fanatic like me, you will love this book! It is amazing!
5 I love the Tudor period and couldn't believe I had missed this book all those years.  Well written and chock full of details about daily life in the court of a young Henry VIII from the POV of a much overlooked character  I couldn't put it down.
5 For those who ave not read The Other Boleyn Girl place it at the top of your summer reading list. A captivating saga set in Tudor England with King Henry VIII. Mary and Anne Boleyn, each more fascinating than the other. See my review at gordonsgoodreads.com
4 This book takes a few pages to find its momentum, which is the ONLY reason I'm giving it four stars instead of five.  The political machinations of the upwardly mobile Boleyn family in their quest to have land, power and titles for their men, while putting their women out as brood mares, is a concept that was ripe for Philippa Gregory's golden touch.This story is told from the point of view of Mary, Anne Boleyn's sister; the first of the two to be sent to Henry VIII's bed (in the novel, she is younger than Anne, but in real life, she was the older of the two).  Anne's cap was set for Henry while Mary was giving birth to his son, and her family's ambition soon gave way to that of her own.  Anne Boleyn does NOT come off well here - she is a vain, selfish woman with no concept of the precedent she set by getting Henry VIII to set aside his first wife for her.  If it could be done FOR her, it could be done TO her.All the innuendo that was present during Anne's time is here:  the hint that one of Anne's miscarried children was conceived in a shocking way, George Boleyn's indiscretions, witchcraft, and the rest made for pages turning late into the night.  Mary's personal story of being married to a man she didn't know, then being bedded by the King, and her fight to keep her children by that King, makes me want to know more about her.  Too sad that she wasn't important enough at the time for anyone to take too much note of her - she was only the Other Boleyn Girl.
5 I never really was all that interested in the whole Henry VIII thing but I was given this book and just started reading the first couple of pages. It really has a way of engaging you from the start. In the beginning Mary is only a little girl involved in this larger than life role she has to play. You follow her along with her exciting life, and just when things start to cool off for her, you become fixed on her sister. I loved reading how nasty the author made her. I know there are legends of how Ann really was a royal pain. The author did a good job playing it up. It really is quite long over 650 pages, but you wouldn't know it, I read it in 6 days. Its really a page turner. It really only portrays Ann, and Mary in depth, and I liked that. I also liked how the author depicts an aging, baby of a king who likes to get his own way. In the end the author does an amazing job wrapping up the looses ends to the already known facts making this history/fiction story a great read.
5 A wonderfully written book that gives insight into a siginificant time in history with a very personnel look.
5 I have read all of her books involving the wives of Henry VIII and this was by far my favorite.  If you like this period in history, get it!
4 Phillippa Gregory is one of my favourite authors when it comes to historical fiction, and she lived up to my expectations in this book too, I didnt know much about Henry VIII and the tudor period before I read this book, and I  feel like I got a bigger knowledge now about that time. I like when books can make me feel something like happiness, anger, sadness etc. and this book managed to do that.
5 When I first saw the book, I was a little intimidated by the length. However, the book is so fantastically written and the story is perfection. I read this book in a very short time and wanted more of it even after the end. I completely recommend this book. It is full of detail. Gregory takes you through happiness, suspense, anger, and so many emotions. It is a FABULOUS book. One of my favorites of all time.
5 The first thing you need to know about this book is that it is a work of fiction! If you want to read a biography of members of English monarchy, then strolling through the fiction shelf is a bad idea. A lot of people are casting doubts on the accuracy of events in this book. It's not meant to be accurate, it is fiction. A lot of people had the same reaction to The Da Vinci Code, another brilliant book. That was not meant to be an accurate account of the Catholic Church and this particular book is not meant to be one of the Boleyns. To accuse "historical fiction" of inaccuracy is such an obvious oxymoron that well, strange that people do it!The plot: It is absolutely brilliant; starts and ends on the gravest notes possible. We begin our journey through 16th century England right at the execution block and end it there. The story is woven to delight any reader and it is the kind of plot which makes you reach out for the book every time you put it down.The characters: I must say, I have been utterly blown away by the character development. Who cares if the original people involved were any different, if Anne was any less of a plotter than she is portrayed to be in this book? The characters stick with you and your first instinct upon ending the book is to go online and look for The Boleyn Inheritance to see what became of the survivors.Writing style: The writing style is, if anything, immaculately compatible with historical fiction. I have to say this book defines the genre and as you can probably see, it has over 800 reviews with a stunning average. The writing has stayed in my head while I was reading the book and I literally had to force myself to put it down before going to bed.All in all, this book was an absolute pleasure to read and for those of you wondering whether you should take the plunge into historical fiction, it's the ideal platform to start.
1 Terrible book. The inaccuracies of the book that other reviewers point out don't bother me so much. It is fiction. I am bothered by how the author writes and I felt zero interest in any of the characters. I read about 225 pages and had to stop. I just felt myself getting stupid with every page.
5 This is a great historical-fiction book written by one of the best historical-fiction writers out there. It is a book, loosely based on Tudor England, about Ann Boleyn's sister Mary Boleyn, who also slept with the notorious King Henry VIII. It is very entertaining and it does give the reader some true historical background, which is always important. This is a great period in England's history and this book really brings it to life. I've read numerous other books by Philippa Gregory and they are all pretty good but this is the best.
5 I love historical fiction and this book was one of the best I've read.  The book never lags and it's a pageturner from start to finish.  If you are especially addicted to English history, don't miss this book.  It ranks right up there with those by Sharon Penman and Margaret George.  You'll enjoy every minute of it!
5 Amazing read. Could not put it down. I will be ordering more books by Philippa  Gregory.  Romantic, descriptive, fast paced.
5 Author Philippa Gregory always awes me.Her prose is exquisite, and her scholarship is of the highest order.These two aspects of her writing couple to enable her to create historical fiction of the strictest standards of accuracy.THE OTHER BOLEYN GIRL is an account of the courtship of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn--though, actually, Anne courted Henry--of Anne's reign as his queen, and of Anne's eventual denouement, all purportedly reported by Anne's only sister. In fact, it is ambiguous whether the "other" girl of the title refers to the sister or to Anne herself.Writing in the first person, Gregory's knowledge is so detailed that the reader truly can believe that this book is a contemporaneous account. It seems as if THE OTHER BOLEYN GIRL easily could have been written during the 16th century, though the language actually is modern.Philippa Gregory is one of the finest authors of historic fiction ever to have been published, and one never can go wrong reading one of her books.
5 By far the best book of all 20 of her books!  Riveting in every way...  The characters are very well developed and played out.  I felt like it was fairly historically accurate, however I don't believe both of her children were Henry's and I don't think there was even much dispute about that.
5 I had some reservations about reading this novel, as I am not a history buff, and I could not see myself wading through over 600 pages of middle English dialogue and melodramatic prose. I am so glad I took the chance.Told in the first-person narrative of Mary Boleyn, Anne's younger sister, this is a fictional aacount of a family of courtiers in Tudor England. The novel begins a little over a year after Mary (aged 13) has been married to a British nobelman. All sorts of things are happening for her. Her family is gaining power within the monarchy, she is reasonably happily married, and her older sister Anne is returning from the French court. Mary has caught the eye of Henry VIII, much to the Queen Katherine's chagrin. Pressed by her family, and in particular her sister, Mary begins an illicit affair with the king. Two children later, Henry has moved on from Mary to her sister Anne. The story then shifts to Mary's first-hand account of her sister's reign and eventual execution.Make no mistake; this is definitely Mary's story. While a great deal of the novel is spent on Mary's version of what happened to Anne, there is no loss of who Mary is as a person and of what happens to her life. I highly recommend this novel as it paints a rich characterization of one of the most fascinating and tumultous periods of English history, with a plausible plot and witty dialogue. Gregory has deftly captured the ruthlessness and greed of the noble class, and paints a particularly ambitious portrait of Anne Boleyn.As we read how Mary matures, we suffer with her, especially during her adolescent phase. It's difficult to discern if Mary is a worthy heroine, or a complacent whiner. Good! Just like a teenager. We see her through her first love, the births of her children, and finding true love. There's not a false notion here. For fiction, this is unparalleled. Great fun!
5 I started reading this book and couldnt put it down.  I am hooked on Phillipa Gregory novels now!  I agree with those that say she really brings the historical figures to life in a very plausible way.  I bought the Boleyn Inheritance and another of her older novels because I was so happy with this book!  I am usually a true crime and history reader but I enjoyed this fiction and recommend it to all.
5 A friend loaned this to me since she had absolutely loved it ..... and I have to say I'm sorry I don't have my own copy now to re-read !I usually enjoy good historical fiction (i.e. Margaret George) but can sometimes find the books a bit daunting due to the sheer number of pages and trying to fit reading in during the slots of time I have available.  Since this was the second friend to tell me to read this, I decided to dig in and get started ....  I am so glad I did.Since this has been so thoroughly reviewed, I won't go into detail around content, but I felt a need to add my voice - the book is truly wonderful.  It is one of those books that even after several weeks, I find myself reflecting back on it and eagerly anticipating reading other works by this author.  I tend to read a fair amount (about 100 books a year) in all genres and have to say this would have to be one of my top 10 this year.If you enjoy good writing, good stories and feeling like you have actually expanded you mind (even though it is fiction), take the time to read this .... it's definitely worth it.
5 ...but an even better story of a girl's journey to womanhood.  Philipa Gregory's Mary Boleyn was a three dimensional character who sprang to life in the pages of the book.  Mary Boleyn was her family's pawn, married off at an early age and tossed in the king's bed shortly thereafter. But as the story unfolds, Mary finds herself and finally has the strength to marry for love.Gregory's ability to weave a fictional story into a historical work was breathtaking.
2 I liked how it started, with the beheading of a relative.  And details of court life were interesting, at the beginning, but became tedious with the repetitiveness.  This book really could have been half or one-third the size, it drug on and on and on.  Getting to the end was a relief, I doubt I'll read another book by this author.
5 The facts were horribly skewed, Anne's character was evil, Mary was dumb, and there was lots of soap opera drama, but I don't care because I loved it!  I loved that Anne was a scheming shrew, George was gay, and that they allegedly had an incestuous child that died in utero, but most of all I love that it was such a fun story to read.  It was almost trailer trash, but so unabashed in it's telling that you've got to admit that Gregory has balls.  As for the fact that it wasn't true to fact...who cares?  It's a story and a great one at that!
5 The Other Boleyn girl is told from the viewpoint of Mary Boleyn - the "other" Boleyn sister, sister to Anne the future Queen of England.  There is a focus on the life of the relatively little known Mary as well as the tale of Anne's ascendency and fall.  Mary is initially chosen as mistress to Henry VIII - a role that she is pushed into by her family.  When the star seems to be shining on Anne - the family throws Mary aside in favor of Anne.  Even though Mary is not the star of the family anymore, they still seek to control her every move - when she marries someone that is not approved of they lash out at her.  Even though Anne constantly mistreats her sister, she still comes back to her.The story of Anne Boleyn is a much told story - but seeing it from the eyes of her sister puts her story into a very different perspective - sort of how I felt about reading about Anne from the eyes of her daughter Elizabeth in The Secret Diary of Anne Boleyn by Robin Maxwell.  I loved the compassion and general down-to-earthness of Mary, even when the world was spinning out of control.  She was a constant character that you could connect with and anchor to in a turbulent world.Gregory DOES change many events in the book from what is known to have really happened as well as embellished the real story in favor of the best told story.  The good thing about this though, is that this is Historical Fiction and that is what I expect.  If you are looking for true facts, check out a non-fiction book, but for a good story, try this on for size.I couldn't put this book down and as soon as I finished it I picked up The Boleyn Inheritance, the next in the series.
1 It's true that historical fictional novels don't have to stick strictly to facts. But "The Other Boleyn Girl" is completely unconvincing as a novel, not because of its sensationalism, exaggeration, and gross misrepresentation of historical facts, but the dubious characterisation of the two sisters. Mary is the innocent, sweet, moral heroine who is forced to become the King's mistress due to her family's hunger for power. Anne is the cold and calculating villain whose every word points to her monstrous greed and selfishness. The characters are very much one-dimensional, it's like reading a children's fairy tale about how a beautiful and kind heroine fights off the mean and ugly baddies.Gregory's idea of Mary narrating England's most famous historical affair is brilliant. She had an opportunity to write a brilliant masterpiece to both entertain and stimulate. Despite the popularity of the novel my personal reaction to TOBG is that it's tedious and distasteful. This book belongs in the soft porn section of stores rather than works of historical fiction. The dialogues are so vulgar and unrealistic as conversations of two upper-class sisters in the 16th century England. To me they sounded like something you'd read in a trashy magazine article by a prostitute who didn't pass high school English.
5 The story of Henry the VIII is so convoluted that it can be hard to believe it actually happened.  Based on historical facts, with the dramatic flair and touches of a true fiction novel, Gregory does a wonderful job bringing everyone back to life and depicting the relationships and situations that made Tudor England so memorable.
5 Based on a true story, this is perhaps the best historical novel I've read this year. Although long, this is a good sexy read, a real page-turner. Fine characterizations.Sisters are supposed to be best friends. But what happens when a man they both want gets between them and has them both? This is a convincing fictional re-telling of the story of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn, told from the point-of-view of her sister Mary. It's a tale of power-seeking, ambitious scheming, seduction and love, and heads being put on the chopping block. This story of rivalry and intrigue makes history fun!David Rehakauthor of "Love and Madness"
3 If you are looking for a light diverting read, this is it. If you are looking for historical fact about the lives of the Boleyns, this is most assuredly NOT it.It's not history, nor is it great literature, but I don't really think it's meant to be either. I recommend it only if you understand what you're getting yourself into; otherwise, you will be bitterly disappointed.
1 Upfront, I must confess: I never read popular fiction, don't care for romance novels, and love classical and modern literature. I read 'War and Peace' at age eleven, and as an adolescent, devoured Balzac, Zola, Galsworthy, Hugo, the 'Odyssey' and 'Iliad', Emily Bronte, and a great deal of nonfiction, mostly history.I read TOBG out of curiosity, being a historian (specialties: Anne Boleyn's early years in the Renaissance courts of Margaret of Austria/France and how they affected her notions of queenship/monarchy; her lost portraits - reassessing a lost image). After forty years of formal (advanced degrees) and informal research, I feel compelled to write a review.What a disaster: I have no idea how this travesty was foisted upon an unsuspecting public with such extraordinary success.Let me begin by stating PG is a technically impoverished 'writer'. TOBG is rife with errors: grammatically incorrect sentences, missing commas, changes in point of view from first to third person omniscient; characters exit scenes in which they did not appear in the first place. Moreover, the 'style' - if one can call it that - is simplistic, clich&eacute; ridden, and without distinction. Modern idioms; telling, not showing; passive writing - all sins in 'Creative Writing 101', which most learn in grade school.Regarding character: PG resorts to stereotypical and old fashioned views of women: the bad (assertive/dark) girl meets a horrific end, and the good (passive/fair) girl is rewarded with true love. All rather ridiculous. What we now call the "Madonna/whore" complex. Mary Boleyn is the perfect lover, mother, wife, even tempered, wise, but delightfully sweet and alluringly innocent; whereas Anne Boleyn is a vicious, arrogant, not very bright, sour, manipulative, shallow, vulgar female dog, given to physical altercations. The latter's professions of being in love with Henry Percy? Impossible to believe.Katherine of Aragon, too, is portrayed as a one-dimensional character, noble and proud. Clich&eacute;. Curiously, Henry VIII is passive and easily duped by any pretty face; reduced to little more than a plot device, without a distinct personality.Beyond the above, I am deeply troubled by PG's deliberate distortion of history, and even more so by her constant insistence of erring on the side of historical facts, not fiction. This Anne Boleyn is utterly unrecognizable to me as a historian - what a slanderous, vicious, assault on a dead person. Like anyone, Anne Boleyn was a three dimensional character: brilliant, intellectual, an able politician, exceptionally loyal to family and friends, dignified, highly educated, elegant, culturally accomplished, known for her cheerful and spirited nature. But under stress, as during the protracted annulment and as queen, became short tempered, aggressive, overly intense and passionate.Of Mary Boleyn we know virtually nothing. However, PG (in a video interview) confessed to admiring her for bravely following her heart and marrying for love over her horrible family's objections. A modern perspective, a misreading of sixteenth century court mores and standards of behaviour - something she often does. PG claims there is no solid evidence for Mary's reputation for promiscuity at the French court, which I find bizarre. Franois I recalled Mary as "una grandissima ribalda, et infame sopra tutte", which PG downplays/denies. Anne Boleyn and the family assisted Mary as much as possible, but her rash behaviour was perceived as a major embarrassment. Henry VIII was not amused to have, as brother in law, someone from the obscure gentry.Other errors:The Boleyn - Howard family never pushed either sister into Henry VIII's bed; horrifying thought. Boleyns always MARRIED well, and virginity was paramount - any whisper of 'reputation' decreased an entire family's stock. Hence, Mary marrying William Carey, a minor noble after her disgrace in France, and it being highly improbable, even impossible, Anne Boleyn consummated her relationship with Henry Percy. Too great a risk for someone with great presence of mind.Anne Boleyn was the younger of the sisters, born c. 1501; Mary was born c. 1499 or 1500. Evidence? Anne Boleyn's first letter in French, assisted by Semmonet/Symmonet, a male tutor in the household of Margaret of Austria, which is in a mature hand; Lord Hunsdon, Mary Boleyn's grandson, supplicated Elizabeth I for the Ormonde title on the basis of Mary being the elder - to which Elizabeth, significantly, did not object.Henry Carey was not Henry VIII's son, born several years after Mary's affair with Henry VIII; Catherine Carey, the elder child, might have been Henry VIII's, but it is highly unlikely. The affair has been pushed further back into the early 1520s, shortly after her marriage (1520).Anne Boleyn never "stole" Mary's son, but rather, arranged a good education for him after his father's death in 1528. The paltry 100 stipend Anne Boleyn obtained for Mary is actually closer to 50,000 today. Hardly poor. And Stafford also received an income.Catherine Carey did not attend Anne Boleyn before the latter's death.Perhaps most disconcerting is PG's reliance on Dr. Retha Warnicke's legitimate historical revisionism, which has not passed the test of time. Revisionist history is best left to scholarly debate, not used as the basis of a bodice ripper romance novel. To her credit, Dr. Warnicke has vocally and publicly distanced herself from PG.George Boleyn, an avowed homosexual, in love with a man, lusting after his sister, committing incest? What? There is no evidence for a deformed foetus, incest, witchcraft, etc. in the historical record.I looked at her 'bibliography': shoddy. Outdated (Bruce - 1972), controversial (Warnicke), negative (Weir - not a historian, and unreliable), general and/or anachronistic works. Elton and Bindoff? I remember these as a first year undergrad. I suspect she skimmed the sources, and not actually read them. PG is no historian, despite protesting otherwise. Where is Dr. Eric Ives (1986)? Hugh Paget's watershed article (1981)? Only secondary sources, no primary?As for the charges, adultery by a queen was not a capital offense/treason: Anne Boleyn was accused of plotting the King's death, to ostensibly marry one of her 'lovers' after. These charges were deliberately constructed to impugn her moral character.To give weight to these ridiculous charges, as PG does, is utterly irresponsible. Cromwell and Anne Boleyn, both able politicians, were engaged in a bitter struggle over Church revenues and foreign policy. She would have struck him down, had he not struck first. The charges were sloppy and concocted in great haste - none of the dates and places matched; Henry VIII's behaviour remained curiously passive throughout, an element that puzzles historians even now. Not even Chapuys, the Imperial ambassador and Anne Boleyn's sworn enemy, believed a single charge."Most people think the trial was a show trial, but it is an interesting accusation. Anne had three miscarriages by the time of her trial, and she was not a woman to let something like sin or crime stand in her way - she was clearly guilty of one murder. I think if she had thought that Henry could not bear a son she was quite capable of finding someone to father a child on her. If she thought that, then George would have been the obvious choice."How grammatically incomprehensible! Three miscarriages? Three pregnancies. Not let sin or crime stand in her way? Slander; Anne Boleyn was deeply religious, in the New Faith. Clearly guilty of one murder? Not a shred of evidence. "If Henry could not bear a son" [sic]? Did I miss that possibility in biology? George, the obvious choice?Why this hatred of Anne Boleyn? Is PG a Catholic in the tradition of Sander, the one who created the six fingers myth during Elizabeth's reign? Well, she at least did not include that, for which deserves one star.
4 This book was a piece of trash and a gem at the same time!! (NOTE: as many of you know, and now know, I'm a history buff.) The Tudors being one of my favorite periods, so naturally, I've read up on it a lot. So I know what I'm talkin' bout when I say: "WHAT A LOAD OF BALONEY!" Honestly, I cannot believe what kind of nonsense people go off believing after watching or seeing the movie. I hate to be all negative, but man, there is just not that much to be happy about. I mean sure, if I were some ignorant kid reading this book after hearing very little about Henry the 8th and his many queens and his issues, then I would've surely enjoyed this one. After all, who doesn't love a good historical fiction novel?BUT I GET IT. It's "historical `fiction'. I know...it's just, I was hoping for a little more truth, you know? There were so many historical inaccuracies here that I was tempted to start a list. I figured that would be a bit rude on Ms. Gregory's part so I resisted the urge. But it was strong! Everywhere, left and right, was either a highly controversial "fact" or just a faint rumor that had died out centuries before our time. Look, now, I'm a patient gal, I don't mind a few rumors here and there, but this DRIPPED them.On a happier note, I thoroughly enjoyed Philippa's accounts of Mary enjoying her summers at Hever, hearing about William Stafford, and her genuine view of things. I wasn't expecting Mary as the narrator, but it was a pleasant surprise. Lots of people complained of the love scenes, I was expecting to find the author set up the scene and then leave the rest for us to assume. Oh no, my readers! This is not what happened. Philippa was descriptive, but not to the point where it was just plain dirty.To address the George issue, Gregory wasn't very clear on if George & Anne were really closer than brother and sister. She lead us on...and then dropped us. I took the "George being gay" rumor in stride. (If you're wondering why this is in quotes, it's because this is a highly controversial idea on The Boleyn Family).It was a little part in the story, so I read and moved on.Rating this was hard, but I was thinking of you, dear precious readers, and how most of you probably AREN'T big-time history buffs. So, in all fairness, I gave this a nice big RECOMMENDED. If you're a fan of historical fiction, and don't mind a few love scenes, then you might enjoy this one.MEMORABLE QUOTES:"...But instead I was the lucky Boleyn, the Boleyn blessed by fortune and the king's favor. A Boleyn who could not imagine the boundaries of her son's land, who could not dream how far he might rise.""The King obviously desires Anne,""I am the favorite. And she is to disappear."A curtsy to you, and to you,RosieCatch me @ [...]
2 Many reviewers are condemning Miss.Gregory for the harsh portrayal she made on Anne Boleyn (Introducing her as a power hungry/evil woman who manipulates other people's feelings and is striving for Global recognition) In short Miss.Gregory has used all those false/inaccurate accusations that were against Anne Boleyn as solid facts in this novel to further our dislike for her person. As if it weren't enough that the character is already portrayed as an ungrateful/spawn of Satan/absolute b*tch to everyone around her including and perhaps especially her own innocent sister but it is also strongly suggested that Anne Sleeps with her own Brother George and for what you say ? For creating a male heir, when Henry couldn't give her one when Tudor England was a time commoners and nobles heck even doctors alike all believed women were responsible for their child's sex !I'm not sure if the author was willing to neglect this fact like what she did so frequently while writing this book but the science of genetics didn't exist in Tudor England. We know this things now after years and years of research but people back then [weren't] aware of the X & Y chromosomes. So for Anne Boleyn to commit incest with her brother George [because he can give her a *male* heir to the throne] is not only improbable but highly inaccurate.Unfortunately, the plot doesn't help us as [readers] sympathize or empathize with Mary Boleyn [Who is portrayed as the sweet/naive/innocent girl that falls into the claws of her overly ambitious family] which is something Miss.Gregory very clearly wants us to do. Historical inaccuracies aside there isn't much likable about Mary's Characterization in this novel she is represented as a sweet/innocent child of 13 [I know it was common for women to marry early back then] but yet she already commits adultery with the King and avoids her husband in the process but it's O.K because her family forced her into this. She betrays her Queen Katherine of Argon by stealing the letters she sends to her Spanish relations for her family to use it in their spawn but yet again that's perfectly suitable because she loves Katherine. Her Husband eventually dies and Mary gets over his death in lighting speed [which is perfectly fine but doesn't render any affection towards the character] then she falls in love with another man, marries him and leaves her maddening sister to her own devices which would render her downfall. A sister that she doesn't even care about and hates.The Plot yet again doesn't make sense. If we were to believe that the Boleyns really pushed their daughters into the arms of King Henry VIII and eventually into his bed [Yet again another inaccurate assumption/doubtful] and that both Mary's children were Henry's [yet again another improbability] then one keeps wondering why would the Boleyns replace the Younger [more] fertile sister with the Older and shrewish sister ?Anne Boleyn wasn't a Power maniac who seduced the King ruthlessly and tricked him into marrying her. Thus ruining her family's good graces and digging her own grave. It is was [death] to disobey the King. If Henry VIII wanted Anne in his bed it would've been really foolish for her to tell him [NO] or to run away. She knew the destiny of her sister Mary and how she was no more than a mistress, she probably didn't want to repeat that fate and did what she could with what she had. Got the best out of the situation. Whatever Anne was it is clear enough that Henry wanted her badly to not only leave his Queen of so many years for a woman of no noble blood but to break with the Church of Rome in a time were the protestant faith was looked upon as heresy.If Anne was [What] this novel claims then it's a wonder she didn't have her head cut off the first five minutes she entered the court. I'm Not a fan of Anne Boleyn having more interest in her daughter Elizabeth but she was more than just sex and lies. I know it's Historical [Fiction] and the authors take some liberties but show the woman was some slack. And the reformation ? Show us that this is what had caused England years and years of Religious turmoil.Can this Novel be enjoyable ? Yes, but only if one treated it as the way it should be a [fictional] account plucked out of the author's imagination Not as what Miss.Gregory want us to treat as which is Historical facts or High Probabilities.PS, It is mentioned somewhere in the novel that Anne & Mary's mother has also been rumored to sleep with the King. In this light the author portrays the Boleyns as nothing short of concubine providers for the King's amusement which is ridicules and unnecessary. Plus, almost disturbing to think that Henry was possibly but improbably a father to either Mary or Anne ! [Disgusting]PSS, The author claims to be a feminism writer and wants to show that in her novels. I think derogatory is the more accurate term. Portraying women who are sex slaves as angels while ambitious once as evil to society.
5 Suffice it to say this was a great book, a captivating read.  Fantastic piece of historical fiction.  Even if you know how it ends, I strongly recommend it to anyone who loves a good story.
3 This book was a very good read for historical fiction. We got heaving bosoms, secret homosexual affairs, and power-grabbing men and women all over the place. But I truly felt like the author slapped down any far-fetched sordid rumor about Anne Bolyen because it made good reading.I toured the Tower of London last month, and the Beefeater who gave the tour said the charges against Anne Boleyn were made up so Henry could marry Jane Seymour. (He did say, however, that the charges against Kathryn Howard were accurate.)Anyway, if you read this book, just take the "facts" with a grain of salt.
5 I loved this book and it has now joined my very small collection of "Favorite Books".  I recommend it to anyone who asks me for a book recommendation.  You will not be disappointed.
5 This is a great book.  I couldn't put it down.  It is written well and kept my interest throughout.  Well worth every penny.
5 This book is extremely well written.  It explores a subject most people know little if anything about and while it is clearly fiction, the historical references are so authentic, you forget that at times.  It's not a quick read, being over 400 pages, but it holds the readers interest.  If you like history, or romance or are an anglophile, you'll enjoy this book.
3 A quest for power. Three siblings who resent, compete against, and yet love one another in a twisted one. The retelling of the story of Anne Boleyn, her sister Mary, and Brother George, and how the quest for power made them enemies and ultimately ended in Anne's premature death. Gripping tale with new insight into an old historic story.Reviewed by Janet Sue Terry author of the Set Me Free Series -Possibilities and Resolutions. President of Just My Best Book Publishing Company. [...]
4 This is history-lite, yet very well written and captivating.  Highly recommended for beach or airplane reading. Not boring enough for going- to-sleep reading.
5 So many reviews have already been written about this book, that I hesitated before deciding to write one myself.  I won't go into the plot  as it has already been done by many other reviewers.This is the first book I have ever read of it's type, as normally I am not into British history...all the kings, queens, dukes, earls, etc..But my book club chose this book and so therefore I was more or less forced to read it.  Once I got into the book, I found that it got better and better as it went on.  I really enjoyed it.  I have read some other reviewers state that the author did not get her facts correct.  Perhaps this is true, but I found the book so entertaining as a novel , that I didn't care.  I guess sometimes ignorance is bliss!If you want a very enjoyable book that you will find harder and harder to put down, I highly recommend The Other Boleyn Girl.
5 In the process of researching my family tree, I discovered that I am descended from Mary Boleyn.  After researching everything possible about Tudor England, I came across this book.  Not knowing what to expect I began reading it and became so engrossed that I couldn't put it down.This was the first time I'd read any of Philippa Gregory's books, but I was impressed with her ability as a storyteller and with her research.  The book gives you the Boleyn family story from the perspective of Mary, the lesser known Boleyn girl, but the one who was equally exploited in the attempt to win the heart of King Henry VIII.  The story covers a period of 15 years, from the time Mary is still a newly wedded wife of 12, to the execution of her sister Anne.  All of the intrigue, gossip, scandal, and treachery of life within the court of one of the most powerful kings in history is woven together in such a way that you feel you are one of the courtiers.Throughout the story, Mary is portrayed as a pawn in the family chess game of gaining power within the kingdom.  She is told she must do the family's bidding, that their position and power with the king are at stake.  At the age of 13, Mary is taken from the bed of her husband of less than 1 year and installed as Henry's mistress, a relationship that will last almost 4 years and produce 2 children.  Not only is Mary juggling the family's plotting and scheming, but she is also dealing with the bitter jealousy and rivalry with her sister, Anne.  As the story progresses it explores not only the power struggle for a Howard-Boleyn girl to win and hold Henry's favor, it also explores the love-hate relationship of Anne, Mary, and their brother, George as they dance to the tune of the family's bidding.Also woven into the story is the affect this has on Mary's marriage, her life in general, the lives of her children, and ultimately her sense of self worth as a woman.  One of the most compelling moments in the book is when Mary realizes that she is in love with William Stafford, the man who becomes her second husband.  The realization that she loves him and love is enough for her is a powerful one.  As she realizes that she can be happy married to a commoner we see new depth to her character and a new spirit come alive in her.For anyone who is a fan of historical fiction, I highly recommend this book.  It is not difficult to read, the story is entertaining, and it puts a whole new spin on the history surrounding the Boleyns and King Henry VIII.
4 Pros:  An interesting storyline, develops a minor personage in history into a likeable, well fleshed out character.Cons:  A bit light on history, some of the characters are one-dimensional.For the first hundred pages or so of this book, I wasn't sure that I was going to like it.  The writing is very average most of the time and I wasn't sure that I would like Gregory's sweet, innocent Mary being contrasted with her conniving sister Anne.  After a while, the twists and turns of the story began to draw me in.I have read many historical novels, but few have impressed me as much as this one with their ability to keep the reader turning the pages.  Perhaps this is because the book is based around the life Mary Boleyn, a figure who does not hold huge significance in history and thus I do not already know everything there is to know about her life.  Perhaps it is because the book follows the lives of individuals so closely rather than trying to achieve a more grandiose, "epic" feel.  Part of me feels that I can't turn away from this book for the same reasons that people can't turn away from soap operas -- the relationships, the personal drama, etc.  Whatever the reason, this book is certainly an entertaining read.  Sometimes, I feel that Gregory is pounding her themes into my head, though Anne's execution echoing the execution at the beginning of the book was a brilliant bit of work.In terms of character, Mary Boleyn is very well developed.  In essence, you get to see her grow from an innocent girl to a mature woman who certainly has her faults, but who is loveable all the same.  Historically accurate or not, her journey in this book is certainly an uplifting one to read.  I wish that I could say that Anne is as well developed, but I cannot.  Anne shows promise in the first half of the book, but by the end she has become an utterly predictable, conniving, ambitious little villian.  The other characters are mixed.  Some, like Mary's Uncle Howard and her parents are utterly one dimensional while others, like Henry VIII, George Boleyn, and Katherine of Aragon show varying degrees of complexity.The book could, perhaps, be more historically accurate, but expecting complete historical accuracy from a fictional novel, especially one marketed like this, is setting yourself up for disappointment.  Besides, many of the supposed "inaccuracies", such as the sister's birth order are at least somewhat debatable.  I was more upset that the speech patterns and the general tone and setting did not seem to reveal more of 1500s than I was about any divergence from the actual historical events.In the end, I would say that The Other Boleyn Girl is a step up from historical soap opera -- but only a small step.  It is always entertaining, but is truly thrilling much less often.  It is vaguely historical and rarely deep, but it makes me want to go out and read a dozen more books on this fascinating period.
4 The Other Boleyn Girl was a favorite of mine to read because it not only provided me with rich historical references, it was a great storyline told from the point of view of a woman who was not held in the limelight.  Rather, Mary Boleyn was an unassuming girl, trying to find her way in the courts of high society, used as a pawn by her parents.  It was remarkable seeing the story through the eyes of a bystander.I enjoyed the rich themes of love and loyalty, the contrast between deceit and honor.  It made for a thorough read, an interesting tale.  The love between the siblings is juxtaposed with their simultaneous violent rivalry.  Amidst the brutality, this tale is a story about ambition.  Ambition for the Boleyn family in the time of King Henry's court.Read if you love historical fiction.  The story gets lengthy and somewhat repetitive towards the middle, but is still an amazing novel.
5 An elaboration on a well-known story could easily turn off many history buffs, but not this novel. Unique and well-developed, the reader feels pulled into the plot line and torn between wanting to savor the tantilizing details or rush headlong into the story. A very unique perspective... not for the historically squeamish. Worth the time, every time!
4 In this book Gregory tells the tale of the Boleyn family and there ambition to become prominet in the court of Henry VIII of England in the 1500's.  The tale begins with the youngest of the Boleyn girl's Mary.  When her family discovers that the king, who is frustrated with his current wife Katherine because she is unable to give him a son, is taken with Mary they push her to pursue the relationship eventhough she is barely 14 years old and already married.  The Boleyn's hope to gain power and money through this relationship and hope that Mary can succeed where the queen failed by giving Henry a son.  Mary has two children with the king, a girl Catherine and a boy Henry.After Henry is born Mary's family encourages her to try to get the king to divorce his wife who has gone through menapouse and can no longer have children and marry her.  This way her family will be the family of the next king of England.  However, all Mary wants to do is be with her children who have been sent to her family home and while she is away Anne takes her place and catches the eye of the king.  She claims she does this because she does not want to see the king turn his eye to anyone else in the court but when Mary returns from her family home the king has cast her aside for Anne.The rest of the book centers around Anne's rise and fall from power as seen through Mary's eyes.  Anne will stop at nothing in her quest to become queen be it murder or manipulating the king to get the church to grant him a divorce.  Once she is queen she continues her power games stoping at nothing to try to have a son with the king.  When she is unable to do this the King casts her aside much in the same manner he did the queen for someone younger.  During this time Mary's reunites with her first husband who ultimatley dies and she marries another man for love against the wishes of her family.Overall this story is well told.  I could not wait to find out what happened next and thus found it a quick read.  Gregory does a good job with her charcters making them interesting and lively.  She succeeds in giving a new perspective to a famous period in history and creats an engaging read in doing it.  Highly recomended.
5 The well known story of the scandalous romance of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn is told this time through the eyes of Mary Boleyn, Anne's younger sister who was the first Boleyn girl to catch the king's eye and become his mistress.  Mary, like all the Boleyn girls, was a commodity for the family to trade for things of value - titles, estates, connections.  Their only worth was as wives or mistresses to the wealthy and powerful, only as valuable as the children they could produce.Mary had been forced into a marriage as a young teenager before she was old enough to fully understand all that was expected of her, and while she felt affection for her husband the only pleasure she got from her marriage was that it was something her sister Anne did not have.  The two were only a year apart and had spent their entire lives in intense rivalry with each other.  When Anne returned from the French court to join Mary as a lady in waiting to Queen Katherine the two quickly resumed their old relationship of defending each other against the world while competing with each other.When Mary becomes the King's latest conquest her chief allies are Anne and their brother George.  They help her with the practical aspects of attracting and maintaining the King's attentions to further the directives of their father and uncle.  Inevitably Henry's attentions turned elsewhere, this time to Anne beginning their long and scandalous courtship that lead to the overthrow of Rome and Queen Katherine - an act that meant that no English wife would be safe any longer.  As Anne and Henry's story continued to it's well known conclusion Mary struggled to carve a place for herself and her children in the dangerous climate of the Tudor court.Gregory has based her story on the facts that are known about the times, filling in the gaps with her conjectures.  Therefore Mary and the rest of the characters all existed and their actions are consistent with the accounts available from the times.  By her skillful blending of the known facts and her speculations, Gregory has woven an exciting tale of life in the Tudor court as in the years that Henry began to change from charming young prince to cruel spoiled tyrant.  The precarious life of the women is particularly emphasized, that while all women were at the mercy of the men in their lives perhaps the wealthy, privileged women were the most vulernable of all.This is an excellent, enthralling read.  Gregory gives the reader both an exciting, sensational story of a love and tragedy in these interesting times.  It would be a good introduction to the period for anyone unfamiliar with the story as well as a fresh interpretation for those who are.  There are also sources cited in the back for anyone who wants to learn more.
5 This was my first Gregory novel, and I LOVED it. I was led to the book by Robin Maxwell's 'The Secret Diary Of Anne Boleyn' (also very good) - Mary Boleyn was mentioned in Secret Diary. I hadn't been aware that Mary had been mistress to Francois 1 and Henry VIII before reading Secret Diary, thus I was excited to find The Other Boleyn Girl (TOBG).Interestingly, it is a very different Anne depicted in TOBG to that given in Secret Diary, a very dark and selfish character .. but fascinating. Mary is also depicted somewhat differently. In Secret Diary she is presented as a silly, sluttish girl, yet in TOBG she is a more rounded, beleivable character .. and valid reasons given for her conduct.The book is well written, although I felt the author did 'flounder' a little in a couple of places. I felt she was 'padding out' the story, but don't let this put you off reading it, for she more than makes up for this in other areas. The conversation between Queen Katherine and Mary in the chapter headed 'Summer 1529' is heart wrenching; and (I hesitate to admit that) I had tears in my eyes at the description of Anne's execution.After reading this book I was compelled to search the Net for details of this neglected and interesting person from history (Mary Boleyn), & it was fascinating to discover that Mary's son (by Henry VIII) also named Henry served his cousin Elizabeth 1 and greatly impressed his sovereign and his nation. King Henry evidently chose not to believe he had fathered the child, although the baby was conceived during his relationship with Mary. Henry did however meticulously provide for Mary's son after her husband's death. Mary's daughter, Catherine Carey became gentlewoman of the Privy Chamber at Elizabeth 1's accession , married Sir Francis Knollys, and became the grandmother of Lord Essex, Elizabeth 1's favourite in her later years.A clear view of Mary's individual character would be difficult to obtain from surviving documents. Her personal history is obscured by the more tumultuous life and death of her younger sister Anne, and glimpses of Mary's life must be garnered from footnotes or brief mention in the works about her sister, her father and the two kings whose lives she touched (Francois 1 and Henry VIII). She was mistress to these two kings, twice wed to men of Henry VIII's Court and mother of children who served their cousin, Elizabeth 1, and must have been an enigmatic and intriguing figure .. and this author has served this character from history well.If you are interested in historical fiction, or even just interested in the Tudor period, I highly recommend this book. I don't think you will be disappointed.And, please don't let the reviewers who have criticised this book, put you off. I admit there are a few inaccurasies in the book, but for goodness sake, if you pick up a FICTION novel then you must accept the authors 'version' of the story. If you want to read totally accurate facts don't browse or shop in the Fiction section of the bookstore .. there's a place for people who can't stand someone else's interpretation .. it's labelled Non Fiction in the store. I suggest the 'critics' try this section & leave this author alone. I for one think she's done a fantastic job on a character from history who, as I said previously, would not have been easy to research.Thank you Philippa Gregory.
5 Amazon recommended this book to me based on other purchases, and I'm so glad they did! I thoroughly enjoyed it. I read this book immediately after finishing "I, Elizabeth," and thought that going from that point of view into a new one would be jarring, but I fell smoothly into Mary's story and loved every minute of it.The book could easily have romanticized the story of Mary Boleyn and her affair with the king, but instead shows a very realistic picture---there is love there, but there is also deceit, manipulation, and betrayal. Anne Boleyn is not just a {prostitue} who displaced a queen, but a real person who in the end falls prey to her own overpowering ambitions. Even Henry has his gentle side, and isn't portrayed solely as a tyrant who likes shedding wives. There are tender moments, and then there are scenes that will make you shudder and be very glad you're not a woman living during the reign of Henry VIII.I did find the ending to be a little abrupt; Mary is at court with her husband and children, trying in her own way to help Anne. She witnesses Anne's execution (thinking all the while that Henry will pardon her at the last, dramatic moment), leaves with her husband and children to go home, and there the book ends. After getting to know Mary so intimately through out the rest of the book, I would have liked more of a reaction to Anne's death and the aftermath. Since most people are familiar with Anne rather than Mary, though, I suppose it made sense to end the book there. I was so immersed in the story, though, that I could have happily read about Mary's adventures for the rest of her life, even if she never went near royalty again.
5 but I loved this book.  I could not get enough of it.  I was eager to turn each page and am actually a little sad that I've finished it.  I will not be excited to see what other historical fiction I can get my hands on.  Definitely one of my new favorites!
5 This book was great. Once you start you can't stop! It has drama, romance, suspense, a little horror, and very interesting characters. Phillipa Gregorey is brilliant!
4 I have already read several books from this author and find them very informative and it really gives you a insight into what it must have been like during this time.
4 I decided that I simply must read the book before I saw the movie.  It has been my experience movie versions are typically vastly inferior to the books themselves.  With that in mind, let's move on to the book review.When the book begins, Gregory introduces us to Mary Boleyn, the younger sister of the much more famous Anne Boleyn, or Queen Anne of England and second wife of Henry VIII.  Mary was married at the tender age of twelve to William Carey, yet another courtier.  As a member of the powerful Boleyn family, Mary's marriage to William Carey was arranged and in reality was not much of a marriage at all.  By the age of fourteen, Mary was King Henry's lover and confidante.  We learn that she went on to (supposedly) bear him two children: a boy and a girl.Mary's favor in Henry's court, however, burns out quickly after the birth of her son.  She discovers that dancing to the Boleyn family's tune is not what she wants and her disinterest in Henry rapidly turns his interest toward Anne.  It is then that Mary becomes the other Boleyn girl.Anne spends six long years courting Henry, and her efforts clearly exhaust her.  Mary is expected to answer her sister's every whim, her every beck and call.  She is of no import to her family other than what she can do for Anne.Anne is not someone you'd wish to know in your daily life.  She's scheming, backstabbing, temperamental, witty, charming, clever, and too confident for her own good.  All of those traits are what ultimately lead her to her fall from grace.  But Mary has a love-hate relationship with her sister.  They are each other's best friend but worst enemy as well.George, Mary and Anne's brother, throws another wrench into the equation.  It's clear that he has homosexual desires, which was a deadly sin in those days when the Catholic Church ruled the western European world.  Yet he also has a disturbingly close relationship with Anne, and the book implies that it could have been an incestuous one.Gregory managed to throw so many twists and turns into her historically based novel that I never really knew what was coming next.  I knew the Anne Boleyn story from history classes in high school and college, but I actually find her sister Mary's story more intriguing.  After all, Mary was the only Boleyn sibling who managed to survive during the period of Anne and George's trials.  Was it a survival instinct on her part?  Or was it wisdom?  Perhaps it was self-preservation?We'll never know.Gregory certainly has a gripping writing style, and for most of the book, I felt as if I were reading Mary's intimate diary and not a historically based fictionalized account of her life.  Kudos to Gregory.  I can't wait to read the second book in the series.
3 I judge books by their cover. Oh shut up, so do you. I'd been eyeing The Other Boleyn Girl for a long time...such a nice cover. The right weight. Good title.For the first 100 pages or so, utterly unimpressed. I felt like I was back in high school, reading girly fiction. "She brushed back her shining raven locks, admired her slim figure in the mirror" etc etc, is the sort of drivel that dripped from this almost romance novel like book. It got better when Anne started to edge out Mary in the King's favor, but up until then, I felt like I wanted to stop reading. When the court intrigue, and inter-family backstabbing started, so did the book.I have to admit, the author probably had a fairly hard time finding material on Mary Boleyn- not much was known about her, except her three marriages, her two children, and of course her brief affair with the King during her first marriage. Other than that, Mary was pretty much a big blank. To give her life, must have been a hard task, and she is a likeable character, unlike Anne Boleyn. The Anne Boleyn in The Other Boleyn Girl, and the Anne Boleyn of Margaret George's The Autobiography of Henry VIII differ greatly. One is beautiful, one is homely, but her spark captures Henry's interest. Both are not exactly moral, but The Other Boleyn Girl makes you hate her, while The Autobiography makes you think of her as adulterer, with ambition, but the ambitious drive of The Other Boleyn Girl's Anne is truly scary.All in all, I rarely DON'T enjoy a book, and this was no exception. Once past the flighty first few chapters, I enjoyed the backstabbing- probably like those in Rome enjoyed a good lion vs gladiator fight in the Coliseum.
5 Excellent read-- the best I have read this summer!  I have 6 kids (one only 4 mos old) and read this book in less than a week.  Highly recommended.
5 I don't read a lot of historical fiction. To me, the past usually equals boring. The Other Boleyn Girl was far from boring. In fact, it was amazing. The story contained so much sex, scandal, deception, and rivalry, it was shocking and deeply entertaining.I saw the movie adaption years ago, and after reading the book, it's obvious the movie was perfectly cast. Obviously, the book went much deeper into the story. The book was long (over 600 pages) and I loved every single page of it. I could not put it down and spent a few mornings bone tired due to "just a few more pages" that found me awake and reading hours after I meant to go to sleep.So much happens in The Other Boleyn Girl. The story really only spans about fifteen years, but it has a epic feel. The rivalry between Anne and Mary goes well beyond the average sibling rivalry. King Henry is a tool. I believe it's historically documented that he was the epitome of an spoiled, overgrown child, but seeing him in action, so to speak, makes me wonder how he survived so long without being poisoned.The queen fights for her man in a peculiar way, leaving the reader to wonder why she ever thought that would work. George, brother to Mary and Anne, brings about a very interesting and surprising look at court. And the rest of the Boleyn family, and their involvement in younger generations lives - especially sex lives - reeks of sleaze and conniving. Actions and events so shocking, yet thoroughly realistic, make The Other Boleyn Girl very memorable.There are multiple romances in The Other Boleyn Girl, each markedly different from the next. These relationship do well to show how love, and lust, can vary greatly between couples. More than anything else, The Other Boleyn Girl is about the lengths a woman would go to to become and remain queen. No line remained uncrossed in The Other Boleyn Girl and I found it to be juicer than any modern tabloid.
5 This is an incredible combination of historical truths and fictional character dispositions.  Like with any book I had to adjust to the author's style of writing and the lingo of the story's time period but I was almost immediately enraptured by it's unbelievable content!  I quickly fell in love with the characters, especially narrator Mary Boleyn who is so identifiable and amiable.  This is a great buy if you love period works that involve love, sex, and scandal without betraying good taste and some modesty.  I also felt that I had gained quite a bit of knowledge upon finishing the book since I had known very little about King Henry VIII prior to it.  Overall I feel that this could become a favorite among many or at least memorable.
5 There are only four books in my life that I have read twice (and I am an avid reader), and this is one of them.  The follow up to this book, The Boleyn Inheritance, is one of those four as well.  I have loved the history of King Henry VIII ever since my amazing 8th grade teacher and completely enjoyed this novel.  Do not look for this book to be a non-fiction, play by play account of complete and total facts.  However, the author did her research, and developed a page turning novel that I couldn't get enough of.
5 This book was hard to put down. I was driven to finish it as fast as possible.!!
4 Well, I couldn't put it down, once I started in earnest. The characters are rich and well drawn. The historical perspectives leaves a bit to be desired. Ms Gregory does miss out on some of the dialogue of the time, playing up on some of the &quot;rumors&quot; instead of facts. A few of the characters are not historically accurate. If you can ignore the inaccuracies, this is a definite page turner and is excellently told. I can forgive a little license for a good story.
5 Phillippa Gregory always has a wide imagination in how to bring the story to life and I love it! Gripping as usual.
5 I love knowing as I read these novels that I plan to go back and read them again from the start. The author enchants me with her style of writing and I find myself interested in history for the first time in my life. I have much to learn.
5 What a fascinating and enjoyable book.  I could not put it down.  I loved the perspective that it was written from.  I would highly recommend this book.
4 It is not the best portrayal of Anne Boleyn.  I would recommend it to others because the writing is excellent and Gregory has a magical way of portraying the time very vividly.
5 Engaging, exciting, easy read
1 I had just finished reading "The Autobiography of Henry VIII: With Notes By His Fool, Will Somers" by Margaret George and was interested in learning more about about that time. A group of acquaintances heartily & gushingly recommended "The Other Boleyn Girl".Fortunately, my copy came from a thrift store, because I cannot finish it. I'm not even at page 75 yet and I'm seriously hating it. The most eye-rolling passage for me was Mary's description of her stay at her family's country estate all by herself (with the exception of the  servants), and her discussions with local farmers, plus the story about how she secured seed for a crop for some of them. Please.If Ms. Gregory is the feminist she claims to be, she would do well to write more accurately about history and and less sensationally. The truth is usually much more interesting anyway.I'll be combing these 1 and 2 star reviews for recommendations of better accounts of the time and of Anne Boleyn.
5 I thoroughly enjoy reading historical fiction; I find it both entertaining and educational.  That said, this was one of the better books available in the genre. The Other Boleyn Girl revealed a side of the pawn-like roles assigned women in the past I'd never considered. Imagine, sleeping with a man (ok, so he WAS the king of England)at the express instruction of your family; being forced into adultery, dis-avowing an existing marriage merely to enhance the family's standing in the king's eyes.  Such greedy, self-serving behavior at the expense of a young woman's virtue is considered shocking in the modern world.  Imagine the outrage if it were discovered Monica Lewinsky's parents had instructed her to do what she did, for the sole purpose of financial gain for their family.Philippa Gregory sheds light on the rigors of court life as no other author has ever done.  I felt weary myself simply reading about the time and effort both Mary and Ann Boleyn put into pleasing the king.  The plotting and scheming done by the Howard family was diabolically amazing.  Uncle Howard's lack of feeling for anyone but himself and the advancement of the family name gave me chills.The romance between Mary and William Stafford was the only warm and fuzzy aspect in a novel filled with the darker facets of human nature.  Gregory's decision to refer to the rumored incestual relationship between Anne and brother George further added to the image of the overall depravity of the Howard family.  Anne's willingnes to sleep with her brother in an effort to produce an heir illustrated her desperation not to be put aside by Henry, and foreshadowed the evidence given for her ultimate demise.This book has it all:  greed, murder, sex, incest, homo-sexuality, love, treachery, war, religous and social upheaval.I recommend this book to anyone who likes historical fiction.
4 The characters in this book are, for the most part, absolutely disgusting. I felt guilty reading it, like I was reading some trash romance novel and I think I'll hide it the bookcase in the back of the house so no one who comes over sees it... but I have to say, it's a definate page turner. Well over 600 pages read in two days. And I'll probably read the sequel sometime soon. It's not the most well-written book, but it will definately hold your attention for a little guilty pleasure.
3 I'm a bit of an amateur Tudor historian and have been for about five years, so I'm going to come at this review from a different place than someone who doesn't know the true story behind this book and these real-life people.Don't get me wrong -- I love this book. I've read it many, many times and will continue to read it over and over again. But, to be honest, I don't really view it as anything more than a highbrow bodice ripper, hence my title calling it "trashy." It's fancy beach reading, but I mean that in the nicest way possible. It's written in a very compelling way and will keep you entertained. Despite it's length, it's a book I can -- and do -- finish rather quickly whenever I read it. It's a pageturner, there's no doubt about it.lMy real issue with this book is, naturally, the historical inaccuracies and great liberties that author Gregory takes with the story of the Tudors. Inaccuracies that she tries to pass off as historical fact. But I am still able to enjoy and appreciate it while also appreciating non-fiction books on the same subject. I sort of view this as an adaptation of history: Movie adaptations rarely follow the book exactly and always take liberties, but a person can still love both the book and the movie. That's kind of how I approach The Other Boleyn Girl.
5 'The Other Boleyn Girl' centers on the relatively unknown life of 16th-century aristocrat Mary Boleyn (little sister to the famously headless Anne Boleyn) and her affair with King Henry VIII, as well as the subsequent fury to push the (as yet) headstrong Anne to the throne when, after bearing his son, Mary fails to hold the king's interest. The story takes place mainly in the heavy walls of the kings castles and court, but also follows Mary home to her farm in Hever.Plenty of intrigue, jealousy, rivalry, politics, and even real romance in this one. The main conflict centers on Henry's inability to bear a male heir to the throne. Mary's father and uncle propose that pretty Mary bed the king and bear him a son. She manages this competently while her jealous sister and grinning brother play her maids, then the tables turn, and the Boleyns decide that Mary (who is, unfortunately, married) cannot bear a legitimate son. If they can be rid of King Henry's barren wife, Queen Catherine of Aragon, Anne might have a shot at the throne. So Anne, who little respects Mary's apparent love for the king, steps in with all the power of her female wiles and scathing intelligence, and manipulates her way into Henry's mind.Then comes the annulment of the marriage of King Henry and Catherine of Aragon -- a move orchestrated by Anne which inevitably puts into the king's hands the power (and inclination) to be rid of a wife when she can bear him no sons. They marry, and the Boleyns scramble in an unrelenting game to keep boyish King Henry interested in his wife. The question - can she bear him a son?I prefer Anne to Mary because her wit and scheming cruelness intrigues me (as a reader!), but I like that Gregory chooses the little-known Boleyn as her narrator. This gives the tale a bit of frailty and sympathy it would lack with Anne as its teller. The girls' brother George gets some stage-time too, as a blushing boy pal and servant to the king, with a private scandal of his own to sully his family's name and bring the tale's finale clashing upon the Boleyns.I know there's been a lot of flack about the accuracy of the history in this novel. Didn't Anne love Elizabeth (her daughter) by accounts? Were the claims about Anne and George accurate? Weren't Mary and her mother close? Did Mary really prefer the farm life? Really - in the 16th century? Did the downfall occur due to political leanings?I can't say a word on all that, as I don't know the history. (Though I've heard the book follows truth far better than the movie. For example, Henry actually ages and gets fat.) I can only judge the novel for its entertainment value and mastery in writing, of which it has plenty.Perhaps years from now I'll look back on it and lose respect for the holes in the history, for the disrespect shown Anne and George in the depiction of them, for the role given an uncle who, in truth, barely consulted his own family. But right now, very new to literature and looking for the tricks to writing, I can only applaud Gregory for a novel competently (brilliantly!) written, with characterization that fired the pages and conflict enough to keep me up by night. I enjoyed this one from ironic start to steely finish.
5 I picked this book up on a whim.  I'd never heard of the author, and I normally stick to ones that I like.I am completely blown away.  This is the first book in a very long time that I felt I simply MUST sit down and read and find out what happens.  It's just amazing.The story follows the lesser known of the Boleyn sisters, Mary.  Her early years at court, her romance with the king, her marriage, and her tumultuous love/hate relationship with her sister Anne are all incredibly detailed.  The author wants you to love and hate Anne at the same time, and Mary as well, and somehow you do.  You get to watch first-hand as Anne battles her way past her sister's star at Henry's court only to supplant her, and later fall (as history tells).  Only we see it all from Anne's sister's point of view -- a naive, innocent, well meaning girl that hates herself for betraying those that she loves for the betterment of her all-consuming family.Characterization will make or break a book more often than not.  I found that 'The Other Boleyn Girl' was wonderfully written, and the characters rich and complex.  Mary is simple, but she has layers of duplicity about her, and you can't help but admire her when she discovers her backbone.  Anne is her foil, and you hate her at the same time that you admire her tenacity and fire.  You even understand the (frequently) caricatured figures of Henry VIII, Catherine of Aragon, and Jane Seymour.  On a perspective note, this book is written in first person -- Mary's story -- yet the telling is so rich and watchful that it doesn't hamper the tale one bit.I really loved this book.  I'm off to find out what other gems Philippa Gregory has written lately.  If they are HALF as good as this book, I will be utterly pleased.
5 It's taken me a long time to read her most famous book but I loved it just as much as the others - thanks Philippa.
5 Even if you are familiar with the Anne Boleyn and Henery VIII saga you will find new intrigue with this captivating book.  Written in first person from the prospective of Mary Boleyn who was intimate with the King years before her sister. This book tells Mary's story with is completely imeshed with her sister Anne's.  The Boleyn family is portrayed in a less then golden light as the family attempts to weave themselves into court life and gain the advantage over the Seymours (ultimately failing).  Anne and Mary are simply pawns in a sick and twisted game.  Anne is very unlikable in this novel however, it's not clear as to rather she is more tragically a causality of her family and the times.  Mary's hostility and love for her sister is as confusing and complex as any sibling relationship.  I celebrate when Mary is able to find true love and break free of the family cycle... if we could all be as strong as Mary perhaps we too will live happily ever after. Enjoy!
1 I can say in all honesty this is the worst book I have read in many years; I wish I could rate it "one-quarter star."  I only finished the book because I was on a 14-hour flight across the Pacific Ocean with nothing else to do.  The writing is of extraordinarily poor quality, aimed at about a 6th-grade reading level.  Worse, it seeks to make the heroine seem better than she was by degrading every other female around, particularly female family members.  The main target for her vitriol is Anne Boleyn, who is portrayed as a psychotic monster (who eagerly has a long-term affair with her own brother, an accusation that no one else seriously believes).  The author's twisted hatred makes one wonder if the author has a sister she hates, or possibly she hates all women on the planet and blames them for all her own personal problems.The book portrays Mary as a sweet innocent, the only good woman in England.  In reality, Mary Boleyn was sent as a young girl to the French court as a lady in waiting.  She became a notorious international laughingstock because of her extreme promiscuity and lack of common sense and was brought home in disgrace.  Her horrible reputation as beyond "easy," as well as her extreme youth and stupidity, temporarily appealed to Henry VIII.  He used her, got her pregnant, and instantly forgot her existence.  It was her bad example that caused Anne to hesitate so long before giving in to Henry.The bad writing gets truly laughable in the "sexy" scenes and later scenes showing Mary "playing house" - - finding true happiness as the poor farmer's wife, with a smile on her face and a song in her heart in her jolly, neat little cottage, having fun learning to cook and clean and milk the cows - - at a time when a real, impoverished farmwife would be doing backbreaking work 14 hours a day, fighting for survival.  How about a reality check here!  In fact, one of the reasons I picked the book up in the first place was because I was hoping for some factual information on Mary's later marriage - - I know she married a commoner, not a wealthy man, but how poor were they?  I assume he was a gentleman farmer with servants.  It seems incredible that a member of the aristocracy would gladly and merrily move to a life of poverty, which would involve extreme hardship and not the fun and games the author stupidly portrays.  If Mary really married a poor man and had to do all the work, it would have been a horrifying and shocking learning experience on her part, true culture shock, and not the joyful romp portrayed in this silly book.All in all, this is a ridiculous and offensive book, insulting to anyone with intelligence and to any woman with any self respect.
5 This book is fascinating.  I highly recommend it to anyone in love with the Renaissance and Tudor era in England.  You see history unfold through the eyes of Mary Boleyn, famous Anne Boleyn's sister.  Unlike wonderfully wicked plotting Anne, Mary is a sweet girl that just wants to be loved and to take care of her children (who just happen to be royal bastards...).  I adore the description of the culture; the dresses, the music, the food, the medical practices.  It's very easy to read and very educational.
5 Your forced to enter the former age during the most scandalous periods in English history. Each page keeps you captivated till the end. After the bittersweet epilogue you will crave more of the sixteenth century and Philippa Gregory.
5 It seems every time I turn around I see a Philippa Gregory book in the bookstores, at the airport, on a train--and for good reason. Gregory's books for the most part focus on England from the 16th to 18th centuries, from the Tudors themselves to fictional hangers-on. She has a fast-paced style, a talent for dialogue, and throws in just enough history for historical fiction buffs like me. "The Other Boleyn Girl" starts off as the story of Mary Boleyn, the shadowy sister of the fiery Anne, briefly the lover of Henry VIII and the mother of one of his illegitimate sons. Mary is a simple girl, caught up in court intrigue, used as a pawn in the never-ending battles betwen the great families of England to get close to the King. This book is really about Anne, however, and the use of Mary as the narrator to tell Anne's story is a neat twist. One thing that a modern reader might find amazing is the ages of the principal movers at court--at times it's as if a gang of pretty teenagers wields the power to direct the course of the monarchy and the country. The Henry VIII here is a man easily distracted, fond of women and amusement, not willing to let anyone or anything stand in the way of his desire for an heir. We're all familiar with this story, but Gregory has a unique way of making it real--the exhaustion of the endless rounds of parties, the uncles of the great families endlessly scheming, the use of young girls to catch the King's eye. Mary, the most innocent, is the only one who escapes, however; she fades from the limelight as the King turns elsewhere, and saves herself and her children just in time. Little is known about Mary, but Gregory manages to turn it into a great story without doing too much damage to the facts. These books aren't too heavy but totally engrossing. A nice alternative to chick lit.
5 I couldn't put this down.  I don't waste my time with nonnsense.  This book is packed with informationa revolving around King Henry's Court. And it was so entertaining I was sorry it ended.  I went right out and bought "The Queen's Fool" because I wanted the saga to continue. This book is so well written and researched and entertaining you don't realize you're getting an education.  All the facts you ever wanted to know about the difficulies of daily life in the era as a backdrop to the intrique as 2 sister's vie for the affections of the King while he is still married to Kathrine of Aragon. All done as a political move by their family with the girls being used as pawns. I had never really understood the "Inquistion" but that was a backdrop to the story as well and I now understand what motivated it as well as the start of the Church of England.  Historically accurate & delightfully entertaining.  A Masterpiece.  I can't wait to read the 3rd in the series called "The Virgin's Lover"  I was not disappointed in "the Queen's Fool" as a sequel and I'm sure I will love the 3rd as well.  A must read.
5 This book was incredible-- hands down one of the best pieces of historical fiction I've ever read. Not only does Gregory nail the pliable nature of sisterly rivalry, she succeeds in bringing an unknown heroine to life. I could hardly put this book down. Little known detailed facts about the life and daily tasks of those in Henry VIII's court arise throughout this story making every page essential. And at the book's harrowing, bittersweet and shocking end, Gregory masterfully handles a situation you have to read to believe. I was moved and educated by Gregory's tale and urge everyone to delve into this worthwhile novel.
5 The Other Boleyn Girl is the fictional story of Mary Boleyn's version of events that took place in England during the reign of Henry VIII, the Tutor King who had six wives, one of which was Mary.Mary and the infamous Anne Boleyn were sisters who were maneuvered by their uncle, father and mother to advance the status and wealth of the Boleyn family. The story paints the Boleyn family as the epitome of unbridles greed.Told by Philippa Gregory in the vernacular of the mid-1500s, the tail is a captivating version of English history made delightfully readable by an author who has researched the lives of the characters and presented them in an arresting manner.Among the novels by the author, this book is clearly her best. It gets an 11 out of 10.
5 I happened to be reading this on the plane over to London for my first visit. While touring the Tower of London I found out the ending of the book by accident! There's something about reading a history (even if it's historical fiction) and then being there at the same time.Now I have to find more books about that period of time. I hope they will be as well done as this one was. One of my favorite reads ever.BTW, Mary Boleyn is the YOUNGER sister, not the older sister as mentioned in the synopsis and in some of the reviews.
3 Well written about a very difficult time to be alive. If you please the righ people, your life is ok. Fall out of favor and you're sunk. Good history.
5 Good but I'd say it's not for everyone. I love history and all things Tudor. Therefore it had no problem holding my interest.
3 Noting the author's shameless treatment of history, I found this book at times fascinating, and at others, ridiculous.  I thought it rather funny that she bastardized history in the book, and the movie bastardized the book. I sometimes read the book after watching a movie to see how closely it follows.  I found myself lost a lot.  Plot lines were merged, forgotten, or simply changed completely.  Gregory must really hate Anne Boleyn-she portrays her as a high riding [...]-selfish to the end in taking Mary's daughter Catherine to the Tower with her as a last knife twist.  I doubt Anne was as bad as she is portrayed in most books.  I think she was ambitious, yes, but only a helpless pawn of her family, as most women were at that time.  Mary seems the only one to escape the Howard fate-including her cousin, Katherine Howard later on.  I have to admit though, I found myself intrigued on how it would all turn out for Mary, and also found myself actually believing some of the story.  It seems that marrying Henry VIII was as bad as marrying a Kennedy today.  Two truly cursed families.  But, it is still my favorite period in history. Alas, Phillipa Gregory, you do but make me blush!!!
3 I really loved this book but it was so slow and for someone who doesn't have a lot of patience, I gave up a little more than half-way through. Everything about it I loved, except the slowness of how things happened. I saw the movie last week and thought it really entertaining.
5 Historical fiction is an art. To write a great piece, you must have not only engaging characters, but a vivid painting of the times, and a focus on the events of the time instead of just the characters itself.The Other Boleyn Girl is just this. I have always been fascinated with Tudor England, and am always looking for new books to read. I have read good and bad, but this is truly one of the best.One of the most unique things is that the perspective is not told from Anne, but her sister Mary. In all of the other books, Mary is just a characature with no real place in the story. In this, she is placed front and center as she tells of her reign as King Henry VIII mistress, her fierce rivalry between her sister, and the illusion of the court, where everything looks perfect, but scandal and backstabbing reign. As a result of this, a compelling and very likable character is created.The writing is so vivid in this work, that you can see the court in your mind. You can picture the palaces, the intricate dresses, and the chess game that the Tudor court always was.I love how the court was portrayed as an illusion in this work, and how it was indeed a chess game, where you could be the queen one day, and not even a pawn the next, depending on how you played your move. Also greatly addressed are the difficulties of being a woman in the times, and how they were simply pawns in a man's kingdom.Above all though, I greatly enjoyed how the the whole Boleyn family was given life. I won't give it all away here, but you are given such a different perspective and a longing to know more.While this seems like a long book at six hundred plus pages, it is also a fast read that is very entertaining to pass the time with, while learning even more about Tudor England. Phillipa Gregory is a fantastic story teller, where the words come to life, and you are transported to an entirely different world. Now that, is historical fiction!Also a great book for reading groups, and anyone who is interested in, or wants to know more about this compelling and fragile time in history.
5 While reading this book, I was never sure who the 'other Boleyn girl' actually was.  At times it referred to Mary Boleyn, Anne's sister who conducted an affair with King Henry and bore him two children, and at other times it seemed to refer to Anne herself, who's driven ambition ultimately led her to the block.  This is a nice twist on the title which would lead you to believe that it was only Mary who was considered beneath contempt as the other Boleyn sister's fortunes rose.The choice of having Mary Boleyn as narrator of this story was inspired as it provides a completely different look at the complexities of court life and an intimate look at what it must have been like to be so tied to the future Queen of England even as your loyalties lay with the current Queen, Katherine of Aragon.  Mary is between a rock and a hard place and her guilt and confusion come through so clearly on the pages.  Katherine is portrayed sympathetically here as the cuckolded wife who must bear her husband's infidelities even as they happen right in front of her.As she goes from being the pawn in her family's game to raise the family's name at court to being a mere lady-in-waiting to her sister who manages to usurp her position, she realizes that her ultimate dream would be to own a farm in the country and to raise her children in peace, away from the glittering, cut-throat court.  As Anne finally becomes Queen of England, you get Mary's constant commentary on the familiar story of her inability to provide the King with a male heir, her frantic attempt to sustain her crown, and her eventual downfall ending with her beheading.  If I didn't already have a picture of her as a selfish manipulator, I would have been absolutely infuriated by her after reading of her behavior in this book!This is definitely a work of fiction as not much is known about Mary Boleyn, but what entertaining fiction it is!  Note: It does help to have a bit of background knowledge about the major players as the names and titles can get a bit confusing.
4 I couldn't put this down, but later I was embarrassed I liked it. It is a true guilty pleasure. The story is historically inaccurate and repetitive -- a hundred pages could be cut with no real damage done -- and everything is juiced up with lots of witchcraft and lots and lots of sex. There's even a deformed baby, apparently just tossed in for the tabloid appeal. However, the characters are so alive! In the end I was still hoping for a last-minute pardon to save Anne's young, scheming, unhappy life. If you are looking for a vivid, fictionalized portrait of historical figures, "The Other Boleyn Girl" doesn't disappoint.On a different point, this book also shows what it was like to be a woman in the 1500s, how unimportant and humiliated females often were. It made me appreciate my life and how many opportunities I have, much the way reading"A Thousand Splendid Suns"made me appreciate being born an American. In fact, "The Other Boleyn Girl" gives a fascinating portrayal of the human race as a whole back then, from how men loved the casual sport of bear baiting to how royal women at court would comb the lice from their hair.
1 As a history buff and huge fan of Anne Boleyn, this novel made me sick. There is a limit as to how far a novelist can stretch the truth while writing historical fiction, and Gregory went too far. It is clear that Gregory did hardly any research on Anne Boleyn's character (as is evidence by the fact that she did not even consult THE biography on Anne, Eric Ives's book) and instead was too concerned with making Mary Boleyn out to be more important than she actually was to English history. Gregory unfortunately just reiterated the slanders that Anne Boleyn's character incurred after her execution by her Catholic enemies. It is sad that an author today could do so much disrespect to a historical figure in one novel. Furthermore, she cites Retha Warnicke's research as being her primary basis for the novel, yet after Warnicke heard this, she publicly distanced herself from the novel--mainly because Gregory misinterpreted Warnicke's theories completely. In my opinion, Gregory may as well have made up characters and kept the story she wrote, because she completely changes the personalities of these figures as we know them from the years of reasearch done by actual historians. I am all for using creative license to "fill in the gaps", but Gregory uses far too much license in this book, and instead changes the facts for her own interest--in order to make Anne appear as the horrible, manipulative sister, while Mary is an innocent victim of Anne's wrath. It is proposterous. For example, Gregory completely ignores Mary's behavior in France before she joined the Tudor court. Historians are pretty certain that she slept with the King of France, as well as others, during her time there. Gregory chooses to believe that Mary is a virgin when she comes to Henry, just to make her appear more innocent. Another example is Anne making Henry Carey her ward. She did this because Mary did not have enough money to give Henry a proper education, so Anne was helping her, and actually did an extremely nice thing by giving him such a good education. Gregory spins this to make it seem like Anne is stealing Henry from Mary--a ridiculous notion and quite the opposite of what actually happened.Besides the switching around of facts, the book isn't even very well written. The characters are very black and white, as is true in most of Gregory's novels (one woman=good, other woman=bad). I would not recommend this book to anyone.. if I could give it a 0 star review, I would have.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed this book for its purely entertainment value.  I agree with the other reviewers that this book contains some glaringly inaccurate historical details, but if you are looking for true historical fact, then reading historical fiction is probably not the route you should pursue.  I do not know for sure if the inaccuracies were intentional or not, but my feeling is (from the author interview at the end of the book) that the author attempted to write this story as accurately as possible.  Unfortunately, that attempt was not successful.I do have some reservations about the characterization that Anne Bolyen received. The author appears to have used all the ugly and malicious rumours that swirled around Anne during her &quot;show&quot; trial as a basis for her character.  While it is true that Anne was a strong, ambitious and tempetous woman, I feel her treatment in this book almost makes her look insanely self-centered and power-seeking.  BUT!  This does make for an fun read!All together, the story is entertaining and well written. You are able to get a true feel for court life and the machinations behind the throne. The characters are well defined and the plot line is clean.I recommend this book - just don't get distracted by the inaccuracies. This is fiction and fun fiction at that.
5 After having read and disliked another of Ms. Gregory's historical novels, I was pleasantly surprised by The Other Boyeyn Girl. There has been criticism of the misleading historical accuracy of this book. I read for pleasure, not historical accuracy. If you want complete accuracy, then please read a textbook. I enjoyed seeing the development of the plot from Mary's viewpoint. There is a heavy dose of sibling rivalry, power struggles, love and deceit. Although this is a lengthy book, the story moves along quickly and I was never bored. Now, I'm looking forward to the movie.
3 My wife bought this book and I started reading it because I had nothing else to read on an 12 hour overseas plane trip.  The subject matter and style of the book is something I definitely wouldn't normally pursue for my own reading, but after reading 100 pages or so, I found myself reluctantly drawn to the story and characters.  I'm not in a position to judge its historical accuracy, but I doubt many people pick up this book with this in mind.  Basically, it is the story of the English royal court and all the "soap opera" type intrigue you might expect in such a setting.  The prose and the characterizations are simple and laced with some racier details of the main characters' interactions that sometimes made me wandered if I wasn't reading one of those cheap "romance" novels.  It is all too easy to pick apart this novel from a variety of aspects, but after completing the novel, I didn't feel the least bit cheated.  It definitely provided me with a sufficient distraction.
5 I could not put this one down.  I would get mad that I had to go to bed, or go to work.  I wanted to finish this book.  It even led me to rent some National Geographic dvds about King Henry VIII, to check out a book on Katharine of Aragon, and rent other movies based on King Henry VIII.  I love that Ms. Gregory was able to incorporate real history with the fiction of Mary.  Terrific book.
5 This book is the first one I've read in years that I simply couldn't put down once I began.  I spent nearly a week hardly sleeping because I couldn't bear to turn out the lights and put this book down.  In Mary Boleyn, Philippa Gregory has created a marvelous heroine in what is partially a coming-of-age story, in addition to giving us a prism through which to view the details of a scandalous romance that still captivates after all these centuries.Watching Anne Boleyn's story unfold is to watch one woman forever alter the course of history, helping King Henry VIII usher in reform of the Catholic church and change the policies of England in ways that echo their repercussions even today.  I don't think it's a stretch to say that without Anne, the U.S. might not even exist.  Think about it.The bottom line, however, is that this book is well worth reading -- especially if you intend to see the movie version coming out in November.  Allowing us to discover "The other Boleyn girl", the one history never remembered, is a glorious treat indeed, and Miss. Gregory deserves to be commended, both for the originality of her idea and her writing itself.  It's a must read for any fan of historical fiction and I guarantee that once you begin it, you won't be able to put it down.  I read it twice within one month of owning it, and it is definitely the best book I've read in a long, long time.
1 I couldn't stand this book.  Not only does it completely butcher history, it maligns Anne and makes her sister Mary look like a saint (when in fact she had also been a mistress to King Francis of France before coming to Eng. Court).  *SPOILERS*:  Gregory writes as if the accusations brought up against Anne (adultery, incest and witchcraft) are true (any historian will tell you Henry just wanted to make way for a new wife to bear him sons). *END SPOILERS*  Throughout the book I felt that she was really shoving down my throat that "this is definitely a good person" and "this is definitely a bad person." The characters are always very black/white and sinner/saint, ridiculously sweet/innocent and ridiculously conniving/evil (instead of letting each character have their own positives and negatives). No char development or depth.  PG tells you who to like instead of letting you decide for yourself.I think I would actually be able to tolerate/overlook (some of) the inaccuracies if the characters were actually developed and realistic, each having good points as well as flaws instead of them being just "good" and "evil."The majority of other authors will either (A) stick to the facts and actual events and create their characters and stories AROUND that. Or (b) it will be a completely made up story, set in a certain period with accurate detail as to daily life/events for that period. Or (c) there will be a few actual historical characters around which the story is set, but the story itself is complete fiction (ex Girl With A Pearl Earring). With b and c, the authors flat out tell you the story is fiction. With a, the authors usually write a note if they have left out/ignored a fact, purposely changed something in the story, or whether there are several theories as to what happened (and why they chose to go with whatever reason they ended up writing).The problem is that Philippa Gregory acts like she's writing A, claims she "sticks to the facts" when she actually ignores the majority of facts and instead of writing her books AROUND them, she writes OVER them (basically she's trying to re-write history). It's extremely frustrating to people who study history, are historians or people who just plain old really enjoy history that this author INSISTS that all of her books are based on fact.  In reality she completely ignores the majority of the facts, making her books mere skeletons of history - names, dates, marriages, births and deaths are correct (well, maybe not birthdates in this book, but you get my point), but other than that don't count on the rest of it. In some cases PG even makes up facts (she claims that she's SURE Anne Boleyn is guilty of at least one murder/poisoning, but offers no proof, and I don't think any of today's historians would agree that Anne was a murderer.  In fact Historians tend to distance themselves from PG books and PG herself because they don't want to be related to what is clearly utterly false).  And Ms. Gregory breaks the first rule of historical research, which is to USE PRIMARY RESOURCES.  When she actually does reference sources, they are secondary and usually have not stood up to the test of time or academic debate.  If PG admitted that she was changing historical facts to suit her stories, I think people would be more accepting, but unfortunately she claims her books are all Fact based and makes no notes in the text of the actual facts.
2 My friend gave me this book since she knew I liked historical novels.  Let's get one thing straight.  This is a fictional account on some historical and empirical facts.  So with that in mind, this book is nothing else but a harlequin romance novel.  If you enjoy this genre, then you will like this book.
5 I have not read much historical fiction and never would have come across this novel but for the recommendations of some acquaintances.  I LOVED it!  Fascinating subject and engrossing fictionalized account.
5 What can I say about this book, is one of my all time favorites, and have read it several times,and have recommended it and loaned my book to many friends, and family members. The author makes you feel like you are part of the action, and I enjoyed the movie version as well. Want to put it on my Kindle soon.
5 I could not put this book down.  I found myself making excuses at work to steal off somewhere and read this book - even if I only had a chance to read one page.  Based on the real life of Anne, Mary and George Boleyn as well as the court of King Henry the VIII - The Other Boleyn Girl is a MUST read.Mary, Anne's younger sister, is the main character in this novel and Philippa Gregory does an incredible job of bringing her to life and transporting the reader back to England in the 1500's.  This fictional book is based on the true fact of Mary's affair with King Henry and the subsequent marriage of Henry and Anne as well as the beheadings of both Anne, George and half of Henry's court - The Other Boleyn girl is well written and fast paced and gives a credible and interesting back story to one of the most celebrated and notorious marriages England's history as well as bringing to light several individuals who have been relegated to the back pages of history - if they are mentioned at all.From life at the court to life in the fields, The Other Boleyn girl has it all, love, adventure and intrigue.  This is by far, one of the best books I have read in ages.
5 The story of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn has been well-chronicled, but author Philippa Gregory succeeds in making history come alive in her lively retelling.  She tells her story from the point of view of Mary, Anne's sister, who is referred to as "the other Boleyn girl".  Mary and Anne are depicted as true products of the Howard and Boleyn families, enemies when in competition for the same thing and allies when there is a threat to them and their family.  They do the bidding of their elders who only care about advancing the family power and fortune.  Their parents are cold and uncaring and their uncle is calculating and willing to sacrifice his nieces for his own gain.  Anne is groomed to be the King's mistress during his marriage to Catherine of Aragon, with the hope of succeeding her as queen.  Instead she is supplanted by her own sister, Anne, and is betrayed by her family and by the king.  The court of Henry VIII is portrayed as a dangerous place, with shifting loyalties and alliances, and every man out for his own profit.  Even though the reader knows the final outcome of Anne's story, author Gregory manages to make it a suspenseful climax.
5 Wow--this book was really enjoyable!  I mean, we all know how this ends, but the inbetween stuff was really good.  I grew to love most of the characters and then I grew to hate them too, especially Anne and Henry, they both turned out to be quite selfish and horrible.  Mary and George were portrayed as quite human--flawed, but trying hard to be good all the same.  If George was anything like the character that Philippa Gregory portrays, then I am very sorry for the way he died.  I usually start a story, get bored, and read the last chapter to see if I want to read the whole thing, but not with this book--I read it cover to cover.  Then I got on the internet to read everything I could find on the Boleyn family.  I cannot wait for the movie to come out, and I can only hope that it is at least half as good as the book.
4 I did love this book, it was a page turner and I really loved the story! I liked reading from the POV of Mary Tudor and thought the book was well written, until the end. I have to say I was not pleased with the writing towards the end at all. Mary was far too distant, not nearly emotional enough at the death of her siblings, especially after being so close to them for so many years. Sure, she may have resented Anne, but even she said she was still her sister, her other half. Not pleased with the author's ending.
5 I will tell you what everyone who read this book told me...I am not a history buff, I have never been into historical fiction and especially history about the European kings, queens and thier courts. But, I loved this book and had the most difficult time putting it down.  It is excellently written, the characters are amazing, and the book is by far one of the best books I have ever read. Don't miss out on this book. I am researching to see what books I can read that are like this one!  I just can't think of anyone who would not enjoy this book.  Because I loved it, and I hated learning about that genre, then anyone would love it!
5 The story of Anne Boleyn has been told numerous times over the years in various formats, so I was intrigued by this book and discovered it is just as much Mary's story as it is Anne's.Anne Boleyn's younger sister Mary catches the eye of King Henry VIII of England at the age of 14 and, at the direction of her family, becomes the king's mistress.  No matter that the girl is already married, her family sees Mary's relationship with the king as a way to advance their social status - if only Mary could bear the king a son, the family's future would be secure.Mary bears the king a daughter and later has a son (whose parentage is, to this day, in dispute) and the king soon tires of her and turns his attention to Anne, whose story we all know from high school history classes.  Yet, it was interesting to see the story told from the viewpoint of Mary in the first person, rather than a narrative or an historical book.Sadly, Mary was the only of the three Boleyn siblings - Mary, Anne and George - who did not have a date with the executioner.  She was also the only one to marry for love, and not to advance her family.  This single act caused her to be disowned by her family, although it is believed she lived a happy life.I'm a sucker for those crazy Tudors.  I have read Alison Weir's "Six Wives of Henry VIII," Elizabeth I" and "The Children of Henry VIII," all of which I count among my favorite books on the Tudor period.  "The Other Boleyn Girl" has joined them on that shelf.
3 The Other Boleyn Girl is a compelling story and it is easy to see why it is so successful. I felt caught up in the court life during Henry VIII's reign. My biggest problem is the heavy-handed treatment of the characters - Anne Boleyn is too ruthless and ambitious; Mary is just too good; Henry is one-dimensional.  The history license taken is considerable but not surprising given the premium placed on writing a juicy tale.In spite of books shortcomings, I enjoyed this as a guilty pleasure. I will probably check out other works by Gregory from my local library. I would rather spend my money on books by writers like Roberta Gellis or Sharon Kay Penman because they write higher quality historical romances.
5 I remeber hearing briefly about Mary Boleyn when PBS did a documentary series on the six wives of Henry VIII, but I never knew much about her or King Henry's court.  Gregory recreates court life in the 16th century, full of intrigue, lust, decadence, spying, and betrayal.  Anne  Boleyn is a household name, but who knows that her younger sister had two children by Henry VIII before he moved on to Anne? Let me not spoil the juicy experience for you.  This was the first of Gregory's novels that I read.  I have now finished five!  I recommend them all highly, and in this order: The Other Boleyn Girl, The Boleyn Inheritance, The Queen's Fool, The Virgin's Lover, Earthly Joys.  Enjoy! Kate
3 This book held my attention and was a pleasant, though very undemanding read.Gregory tells it in the first person, in the voice of Mary Boleyn, Anne's older sister.I give Gregory credit for making money from this and for thinking of a different angle from which to tell Anne Boleyn's story.The book is 664 pages long, but in spite of that Gregory has left out nearly all the meat of the story. Queen Catherine's resolute resistance is not recounted. More and Fisher and the terror of The Act of Succession get two paragraphs. Wolsey's key role and tragic fall are barely mentioned.The scurrilous rumors of George Boleyn's perversions are taken as fact and are given as motivation for much of the endgame. Anne's loss of the 2nd baby is not connected to Henry's fall from the horse.There are myriads and myriads of departures from the known facts. However, if you don't know any of the facts going in, you would find this a perfectly acceptable book.
4 We have all read and been taught the story of Anne Boleyn, the second wife of King Henry VIII. What we know little of is Anne's sister, Mary. Mary was the favorite and youngest lady-in-waiting for Queen Katherine. She was also married at age 13 to William Carey, a good friend and man high in favor with the king. When Mary catches the eye of the King, Mary's family, The Boleyn's and the Howard's, decide she must leave her husband to be available to the King. Soon, Mary finds herself in love with the King. She gives him two children. When the King begins to lose interest in Mary, the family decides she must step aside in order to let her sister Anne, seduce the King. Anne indeed catches the King's eye. For three years, she keeps the King's interest without giving into him sexually, although she does satisfy him in other ways.The King wants her so bad he will do anything to have her. She convinces him to leave Queen Katherine and to obtain an annulment. She also introduces him to Martin Luther's religion teachings. This change in the church practices begins the new Church of England. Anne becomes quite ruthless in her need of power, not only over the King, the Court, but also her family,Mary had spent time at her family's estate in Hever. After her children were born, the children remained there to be cared for and Mary returned to Court to perform her duties. She was allowed to return to Hever during the summer months. On one of her trips, she was escorted by William Stafford. He stayed at Hever with her and they fell in love. Eventually, they married without permission. He later built her a home in the area, and they moved there to raise their children.There is so much more detail and story lines in this book; Queen Katherine, the King's spoiled, selfish rants and needs, the relationship between England, France, Spain, and the Catholic Church, the sibling relationship between Anne, Mary, and George, and the dynamics of the Boleyn-Howard family.We must remember this is historical fiction of the Tudor Court. There are inaccuracies but it gives us a very vivid look into the time period and life of King Henry's court. It was a very enjoyable read.
5 This book is a can't put down book.  I am usually more of a who done it mystery type, but this book is so compelling it has me investigating related books with a pure historical basis.
5 This book is one of Gregory's best yet! This book is so good that they are going to be making a major motion picture from it! This book is a bit long, but when you get to the last page, you want it to keep going. A real page turner. This book is definitely a must read!
3 While I mostly enjoyed Phillipa Gregory's novel, The Other Boleyn Girl, I found myself constantly turning to the internet to "fact check", only to be disappointed that the novel was, more often than not, incorrect.  When I began reading I had been under the impression that this was a groundbreaking, mildly fictionalized account of the life of the lesser known Boleyn sister.  Thus, I was left baffled, much like I had been upon reading The da Vinci Code.  Had I no preconceived notions of accuracy before I began reading, I would have enjoyed the novel much more because I could have read it purely as fiction.  If you know little about history and do not care to know more, you will enjoy this book for its purely speculative nature.  That P.G. firmly believes she is telling the truth will be of no consequence to you. However, if like me, you actually do know about history and do care, then you will find this book to be sordid and silly.  As the saying goes, "take it with a grain of salt" and you will more than likely be entertained.  Just don't read it expecting some revelation of history.  You won't find it here.
3 I decided to read this book on a whim.  I knew it had been made into a movie which apparently had very good reviews, but hadn't read any other books by Philippa Gregory.  I used to read these type of books many years ago and really enjoyed them, but I just couldn't get into this one - not sure whether it was too slow in getting moving or it was just me.  I am sure that other reviewers will have a different viewpoint and I would be interested in reading their thoughts.
5 Being a junkie who loves to read about British nobility, I have found some books on the subject to be big yawners, much like college text books, but not this one.  Philippa Gregory has a wonderful perception of the lives of her characters, which is evident in her writings.  They have become more alive for me than with any other author.I would highly recommend this book and am looking forward to reading the others she has written.
5 I have read so many bland and otherwise unbelievable historical novels that I was a bit skeptical when I picked up The Other Boleyn Girl. From the start, I was hooked. Using Mary, sister to Anne, as a narrator was as brilliant touch by the author, as she comes across as a vastly different woman with somewhat lesser ambitions, as far as having power and the throne in her grasp.Her sister? Power and ambition seem to be born in her and the author, Philippa Gregory, has clearly done her research, as I felt like I was seeing the world of the 1500s, so vivid, so real. Male/ female relationships were also clearly spelled out and I saw the Boleyn girls as the pawns they were in a very dangerous game of strategy to catch the eye of King Hentry the VIII. It was clear that men held the power and the women were meant to do the bidding of their families, especially if they could be used to help secure land, financial security or upward mobility in society.This may be hard for those looking at the events from a modern perspective but I think the author wasn't off base in her assessment of the times. She has certainly done her research because at the end of the book there is an extensive bibliography, adding weight to my assumption that here is one author who does her homework - and quite thoroughly.Although historical fiction can rarely be accurate as to what was ACTUALLY said at certain moments in history (with the exception of those times when reliable notes or tapes were taken), there can be a fairly solid recreation of the way people lived, the values and traditions. This is one of the strongest points in the book, as the author recreated the daily activities of each level of social class and showed how important (and even dangerous) it could be to catch the King's eye. I also got a feel for the foods eaten, the expectations for women (to speak many languages, learn domestic arts, how to act with propriety and proper manners) and little details like having hair combed with lice combs provided information about the realities that even the highest classes had to deal with (yes, even lice).Every detail of this book pulled at my emotions and imagination as well as providing historical information I hadn't known before.. When I wasn't caught up in reading about the various intrigues of the Boleyn family then I would be sympathizing with poor Mary as she was torn from her children or wondered how various women would fare later in history, not just the Boleyns but the Seymour girls. The author makes no bones about how women were used as pawns, devices in a dangerous game of ambition, scheming and desire to advance a family's reputation.I refuse to say too much about the plot except to note that I doubt few readers will be unmoved by the events described here. Also, you'll come away with a deeper appreciation for the history of the day, an understanding about how it may have played out in day to day life and women's life in the 1500s, as well as court intrigue, political scheming and much more. Richly detailed writing and totally engaging! .Related books:The Rise and Fall of Anne Boleyn: Family Politics at the Court ofAnne Boleyn
4 The Other Boleyn Girl paints a vivid, beautifully alive picture of what life was like in 16th Century England. That picture may not always be pleasant (in fact at times it can be horrific considering the lengths that the Howards went to to gain power), but it always magnificently transports you to another time and place. Whether it is historically accurate or not, it is nonetheless entertaining and really makes you wonder about the true historical events around the Boleyns. I found myself digging through my old school papers and Google to refresh my memory on the history, and I found I learned a lot in the reading of this novel.The only complaint I have is that it just would not end. I think several chapter could have been cut in an effort to make to make the story progress faster.Other than that, I highly recommend this book!
5 What a tale! Ms Gregory is a wonderful historical storyteller and doesn't disappoint in this novel. &quot;The Other Boleyn Girl&quot; gives the story of Anne and Henry the VIII from the sister's perspective. This allows the reader to observe the sad story from the outside but with feeling and personal observations. The historical information alone will knock your socks off. Great, wonderful read for those that like substance in their romances.
5 I highly recommend this book to anyone with even a passing interest in the Tudor Court.Gregory does a fantastic job of developing an engrossing story with the soap-opera of Henry VIII's court at its center. I've heard differing opinions on just how historically accurate this novel is, but in the end I think it matters little. Gregory stays close enough to the facts to be believable and ultimately it is a work of fiction.My only critique is that she works so hard at sanctifying Mary Boleyn while villifying Anne. She asserts on several occasions that Mary is as preoccupied with family and personal advancement as Anne, but the story she tells seems to indicate that Mary is an unwitting participant in all the intrigue.In the end, that one flaw vanishes in the sheer beauty and scope of the novel. It is not an undertaking for the faint of heart, at over 600 pages, but it is well worth it. I found it to be a quick read despite its length.Here's to, as Eddie Izzard would say, "sex, death and religion in an interesting night-time telly kind of way"!
4 I really enjoyed this book. I am more the romance genre reader but for some reason I kept picking up this book. I am glad I did.  It was very interesting the roller coaster these characters lived on. In fact the story such a rollercoaster I couldn't put it down and I found myself speeding through the book as if I couldn't wait to read what happened in the end.  Shockingly enough history did not change, but this author made you think the Queen actually had a shot.  Good read!
4 _The Other Boleyn Girl_ is an engrossing and often saddening novel about Henry VIII's second wife, Anne Boleyn, and her sister Mary, who was Henry's mistress before Anne snagged him.  Mary and Anne share a deep bond and a deeper rivalry, born of the fact that their family views them merely as pieces to be played in a great game of social climbing.  Their value is equal only to what sort of advantages they can bring to the family.  Love, marriage, honor?  All are sacrifices to be laid upon the altar of ambition.Sweet, romantic Mary, newly married, catches the eye of the King, and at the urging of the family, leaves her husband and becomes Henry's mistress.  During her pregnancy with the King's bastard son, her family pushes Anne into the King's eye so that he will not stray to a girl from another family.  But Anne, her heart hardened by losing the man she loved, is playing for the crown, not for love or for a few extra estates.  Soon Henry is captivated by the mysterious Anne and will turn the world upside down to have her.The rest is history, but Gregory manages to keep us reading even though we know exactly what will happen to Anne.  We see the formerly dignified court become a playground for spoiled children once Henry declares that he answers only to himself; we see the handsome and sympathetic Henry become the biggest of the spoiled children himself, growing fat, drunk, and fickle.  We see Anne's high-strung desperation growing to the point of near-madness as she fails to give the King a son, and the doomed and strange relationship between Anne and her brother George.  We witness the King's head turn from maddening Anne to the insufferably sweet Jane Seymour.  And as the whole court goes to hell in a handbasket, we also watch Mary find love with an obscure gentleman farmer.Anne taunts Mary when she becomes queen; Mary will henceforth be only "the other Boleyn girl", forgotten by history, while everyone will know Anne's name.  But which is more important? asks this book.  Anne's name is still familiar to schoolchildren, but she lived a desperate life and ended up missing her head.  Mary is barely remembered, and those who do recall her only snicker that she was a trollop too dumb to win marriage from the King, but she lived a life of contentment.  Anne's motto was "The Most Happy", but perhaps that title must be given to Mary.
5 I was looking for a book that I couldn't put down... This was the book!  What a great story.  I found it very hard after reading the Outlander series to get into another book.  This book was the answer!
4 Philippa Gregory tells the tale of Anne Boleyn and her sister Mary, in her extraordinary novel The Other Boleyn Girl. Mary Boleyn is the narrator of Gregory's novel. The Boleyn family pits sister against sister to further their political aspirations. Mary, who has an affair with King Henry VIII and has two children with him, is eventually pushed aside by her sister Anne. Mary details how Anne overthrows Katherine of Aragon and wins the affections of King Henry.It has been a very long time since I read any historical fiction. I must say that I approached this novel with some trepidation. However, I was most pleasantly surprised. Gregory is an amazing author. She wove intricate detail into the story without bogging it down. It was quick-paced and I honestly had trouble putting the novel down. The characters are well-developed, the plot was intriguing, and Anne was the kind of character that you love to hate. It was wonderful!I will definitely be checking out Gregory's other novels.
4 The Other Boleyn girl tells the story of Mary, King Henry the VIII's mistress before he met and married Mary's sister, the more well-known Ann.This is a great story, beautifully written and completely interesting from beginning to end.  Written from Mary's point of view, the story elaborates on the theme that both Mary and Ann were pawns in the Boleyn family's push for upward mobility.This is the first book I have read by Philippa Gregory, and I am looking forward to receiving The Queen's Fool so that I may read that, as well.  There are events in her novel, however, that some historians do not believe occurred.  For instance, in this book, Henry fathers Mary's first two children while she was married to (but living separately from) her husband.  Some historians dispute this allegation and believe that Mary was the king's mistress prior to her marriage and that her children were the offspring of both Mary and her husband--and concieved very much after the affair ended.  Regardless, these are events that will most likely always be in dispute and have been, thus far, impossible to prove definitively either way.  And, Philippa Gregory chooses the option that makes for a better story and more empathetic character.  Good for her.This novel transports the reader through time and is difficult to put down. I also recommend The Autobiography of Henry VIII, by Margaret George, for another fictionalized first-person account of this era in British history.
5 The other boleyn was my first reading of a Philippa Gregory, and i couldnt put it down.  The story was believeable, never boring and painted a very real visual of life in Henry's Court -- certainly supported that he would not be any womens choice for sound husband material!!  I would highly recommend this book, as well as The Queen's Fool.  Both were great Elizebethian reads -- Enjoy!!!
5 An engrossing and well-told story about the Tudors and a glimpse into what life was like for 16th century women at the hands of their much more powerful men.  I simply could not put it down!
3 The air of competition and ambition that made up Mary Boleyn's life is not often the story that you hear when speaking of the Boleyns and life at the English court.  Philippa Gregory weaves an almost fantastical tale of ambition, pride, and greed and two girls who were sacrificed at the alter of their family's desire for power.  The relationship between Anne Boleyn, her sister Mary (the Other Boleyn Girl), and their brother George is at the forefront of this nearly 700-page novel.  We follow the family for 15 years on their quest for the throne.  Along the way there is marriage, murder, death, disgrace, and everything else you could imagine in a country guided by the whims of its aristocracy.The Other Boleyn girl is the first piece of historical fiction of its kind that I've read and I was impressed with it, if a little surprised.  Gregory takes some liberties with the past, though in her author's note she substantiates them and cites references, which is helpful. In its efforts to depict the day-to-day life of a court more than 400 years old, Gregory has given us a story of a family so blinded by ambition that it tore itself apart.  I found The Other Boleyn Girl an engaging true tale of the pitfalls of greed and when I'm in the mood for another 600-page novel, I'll definitely pick up another of Gregory's books.
4 Just finished and I could go back and read it again. Ms. Gregory truly 'gets' the era, history and nuances of court life and brings to life how it affects each character.
4 Very long, but I finished it in a day because it was so enthralling. Can't wait to see the movie.
3 Throughout the centuries Mary Boleyn has been portrayed as either a simple little ... who was too easy going to go for the crown or as a helpless victim. This book goes a long way toward making you see Mary as something else. Is this the real story? Perhaps or perhaps not. This is historical FICTION afterall. The real Mary not only outlived her brilliant siblings but managed to find marital happines. It's a fascinating story and well told. My favorite Boleyn book is The Concubine by Norah Lofts. This book definitely deserves to sit on the same shelf.
4 We enjoyed watching the TV series The Tudors and reading this book made me feel like I was continuing the tv series. I liked the perspective of Mary.
5 This book kept my attention from start to finish.  It is filled with history and depicts Henry VIII and Anne Boelyn quite truthfully in my opinion.  Neither was a kind person, nor a good person -- that is generally known, this book brings out the personalities of the pair very well.  It reaffirmed what I already beleived about both people-- I always thought Henry VIII and Anne Boelyn deserved eachother, this book will explain why perfectly.
5 I found this book to be a very fantastic read and really enjoyed the story, the characters, and the excitement of it all. This book added to the story line and helps peak the interest of the reader. All of Philippa Gregory books are well written. I find it very interesting to learn about the history of England's king and queens. I have read all of her books in the series except The Other Queen which I did find to be written poorly which is a disappointment that I had to pay for something written this bad. But Other then that book all the others are worth the price. A Must Read
5 Everyone knows the story of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn, but this book brings these characters to life & puts a whole new perspective on this age old tale.  Mary Boleyn, like her sister Anne and brother George, has spent virtually her entire life in the Royal Court, and the siblings are well educated on how to mask their inner emotions and desires with a courtiere's smile.  Dominated by an ambitious uncle, they are each directed to play roles that will advance the family's status.  After Mary's relatively brief affair with King Henry VIII, she is supplanted by her sister Anne, and Mary is reunited with the husband she had been married to, but separated from, since she was 12 years old.  After his sudden death from disease, she meets and falls in love with a man of whom her family would never approve.  Eventually, as things slowly start to disintegrate for her sister Anne, Mary finally finds the courage to separate herself from her family and leave the royal court behind to join the man she has married for love.  I love reading a good historical novel, and this book was no exception.  Philippa Gregory does a fantastic job of developing characters, setting, and plot to keep the reader engaged from beginning to end.
5 One of the best books I have ever read.  This book started my fascination with Henry VIII.  As far as I am concerned Philippa Gregory is one of the best historical fiction writers around.
5 Having fallen in love with Showtime's The Tudors, I've been slightly addicted to historical fiction from the time of Henry the Eighth recently. This book was a great read and I was sad when it ended. The author's style was straightforward and descriptive without being overly flowery. I will read more by this author, Phillipa Gregory!
5 An absolutely fabulous book about Henry VIII and the Boelyn family.  Gregory is historically accurate in this story. If you have no frame of reference for this period in history, don't worry.  She will fill you in with all the relevant facts. Most interesting was the place of women in society during this period - their limitations and expectations by all family members of origin and their husbands.
1 The hallmarks are all there--the air of virtue and innocence, the first love quickly disillusioned, jealousy, backbiting, a second romance that proves to be the reason for living--yes, we will someday see some actress playing Mary Boleyn on the Lifetime channel in "The Other Boleyn Girl."  That's all this novel is fit for.  Mary Boleyn is the most bovine "heroine" I've ever encountered, and Philippa Gregory's writing never gets above the Weepie of the Week level.  The Boleyns are a fascinating subject for fiction; they aren't served well or made interesting by Gregory's book...
1 It's tough being a Tudor lover, especially when you're also a European history major. The trashy movies, TV shows, and novels just don't seem to end.But this piece blew me farther away than most with its incredible levels of sensationalist inaccuracy.Why? When history has provided us with such a vibrant tapestry of dynamic, intriguing characters, real people living real lives, why must we reduce them to soap opera depth and dignity?Ordinarily I wouldn't bother with adding to the voices debating this book; there are plenty of people doing that already. But when I saw this:"I recommend this book and all of the Tudor novels written by Philippa Gregory to anyone who loves true historical fiction."... I had to speak up.To anyone reading: this is NOT TRUE HISTORY! This is trashy, inaccurate drivel! The history of humanity is too deeply thrilling and too important to be obscured by this level of sludge. There is no excuse for this kind of ignorance in the modern age; a quick Internet search can render treasure troves of information like our ancestors could only dream of. Get your historical knowledge from Google, if you like, but not from Gregory.I don't have anything against sensationalist romances. If that floats your boat, great. But I do have issue with the subject I care so passionately for being trampled without apology.So read the book, if you like; enjoy it even. But please, please don't take anything it says to be real history! We deserve to be better informed than this.
5 This really is a great read.  Loved the characters and although loosely based on history felt the need to learn more about the wives of Henry the VIII.  I will read more of Philippa's books and cannot wait to start the next one.
1 If OK magazine and Penthouse had been writing in the 1500's this is what they would have come up with.First, it is a badly written book.  It is essentially bad Tudor porn.  No characters are well written, and they are all insufferable.  Honestly they couldn't behead Anne fast enough for me.  Even Mary, who should have been the heroine/likeable one was a winy, annoying character.Second, if you're going to make it up just call it fiction and don't try to pass it off as history.  Do some basic research.  If I can refute the basic "facts" of your book in 5 minutes with Google, it's not history in any sense of the word.This book does not deserve to be a best seller, she does not deserve to be identified as an historical fiction writer.  I look at author recommendations on books, and if she recommends it I put it down and move on.
4 This was an incredible book. I have never read anything like this, and found it refreshing. My only complaint about the book is that for such a long-winded story (which I think is necessary in this book), she breezes over some things that left me confused. The book is so long that she should have found a way to remind the reader of who a character was from 500 pages ago. I would recommend this book to anyone. Also, this is a great book club book because there are book club questions in the back.
5 The ending is of course not a surprise as far as what happens to Anne, but I haven't read too much about this time period, so I didn't even know that Mary Boleyn existed. The author does an amazing job of combining history with fiction and really bringing the characters to life. A very satisfying book.
5 I loved this book! I know from my own research that it is only partially factual but it was entertaining and had enough history that the characters were entirely believable. I could not put it down.
5 Wonderful story and written superbly!  This is the book that got me into reading Phillipa Gregory.  I could hardly put it down!
5 I loved it. This is historical fiction at its finest. Depicting Mary's POV, very eloquently written. A very provocative story with fascinating characters. I found myself ingnoring the world around me 'till I had this one finished. A fine piece of historical fiction. You will not be disappointed.
5 This book was very well written. That said, what makes it a great read is that it is written from the prospective of Mary Boleyn, Anne's older sister. While we all know the story of Henry's wives, it was interesting to have it presented solely from Mary's eyes. While there was clearly literary license taking with many of the details of the story since they are not known, it really makes for a book that I could not put down.
5 VERY GOOD
5 An interesting take on the Boleyn family, narrated by Anne's lesser know sister, Mary. In this telling of the story, Mary is depicted as the younger sister, which I found interesting as most historical accounts list her as being the older. A quick and enjoyable read!
4 This book is a very creative way of viewing the story of Anne Boleyn through the eyes of her lesser known sibling, Mary.
5 Philippa Gregory is definitely one of my favorite authors!  This is the first book I read by her, and I completely fell in love with her writing style and the topic that she typically writes about:  England history in the 1400s and 1500s.  I love this book so much!  I would definitely recommend reading this novel!For a more in-depth review, check out my book blog, A Nook of Blankets and Books![...]
4 I didn't expect to enjoy this book. I definitely liked it more than I liked the movie. It's clearly fictionalized, and sometimes the characterizations don't quite match up with the actions the characters take, but it was much better written than I expected. I've grown a bit tired of stories about Anne, because most Tudor books seem to be about her, and reading her story from her sister's perspective was a nice alternative.
5 Transport yourself into the time of King Henry VIII!!  I felt like a fly on the wall, or at least one of the courtesans watching this drama unfold.It's an amazing story, and told best here.  How the women of the era wove their way through through the power, greed and deception is fascinating!  I couldn't put it down...my BOOK CLUB loved this book also!  It does not disappoint and I felt like I was learning something about the time period as the "fact" blend seamlessly with the fiction!ENJOY!!
4 It's no secret that I like good historical fiction, but Philippa Gregory's The Other Boleyn Girl literally blew me away. While it is actually the second book in the Tudor series, it was the first one published and remains, in my humble opinion, the best of the series.The Other Boleyn Girl follows a fictionalized, but surprisingly accurate account, of King Henry VIII of England's marital status & romantic involvements in the early 1500's. Mary Boleyn had been sent to France for an education on societal interactions and came to the English court at the young age of 14. Now, early 1500's 14 and present-day 14 are two completely separate animals, and so she was considered a proper lady of marrying age.Instead of being married though, she catches King Henry VIII's eye and falls madly in love with him. The novel follows their affair, because the King was still married to Lady Katherine of Aragon whom Mary served, and their love for one another. It's when Mary realizes that her family is using her to further their own interests that she understands that her future is not as secure and comfortable as it seems. There is a new woman in the court who is starting to appeal to the King. And it is the other Boleyn girl, Anne. Will Mary risk her safety and potentially her life to defy her family and king to live the life she has always wanted?I'm not even exaggerating when I say this was one of the more compelling novels and attractive characters I had read. Mary was so dynamic, I felt like she could do anything she put her mind to in the face of immense danger. She seemed to know so much and be aware of so many things that it was just unreal. Her sister was simply demented though. Philippa did a wonderful job portraying Anne as the conniving, scheming individual that she truly was. There is no doubt in this story that everyone has flaws, but the way they manage their flaws is fascinating.The setting was absolutely breathtaking as well. Philippa spends quite a bit of time and energy making sure that the scene is fully set in the reader's mind before she moves the storyline forward. It's almost as if she really wants you to experience something, that is very difficult for most people to imagine, firsthand. The clothes were opulent, the settings were mesmerizing, & the interactions were captivating. Nothing was spared in this story and it shows. This book is truly a fascinating read for court-based historical fans and anyone who loves some steaming romance scenes and betrayal.P.N. While the 2008 film "The Other Boleyn Girl" starring Natalie Portman, Scarlett Johansson, and Eric Bana was overall decent, I found the storyline deviated far too much from the book. It was obviously made more sexual for audiences and I felt that it lost some of the poetry that the story lived in. Not bad, but the book is definitely better (as it almost always is).
5 The Other Boelyn Girl is the story of Mary Boelyn, sister of Anne Boelyn, the second wife of Henry VIII of England.  This novel describes Mary's journey from an obedient Howard Girl into an independent woman.I really loved this novel.  The mixture of romance, ambition, and betrayal kept me interested from the very beginning.  The Other Boelyn Girl is a very quick paced book.  If you miss just one paragraph, you may miss a crucial part of the story.  This ensures that there is never a dull moment in this novel.The characters, especially Mary and Anne, have so much depth.  I really felt like I knew the characters every emotion.  Although they are all not easy to like (not all are meant to be liked), Gregory made each character captivating, making the book near impossible to put down.Gregory's portrayal of King Henry VIII through Mary's eyes was magnificent.  At first, she thought of him as a beautiful God, perfect in every way.  As she matured so did her perception of the powerful King.  She began to view him as he really was behind all the masks he loved to wear.I have read other novels by Phillipa Gregory, and I can say, without a doubt, that this is her greatest novels.  Although I found many of the others somewhat dry and boring at times, The Other Boelyn Girl is both captivating and intriguing with the ability to hold a readers attention from start to finish.
4 This book arrived in a a little slower then I thought in fact had kinda forgot I order it, but since I was not in a rush it was not a huge problem. Arrived as said in good shape. Book had no wear,tears or markings.
5 Most people know that Anne Boleyn was the second wife of England's King Henry VIII, but few have heard of Mary Boleyn- the other Boleyn girl. Anne's sister (historians disagree as to whether she was older or younger) played on the stage of the Tudor court, yet has been mostly forgotten as she was never queen and died of natural causes.As a female member of the Boleyn and Howard families, Mary was a pawn to be used for gain, her own feelings and wants to be ignored. Married at 12 to William Carey, at 14 Mary caught the eye of the philandering king- then wed to Katherine of Aragon- and was his mistress for several years, bearing two children in the process. While laying in to have her second child, her sister Anne seduced the king, reserving only her (questionable) virginity, which she withheld for a promise of marriage and queenship. As we all know, that marriage and queenship was short and unhappy and ended with Anne's head removed from her body.This novel, told from the point of view of Mary Boleyn Carey, is a story that blends the false glitter of the court with strong family ties- ties of both obedience and of love. Mary loves her sister Anne but is also jealous of her- they are constant rivals at everything. Anne is her beloved sister but Anne is a user, someone who never looks at a situation without wondering how she can turn it to her advantage and humans-including family- are disposable.  She learned this from her parents, who taught their children- including brother George- well. Their parents care not what happens to their children, as long as they are advanced at court and made wealthy.In this telling, Mary is less driven than Anne or George and more in touch with her moral side. She sleeps with the king because her parents tell her to, while questioning the propriety of betraying both Queen Katherine and her own husband. She asks for presents for her family at their behest. She gives up her place as mistress and aids her sister's ascension despite having come to love the king. She teaches her sister sexual tricks to hold the king and helps her hide miscarriages. She hides the secrets of the family, secrets that are punishable by death.But she finally rebels and makes a life for herself, marrying for love. Not long after, the Boleyn web of secrets falls apart and we all know how that story ends. Mary alone lives on, and historical record seems to point to a happy, if short, life after that.This book takes some liberties with history but I'm willing to forgive it. Gregory brings the era and the court to brilliant, vivid life. Somehow she manages to get the reader to care about these people, not just Mary (although she comes off best) but the avaricious Anne and George, and even the petty, selfish, childish king Henry. These characters are fleshed out, with the contradictions of spirit that we all have. I loved this book.
5 This well-known author of historical fiction has outdone herself with this  rich and absorbing tale of the notorious Boleyn sisters, Anne and Mary. The Tudor court, with all its pomp and intrigue, is seen through the eyes of the beautiful Mary Boleyn, who at the age of fourteen arrives at court and becomes lady-in-waiting to Katherine of Aragon, Queen of England and wife to King Henry VIII.  Although already married to courtier William Carey, Mary captures the heart of King Henry VIII, whose roving eyes land on this innocent young miss.In the eyes of  the grasping and greedy Boleyn family, Mary is but the fatted calf through whom their ambitions, they believe, will become realized. So, they offer her up as a sacrifice to their ruthless ambition. Forced to separate from her husband in order to become the King's mistress, Mary betrays the Queen and becomes mistress to the King, all at the behest of her family. Every step of her affair is choreographed from the wings by her family, with the adept aid of her sly and clever sister, Anne, in the role of chief manipulator.Mary struggles with her own code of honor and personal morality, which is often in conflict with what is mandated by her family. Still, despite her best intentions, Mary disappoints them, as her nature is not the kind that takes well to intrigue and manipulation, as she has sincere feelings of affection for the King, as well as for the Queen. After bearing the King two children, however, she is set aside by a formidable rival, her own sister, Anne, in whom  the Boleyn family now place their hopes and ambitions.This is, first and foremost,  the story of Mary Boleyn, a woman who has generally been reduced to a footnote in history. It is notable, however, that she was the only Boleyn sibling to survive the purges of the Tudor court and who, ultimately, married for love in an age when this was not the norm among those of her class.  It is also the story of Anne Boleyn, her rise and fall, as seen through the eyes of her sister, Mary, with whom Anne was to have a lifelong rivalry.To a  lesser degree, it is also the story of their brother, George, a more remote, though no less interesting, personage. His interjection into the story is necessary, as the author attempts to address the issue of incest that arose at the trial of George and Anne Boleyn. She gives quite an interesting perspective on the issue, weaving it, part and parcel, into the story in an effort to explain his downfall, as well his betrayal by his own wife.Told against the magnificent backdrop of the Tudor Court in all its splendor and majesty, the author weaves a complex tale of greed, ambition, sex, and political machination, as well as unparalleled intrigue, in sixteenth century England. Filled with well-fleshed characters taken right out of the annals of history, the story is one that is sure to delight all those with a love for well-written historical fiction. In particular, fans of beloved author, Jean Plaidy, will enjoy this book.
5 This book has truly been one of the best books I've ever read. It is fast paced with a well-woven suspenseful plot with twists and turns. The complexity of the character's emotions, especially Mary Boleyn as the 1st person narrator, is extraordinary. Mary pulls you into her life and into the inner workings of her family and life in Henry VIII's court. While the story may be fictional, many details are historically accurate. After finishing this book, I went on to read a biography of Anne Boleyn and one on Henry VIII. I can't say enough good things about The Other Boleyn Girl, though. I breezed through all 600 pages in a matter of days because it was just that good!
5 At first I struggled with this book, wondering why am I reading about all these petty jealousies from an era long gone?  But I am  the way through it now and can't put it down!  I wanted to know more about the family trees of the various characters in this book, mostly to see if any of Mary Boleyn's children may still have living descendents, particularly those she had with Henry VIII.  I found this website:[...]I followed the descendents of Mary's daughter with Henry VIII, Catherine Carey (they spell it with a "K") down though Lettice Knollys (Mary & Henry VIII's granddaughter), Dorothy Devereaux (great-granddaughter) etc., until 9 generations later there was Edmund the 8th Earl of Spenser, who happens to be the father of Diane Frances (Lady Spenser) who married none other than Charles, the Prince of Wales.Kinda makes you think about how history has a way of repeating itself. The fates of Mary Boleyn and Lady Di seem similar in how they were used by powers beyond them to further someone else's agenda.  But, it seems when William Arthur Phillip Lois Windsor (Prince William) ascends the throne, which he inevitably will, England will be ruled by a descendant of Henry VIII and Mary Boleyn.  Let's hope with a happy ever after.
5 I loved this book. I seen the movie and have to say the book is so much better. I finished reading it then started reading it all over again. This was the first book I've read about Henry VIII and its inspired me to want to know everything I can about that time. Now I own over 30 books about Tudor history. I want to read everything I can get my hands on, and I never bore of it. And to think I owe it all to this book! It's from Mary Boleyn's point of view. You will see her challanges as well as Anne and the rest of their family. You will feel like your right there at court with them. It's an exciting and fearful time at the court of Henry VIII. It is also very accurate and I highly recommend it. Its one of Phillippa Greggory's better books. I've read all her books and this one is by far her best work. You will fall in love with the Tudor era if your not already.
2 With an emphasis on the "fiction" part! This could've been a really good novel but it fell way short.  I guess I just prefer historical fiction to be well, historical!
5 Didn't really know what to expect but it surpassed what I thought it would be.  I know this book was highly vetted for historical accuracy.
4 Lately, I have been really into historical fiction, so when the clerk at Borders recommended this, I figured I'd give it a try. At first, I couldn't get into it. But within an hour, I was hooked. Later I was rushing home from work to see how the story would unfold. I knew little of the history behind it, which made it more interesting for me. (I think history buffs could enjoy it as well though.) I simply could not stop reading this book! It is so well researched that I felt I learned a lot about the time period as well as being so entertained. It's long and detailed, but the result is a rich plot and complex characters.
5 I haven't enjoyed a Henry V III storyline this much since Anne of the Thousand Days!  One of Gregory's best in my opinion.  Not as much of the mystical as is her norm and I think the book is better for it.  Pretty accurate historically too, for a novel.
4 This book reminded me of a cross between a Danielle Steele novel and a Harlequin romance.  I didn't want to like it, but must admit I did.  I am not sure how historically accurate it is, but I AM sure that it is entertaining.  Seduction, innocence, dark secrets, chastity, evilness and even incest all in one book.
5 Opens up an interest of the history of this period in a very easy reading manner. I found I was googling to get more information on King Henry VIII and acquired the book with his love letters to Ann Boleyn. Great reading,  and I followed this with &#34;The Queens Fool&#34; which I enjoyed just as much.
3 This is certainly an entertaining novel, and it will keep you turning the pages. But Ms Gregory has a few of the facts a little muddled, and as history is always stranger than fiction, I do have to wonder why she chose to change anything about this fantastic story. For example, Ann was Mary's younger sister, not elder, and this may have put quite a different spin on their relationship. Mary's son Henry was her first born child, not second. And finally, there was absolutely no evidence that Ann ever committed incest with her brother George, and the book hints very heavily that this was indeed what happened.I guess we can just pass this off as historical fiction, and Ms Gregory certainly does do this well, painting a vivid image of Ann as a young woman who gambled all and lost, and endangered her family in the process. But this was a well documented time in history, and whereas I am willing to give historical authors a lot of leeway with characterisation, I do like my facts to be right.It is a ripping tale all right, and it is well written, but I still found myself disappointed with the liberties taken with the facts.
2 This was an entertaining book--in fact, I could hardly put it down.  However, as I read, I became increasingly uncomfortable with the historical inaccuracies introduced merely to juice up the plot.  I became annoyed with the devices that appeared with irritating predictability; for example, the horse that just happened to lose a shoe  preventing escape and requiring the characters to remain to the end of the story.  (How inconvenient to lose your narrator to intelligent self-preservation.)  Also I found the occasional feminist twist clumsy and intrusive.  This is not to suggest that noblewomen would have been unaware of the unfairness of gender roles, but I doubt they would have articulated their views to the peasants who happened to till their family's fields.  It injected a kind of revisionist aspect to the story--something I find increasingly annoying in all aspects of today's world.  There were too many obvious contrivances included merely to please or to "improve" the story--something I find disrespectful to the reader as well as the characters.  Indeed, if one wants to write fiction, why graft it onto real events and individuals (implying that it is a historical account)?  I have not objected before, when a writer took liberties with history in order to tell a story but in such cases, it was clear that the story only loosely followed a particular time or character.  This story is fiction disguising itself as a historical account.  I don't wish to minimize the fact that this book is very well written and the descriptions are rich and fascinating.  The author is very skillful.  However, I will not read any more of her books.  I felt cheated as if I had gone to an expensive restaurant expecting a meal prepared from scratch and with authentic ingredients, only to receive a supermarket microwaved entry--edible but not creditable.
2 II will admit first of all that I did not finish this book. I had never read a book by Philippa Gregory and since I like historical fiction I thought I would give her books a try. I have never been a fan of romance so that might be why I found this book light on the history and heavy on the romance. It was just not my cup of tea.
5 This was a very good book; I truly enjoyed reading it and learned a lot about that Period.  I love my Kindle and recommend the book and the Kindle for other readers.
5 From the very first page of this 660 page book I was hooked. And I couldn't stop reading it until it was finished. That's saying a lot because I considered this book and its popularity a little too lightweight for my current tastes.  I was wrong.  I loved it.  The author captured the court of Henry VIII perfectly.  The splendor and the over-indulgence and the excesses and intrigues that had formerly felt like the dry facts of history now came alive.Henry VII was married to Katherine of Aragon.  Although she had given him a daughter, Mary, she did not give him a son.  She was aging and he wanted to remarry.  The Church would not let him do this and so he changed the religion of England forever in order to marry Anne Bolyen who he later had beheaded.  According to the plot of this book, Mary Bolyen was Anne Bolyen's younger sister who had an affair with King Henry VIII before the king was smitten with the famous Anne.  There is some history that supports this claim and the author in a "afterword" tries to justify the historical facts.  This is a work of fiction however; I wouldn't want to write a doctorate thesis based on this book.  But I must say that it certainly brought me back in time to the English Court and made me aware of all its intrigues, romance and cruelty.I loved this book, and gobbled it up in almost one fell sweep.  And right after finishing it, I purchased two more books from this author and am currently enraptured by the second one.Highly recommended, especially for a long airplane trip.
5 Terrific read.  A real page turner.  Great attention to detail. Much better understanding of the era now..  Amazing how cruel they were to each other.
5 Excellent background research, compelling character developement and keen pychological insight make this one of the best historical novels on the market. Philippa Gregory has that gift, she can take historical characters that the average person knows very little about and make them fascinating and disturbingly real. This was an engaging and satisfying read and I heartily recommend it.
5 I absolutely loved this book! Philippa Gregory did an amazing job capturing the era and the history behind King Henry VIII and the Boleyn girls. I love a great book and this one is probably my all-time favorite.  I would recommend this wonderful book to anyone and everyone! Now I can't wait to see the movie!
4 I really enjoyed this account of the life of Mary Boleyn. I liked the idea that she was more innocent than we are supposed to think. She isn't portrayed as a brainless tart who enjoyed being used by her family. In this book, she does what she is told because that is what was expected of all women.
5 Such a wonderful novel finely woven into the already exciting British history.  I devoured this 700 page book and moved on to THE QUEENS FOOL.  Gregory does a great job captivating her readers and leaves them wanting more.
5 The Other Boylen Girl was in my pile of books waiting to be read ~ I don't know what took me so long to finally read it. I loved this book!! I loved Mary reading her story I wanted her to find true happiness and true love. Her sister Anne was something else, I was getting so mad!! I hated the way she treated Mary, Anne thought she was all high and mighty. Like when they send Mary away she didn't have any contact with her parents or brother and sister. Then When Anne is send away she gets a taste of what it felt like so I was happy about that. Mary just wants her two children and live in peace but her parents want great things from her they want her to marry the King even though he is already married but since the Queen can't have any children she can't give him a boy, but Mary doesn't want that life style and Anne does. As you keep reading along you are hoping everything will turn out good for Mary. This book deserves 5 stars great read!!Happy Reading Lisa
4 For the most part, this was a gripping story that revived my interest in the Tudor period, the kind of story with a &quot;you were there&quot; feel.However, I gave it four stars instead of five. One reason was that, for all its compelling qualities, it did lack a little in the drama department. When the final tragedy sweeps over George and Anne, witnessed by Mary, I wasn't as engaged as I thought I would be. This may be an inbuilt problem with making a minor character the center of the story. Anne's trial, imprisonment and execution are experienced by Mary only at second hand, or from a distance. I wanted more.The second reason (SPOILER alert) has to do with the author's choice to take seriously the accusation of incest between Anne and her brother. Her reason for doing so--that in Anne's desperation for a son, she took a lover, and George would have been the &quot;obvious choice&quot;--seemed far-fetched.  It's difficult to imagine any situation where one's brother would seem the &quot;obvious&quot; choice to father your child, no matter how desperate you were.That Anne might take a lover I could believe, and that she would trust George as her go between, absolutely; but that a woman raised in such a highly religious culture, and surrounded by admirers, would turn to her brother? It makes no sense, except as a sensational plot device.The fact that before his execution, George confessed to homosexuality but not incest, supports this. It is as if he were saying, &quot;This was what I really did.&quot;Henry had a string of stillborn children with Katherine.  Ironically, another stillbirth is probably the best proof that Henry was the father. (If Anne had taken a lover, or even produced a healthy boy with Henry, it's interesting to think how different history would have been.)The accusations, along with witchcraft and multiple adulteries, seemed obviously design to blacken Anne's name, so that Henry would be justified not merely in divorce but execution.Henry had followed a similar with Katherine, convincing himself the marriage was invalid and, crucially, it was really Katherine's fault.Probably it was also meant to salve his conscience. Having gone to such great lengths to put Anne, a commoner, on the throne, only a very good reason would seem to justify setting her aside.Mere adultery apparently wasn't enough. But an incestuous witch who trafficked with the Devil? Who could blame Henry then? I think it shows the depth of his hatred, and perhaps fear, of her.  Certainly, there was more than a touch of cruelty in persuading Anne to sign annullment papers (making her only child illegitimate, with no right to the throne) in the belief that she would be spared, only to take her life anyway.In any case, Gregory's unorthodox interpretation made it difficult for me to connect with the story after a certain point. Not difficult enough, however, to dock the book more than one star.
4 Much better than the movie! I really liked how it was a fictional book but rooted in actual events in history.
5 Literary critics will point out that Gregory's style is not based upon her literary prowess and descriptions. Gregory is able to engage the reader with a solid voice with the main character Mary Boleyn to the infamous Anne Boleyn. The heroine, Mary has her faults and her positive traits that allows her to be a well rounded character.She is thrust into the bed of King Henry the VIII after it is learned that the Queen and him fear they will never bear a male heir. You will notice that Gregory excels at displaying the status of women as pawns during this time period through Mary's explanation of events. She was recently married to a courtier, but it hardly mattered as the Boleyn and Howard family (Mary's mother belonged to the powerful Howard family) cared first and foremost about their advancement in the court and their female daughters were merely pawns in this game.Mary falls in love with the King, but everything goes awry. She gives him two children, but King Henry is fickle and starts to lose interest when the family throws Anne into the mix ensuring that he keeps himself interested in a Boleyn girl, any Boleyn really.What happens after the failed extra marital affair is where the story truly begins. Mary at one point attempts to rekindle her relationship with her husband, but the fates have other plans in store for her. When she finally finds love, it becomes one of the best moments in the novel. He is simple, stoic, neither flashy nor grand and offers Mary the one thing she desires most and that is independence and an identity, which she wasn't afforded being a Boleyn sister.It's difficult to see how Mary wants to be loyal to the Queen, but is forced to betray her due to the hold that her family has on her. Even her depiction of Anne's ascension to the throne is enough to make one shudder. The historical theories that are inserted are believable and the historical setting is seen as a backdrop, a detail, not something to become fixated and lecture the reader on. Any event of significance or social custom is slyly introduced so that the flow of the story is not broken.This book is a must read for historical readers, readers who seek a strong female voice (with flaws mind you), and those who mistakenly saw the movie, before reading the book. You will not be disappointed.
4 Ms. Gregory's interpretation of what it might have been like in the 1500's, living as the Boleyn girls in the court of Henry VIII is interesting reading, historically acurate or not.We can't possibly know what sort of conversations were had and exactly how lives were played out at that time, but it seems that Ms. Gregory took the history books and all the facts well-known, and set to creating her own story-behind-the-story. It is a work of FICTION built upon known information and expanded to fill in what MIGHT have been going on while history was in the making.This story is based upon real people in real situations and the story line that Ms. Gregory developed is what makes the historical facts come to life. Between those facts were situations of REAL LIFE and though I am not sure that each of the characters were represented accurately (as, again, we cannot know their true personalities) they would most likely be similar to how they have been portrayed based on the results we know to be true.In any case, I learned a great deal about the lifestyles, difficulties and ambitions of the people of that time period and I think I got a true sense of what the BOLELYN'S lives were probably like...and the lives of ALL those living in the 1500's.The book did seem a bit long-winded, but in that way it did give a sense of how long and tedious a journey it was through time.In the end, the story left me more interested in the rest of English history...wondering what became of the children, how Henry moved on after Anne's beheading, etc. I realized I knew little about the line to the throne and Ms. Gregory stimulated that interest, as she probably will for any reader of this book.Find out about the little known REST OF THE STORY, the Other Boleyn Girl and their brother, as well as other assorted other historical doings and get a taste of history that may lead you to wanting to know more.
5 Alittle different than the movie but it is still entertaining.If you enjoyed the movie you will enjoy this book also.
1 This was all plots and plans and no action. While it might have pictured what life was actually like in the Boleyn/Howard family, there was no action to it -- and I know that "plots and plans" can actually make a decent book, because "Memoirs of a Geisha" proves it!Thankfully, I didn't buy this book alone (I bought it at the same time I bought "The Queen's Fool"), or I would've discounted Ms. Gregory as a truly boring author altogether. Hopefully, this book was just a fluke and her others (like "The Constant Princess" and "The Virgin's Lover") are just as good as "The Queen's Fool".
5 This book was a surprise to me.  It gave such a great insight in to the Boleyn Family; a refreshing look at Anne, and especially Mary, the main caracter.  Wow!!  Great pageturner, changed my perspective entirely on the perspective of women of Henry VIII.
5 The Other Boleyn Girl was a novel I looked forward to reading everyday in the same way I looked forward to savoring a dessert and coffee. Delicious!  It may not be historically accurate in every sense or have the cleverest prose but it doesn't claim to be a history book.  It is simply a well done story that happens to have some historical truth to it which does define historical fiction.  Phillipa Gregory has written a wonderful novel about the Boleyn family with Mary Boleyn as narrator. This gives the reader an inside look into the court of Henry the VIII and the culture of England in the 1500's.  It is profoundly interesting on both accounts. Gregory manages to create an atmosphere which allows the reader to feel as if they are there.  It is appalling to see that women are treated with little regard to their feelings and not much more than servants or sex objects.  It is shameful how the advancement of a family in the social ladder rested on the looks, and sexual prowess of the females in the family regardless of their own feelings.  Anne Boleyn in the novel is portrayed as a scheming, heartless, shrew who actually steals her own sisters baby so she may have a better chance at becoming queen.  Mary the narrator although portrayed as naive in most ways is jaded by her families need for power and control and is more or less controlled by them.  George the other sibling often quotes that it is not their lot in life to be happy but to do what they must for the family. How their lives play out is the meat of the story and is very well done.  Against the back drop of England in the 1500's, court intrigue, betrayal, lust, power plays and treachery, what more could a reader ask for?  Well done!
5 Good old love em and leave em Henry.  Philippa Gregory tells a good tale - the characters come to life and the story is well worth telling.  I didn't know the depth of the relationship of Mary Boleyn with Henry the VIII.  In many books she is just a passing footnote - here its semi-center stage, after all there was her sister, Anne.
5 I love a book that transports me to another time and place, and this was so well-written!  I loved Gregory's writing, as well as the vivid picture painted of the era.  This author did some homework on the subject, and I felt enlightened to learn!
5 While the characters seduce Henry and his court, so too does this book seduce readers as each page is turned.  Readers may find it easy to follow the life of Anne Boleyn, who is both sassy and sultry; yet, we are forced to follow the emotions of her more subdued sister, Mary Carey.  However, as the story progresses, we grow to love Mary's even-tempered perspective, while we shrink from Anne's ever-increasing power--and temper.  As the story progresses, Mary emerges not as "the other Boleyn girl" but as the one who is stronger and, in the end, more seductive, for we have trusted only her to reveal the truth.
5 I've read quite a few books that I've really enjoyed recently, but this was one of my favorites! I don't have any issue separating and appreciating the difference between the real story (like the wonderful, "The Six Wives of Henry VIII" by Alison Weir) and the fictional adaptations like this and the movie (which are very different stories). I think it's really great when you're fascinated with an era to take on a real event that happened and try to discover what might have happened if the characters were a little different than they really were. 'What if we made it seem more possible that this happened (even if it didn't really)?' 'How would the characters react if we threw this into the mix?' 'How about if we exaggerate this character or make them more like this, just to serve this fictional story a little better?' I thought it was a great read! I particularly liked this version of Mary and her interactions with the other characters. It was terrific!
3 I'll let readers get a description of the book from the many other reviews posted here.  I give this three stars only because I think books like this should be enjoyed for what they are.  It's a colorful, fast read.  A beach book.But as history it is about 80 percent nonsense.  Gregory credits Warnicke's The Rise and Fall of Anne Boleyn for the idea that Henry fell out of love with a thump because of the malformed fetus Anne aborted shortly before her arrest.  However, Gregory apparently did not read much else.  Among many, many facts in that book which Gregory chose to ignore was that Anne wasn't even brought back to court till early 1527, AFTER (and maybe because) Henry decided he must invalidate his marriage to Katherine.  Everybody, especially Anne's father, knew the King was on the lookout for a new wife before he got rid of the old one.  There is no doubt the King fell in love, but the depiction of Anne as a sexual schemer and Protestant revolutionary, and Henry as her victim, is simply Gregory's recycling of the slander memorialized by Nicholas Sander years after all the principals had died.  I think Anne deserves better than that.  She was a victim, just as all Henry's women were victims.  As for Mary, from whose point of view the story is told: She was never one of the Queen's maids (how could she be?  She was a married woman).  She was at court because her husband was one of the King's Gentlemen.  Her affair with the King was very brief, and she was packed off the moment it was known she had become pregnant, around May of 1525.  She and Anne were not even at court together.  So much for the value of history in "historical" fiction.  Why don't we just call it fiction and leave it at that?
4 I heard this on audio.  It's read well but I thought the story was very predictable.  It wasn't until the end that it got to be exciting.  Otherwise very nice writing style and description.
4 I really enjoy historical fiction to begin with, so I think this book was very interesting from the start. At times it got a little boring especially in the beginning but it had a great plot and very dynamic characters. I think the author made a good effort to show everyone that in the end it was Anne's character that made the king dislike her, however she had become that kind of person to attract him even more for greedy purposes and for him. Its very sad what becomes of Anne. I know its a historical account so a lot is untrue, but it still made me upset in the end.
5 If you missed the beautiful film, "Anne of the Thousand Days", its probably because you were born after 1969, the year of the film, and watch videos on DVD (the film has only been released on VHS).  The film, a historical piece, is a treasure, illustrating with some historical inaccuracy the schism between the Catholic church and the throne of England, which fathered the Reformation and the rise of the Church of England.  To think that it was all caused by a fiery young girl that the King (Henry VIII) simply had to have, in the belief that she would bear him a son.Richard Burton shines in the role of Henry VIII, and makes you believe that the women in his life all married him for reasons other than queenship.  He creates unbelievable chemistry with the then unknown young actress, Genevieve Bujold, who went on to some success in Hollywood in the next decade.  She is bewitching as Anne, and gives one of the finest speeches on film ever made by a woman, when she vents her anger and fear at Henry in the tower before her death, and pledges that her daughter will become a great leader one day (Elizabeth I); a vision that came true.Phillipa Gregory may have been inspired by that film, because her Anne (in a secondary role in this story of Mary Boleyn)is just as conniving, feisty and beautiful as was Bujold's.  She captivates all of the court, but her need for power (encouraged by the grasping Boleyn & Howard families) and lust for vengeance at a lost love turn her from the center of the kingdom to one of its most despised residents.Gregory's genius in writing her tale is point of view - that of Mary Boleyn, who was spurned by the king after giving birth to two of his children out of wedlock.  Mary is a complicated woman who learns what Anne cannot; that happiness is more important than position in life.  Gregory completely holds the reader's interest through good times for the Boleyns and bad, and populates the tale with strong characterization of supporting players, particularly Katherine of Aragon, Henry's first queen.George Boleyn, Uncle Howard, Wolsley the Cardinal, Jane Seymour,William Carey and Mary's children are all convincingly drawn, and Gregory makes it hard to know where fact ends and fiction begins, so compelling is her rationalization of the events that played out on the world's stage.The character of Jane Parker, George's wife, is perhaps the only false or shallow note -- too vapid to be believed.What a wonderful tale and a wonderful author!  It will hold your interest, despite its length, and you'll remember it as every bit as well written as the historical fiction given us by Jean Plaidy some years earlier.Bravo!
5 Very good story telling. The characters were very well drawn, and I found I was staying up until the wee hours to finish this one. It is the mark of a great story that makes me curse out loud at one of the characters.  But Anne was so deliciously evil in this book, that I just couldn't help it. Excellent!
4 The title of The Other Boleyn Girl pretty much says it all; it's the story of Anne Boleyn's sister Mary, who was Henry VIII's mistress before he became infatuated with Anne. The historical Mary seems to have been very different from the rest of her ambitious family, receiving virtually nothing of value from Henry herself and eventually marrying, after her first husband's death, a comparatively humble man and becoming the only one of the three Boleyn children to die in bed. In this novel, however, although she is the pawn of her family, pushed into the path of the king in her mid-teens, she is far more.In Gregory's portrayal, Mary is an extremely sympathetic character but also a flawed one. She admires Queen Katherine but betrays her not only with Henry, a situation in which she has little choice, but also in more reprehensible ways. She allows her first marriage to become all but meaningless, but eventually, after Henry leaves her for Anne, begins to feel a growing closeness to her husband and, after his death, finds the strength to defy her sister and father to marry a man she loves. Despite her sometimes bitter rivalry with Anne, Mary and her daughter are the only members of the family who defend her upon her arrest. By the end of the book, Mary has truly become her own woman and can leave the court, as well as the world stage, for a real, fulfilling life.The politics of Henry's court are also portrayed in all their sordid detail: family gatherings centering on which sister should be pushed into the king's bed and how to keep her there; the bribery of maids to find out whether the queen has had her period and the secret disposal of miscarried babies; the pimping of his own sisters by their brother George, who has his own shameful secret; the intrigues of councilors and churchmen to achieve the king's desires and their own ambitions. Yet for the most part, these people are portrayed as living human beings, not angels or monsters.My main quibble with this book, and the reason it doesn't rate five stars with me, is its portrayal of Anne Boleyn. Gregory gives a realistic picture of her charm, drive, and relentless ambition to become queen, but other aspects of her character are not delineated as well. When she falls in love with Henry Percy (son of the Earl of Northumberland, not the Duke), I find it hard to believe, although Gregory obviously means for it to be a real passion that affects the course of Anne's life. Also, even though Mary mentions her (Anne) reading theology with the king as well as her wit, I never get a sense of her real intelligence or of a personality behind the obsessive ambition.On the whole, however, I recommend this book very highly; despite its almost 700 pages it only took me a few days to get through it and I enjoyed it immensely.
5 Much has been written about this turbulent time in English history, the reign of Henry VIII, when the English Court changed course, breaking from the Roman Church in order to dissolve Henry's marriage to Katherine of Aragon, who could not bear a living heir to the throne.The fortunes of the great aristocratic families, who fill the courts and fawn upon the King, are immensely enriched when they gain the King's favor and attention. Comely as a young king, Henry VIII is accustomed to garnering the flattery of the young women who serve as the Queen's attendants. The Boleyn/Howard family holds a prominent position in Henry's court in the early 1520's, as Katherine of Aragon becomes ever more desperate in her need to supply an heir and keep the King's affection.The Howards and Boleyns have many young women available to the court, and when Henry first takes note of Mary Boleyn Carey, she is already married. It is acceptable behavior for the King to tryst with her as a paramour, which would be scandalous if she were not married. Mary's sister, Anne, recently returned from the French Court, is one of the clever minds pushing Mary to prominence.  The third Boleyn, George, their brother, is also a pet of the Tudor Court, forming the family triumvirate that is to be part of the intrigue surrounding the eventual dissolution of marriage to Katherine of Aragon that will set a precedent and change history.Eventually Mary is replaced in the King's favor by her sister Anne, and George and Mary are instructed to hold their positions, this time in support of the clever, if unlikable, Anne. For five long years Anne tempts and challenges Henry, until she herself is crowned Queen. Never beloved, Anne's temperament is equal to Henry's and she hasn't the wisdom or patience to turn the other cheek on dalliances as Katherine did. Eventually, Henry tires of Anne's scolding and constant demands, his attention newly captured by the seemingly docile and pure behavior of a simpering Jane Seymour. Anne must live with the precedent she's established, swept aside by the King in his desperate pursuit of another to provide a male heir.Gregory's characters are incisive, the story masterfully told, the plots and counter-plots necessary for political viability fascinating to follow. No less complicated than modern day affairs, the degree of scheming is truly of Machiavellian design. Engaging and thought provoking, Gregory's beautifully crafted novel overflows with intrigue and ambition, with scheming characters who bet everything of the whims of a puerile King. The result is magnificent.
5 It's so Magical, the way P.Gregory tells this story. I lived with each character as the story progressed...I could relate to their fears, their heart-breaks, their passion, their thrills!This book is definitely my first brilliant read of the year, so far! :)
5 Compulsively readable and unputdownable, Philippa Gregory's "The Other Boleyn Girl" has to be her most striking work (recently made into a film adaptation). An exquisite historical masterpiece that professes such poignancy, this is a tale that shall never be forgotten for it remains firmly etched within your memory. Established and accomplished author, Philippa Gregory holds a deep understanding and awareness of the Tudor age as well as background studies in eighteenth-century literature, which she brings to the page with such effortless ease and assuredness. If you are a fan of historical fiction, then I would highly recommend this as not only a stand-out book but by (whom I believe to be) the best author within this genre.At just a mere fourteen years of age Mary Boleyn catches the eye of the greatest rulers to have sat upon the throne, Henry VIII and so begins her quest to satisfy this powerful man. However, Mary is obliged to pass on to her sister Anne all her acquired knowledge and insight into what makes Henry VIII `tick' and how to please him. As Mary divulges the key to Henry's desires she sadly must endure the consequences, as her sister soon becomes irresistible and so Mary is faced with dejection. This truly heartrending, poignant act was captured so sharply that you feel for Mary and can sense her inner suffering as ambition consumes Anne Boleyn.This is a tale that really speaks to the heart, for it addresses that bond between sisters which can never be severed over the overwhelming feeling of love. Full of heated rivalry, lustful desires and self-absorbed ambition you are swept into the heart of the dazzlingly dangerous Tudor court; at the mercy of the most influential monarchs of all-time. As two sisters fought for the greatest prize of all...the love of a King, along the way they must overcome hardships and suffering, injustice and coldness if they are going to end up triumphant. Beautifully atmospheric, every single little detail is captured as if by the hand of a painter so as to create a clear, vivid picture of the times for you to plunge into. The shimmering gold cover and photograph of Hever Castle, complete with a copy of the original letter written by Anne Boleyn to Henry VIII this is a must-have treasure for any Tudor fanatic and historian.Vividly evocative, this enthralling tale of passion, loyalty and betrayal is truly astonishing as to amaze and which I look forward to re-reading very soon!
5 This is a very well developed story about Mary Boelyn and her family. This book is far superior to the adaptation that was done with the movie starring Natalie Portman and Scarlett Johannson. The history was well-researched, and stays quite true to historical accounts of the Anne Boelyn story. This novel is a great place to start the Tudor stories.
5 I LOVED this book! I don't really like reading historical novels, but this book was amazing. I could not put it down and would read well into the night because I could not get enough. The author does such a wonderful job with the characters, you feel sorry for Mary and how horrible her family was to her, but at the same time, you quickly begin to despise Anne and how awful a woman she was, especially to her sister. I found myself surfing the internet reading up on Henry VIII because I didnt know much about that time in history. Before reading this book, I would never have been that interested in the English monarchy. If I could rate this book a 10 I would. I would rank this up there with &quot;Memoirs of a Geisha&quot;. Buy this book, you will love it!
5 This book was so informative, witty, and fun to read. It was really interesting to read from Mary Boleyn's POV- the sister of Anne. A lot of pieces in this book are actually factual. It was fascinating and I couldn't put it down!
5 &quot;The Other Boleyn Girl&quot; is a truly fascinating historical fiction.  If you think you know everything there is to know about the Boleyn's - think again.  In this novel, George was right: Mary and George Boleyn were &quot;nobody's&quot; because their sister Anne over-shined the both.  I did not know that Mary or George even existed, not to mention that Mary was King Henry's mistress or that he fathered two children with her, or how Anne caught the King's eye.  My, how the history books leave out details.  To sum this novel up: it wasn't about love, but power, and how much power was attainable, and how people would stop at nothing to get the power, castle, or title.  Mary, George, and Anne were treated like human chess pieces.  Anne checked-mate Queen Katherine and England went down hill from there.  I was given the impression that if the Boleyn's hadn't shoved their way into the King's life, he wouldn't have considered divorcing Queen Katherine, and therefore divorce wouldn't be where it is today.  The question and answer section with the author is a nice touch and the questions for the reader is a real thinker.  I recommend.
5 Took this book on vacation and couldn't put it down.  Loved it!
3 The Other Boleyn Girl was not as well written as I was expecting giventhe author's reputation, but she's an excellent storyteller. It startsslowly, but once it hooks you, you'll be unable to put it down. Themain thing I didn't like about it at first was that it read like a15-year-old had written it, and it had the feel of a Sweet Valley Highromance novel at times, but then I remembered that Mary Boleyn wasabout that age when she made her debut at the English court, so itoccurred to me that maybe this was a conscious stylistic choice thatthe author was making, since the story is told first person fromMary's perspective. Once I got into the meat of the story though, Iquickly forgot my criticisms and just got lost in the times, and letthe story envelop me. The bottom line is: Was reading thisnovel an enjoyable experience? I would say absolutely. Would Irecommend it to others? I'm not so sure. Did it make me immediatelywant to log onto Amazon and purchase Philippa Gregory's other works?No, and that was disappointing.
5 "The Other Boleyn Girl" represents the BEST in today's historical fiction, because much of it is based on little known, and fascinating facts.  Thoroughly researched by Philippa Gregory, who is an expert on Tudor England, this novel is also written in a captivating style.  You will be enthralled from beginning to end.  Recommended for anyone who enjoys history or biography.
5 I loved this book. It was a little long but the plot twists and vivid characters keep you engaged. Great for a book club!
5 This book captivated me. Although, this book is a fiction, it provided historical information on the wives of Henry VIII. The Tudor dynasty has intrigued me throughout the years and this book gave me information which I did not know and it provided a wonderful novel to read. I truly enjoyed it. My next will be The Boleyn Inheritance, which I understand is as good a read.
5 I'm a full blown anglophile and fairly picky reader of historical fiction.  I found this to be an entertaining book and one of Gregory's better efforts.  I can't wait for the movie version with Scarlett Johansson and Natalie Portman ... should be hot!
5 I enjoy historical fiction and Philippa Gregory is a master storyteller.  I have purchased almost every book she has written and both my children read her books as well.  just remember, this is a novel, not non-fiction!
3 I decided to read this book because it was recommended to me by a friend.  The plot mirrors the title of "the Other Boleyn Girl" by telling the fictional account of Anne Boleyn's sister, Mary.I found that the plot developed quite slowly.  The book was good, however I feel that it could have been cut quite a bit shorter than it was.  I did like the different perspective from which it was written, but overall, the plot was very circular, and lacked any suspense.  I felt as if I knew exactly what was going to happen throughout the whole novel, and for the most part, I did.  This novel does a good job at aligning the fiction with the fact, but I think it could have been done better. I am kind of indifferent towards this book.  I do however, recommend that if you start it, you finish it.
5 What a story, what a writer, what a well written tale. From page one of this long book, the reader knows how this epic will end. In spite of this, Gregory paints a marvelous story with excellent writing and brilliant imagination. Is it true? Yes and no. We all know the story of Henry VIII and his collection of wives. We have studied the history of the Tutor period, but to weave facts into fascinating fiction takes a writer who can turn a phrase and this lady does. I don't even like &quot;historic tales&quot; but this one kept me reading into the night. Brava. Good job, highly recommended, best book I've read in months.
5 The novel is about the Boleyn family, an ambitious family at the court of Henry the VIII and their relentless pursuit of gaining the king's favor and maintaining a superior place at court.  The narrator is the "lesser known" Boleyn sister, Mary, who as a young sweet 13 year old, becomes Henry's mistress, with her family's cunning manipulation. Upon gaining the king's favor, her ambitious family, pit her and her more infamous and conniving sister, Anne, to maintain the Kings' attention.  Anne, with her wit, intelligence, wily ways and more exotic beauty, eventually becomes Henry's 2nd wife.  This comes at the cost of the loss of popularity among the people of England, and a controversy that leads to her demise as she displaces the popular Queen, Catherine of Aragon.  Mary, who is initially disillusioned and hurt, eventually finds love and her way out of court, but losses grace in the eyes of her family.The story is rich with romance, sex, scandal, politics, intrigue and drama. It is deliciously entertaining and filled with various trivia that reel you in and make you wonder about the real story behind what is common knowledge. Before reading this book, I was never into the whole Tudor England-history. Being previously uninformed about this, I enjoyed learning about the monarchy, life at court and a general history of Henry VIII.Although the book is probably well researched, it is likely that many details were embellished and perhaps inconsistent with other accounts.  But you must remember, this is a work of FICTION. If you already consider yourself an expert on this topic and are looking for another accurate account you may be disappointed.  I enjoyed this book but cannot deny that the writing borders on romance-novel quality, so, I would only recommend this book if you are LOOKING TO BE ENTERTAINED while learning a few things about the Boleyns, Tudor England and life at court in the 1500's.
5 I loved this book & actually finished it in less than a week!  I understand that people feel very strongly about Anne Boleyn, but I just want to stress that this book is NOT supposed a history book!  I think we can imagine that certain conversations may have gone the way that Gregory described, and others, of course, were different.  I loved the story, and Gregory's writing was mature, but also, easy to get through (with maximum comprehension).  I can't get over how ruthless Anne was, but the love between sisters (and family) was so strong - I just loved this story!
5 This book was absolutely fantastic. It was an absolute page turner. The book was perfectly broken up into short increments. The best of this historical fiction novel, is that my favorite part is true (Mary and her lover's relationship)! I have read Doomed Queen Anne by Carolyn Meyer (highly recommended along with all the Young Royals Series) and this book was a welcome addition to my fascination with Anne Boleyn. The relationships between Mary, Anne, and their bother George was riveting. The rivalry between the Boleyns and the Seymours was fun to read and experience. This book was fantastic, and I recommend it to anyone who loves historical fiction.
4 1. The Other Boleyn Girl - Phillippa GregoryI love all things Tudor. This novel is the best of them all -- illuminating the little known story of Mary Boelyn, the sister of doomed queen Anne Boelyn whose marriage to King Henry VIII broke the Roman Catholic influence on England and begat one of the country's most prominent rulers: Elizabeth I. But before all that there was Mary, the king's mistress and mother of his illigitimate children. In this world women are pawns in a royally dangerous game, their male family members vying for checkmate. Gregory's other novels track the Tudors from Queen Katherine and Henry's brother, Arthur to Mary, Elizabeth and back again. Do yourself a favor and skip the Boelyn Inheritance and the movie version of The Other Boelyn Girl.This book has made my Top 5 Historical Fiction list. See the rest of it here: [...]Read all of our reviews here: [...]
1 I was so looking forward to this novel - a somewhat trashy page-turner with an interesting historical backdrop. Well, it wasn't a page-turner, and the historical backdrop was so far from believable that I had no interest. It was trashy and truly juvenile. Frankly, I'm shocked that so many people have rated this novel highly. If you want a fun, trashy, historical page-turner, try Anne Rice's "Cry To Heaven." That was a guilty pleasure which I loved. "The Other Boleyn Girl" falls miles short.
4 Everybody has already said everything, so I'll just add that I'm on the fence here.  I did enjoy it as a light "read," but I appreciate historical accuracy and, as pointed out in a few of the reviews, history took a bit of a beating. I know a few historical writers and admire their striving after historical accuracy.  It's a shame with such a rich tapestry from which to select, that Gregory played loose with the facts.On the up side, it's a fast and entertaining read.  I had no problem with Anne's and Mary's dialog.  I enjoy a little down-and-dirty, which is probably closer to the way people actually talked at the time and behind closed doors.  The courtly speech rang true for me as well.
5 I couldn't hardly put this book down as was the case with all of Philippa Gregory's books.  I can't get enough and am dreading when I'm done with the last one!I hope the film plays here in America, I would love to see it!Mary Ann Hebert Wichita Kansas
5 I loved this book! I think I read it in a week. It was really good. I watched the movie afterwards and boy was I upset. It did not do the book justice, but that is the case with most books that are made into movies. Anne Boleyn was such a fascinating person, and this book really delves into the Boleyn history and King Henry the 8th. I love this era in time and love reading books about it. Liked it so much that I bought 3 more of Gregory's books. Cannot wait to start them!
5 I have read a number of the reviews by Amazon readers, many of them complain that the book is too free with fiction and strays to far from the truth about the Boleyn family.  Frankly I have never read any of Philippa Gregory's other novels; but, I found this book to be extremely entertaining due to the well-thought out characterization, and interesting plot (and subplots), the background material was rich in historical details and I foundthe action moved along at a nice quick step.In addition, the very fact that Gregory wrote of a woman often forgotten in history and provides the reader with a well-rounded portrait was personally satisfying.  I have read numerous books on Henry the 8th and on Anne Boleyn and they have grown wearisome in the repeating of the known facts. So I say, Hooray for Philippa Gregory and a well-written book that does not in any way, shape or form represent a Harlequin romance!
5 I really can't express how much I loved this book. It is an intelligent read, an introspective read. It really connected with the characters. I felt as if I could have been reading the story of a contemporary. It really is a colossal read and you should give it a go!
5 I initially picked up this book because I loved the movie.  I immediately realized that this powerfully written book far eclipsed the movie.  Set in the court of Henry VIII, this is the intriguing story of the Boleyn Girls, Anne and Mary.  The characters come to life as they fight for the King's affection and advancement of their family.  I really enjoyed this book, and would recommend it to anyone who likes historical fiction.
5 Really interesting read if you like early England and the courts of the kings and queens. Well written and gave insight into how it could have felt to be a girl born during that time and in their particular cast. Written from the perspective of the Anne's sister and gave one a picture of the King, Henry the VIII and just how ruthless he really was. http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000FC2MDG/ref=cm_cr_rev_prod_img
1 I am appalled by how many people thought this was a good book.  If you are looking for fiction, fine, but this book should not be called historical if it is referring to Anne Boleyn. As I read the reviewers who rated this book four or five stars I realized that few of them knew anything at all about Anne Boleyn, Henry the VIII, the Tudor era, or even how to write a decent novel. Many other reviewers have delineated this book's shortcomings (look for Carol's review from August 2004) so I won't go into it all, but there is one thing I do want to say.  If you are a person who has read a  book called  historical fiction, I would caution you against reviewing that book unless you actually know something about the subject.  It makes you - especially the reviewer who said she was a teacher! - look like an idiot.There is nothing historical about this story except in a very broad way. If you want to know the true story and don't want to read real history, then check out the BBC miniseries - "The Six Wives of Henry VIII" or the Richard Burton movie - "Anne of a Thousand Days"
1 Many many reviews have been posted, and I will attempt not to repeat what has been said already.I cannot comprehend the positive reviews of this trash.  I am a lover of quality historical novels - Sharon Kay Penman and Jean Plaidy are mentioned by other reviewers ... Phillippa Gregory is in no way comparable.  The Other Boleyn Girl is historical only in that it purports to take place a long time ago.Mary Boleyn is potrayed as THIRTEEN years old when she is engaging in witty repartee with king far too old and worldly to be legitimately interested in what she had to say.  Indeed, in our world, Henry would have landed on a Nightline special.  Well, we know what HE was interested in, but why would we, the reading public, want to read a novel romanticizing behavior which we claim to believe is criminal?And for some readon Gregory has chosen to distort history and represent Mary Boleyn as even younger than she probably was, and far more innocent.  If we wonder why teenagers go on-line to flirt with and meet unknown older men, we need only look at is considered entertaining in a novel.The character of Anne is no more credible ... the author wold have us believe that powerful families intent on pimping a child to the king would listen to a 15-16 year old girls's advice on how to accomplish its plan.Overall, the characters are more Sex and the City (I can see Samantha as Anne)than history.  I read this nonsense for far longer than I should have, waiting for improvement.  Then I gave up. Now I am stuck with this book as well as the sequel (which I have no intention of reading).  Both are destined for Half Price Books.
5 This book was very entertaining and interesting!  Loved it!!!!  I could not put it down.  I highly recommend it to anyone.
5 Totally stuck my head to this book! Couldn't stop reading. I have first tried its movie, but I recommend book better. Each character stands out great. I preferred Mary to Anne. Anne was hard to understand, but her heartbreak to her first love was tearful.
4 With just a little too much romance to be historical novels and far too much history to be romance novels, Philippa Gregory defies categories in her two immensely readable and wonderfully informative stories of 16th century England: "The Other Boleyn Girl" and "The Queen's Fool."  That she is able to saturate her novels with history is less surprising when one realizes that she has a history degree from the University of Sussex and a PhD in eighteenth-century literature from the University of Edinburgh, but that she is able to bring history to life with such apparent ease and without breaking the rhythm of her narrative is most impressive.Mary Boleyn, Anne's sister, narrates the first, chronologically, of these two books: "The Other Boleyn Girl."  She is Henry VIII's mistress and bears him two children before her more famous sister, Anne, usurps her place.  Historically, that is fact, at least the first part is.  Whether Anne actually connived to unseat her sister is less clear, though Gregory certainly gives a convincing case of "what-if?"  Beginning with Henry's attentions to Mary, the story continues through a rumble of bedding, wedding, and ultimately Anne's beheading.  Along the way Gregory paints a picture of a court in which everyone must look over his shoulder constantly, marriages are made for convenience and political alliances, and men, whether father, brother or husband, control women and use them as pawns in a risky game of power.  One sister resists, the other cooperates. From the beginning, Gregory paints a picture of sisterly rivalry weighed against sisterly love.  Ultimately, sisterly love wins, though the rivalry proves Anne's undoing.Gregory continues the two themes of sisterly love and rivalry and women obeying (or not obeying, as the case may be) men in "The Queen's Fool."  With the rivalry, and sometimes love, between Henry's two daughters, Mary and Elizabeth as historical background, Gregory tells the story of Hannah Green, a Jewish refuge from the Spanish Inquisition who, after seeing her mother burned at the stake, flees with her father to England where he sets up shop as a bookseller. Hannah, who narrates the tale, has the gift of "sight", that is, she has visions that come unbidden and reveal the future to her.  It is one of those visions that, early in the story, lands her in court during the short reign of Edward VI and, after his death, leaves her as a pawn batted back and forth between Mary and Elizabeth.  Hannah has the ability to see the best in both and, as much as possible, is loyal to both, no mean feat given that each princess see herself as destined for the throne of England.  To complicate matters, Hannah is betrothed to another Jewish refuge, who like her, must keep his ancestry a secret.  She is torn between her desire for independence and her passion for her intended husband.  How she eventually reconciles the two is the meat of the novel.Gregory's narrative is engrossing, her conversations engaging.  Among her previous fourteen books is a trilogy that includes "Wideacre", "The Favored Child" and "Meridon."  Dare we hope that she will follow "The Other Boleyn Girl" and "The Queen's Fool" with a third partner, focusing on Elizabeth?
5 This tells the story of two important historical figures in English monarch history -- Anne and Mary Boleyn. Each sister has competed against the others for years, but now they have the biggest competition of all -- they're competing for the heart of the King of England. There is no greater prize than Henry, King of England.This novel is a riveting tale about love, betrayal, and life in the English court. Just when you find yourself on top, you realize you can't stay there for long -- and there are consequences to lying and scheming your way to the top. I highly recommend this book to anyone looking for an engrossing, can't-put-down story.*5 STARS*[...]
2 It is possibly unfair of me to review this book before finishing it, though I don't believe my chief complaint -- the atrocious writing -- would change, in any case. I'm also not sure I'll be able to finish it, because Gregory's prose is like nails on a blackboard: repetitious, unoriginal, shallow, and riddled with trite phrasing. So if you're looking for good literature, don't look here. On the other hand, if you're looking for a good story and can stomach the awful writing, the boring tendency to list things instead of actually describing them in some depth, and the repetition, give it a try. It needs some tightening and a good editorial hand, but alas . . . I don't generally care for historical fiction and perhaps this is just the way it's done (tho' one need only read EL Doctorow's "Ragtime" to get an idea of what a truly good writer can do with history and fiction), but I found myself cringing at the superficial, tedious writing style and rolling my eyes at the "Harlequin Romance"-style prose: "I laughed wrecklessly" . . . "He did not take his eyes off of me" (about 10 billion times) . . . "He cupped my chin in his hand" . . . (etc.). Gag.
5 This is the first book I read from Gregory. I liked it very much, it is definetely a page-turner.It left me wanting to read more about the Boleyns.Despite that, the next book I choose will be from someone who's more accurate in the facts.As so many of you have pointed out, the book has many inaccuracies. I know this is a "historical-fiction" book and gives the author liberty but I think she took a lot of it.Why did Gregory said Mary was younger than Anne? I don't see why she did not left this as it was.I could keep on with inaccuracies but then again, so many people have already did it.
5 Mary Boleyn comes to the court of Henry VIII at the age of 14. Her family is ecstatic. However, she soon realizes just how much she is a pawn in her family's ambitious plots as the kings interest begins to wane and she is forced to step aside for her best friend and rival: her sister, Anne. Then Mary knows that she must defy her family and her king, and take her fate into her own hands.
5 this was a great book.  I did not like the Constant Princess, so I hesitated to read this book.  Great story, great writing.  Really couldn't put it down.
5 The thing you must realize about this book is that it is, first and foremost, a novel. A novel based on actual historical events, yes, but still a work of fiction. So for those that criticize it for its historical inaccuracy, your criticism is misplaced. This is not a biography of Mary Boleyn or Anne Boleyn and it doesn't pretend to be.I myself am a bit of a Tudor junkie and love reading both fiction and nonfiction about the family and the times, and I found this book a delight. It had all the elements of a good story: sex, love, violence, suspense, complicated characters, and comic relief. My favorite character was George Boleyn, due to his wit, probably the funniest one in the story. Catherine of Aragon I think was the most true-to-life.My chief complaints about the story (historical inaccuracy aside, as I said above that doesn't have to be an issue here) are that sometimes (okay, often) it sounds like a Harlequin romance novel, and also it's very slow-moving. But if you are willing to wait through the long beginning I think you will find yourself well rewarded.A word of advice, though: skip the movie. It was dreadful.
4 The Other Boleyn girl was a highly engrossing novel, and while there was an amazing story to be had, it was not without its faults. But first, the good! Gregory delved into her characters and was easily able to make the reader sympathetic to at least the plights of Mary and her children, constructing rich characters straight from the pages of history. Also, as the book went along, I found more and more that I just couldn't put the book down, especially after page 250 or so. It was entertaining, especially having known the history of the Boleyn family, and combined that special amount of historical fact and fictive embellishment to create a very entertaining novel.On the other hand, there were a few faults to be had, which lowers my score by only a star. The end was very sudden and forced, and by that point things just were wrapped up in the blink of an eye. The climax of the story in my opinion happened three pages before the end of the book. The book seemed too long and drawn out in parts, especially at the beginning in the first two hundred pages.All in all, this is definitely a book I would recommend for those looking for a more fictive retelling of history. Gregory took the truth and made it more interesting to modern day readers.
4 Last week I finished reading The Other Boleyn Girl by Philippa Gregory. I really enjoyed it.  Historical fiction is not a genre I often read, and I picked up this novel for my Kindle on a whim.  I'm very glad I did - the characters are well-rounded and realistic (especially Mary, who we watch progress from a naive child to mature woman of the court), the volatile tempers of Henry and Anne are beautifully described, and I found myself drawn in to the entire court setting and all of its various players.As for length, I'd have to say it could have lost maybe 100 or so pages without hurting the story.  I thought the middle chapters paled in comparison to the first and last third.  Still, I would definitely recommend this to anyone who enjoys courtly intrigues and politics.
1 I confess that I used to be a consistent reader of Philippa Gregory's works, back in middle school/early high school. As the granddaughter of history professors, I was well aware of her historical inaccuracies but somehow managed to enjoy "The Other Boleyn Girl" and a few of her other works. Now that I'm older and wiser, however, I've noticed aspects of this book (not just the historical inaccuracies) that make me cringe.Perhaps the biggest problem I now have with this particular book is the way Mary is portrayed as the good/fair sister and Anne is the evil/dark sister (and not because I'm a brunette myself). The sisters, like the rest of the novel's characters, are shallow, two dimensional, and underdeveloped. Mary is rewarded for no reason beyond being sweet and passive and guileless while Anne is punished for being ruthless and ambitious. This isn't to say that Anne wasn't an ambitious woman; by all accounts she was. But why present this as a bad thing? Ambition does not automatically equal evil. No, not even if the ambitious character is *gasp* a woman. Like I said, Anne was certainly ambitious but she was a real living, breathing woman with her own flaws and strengths, not the evil caricature she was made out to be. I find it very hard to swallow that Henry VIII would have moved heaven and earth to be with the Anne in this novel.It's not just Mary and Anne who are one-note. Katherine of Aragon is saintly and pure beyond belief. Henry VIII is a spoiled child. The Duke of Norfolk and the girls' parents don't give a S*** about them as people, only as pawns for the family ambition. This can be done well if the author executes it well (*cough* George R.R. Martin's Tywin Lannister *cough*) but Gregory does not. As far as we know, the duke and the Boleyns have no goal in life besides pushing Mary and then Anne into the king 's bed. The hell? Jane Parker/Boleyn is a malicious, shrewish gossip. William Stafford is a shining prince of virtue. The men who flock around Anne are basically indistinguishable from one another. The list is endless.I also now find it disturbing that the two sisters have so little agency of their own. As I said above, their uncle the duke and their parents plot to make Mary and Anne the mistresses of King Henry. Neither sister seems to want this for themselves until after it's been decides for them, and then they always do as their uncle or parents tell them. Sometimes they protest but ultimately submit weakly. Maybe this fits Mary's passive character all right, but seems wildly out of character for Anne, in both real life and the novel.And, of course, there are the historical inaccuracies. These bothered me enough as a kid; they're nigh on unbearable now. I know there are spotty patches in history and some liberties need to be taken with historical fiction but a) it is entirely possible to write a good and entertaining story while remaining as historically accurate as possible (well hello there Sharon Kay Penman and Susan Holloway Scott) and b) Tudor England is a pretty well documented period in history, all things considered.Seriously, how much research would it have taken to learn that Mary was actually the elder Boleyn sister? Or that Mary was not, as Gregory claims, a young and naive girl at the time when the novel was set, but notoriously promiscuous (King Francis of France, whose court she and Anne resided at for a time, called her his "English mare" because he "rode her so often" and she was recalled to England is disgrace because of it)? Or that by all accounts Mary's affair with King Henry was brief and she never enjoyed the privileges of an official royal mistress, and both her children were born after the relationship was over? That last one especially irked me, even as a kid, because it is widely accepted that King Henry's casual dismissal of Mary after he grew bored of her at least partially influenced Anne's decision not to submit to his amorous interests right away. Nor was there any evidence that the Howard/Boleyn family pushed either Mary or Anne into the king 's path. There's no doubt they supported Anne in her bid to be queen and it's likely they would use this to further the family interests, but they never tried to actively whore out Mary or Anne or any of the other Howard girls. Anne was accused of incest, witchcraft, and treason in order for King Henry to be rid of her, but few if any people in her own lifetime, even those who hated her, actually believed the charges. Anne was also known to have been a loving mother to Elizabeth, rather than treating her with indifference or even scorn. A few minor deviations from history are fine, as is filling in the blanks when there's space that needs filling. But ignoring and twisting established historical facts for your own purposes while presenting your books as historically accurate? Completely unacceptable.Lastly, there are little inconsistencies, plus the writing style, that drive me bonkers. George Boleyn was gay (no historical evidence to back that one up, either) yet he slept with his sister? What? Henry VIII was obsessed with getting a male heir yet dumped the younger, fertile sister for the older one? Riiiiiight.Basically, I'm grateful my tastes have improved over the years, especially in terms of historical fiction.
