5 Hilarious book! Theodora is just like me...if I was British.  The Bridge Jones formula works well in this book.  I laughed at Theo's mom and her Greek tendencies. Imagine having a name like Agemmennon! The portrayal of very conservative and stay at home moms was accurate along with the reaction of those not comfortable with it.  I was glad to read Theo's sister's response to Charity chastising her for not staying at home after she has the baby. Theodora is proud that she worked hard to have her job and people like Charity shouldn't put her down for not being like her.  The Kevin "Fever Pitch" storyline was great too. I went out and rented the DVD after reading the book (I had no idea Colin Firth was in it!) This book makes me want to have a British accent.
1 This is not a good book at all. Her life is eventless all she does is go on vaction, eat chocolate,complian about her boyfriend and pray. Those are all good things to do but they are boring. She takes things to far all the time. I would not ever read this book again.
5 Laughter is the best medicine and &quot;Theodora's Diary&quot; proves to be the tonic for whatever ails you. I came across this gem of a book two weeks ago after having a frustrating day in &quot;stay at home wife/mommyland&quot;. It saved my sanity! The book is written in the style of &quot;Bridget Jones Diary&quot; with a Christian theme. You will laugh till your sides hurt or until your neighbors will think you have &quot;gone 'round the bend&quot; as you read about Theodora's life. The characters are memorable, the comic timing is perfect and the message is relevant for today's women. Grab a chocolate bar, curl up in your armchair and enjoy the laughter!
2 I hate giving anything Christian chick lit two stars because I think that the genre should be encouraged but alas 2.5 doesn't seem to be available and I really don't think this is worth a three.First up - this book does has its moments of comic brilliance - there were places that had me laughing out loud - unfortunately they were too few and far between.There were some characters that were enjoyable but then some of them were very one dimensional. I guess what really killed it for me was how dense (or is it supposed to be naive?) Theodora is at some points. I actually wanted to shake her! Kevin's Valentine's Day card being a big case in point. I put the poem past my roommate (one of the most naive Christians that there is) and even she got it in a instant!!What earned this it's two stars from me though was the fact that I got about two thirds of the way through and the way that she 'broke up' with Kevin almost had me not bother to finish the book. Understandable at 16 - not at 30.And yes totally agree with comment above - how can you lose half a stone without noticing?!
5 i found this book very insightful, honest and funny. i also thought that it had a practical spiritual aspect which helped shed a lot of pretentions that we encounter in our churches.
5 Oh, man. I loved this book. It is laugh out loud funny from start to finish. I can't believe I'm the first to review it. This is one chick lit author to watch. I have got to get my hands on the next book now (Theodora's Wedding). I want to know more about this quirky character and her friends and neighbors.
3 Theodora is a thirty-something Christian searching for her ministry. This book follows a year in her life. Theodora is a smart, witty character who made me laugh. I especially liked the church bulletin typos and accidental puns that only Theodora seemed to notice. The secondary characters were well-developed for the most part, and I felt as if they were real people. The only character I would have liked more depth from was Theodora's obsessed-with-football (soccer) love interest, Kevin. I wasn't really sure what she saw in him!I've heard Theodora's Diary described as sort of a Christian Bridget Jones' Diary, and I would have to agree with that. It was a fun read, but the plot moved slowly for me, and it took me awhile to finish. I haven't decided yet if I'll read on in the series. There are two more books,Theodora's Wedding and Theodora's Baby.
4 While I can see that some readers would be turned off by this intricate psychological study of a woman recovering from a severe episode of depression, it was fascinating to me. There is very little conventional suspense in this novel, although there is a villain dragged in towards the end -- but the novel revolves around Rae Newborn's struggle against her demons and against her own fears of being &quot;crazy&quot; -- and her discovery of her great-uncle Desmond's similar struggle (he had been shell-shocked in WWI, and left his wealthy family to become a &quot;bum&quot; before settling on Folly's Island and then disappearing after a fire destroyed the home he'd built) -- there are passages from Desmond's journal and from Rae's which parallel each other, giving the readers insight into both characters' worlds. I felt the ending was a little rushed but that the novel as a whole was worth reading -- particularly if you or someone you know has suffered from clinical depression -- even though the descriptions of Rae's episodes are stark, the fact that she does climb out of it makes the whole book seem hopeful.
4 By the time I finished reading this book I liked.  The beginning was tedious and it took me a long time to become interested in Rae and her story.  It was slow going at first but worth reading until the end.  It had very well developed characters and I loved reading about the woodworking and rebuilding the house.
5 I love all King's books. Really liked the main character in this one - could identify with spending a lot of time wondering if we're right on the edge of losing it or keeping it together.
4 Since I am not burdened with having read King's Martinelli and Russell mysteries, I was not expecting any particular style or percentage of mystery vs. romance.  I was free to fall under the book's spell in a location so artfully described that I felt I was there, on the island.  Side by side with Rae, I built her house and fought her demons and was sorry to leave when the time came.  I admire the amount of construction detail, as the building became a real experience as a result, and I was comfortable with Rae's romantic thoughts and ventures, as they seemed entirely appropriate for someone finding and trusting herself again.  The ending came a bit too quickly and neatly - but the real meat of this story fell between the time Rae arrived on the island until she was ready to entertain her daughter and granddaughter.  Tying up the loose ends just brought me back to a reality I wasn't ready for - just leave me on that island, with the coffee dripping and the fire crackling.  A wonderful "trip" - I highly recommend it!
4 Rae Newborn is a 50-something woman who has struggled with mental illness virtually all of her adult life.  However, after she is attacked in an attempted rape a few short weeks after her beloved husband and young daughter are killed in a car accident, she goes over the edge, spending months in a mental institution.  When she finally begins to emerge on the path to recovery, she makes a decision to head for an isolated, unhabited (fictional) island off the coast of Washington state.  Years before, Rae's uncle had come to the same island for peace and solitude and had built himself a home; when his near-completed house burnt almost to the ground, he disappeared.  Rae, formerly a well-known furniture-maker and artist, resolves to rebuild her Uncle Desmond's house despite how "crazy" this might seem to others, including her grown daughter.  The book mostly details Rae's thoughts and reflections as she works on her house in solitude, although she receives occasional visits from her supply boat, the local sheriff, and a female park ranger.  Interspersed throughout the story are selections from Rae's own journal as well as that of her Uncle Desmond, which she uncovers in the course of her labors.  The theme is that of a woman building her future (literally) while still recovering from her traumatic past.  There's a few surprising twists thown in at the end, although the climatic conflict of the book was over quickly and a little too neatly.  Other than that, however, the book was an enjoyable and engaging read.
5 An artist in woodworking, troubled by bouts of clinical depression, an isolated island off the coast of Washington, a long dead relative whose journal eerily mirrors the protagonist's own, a last chance, last ditch effort to ward off suicide and begin to find a way to live, the evocation of Thoreau's Walden Pond experience, the minute attention to details of setting and interior struggle with sanity and psychosis, a daughter alienated by her mother's tenuous hold on reality, the almost unbearable sense of loss and grief, a woman's desperate hope that she can find a way to live deliberately, carefully, totally dependent on her own skills and her assumption that isolation will force her to delineate between what is real and what may be a product of her damaged mind, all of this is like rich honey, poured out for the reader slowly, spoonful by spoonful, until the richness of both the interior struggle for balance and the exterior physical exertion of rebuilding a house alone, without help or power tools, just the strength of one's own hands and the abilities of one's own skill, become one story, the same tale, an excruciating effort when one is never sure of anything. Rae Newborn has to relearn everything.I have read the four Kate Martinelli novels, and then bought Folly for myself for Christmas. I can't recall just when I've received a more satisfying gift.This is a wonderful book, the kind you can get lost in, caught in, the kind that draws you into both setting and character and plot, until you forget where you are or what time it is.There has been much discussion of whether this fits into the mystery genre, the romance genre, and some mention of disappointment because it doesn't quite fit anywhere.Don't concern yourself with whether it is in fact a mystery, a psychological thriller, even maybe a romance.What you will find if you enter this book is lush, skillful display of writing at its very best.This is the sort of book you can't disengage from easily, that stays with you, pulls you in, until plot contrivances are merely that, a necessary device but somehow removed from what is really happening in this novel.
5 I have read almost all of King's Kate Martinelli and Mary Russell books, but I was a little disappointed by her other "stand alone" book - Touchstone.In both books, King's prose is breathtaking. In Touchstone, I thought she made the novel dull in the middle with too much detail. In this novel, she has a lot of exacting detail on house construction and the island environment, but it is necessary to the plot and subplots. In this book, the details do not make the reading dull, they enhance the novel.I commented on the Touchstone book: "I think she spent way too much time on character and scene details and not enough .. developing the reason for the ... threat."  The opposite is mostly true in this book. The character comes to life with profound insight but not so much as to bore the reader. The description of the island (Folly) , done with enough detail so that one can visualize it, but not so much that you get bored.Folly is about a woman artist recovering from a very serious mental breakdown and grieving on an island once owned by her uncle. She decides to reconstruct the house he built (burned in a fire). While doing so she finds information on his last days. In addition she has to deal with ghosts, who may or may not be real. She has the challenges of someone who has had breakdowns and her relationships with her family and returning to the "real" world.King proves that she has an excellent grasp of psychology particularly mental issues. Either she has experienced some mental challenges or is very close to someone who has. She goes beyond the textbook to the reality of it. She understands the sometimes delicate line between reality and imagination. She is able to develop the relationships the heroine has with her daughter, granddaughter and residents of the mainland with a stron, but without overdoing it.In addition her grasp of house construction and wood workers is profound. She has demonstrated in this book and in a few of the Russell and Martinelle books that she is very acquainted with artists, their temperment and their craft.The mystery is actually a mystery within a mystery. It is haunting and handled with a very delicate touch. I felt the presence of "the Watchers" all too well. My only criticism is that she did not develop the pyschological reasons for the attack at the end. I can not say more without spoiling the plot. I will only say that I would have preferred a little more development of this character.
5 Rae Newborn, an internationally famous woodworker, moves to a remote island to rebuild her great-uncle's house. Isolated and paranoid, with only a tenuous hold on sanity, Rae has the "skin-crawling feeling of being watched." Well, just because you're paranoid, it doesn't mean people aren't watching you. Laurie King's Folly is a beautifully written, rich psychological thriller. (King is also the author of, among a slew of other things, The Beekeeper's Apprentice, the excellent first book in a series about Sherlock Holmes' life in retirement.)Reviewed by Debra Hamel, author of Trying Neaira: The True Story of a Courtesan's Scandalous Life in Ancient Greece
1 If I had been given this book to read without knowing the author's name, and when finished, was told that she was Laurie R. King, I would not have believed it.  I've experienced and appreciated her immense talent and versatility across several genres, but I can hear her brilliantly and deftly rendered Holmes snapping, "Good God, Russell, are you daft? Put that book down before it renders you unconscious!"  In short, this was one of the most boring books I've ever read.  Details are important in getting to know a character and what makes them tick, their passions, eccentricities, their psychology, and there is some of that, but not enough.  Instead, Ms. King spends seemingly endless pages focusing closer and closer on the main character's craft of woodworking/sculpting-cum-housebuilding.  After getting a little tidbit of character insight, the reader is then forced to read detailed descriptions of tools: what they are, their history, what they look like, how they feel, what they sound like, what they look like hanging from a belt, and so on.  This method of extrapolation is extended to all aspects of whatever can be done with tools, guns, camping equipment, and even severe depression, on and on and on, until you get to the next tiny piece of succinct but well written detail that makes you think, "At last, we get to the real reason for being here!". This doesn't happen, at least for me.  Taking a cue from the author's thanks to some "courageous individuals", whose struggles with mental illness she apparently tapped, her attempts to convey what it's like to be severely depressed sounds exactly as if she's writing, or rewriting, what someone tried to convey.  As a psychotherapist, I've seen that this is pretty much next-to-impossible to do, as people struggling with such challenges also struggle with the fact that they can never quite explain what it's like to someone else.  Hence, the attempt to instill the main character with convincing affect falls short. Maybe that was the author's intention.Some reviewers like to describe this as "slow starting".  This is true, but it never ends.  I can compare it best to the scientific clich&eacute; that asks us to imagine taking all the space away between the molecules of say, a redwood tree, and you end up with a sliver of wood you can barely discern.  Take away all this "filler" in this story, and you end up with characters as substantial as toothpicks.
3 King has created a moody, atmospheric thriller in which the reader is never quite sure what is real and what is imagined.  At the heart of this novel is Rae Newborn, a 52-year old woman starting her life over on a remote island off the coast of Washington.  For most of her life Rae has battled mental illness and depression. Eighteen months ago, the death of her beloved second husband and young daughter sent Rae spiraling into a complete breakdown.  Now, although she is shaky, Rae has come to an island which she inherited from her great uncle, Desmond Newborn, to rebuild the beautiful home he created on the island before his own disappearance.  Cut off from the mainland, Rae uses her carpentry skills to create a new home and starts to heal.  But a number of disturbing incidents, noises in the night, tools rearranged lead Rae to believe that someone may be watching her.  But is there really danger or is Rae's paranoia destroying her sanity?  Rae must overcome her own mental demons before she can face the presence that threatens not only her life but that of her beloved granddaughter.  King has crafted a terrific story that reveals the strength and courage of a remarkable woman who refuses to live in fear any longer.  The true struggle in this novel is not identifying Rae's human enemy; it is her matter of fact confrontation of the forces that have poisoned her from within.  Like any good mystery writer, King provides a number of suspects; but in the end, the villain is unmasked and overcome in just a few short pages. The resolution of the mystery is perhaps the book's biggest weakness.
4 Laurie King is simply a great writer who makes settings and characters come alive. After consuming every one of Laurie King's Mary Russell books (beginning withThe Beekeeper's Apprentice), as though I had an attack of the munchies at midnight and found a box of cookies stashed in the pantry -- I started on herKate Martinellibooks.  I found this one, a solo book (not in a series) at the library, and grabbed it as thought it was the last Wii at the toy store.The beginning, I must admit, is hard slogging. Not because it's poorly written (King is among the authors who probably write interesting grocery shopping lists) but because her main character is depressed, troubled, scared. She's working to get out of the situation by rebuilding a house (singlehandedly) on an island she inherited, but if you've had a bad week at work or an argument with your spouse, it's difficult to read about Rae's troubles too.It is, however, worth the effort. Rae rebuilds her life and sanity as she builds the house, and (after that first bit) the story is compelling, with  interesting characters... and man, this woman can bring words to life.One element that I didn't expect, yet which I appreciated grandly, is that Rae is a woodworker. Part of her solo activities includes creating beautiful things from wood. If you like woodworking *and* mysteries (or at  least good storytelling), you'll really enjoy this book.I liked it. I didn't love Folly in the same way that I did her longer series, but I'm glad I took the time to read it.
5 Laurie King's Folly is a very sympathetic portrayal of the effects of psychosis and madness on the individual. In this case it is Rae Newborn who is literally reborn from her last bout of suicidal mental illness through the solitude of an uninhabited island and the project of rebuilding a burned-out house. We join her as she leaves therapy to live on an isolated island off the coast of Washington state. Her only human contact is a weekly visit by a tatooed man called Ed who drops off her supplies and picks up her laundry and shopping list. She starts off by dumping her medications into the Sound (pharmaceutical pollution!) to live drug free with her imaginary Watchers and her suicidal depression.The mystery aspect of the novel is based on the old adage: "just because you're paranoid doesn't mean the world isn't out to get you." She is a famous artist with her own and inherited wealth. Her son-in-law is involved in shady dealings and always seeking money from Rae. Her geat uncle Desmond originally built the house and disappeared when a mysterious fire destroyed it just before completion. Is someone out to get her or is she just psychotic? As the work on the house proceeds and her health improves this question keeps up the suspense.The structure of the novel is broad sections named after the progress of the house reconstruction (Clearing the Ground, Laying the Foundations Building Walls, Raising the Roof Beam, and House Warming). Each of these is introduced by some brief statement by an anonymous Victim who seeks vengeance against The Thief. Who these two are the ultimate mystery of the novel. Each section is divided into chapters that are told from the point of view of Rae Newborn. To break up this a bit, the author introduces chapters throughout the text that are selections from Rae's journal, Desmond's journal, Rae's letters to her granddaughter Petra, and letters from Petra.Laurie King is a master of character development and locale. Her depiction of Rae and the people with whom she interacts brings these people to rich and complex life. Even when the readers know they are minor characters, we are still treated to people who bring a complexity to their roles. This is also true of the setting in the San Juan islands. The pace and ecology of this community is lovingly portrayed. Add to these the technical details of house carpentry and woodworking, and you have a very rich and satisfying novel.Folly is an excellent mystery. Without the known anchors of Ms. King's mystery series (Mary Russell and Kate Martinelli), this book may lack some of the success of books in those series. I found it difficult at the start because Rae has been suicidally depressed and I have a natural reluctance to make friends with people like that. Yet it is by confronting our discomfort that this book is ultimately successful in providing a deep insight into the stigma of mental illness.
4 I have read the first two of the Mary Russel series before I read this one.  I like this one much better.  The Mary Russel series is good.  However, I can't help feeling that Sherlock Holmes by Conan Doyle is probably NOT as King depicts him.  Folly is a stand-alone novel.  At first I had my doubts because depression/suicide is not exactly my favorite subject matter.  However, the book is absorbing.  Despite the fact that I thought I would not be able to empathize with the protagonist at the beginning, I couldn't help becoming interested in her plight as the story unfolded.  King is a good story-teller.  Much more so in Folly than in the Mary Russel series.  She can probably cut some of Desmond's diary entries shorter, however.  Philosophizing on fear or solitude or whatever gets a bit boring at times.  I found myself skipping over paragraphs of it towards the end.
5 Though he bravely fought in Europe during World War I, Desmond Newborn knows his efforts darken his soul. When he returns home he suffers from battle fatigue and leaves his wealthy California family to roam the countryside until settling on a barren island in the San Juan Straits. Just when he finishes building his home, a fire destroys the edifice. Desmond vanished, never to be seen or heard from again.Desmond's grandniece Rae Newborn suffers from clinical depression. She inherits Desmond's island, dubbed "Folly". She intends to rebuild the house all by herself, as she believes that might help her cope with the loss of her husband and child and the resultant stay in a psychiatric ward. If she fails at this monumental task, Rae plans to end it all.Laurie R. King is known for her police procedurals and thrillers. However, stepping into a different genre, the versatile author looks at one person's fight with a crippling mental illness that threatens to engulf her grip on reality. Readers will walk alongside and encourage Rae as she gradually takes one step forward only to stumble back two steps. Folly is an inspiring tale that brings the hope that in the darkest night daylight remains attainable.Harriet Klausner
5 A wonderful book written about a woman's recovery from madness by rebuilding an inherited home on an island in the San Juan's.  The people around her and the tale of the island's history come to life, along with the love the author has for the area.
5 Laurie R King is a wonderful writer . . . evocative and thoughtful.  In this book, Rae, the female protagonist hovers on the edge between sanity and craziness.  She is unflinchingly honest with herself . . . or at least as much as she can be, dealing with a history of mental illness and savage losses.  Her story intertwines with her long dead great uncle who built the original Folly which Rae is now trying to restore.This is a stand-alone novel.
5 King's newest novel is everything that the other reviewers claim, good and bad. (Except that it's NOTHING like Mary Higgins Clark, whose works I had to ban from my Women's Murder Mystery class after finding them 98% romance and 2% mystery.)  But in &quot;Folly,&quot; King does use obvious symbolism, long digressions, unexpected and non-chronological flash-backs, bleeds a bit into romance, and lacks a clear articulation or resolution of the immortal &quot;who dunnit?&quot;  Or at least &quot;why?&quot;But it is a very good book.Unlike the books of her Kate Martinelli series or Mary Russell series, King's newest novel is only incidentally a mystery, although almost none her other books are _simply_ mysteries.  But in &quot;Folly&quot; there's certainly fearful suspense artfully manipulated and enough problems to be solved to provide a satisfactory, if not perfectly neat resolution.  The plot's chronology is complexly presented, so it's no book to read when you have to put it down for a day then pick it up for thirty minutes before bedtime.  But the focus on single and mutably complex main character (however unfortunately allegorical her name) justifies that.While I am a great fan of King's work, I wouldn't claim that she can't write a less-than-wonderful book -- see &quot;To Play the Fool&quot; or &quot;The Moor,&quot; a book that gave me an even worse headache than the Dorothy L. Sayers' exercise with Scottish fish and train timetables.  But this book IS, in many ways, wonderful.  The metaphor of a woman rebuilding herself as she rebuilds a house may be as obvious as &quot;new born&quot; and &quot;sanctuary,&quot; but that doesn't make it any less compelling -- see Homer or Virgil or Dante, also writers with obvious controlling metaphors.  The point is that the metaphor works, and as it works, becomes something larger than a simple comparison.King's sense of place is exquisitely portrayed here.  Not just the island upon which Rae lives, but the whole eco-system of the San Juan's is a feast for the reader.  She makes a world I'd want to walk into, making it real with attention to plants and rocks and birds and mud, and the ebb and flow of wind and water, as well as with the larger outlines and the more ambiguous ambience of a community made up of islands and a population both dependent on and resentful of tourists.  But aside from Rae, the island itself is the main character, and one of King's most interesting characters.  Here I'm reminded of Mary Stewart's early novels that blend mystery, travelogue, and (yes) romance so effectively that, reading them as a teen, I fell in love with those settings, a love that out-lasted my memory of the characters or plots.  Visiting Delphi, Avignon and environs, the Isle of Skye as an adult, I've met other women travelers who were there for the same reason.  King's islands have that effect, making me seriously consider a trip to that area -- something entirely new for me.So it's a book that can metamorphose the reader in many ways.  The subject of depression -- which I'd dreaded after reading the reviews -- is actually affirmative as King crafts it in the struggle of Rae.  And the art and love of wood is an unexpected but powerful gift that the book brings to the reader with world enough and time.
4 Rae Newborn is a woman torn by tragedy.  Having spent several stints in a mental hospital, she decides at age 52 to reconstruct her great-uncle's burned-out house on a remote island in the San Juans of Washington.  Linked to the mainland only by a weekly visit from a boating delivery man, Rae begins her project of rebuilding the house and her life.  Though seeking solitude, Rae does cross paths with the local sheriff and a female forest ranger.  When mysterious glimpses and sounds invade her world, Rae has to ask herself whether they have a worldly source or are bits of her madness returning to taunt her.  Throw in a sulky daughter, a greedy son-in-law, and a beloved granddaughter and it all adds up to an interesting read.  This book will be especially appealing to anyone who has been fortunate enought to see the beautiful San Juan Islands.
3 I am not sure how to describe my feelings on this book. On one hand, I liked it. The story keep me listening and wanting to find out the truth. On the other hand, I found it a little hard to get into, and up until about 2/3 of the way through the book, I wondered why I kept listening.There were a few scenes where I felt like the characters involved were contrived simply to resolve someting, but that they didn't really do all that much to move the stor along.I did enjoy the book. I might listen to something else by her, but I simply can't rave about this one.I can tell you that the narrator annoyed the hell out of me. He has a soft "whispery" voice that kinda hung on every word, or at the least on the end of every paragraph. At first I considered stopping reading, but then remembered that I actually paid for the book and set my sights on the end. I made it.Not a bad story, just not stellar.
5 Laurie King is an outstanding author. She is still writing over-the-top outstanding novels on several topics/genres.  Folly was the first of her dark and disturbing novels that I read.  Not expecting the &#34;darkness&#34;, I came to it unexpectedly and was sucked right in and found a genre that I usually avoid to be, in her talented hands, an amazing and wonderful experience. The follow up book Keeping Watch is great as well.  King is one of the best new writers in the last 15-20 years, and hopefully has another 20+ years of excellent stories to share with us!!!
5 This is one of the best books I've read in recent months. I was absorbed about the story of a woman recovering from a breakdown who goes to live on an island and rebuild the house on it. Are her terrors real or is someone else on the island?
5 This lovely novel builds slowly but surely, weaving a spell around the reader. I particularly like the fact that the author has focused the book around a woman who has suffered from depression and even outright psychosis at certain points in her life. And yet she doesn't seem frightening or weird but simply as a person who is doing her best in spite of the challenges she faces, both emotional and otherwise.  This woman, Rae Newborn, has had a difficult life. Her periodic depressions, breaks with reality and unpredictable behavior have left her realtionship with her daughter (the product of an early marriage) severely strained. She has a son-in-law who is equally unloving and on the verge of keeping her grand-daughter from her, a girl Rae loves dearly. And there have been other troubles, deep ones, in Rae's life - crises I won't reveal here (not wanting to spoil the story). The past and recent pains in Rae's life have left her shell-shocked and fearful.  Still, she's a resilient woman and she decides the best way to cure her pain is to confront it head on, with no one to turn to for support except herself. She moves to an island and decides to build a home which was started by another member of her family, long ago.  And that's when things come to a climax - although it's a climax that builds gradually, allowing the reader to get to know Rae and her past more fully. I found this to be an extremely satisfying read, one that left me feelng as if I knew Rae quite well. I also liked the fact that the author did a fine job of demystifying mental illness. I felt drawn to Rae, to her courage and her willingness to take huge risks to become the person she wanted to be.
5 First Sentence:  The gray-haired woman stood with her boots planted on the rocky promontory and watched what was left of her family pull away.Rae Newborn is a woodworker whose work appears in galleries and museums.  She is also a woman who has known tragedy, severe depression and attempted suicide more than once.  Working to put her life back on track, Rae has come to Salvation Island to rebuild the house, known as Folly, built by her great-uncle and by fire.  She is dealing with her fears after having been viciously attacked and a feeling of being watched.Things don't improve when she finds a footprint that's not hers, learns her house in Los Angeles has been broken into and discovered a skeleton still containing the killing bullet.This was a re-read for me and I found it as good the second time.  Rae is a powerful character.  In spite of her problems and past, you feel her strength and admire her self-awareness.  Since the story is told in first-person, you have a real feel for her emotions and fears.There is an interesting assortment of supporting character, including dead great-uncle Desmond, who are interesting in themselves but also act as a foil for Rae in demonstrating her determination.I loved King's attention to detail and powers of description.  Even if you've never worked with wood, anyone with a craft they love and recognition for the importance of the tools of that craft, will appreciate the descriptions of the wood her awareness of her tools.The mystery isn't a traditional one.  There is the present day mystery of whom, if anyone, is after Rae and the secondary mystery of Desmond, who came to the island with his own need to recover from shell shock after WWI.Folly is a wonderful, emotional story and my favorite of anything King has written thus far.
5 I agree with the other reviewers that this is a marvelous story! The characters are very true to life, the description of the area is very well done and it keeps you on the edge of your seat right to the very end. The only warning I would give is that you may lose sleep while you read it as it's very hard to put down.
1 FOLLY will eventually be a mass-market best seller, no doubt, in spite of the fact that the book cried out for a good editor. Read the other reviews for plot; I found it formulaic and clumsy. The heroine, Rae, an artist-woodworker, widowed and depressed, isolates herself on a remote island formerly owned by a mysterious dead relative. Not a huge mystery, but at least the hint of one. King's characters are so wooden and one-dimensional, they never come alive, stuck forever in their blocks. The plots twists in unlikely unresolved ways, leaving the reader with unanswered questions. Then there are endless pages devoted to varieties of wood that fail, however, to interest or enlighten. There is little personal investment by this writer, which says volumes beyond the much-burdened folly of FOLLY.
5 This is not a book that gives instant gratification. No action sequences. No explicit love scenes. Instead, the reader is gradually drawn into the life of the main character. The reader actually begins to care about her. She is interesting, complex, and familiar. This is a story that one can appreciate.
2 The first 75% of this book was slow reading and boring in most parts.  The end of the book finally became interesting.  I found too much detailed information in housing construction.
5 This is one of the best novels I have ever read.  I enjoyed the story, the character and personality of Rae Newborn.  She looked her fears directly in the face and proved that she was strong enough to carry through to her goals.  I literally could not put this book down.
4 Quiet Mind, Healthy Body: The Art of Low Stress LivingI am a Laurie King Fan. I've read all the books in her two series and this is my first encounter with one of her stand-alones . I found the book engrossing and could hardly put it down until the last chapters. The way the book ended left me cold! It was as though the author didn't think the storyline through before she began writing and then couldn't come up with an ending that lived up to the wonderful character development and the beautiful narrative. The "who," the "why," and the "how" of the ending seemed to me more in line with a novice writer rather than someone of King's stature. Neverhteless, my enjoyment of the bulk of this book made up for the final let-down. I wish there were a 3 1/2 star rating since that would most accurately describe where I think this book belongs.
5 I enjoyed this book so much, and I was so sad when it ended. I found myself putting the book down, because I was coming to the end, and I wasn't ready to let go of the characters yet. I surrounded myself with the story as I was reading it, and I thought about the characters when I was away from it.I am a big fan of Ms. King's Mary Russell novels, but this book is not like those at all, except for the enjoyment factor involved in reading it. I think all kinds of readers would enjoy this book, kind of a cross genre novel.So..do yourself a favor, read this book.
5 This book was really different from most other books on the market, since it was about a woman woodworker with mental problems who's living on an island off the coast of Washington state.  It's the kind of book that's hard to lay down.  The author might have gone on a little too long about tools and woodworking, and the "occupation" of the heroine's love interest was really fakey and unbelieveable, but overall it was a pretty darn good book.
5 I've read all of Ms. King's work and therefore I'm conditioned to receiving beautiful writing and well-crafted suspense when I pick up one of her stories. This book, FOLLY, provided even more: an intimate look at one woman's struggle to decide whether to live or die. Few writers are willing to delve into this essential question, but Ms. King provides an unflinching look at fear, madness, and courage and does so in a remarkably entertaining fashion. My only wish regarding this book is that I had never read it so I could have the pleasure of discovering it, again. My title for this review refers not just to Laurie R. King's works, but to all the books I've read. I keep two copies of Folly: one so that I can reread it every few years, and the second to lend. It's a great book that I recommend highly.
5 I always admire Laurie King's writing, but this story of hers is exceptionally complex and moving. From the technical skills of the protagonist to the veracity of her depression's symptoms and beyond to the setting, the superb characters, major and minor, King has crafted a superb novel that gripped me from start to finish.
5 I have read all of the Laurie R. King books.  She is a very perceptive lady with a terrific way with words.  The first 100+ pages of this book seems like a work vying for an &quot;Oprah&quot; recommendation, but then it illustrates why the beginning is necessary.  The interplay of Rae (the book's subject) and her environment is an important point of the book, but its nature is such that a less skillful writer couldn't make it interesting.  The author once again shows her skill; I thoroughly enjoyed this story, and I learned much from it.  The hike is worth the effort.
5 This book starts off as being pretty depressing. In fact, I ended up putting it down the first time I tried to read it. I'm so glad I picked it up and gave it another try. Folly is tense, suspenseful, and kept me guessing until the very end. It's well worth the read.
5 I've read King's Mary Russell series and enjoyed it, but Folly is  a much better piece of writing.  Where the Russell series is entertaining but light, Folly is a thoughtful investment with a complex main character.Being from the Northwest, I loved the setting on a small island in the Straits of Juan de Fuca.  But what I liked most was the use of an older woman as a protagonist.  Rae's a bit of an anomaly in our current sea of women's fiction. For starters, she's old.  Plus she's stubborn, smart, fit, and a bit paranoid.  And a grandmother.  Sometimes it's hard to connect with characters whose age and mindset feel vastly different than your own, but King makes Rae live and breathe and I really enjoyed her.  It's a very human portrayal and I could relate to her.  She's no superwoman.  Rae doesn't appreciate growing older.  She's used to being fully capable and you can tell how much it bothers her to have to take time with things and be careful with her body.  Her granddaughter Petra serves as a bit of an emotional safety line for her.  Excellently done.  The plot itself is good with the play on paranoia--how much is Rae imagining and how much is real?  But it's premise is a wee gothic.  Luckily, you don't really notice or question. An enjoyable weekend or week read.**If you like Folly, then you may be interested in Beachcombing for a Shipwrecked God by Joe Coomer.
5 Rae is a 52 year old, 6 foot, grey haired woman moving to Folly Island.  It is one of the San Juan Islands off the coast of Washington state.  She has just left a mental institution, after the death of her second husband and an almost 5 year old daughter.  She had stayed there for a year.  Now she wants to start over on Folly Island, where she will live by herself and need to build shelter.  The interesting plot involves her uncle, who disappeared from the island 70 years ago when he lived there alone as the family's black sheep.  Many things in Rae's life parallel that of her Uncle Desmond.  Rae has outside help via Ed who comes to the island on Tuesday's to bring her groceries or anything she needs.  There is also a local sheriff, who takes an interest in Rae.Rae is a very gifted and rich artist doing ornate, highly priced items in wood with many drawers and inlays before her depression.  Her connection to wood - specifically the madrone found on this island - peaks her interest in rebuilding the mysterious uncle's burnt out house.King is very good at building suspense, right from the beginning.  She makes the characters very interesting and keeps you guessing as to who's good/bad.This was a great story by King, who is known for her Mary Russel mystery series.
5 &quot;What does it mean to lose one's mind? Where does it go? What is sane when the world is mad by contrast?&quot;  So reads a 1918  entry in the diary of Rae Newborn's Great-Uncle Desmond, the first builder of the &quot;Folly&quot; or great house on a lonely 150 acre island in the San Juan chain in the Pacific Northwest.Rae, an internationally known expert in wordworking, plans to recreate Uncle Desmond's house using only a picture taken 70 years ago. Subject to depression her whole life, and recovering from a complete breakdown after a drunken driver killed her husband and 9 year old daughter, Rae comes to Folly Island after a year in a mental institution. Rae's journey to Folly has come to mirror Desmond's--an effort to rebuild his house in an attempt to rebuild her life.Desmond, considered a misfit after physical and psychological injuries sustained in World War I, escapes from the Newborn's oppressive Boston household to the freedom of the beautiful Sanctuary Islan, which was renamed Folly Island after Desmond's building attempt.  Desmond's history comes out during Rae's stay on the island and she is particularly troubled with what seems to be a family history of madness.She struggles to overcome her own panic and fears on the island, all the while feeling someone is watching her. Her lawyer gets a message to her that someone paid thugs to attack her two years ago--the final event that triggered her breakdown. She also is told the her greedy son-in-law is trying to declare her mentally incompetent, so he can get control of her sizable fortune. Then things begin to disappear around her camp, disrupting the stability her almost finished house has given her. Her past and present family mystery deepens when she finds the 70 year old skeleton of Desmond in a cave near the house. Who killed Desmond and why? Who is still stalking her? Are they trying to trigger another breakdown or suicide attempt?Despite her isolation, Rae makes friends with a number of locals: a handsome sheriff, an infuriatingly perky but well meaning ranger and a shady but reliable boatman is her lifeline to the outside world.  A beacon in an otherwise stormy life is Rae's granddaughter Petra, the only family member she feels close to. During Petra's visit to the island, Rae must call upon her inner strength and resources to protect them from an outside foe focused on revenge.While a departure from Laurie R. King's Mary Russell or Kate Martinelli series, Folly is a chilling novel featuring an unforgettable heroine and her struggle over her internal and external demons. Highly recommended.
4 Folly opens with an excerpt from a dictionary, defining a folly as (among other things) &#65533;an often extravagant picturesque building erected to suit a fanciful taste&#65533;, which is a fair summation of the novel &#65533; though unlike some follies, this one is fairly well put together.King does a wonderful job with the &#65533;psychological&#65533; part of &#65533;psychological thriller&#65533;, capturing both Rae&#65533;s inner strength and terrors extremely well.  For a thriller, though, Folly is very unevenly paced.  King seems to have fallen in love with her setting and the characters who live there, and things move rather slowly in the first 340 pages.  This gives the reader plenty of time to think about what&#65533;s likely to happen next; I wasn&#65533;t even slightly surprised when Rae discovered a body or when she solves the murder.  In the last 60 pages, however, King introduces more characters with very little warning, and drops you into an action scene almost as though it were an afterthought.  It&#65533;s a good ending, with some nice twists, but a little more tension would have helped it.Fortunately, King has a beautifully picturesque style of writing, and her characters are interesting enough &#65533; and, for the most part, sympathetic enough &#65533; to keep you reading even when not much is happening.  The plot is nowhere near as complex or obscure as, say, a Minette Walters novel, but it&#65533;s much easier to like King&#65533;s characters; even her villains and lowlifes tend to have a redeeming feature or two.Folly may not be perfectly constructed, but King has chosen her raw materials &#65533; words and characters &#65533; very well, and the end result is extremely pleasing.
4 I found this to be a compelling book of renewal, both material and spiritual. We join the story as 52 year old Rae newborn is waving goodbye to her family after being dropped off on a deserted island. On this island she plans to rebuild a house that had originally been built by her great uncle. She also hopes to rebuild herself after fighting her way through severe depression.During construction of the house we learn all about Rae's past, the reasons behind her depression and her fears. We also learn about her great uncle Desmond and the mystery surrounding his life and death.But while everything appears to be progressing well, we get a sense that something is not quite right. Someone appears to be trying to find her and she continues to get the feeling she is being watched, but is never sure whether that's part of her mental problems or that it's actually happening.Suspense builds steadily with some remarkable discoveries taking place. I found the last 100 pages or so were filled with unexpected twists and revelations. This is a very enjoyable book containing a terrific story of discovery and renewal coupled with a very interesting mystery and tense finale.
4 Laurie King continues to deliver quality in her most recent Folly. Rae Newborn escapes to the San Juan Islands in the Pacific northwest after a family tragedy that culminates in mental collapse.  In a last ditch attempt to rebuild her spirit Rae Newborn takes on the monumental task of rebuilding a burned-out house she inherits from a mysterious relative.  The theme of tension  necessary to build a house is mirrored in the tension of this story. Is Rae Newborn's paranoia wholly a result of her mental instability, or is there real danger lurking on the island of Folly?  This woman's tragedy and her heroic confrontation of depression, nature, the monumental task of house building strike a deep resonance.  Through her we meet the quirky residents of the San Juan Islands, we explore her murky family history, and we share her innermost paranoia. The twist at the end, although not unexpected and not as effective as it could be, nonetheless works to give a satisfactory ending to this good story. As always Laurie King doesn't stint her readers, but instead presents them with a provocactive story thinly disguised as a mystery. A good read.
5 I got this book to keep my son entertained in the car on a trip and ever since he got it, we have had to read it every night!  He loves it!  He loves me to read it to him and he just likes to look through it by himself at all the pictures.
5 My three year old grandson absolutely loves this book!  It is read over and over and over!  Highly recommended!
5 Like the previous review, our copy has been loved to death!  It is unfortunate that this book appears to be out of print . . . I would love to get a brand new copy.  Our boys have just worn our copy out.  Would love to buy new copies to give as baby gifts for boys.  Truth be told, I am so tired of reading this book again & again . . . but they adore it.
5 One of the best books ever! I had to actually put it away at times because my youngest wanted it read over and over....
5 Richard Scarry's book, Cars and Trucks And Things That Go is great for children.  It is full of excitement and adventure.  It is fun for the children to find Mr. Goldbug.  My children thoroughly enjoyed this book.
4 Short stories of the adventures of Tommy and Tuppence. The stories were made into a TV series in Britain,. The show adds life and color to the stories.
5 I really enjoy the 'Tommy and Tuppence' stories. It was just as I expected and I loved it! You will too!
4 Tommy and Tuppence Beresford have been married for six years. They first met as blackmailers in the 1922 Christie novel "The Secret Adversary.' The two have been involved in secret service work and have survived World War I. They live in Bloomsbury in London as the book begins. Tommy is employed in a mundane desk job for the British Intelligence Agency. Tuppence (nee Prudence Cowley) is a bright young socialite who is bored with daily life longing for excitement and danger.The British Intelligence Agency asks the Bersefords to assume aliases as they take over the Blunt Detective Agency. Mr. Blunt was arrested for engaging in espionage for the Russian Communist regime. The Bersefords begin their work with gusto taking on several knotty criminal cases. They imitate the techniques of famous detectives such as Christie's Hercule Poirot and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson.There are several cases which the twosome solve during the course of the 215 page book. This is very lightweight Christie but her ingenious mind does use her "little grey cells" enough to keep her inquisitive readers guessing"whodunit?". Light! Entertaining! Fun! Enjoy yourselves with a few hours with Tommy and Tuppence!
4 I tho-ght that for the most part, this was well-written.  This edition had quite a few typos and editing errors.  I love Christie's writing, but as I am not a fan of Short Stories, I didn't like these as well as her full-length works.  It wasn't bad, it just didn't ring my bell.I typically sit down an read a Christie book within 24 hours, but this book took me over a week.  So, there you go.It WAS an excellent way to acquaint myself with other mystery writers who Christie respected and by whom she was influenced.  I am starting to read some of them now.Overall, it was light fun, but not quite as gripping as her longer works.
4 Originally published in 1929, PARTNERS IN CRIME reunites Tommy Beresford and Prudence "Tuppence" Cowley, first created by Christie for the earlier novel THE SECRET ADVERSARY; they are now married and, although happy in the marriage, Tuppence finds herself bored with the routine of life.Her wish for excitement is answered when intelligence agent Mr. Carter puts a proposal before the two.  A London detective agency has been found to be involved in espionage and its owner has been picked up--but government authorities want to keep the agency open in hope of tracing its illegal activities.  How would Tommy and Tuppence like to take on the task?This set up provides the frame for a series of short stories in which Tommy and Tuppence handle various legitimate calls upon the detective agency even as they hope to make contacts that will break the spy ring.  There is Lawrence St. Vincent, whose lady-love has agreed to marry him... but only if he can solve a unique riddle.  There is a stolen pearl, the odd scam, and a few murders as well--and, of course, espionage constantly in the background.Along the way, Tommy and Tuppence have fun by adopting the methods, with considerably varied result, of famous fictional detectives such as The Old Man In The Corner, Sherlock Holmes, and even (albeit briefly) the celebrated Hercule Poirot.  It is all very light hearted, lightly written, and as always when Christie elects to trot out Tommy and Tuppence the great attraction are the characters themselves--sharp, witty, and having a good time.This collection of short stories comes no where near the brilliance of THE TUESDAY CLUB MURDERS, featuring Miss Marple, or THE LABORS OF HERCULES, only slightly less fine and featuring Hercule Poirot.  Nonetheless, it is an entertaining sort of thing, and most readers will enjoy Christie's comic touch with her material.  Good fun!GFT, Amazon Reviewer
5 My oldest daughter started checking out Agatha Christie novels from the library.  She says they are cool.  She left a couple books in the van last week.  I brought them in and started reading Partners in Crime.Partners in Crime is a collection of short stories tied together with an overall story arc.  The partners are a husband and wife team who solve mysteries.  Tommy and Tuppence Beresford are asked by the Secret Service to take over a detective agency in an effort to flush out a master spy.  The Beresfords agree.  As detectives they have several adventures.  Every chapter or couple chapters has a single mystery.  With the last chapter being when they capture the master spy that no one else had been able to get a handle on.The stories take place in the early 1900's in England.  The mysteries happen at various locations and different levels of society.  I figure my daughter is learning a little bit of history as she reads these stories.They are fun.  If you haven't read an Agatha Christie book before, this is a good place to start.
4 Tommy and Tuppence Beresford's romance and postwar adventures were told in THE SECRET ADVERSARY.  It is now 6 years later (1929) and the pair are comfortably settled into married life.Tommy has a job in the Secret Service, working for Mr. Carter whom they had met during their earlier adventures, and is reasonably content but Tuppence is bored.  The housework only occupies a few hours in the morning leaving her longing for earlier, more exciting times.  Just as Tommy warns her to be careful what she wishes for his boss arrives to offer them an adventure.He requests the pair take over a detective agency that is a front for Russian spies.  The plan is to keep the agency going until the Secret Service can capture the rest of the spy ring.  In order to keep up the front of the detective agency Tommy and Tuppence take on various jobs that come along.  They are great fans of detective stories and model their detection techniques on the &quot;Classics&quot; the popular fictional detectives of the day.This collection of light hearted adventures is charming and cleverly plotted.  It is wonderful to see what has happened to the delightful characters of not only Tommy and Tuppence but also Albert and the mysterious Mr. Carter.  So why a 4 instead of a 5 star rating?  The problem is with the use of the fictional characters as role models.  Other than Sherlock Holmes few of the other detectives (Dr. Thorndyke, Inspector Hanaud, Max Carrados, Reggie Fortune, Inspector French, Father Brown and The Old Man in the Corner) are very well know today.  Still, it is possible to enjoy the stories without knowing who the inspirations were.
5 I've been a fan of Tommy and Tuppence, but had only read two stories about them previously.  It's great to go back and see their earlier work.
5 This is one of Christie's best efforts. Every story moves smoothly and is satisfying throughout til their expert conclusions. I really like her Tommy and Tuppence books. It's too bad she only wrote 5 of them, but this one I think is her finest. The 2 meld well together and even argue delightfully. A must addition to any Agatha collection. You will not be disappointed.
4 Good Christy but clearly a late insertion into the series. Their twins could not possibly be old enough in 1939 to join the war effort.
5 I bought this because my other copy was completely tattered because of reading it so many time.  I love the way Agatha Christie writes!  i can imagine Tommy and Tuppence.
3 Tommy and Tuppence are once again on the trail of Russian spies. They are commissioned to take over a detective agency that will be used as a front to try and trap said Russian spies. Posing as a detective and his "confidential secretary" the Beresfords take on all sorts of cases. Some are not very difficult, and Tuppence repeatedly proves herself to be the superior detective. The two go through all sorts of machinations to try and prove their importance to their clients, claiming to be called away to important cases by Scotland Yard. They also mimic the methods and habits of famous literary detectives. There are even several bows to Christie's own Poirot, as they attempt to use "the little grey cells."I must admit that Tommy and Tuppence are my least favorite of Christie's detectives. Still, a lesser Christie is still better than a good many other mysteries. Short stories rob Christie of some of her best attributes- complex character development and relationships, and that is certainly the case here. Still, while Christie's short stories are rarely as good as her novels, this volume is still worth a read.
5 I wish that Agatha Christie had written more stories around these two.  Tommy and Tuppence are amongst her most attractive characters. Tommy is a pleasant young man who tries to be serious and responsible, but is also the perfect partner for Tuppence whose exuberance and willingness to take risks moves the action into some hair-raising situations.Here we see them in the second book in the series, where each chapter is a parody around a famous fiction detective of the time. Many of these "detectives" are long forgotten, but the style of each one is mirrored in the activities of Christie's characters in a collection of credible but interesting situations. Agatha Christie was not only a good writer of detective fiction, but she was also a very clever woman.  Nowhere is this more evident that is this volume.The Kindle format is great.  This book loses none of its vivacity in this presentation.
5 The first time I read Tommy and Tuppence, about 30 years ago, they were my least favorite Agatha Christie characters.  However, when I reread this book recently, I loved it.  It is a collection of short stories about cases handled by T & T, each one mimicking the style of other fictional sleuths.  Some of the clues and solutions to the mysteries were brilliant.  The one in which their clerk Albert lassoes the bad guy made me laugh out loud, nearly scaring my cat off the back of the couch.  I absolutely loved the one about the clergyman's daughter whose inherited fortune was mixed up with potatoes.  Christie takes ordinary events and everyday occurrences and turns them into imagined fantasies.  All of the stories are puzzles, of course, challenging you to try to figure out the solution.  None of them contain graphic violence, irrelevant sex, or profanity.  Great entertainment.
3 Tommy and Tuppence have returned in &#34;Partners in Crime.&#34; (my apologies -- I cannot seem to determine how to italicize while typing this review)  This book is not as good as the duo's debut in &#34;The Secret Adversary&#34; or their later adventures in &#34;N or M?&#34; but if you are a fan of Christie, you will probably enjoy this book.  Here the young couple set up a sham private detective agency with the assistance of law enforcement in order to bring down a major criminal organization but along the way Tommy and Tuppence solve several mysteries after being hired to locate missing persons, wills, jewels and also manage to solve the odd murder or two.  While doing so, the sleuths adopt the personas of famous historical detectives by employing those detectives' methods of observation and investigation.A pleasant read but not one of Christie's best books.  Still, I give it a B- because one or two of the short stories has a nice twist that I did not see coming.
4 "So Tommy and Tuppence were married", she chanted, "and lived happily ever afterwards. And six years later they were still living together happily ever afterwards..."Some stories were fairly straightforward and I was able to guess the end which turned out right like "The Unbreakable Alibi"..  Yippeeee.. :)The bantering between Tommy and Tuppence is amusing. They are two people who complement each other. While Tommy is serious and cautious, Tuppence is impulsive and hopelessly optimistic."I can rub my hands together when I'm pleased" for Polton,Tommy and Tuppence, who were first introduced in the book The Secret Adversary,are now happily married but Tuppence is restless and bored. She craves for some adventure."I wish.. something would happen"As if her wish is granted, they are visited by Mr. Carter who works for some unnamed secret government agency and is their old friend. He proposes that they take over "The International Detective Agency" and Tommy pose as its owner Mr. Theodore Blunt. They are to intercept secret messages from Russia. Meanwhile they are to run the detective agency as their own and solve any cases that come their way.The book contains short accounts of different cases that come their way with the secret Russian angle running in the background in all the stories.Agatha Christie wrote these stories as parodies on the famous detectives of 1920s like Sherlock Holmes, John Thorndyke, Father Brown, Tommy McCarty and even Poirot. The stories present some much unexpected turns like in "The Case of The Missing Lady", I could never have guessed the end solution. :)"It will be too marvelous..We will hunt down murderers, and discover the missing family jewels, and find people who've disappeared and detect embezzlers.""I always like your cheery optimism, Tuppence. You seem to have no doubt whatever that you have talent to exercise.""Well I have read every detective novel that has been published in the last ten years."They are a fun loving couple who enjoy their life as well as the cases leaving the reader feeling giddy and delighted.I especially liked their efforts in imitating their favorite detective inspirations like"..a nice little syringe and a bottle labelled Cocaine" for Sherlock Holmesand it was hilarious when they sort of overdid the Sherlock Holmes or Polton or Father Brown mannerism copying.'He picked up a violin which lay on the table, and drew the bow once or twice across the strings. Tuppence ground her teeth and even the explorer blanched.'  :P :DAlbert, first introduced in The Secret Adversary, is another great character who apart from being a domestic help at home is also appointed by Tommy and Tuppence Beresford as their assistant at their agency . He is efficient, yet eccentric and likes to change his behavior, mannerisms to suit a situation based on movies he has watched like'a tall lad of fifteen who seemed undecided as to whether he was a footman or a page boy inquired in a truly magnificent manner:"Are you at Home, Madam? The front door bell has just rung.""I wish Albert wouldn't go to the Pictures..He's copying a Long Island butler now. Thank goodness I have cured him of asking for people's cards and bringing them to me on a salver." 'or' Albert relinquished the role of a Long Island butler, and took  up that of office boy, a part which he played to perfection. A paper bag of sweets, inky hands, and a tousled head was his conception of the character.'My words are inconsequential when it comes to commenting on Agatha Christie. She is aptly described as the "Queen of Crime" and she doesn't let us down in this book too.The book seems like a casual, "no-stress" venture from her and therefore is a perfect light, entertaining read.The short stories though dealing with different cases are connected and should be read in the order they are presented in the book.Although not the best from Tommy and Tuppence, the stories are simple in style but very expertly written and exercise our "little grey cells" vigorously. I give it a 3.8 out of 5 and urge all to read and fall in love with Tommy and Tuppence, a great pair of detectives who are courageous, impulsive, loyal and not afraid to risk their lives... Following the slogan "Any case solved in 24 hours" they will and can solve any case no matter how bizarre that comes their way...Prepare to test all your mental faculties in this beautiful short story collection with these great Partners in Crime :)This review is also available on njkinny.blogspot.in
4 The &#8216;partners in crime&#8217; are married couple Tommy and Tuppence Beresford. Just as Tuppence is bemoaning that she is bored and will have to buy some more hats they are visited buy Agent Carter seeking their help.Tommy and Tuppence first appeared in 1922 in The Secret AdversaryChristie brings them back in 1929 in this series of short stories. While each story does have its own mystery and investigation there is one story line throughout.At Carter&#8217;s request they take over Blunt&#8217;s Detective Agency, known to be a link with a Russian spy ring and are once again embroiled in mystery.While their main goal is to expose the Russian spies they must take on bone fide cases. The cases range from breaking an alibi (the result of a casual wager) to murder with a tantalising sprinkling of dangerous contact with the Russian syndicate.While essentially classified as a short story collection some stories span two chapters with the mysterious Russian mystery popping up from time to time until the last story.Tommy and Tuppence are both keen detective fiction readers and to add some fun to their cases they approach each case in the manner of a different fictional detective including Sherlock Holmes and Father Brown. When an early reference to using their &#8220;little grey cells&#8221; appears I thought that was Christie&#8217;s token mention of her own famous fictional detective but investigating a case &#8216;Poirot style&#8217; is the comic feature in the last story.These stories are not deep mysteries. Tommy and Tuppence&#8217;s love life and often take a light hearted view of even some of the more serious situations they find themselves in.Set in the late 1920s their escapades are zany and whacky so typical of that time. It entertaining and relaxing reading.Added to the main characters is the unconventional Albert, employed by them at home and changes his &#8216;performance&#8217; according to his latest favourite movie character, is now receptionist at the detective agency providing even more opportunities for his role playing and more fun for the reader.This review is also available on my website www.pam.id.au
4 Agatha Christie's team of detectives, Tommy and Tuppence Beresford, return in their second mystery "Partners in Crime" a collection of short stories featuring the young sleuths.  Although happily married for several years, Tuppence still craves adventure and Christie offers plenty of it in this collection of generally lighthearted stories.Tuppence's craving for adventure meets its satisfaction when a superior from Scotland Yard asks them to front the Blunt Detective Agency, pretending to be Blunt and his associate in an effort to capture a criminal gang from Russia.  The Beresfords jump at the opportunity, with Tommy augmenting his sleuthing abilities by studying the great fictional masters, like Sherlock Holmes and even Hercule Poirot.  Many of the stories are interconnected, such as "The Clergyman's Daughter" which begins with a tale about a possible poltergeist forcing a poor young woman to sell the house she inherited, that then ends in The Red House" when Tommy and Tuppence discover the natural reason behind the supernatural events.  Other standouts include "Finessing the King"/"The Gentleman Dressed in Newspaper" where a murder at a costume party has all fingers pointing in the wrong direction, and "The Man in the Mist" where Tommy and Tuppence encounter a possible ghost in connection with a strange murder."Partners in Crime" is an enjoyable and easy read.  Tommy and Tuppence are definitely likable characters, and while the stories are rather dated, the wordplay and sheer fun that these two characters have is infectious.  It is not by far Christie's best work, but it is an enjoyable departure from her regular sleuths, Poirot and Miss Marple.
5 A sometimes quirky, sometimes deadly serious mystery anthology. In my humble opinion, this is one of Agatha Christie's best outputs. It takes the reader through a series of interrelated yet "stand alone' short stories that tell of a couple of former spies and mystery buffs, Tommy and Tuppence Beresford. Once again they take up the mantle of protecting the British Empire while also pretending to be private detectives in an agency that  British intelligence suspects is an enclave for enemy spies. In each crime they solve they  act similar to one of their favorite detectives from fiction...in some cases with hilarious results. i think this is a must read for fans of Ms. Christie.
3 Quite the Agatha Christie style. A few stories dull but none the less a good read. Story of swapped bags was a big score.
3 A collection of short stories featuring Christie's married team of Tommy  and Tuppence Beresford.  The stories are derived from Tommy and Tuppence  being asked to take over a detective agency that the authorities believe is  an information drop for the Russians.  Christie poked a little fun at  mystery writers and their counterparts by having the Beresford's take on  the persona of a different, fictional detective for each story including  Christie's famous, Belgium detective, Hercule Poirot.
5 interesting and full of action. very tentative romance. a totally &#34;kick back and get absorbed&#34; science fiction book. You need time on your hands. cant put the book down
3 This was an good read set in an interesting fantasy world The characters and plot are not as well developed as her writing as Robyn Hobb but I was encouraged enough to read the next int the series
5 I first read this book (and the other books of the Windsinger series) about 15 years ago. I know I enjoyed it then. I have enjoyed many fantasy novels over the years, and occasionally I have enjoyed rereading them. But I have never felt compelled, after so many years, to seek out a book which was out of print. When I finally got a hold of Harpy's Flight, I found I remembered the central characters vividly, but the plot seemed new and fresh. Ki has lost her family in a brutal attack by harpies, sentient flying creatures. Her first thought is vengeance, and then survival. Along the way, she meets a down and out adventurer, Vandien, when he makes an unsuccessful attempt to rob her. The central characters, Ki and Vandien, are tough, strong, and very human. Their relationship, as they confront dangers, grows in a measured, realistic way. They do not solve each other's problems, but they do help each other survive.  As I continued reading, I found some insight as to why I felt so drawn to this particular book at this time of my life. It is about letting go of the past and making a positive decision to live in the face of loss.  In the midst of a rich, brightly colored, and strange world, Lindholm somehow draws you in to experience the most intense and sensual grief, anger, love, and compassion, and to make it your own. (Is this a kind of surrealism?)  This book is a classic of fantasy literature, and should never have gone out of print.
4 Folklore, myths and strange creatures in another wonderful tale of struggle and survival of our unlucky Ki and her beautiful horses and the simple journey of life on the road, almost...tempting. A great read, makes you hungry for more.
4 I love world-building, and this is an excellent world. Five sentient races, each of whom is very different from each other, with difficulties in reconciling such and working together.This book (while it read as a stand-alone, there are apparently others set in the world) focuses on the relationships between the humans and the harpies. Some humans hate them; some worship them. What happens when these collide? The harpies are well-drawn, though- and this might be a spoiler- in the end it looks like they are using their worshippers as dupes.Ki isn't having any of that, given her experiences. Though- her choices were ambiguous; she clung to memories even when they were hurting her. The plot was well-crafted to show character growth, and her tentative transition between mourning the past and having a future. Other characters also grew and changed.The plot and pacing were excellent., handled by a series of flips between the current situation and flashbacks- but very well-handled.I am pleased to see there are more in this series, because this one read like a stand-alone novel; no cliffhangers, and the plot threads were resolved. Still, the world and the writing are fascinating enough that I look forward to reading more.Triggers: some serious violence, but nothing rapey.
5 Harpy's Flight is the beginning of Megan Lindholm's Windersinger trilogy, which, although overlooked by many and often regarded as just another couple of fantasy novels, stands far out of the crowd. Lindholm created a  vivid world and tells us enough of it to understand the deeper mechanisms  that keep it working but still leaves enough to the reader to let him fill  in the rest with his own imagination. In Harpy's Flight character  development seems a little shaky compared to the following novels, but Ki  and Vandien, the two main protagonists, are highly enjoyable to be  acquainted with. There are some quite surprising twists in the story and  the book will keep you glued to it to find out what it all comes down to.  You probably won't regret buying this book.
4 This author has the gift of writing stories--good, taut stories. This book is fun to read, though not as riveting as the books she wrote as Robin Hobb--I believe the ones she wrote as Megan Lindholm are the earlier works? Good serviceable prose, and well imagined and conceived settings. Familiar themes, but new stories--pleasant, engaging book. Not Shakespeare perhaps, but neither has she the slightest aspiration that way. She sets out to entertain, and she succeeds.
3 The premise seems interesting and the first chapter is certainly gripping. However I'm not able to trudge through the laboriously described landscape and meals. based on other reviews it seems others are ok with this, clearly it is a personal preference. It could be I'm still suffering a Dance With Dragons PTSD, but I dont want oddly arranged 'quaint' sentence structure and every rock on the road discussed. I dont think I'll be able to finish it.
4 I read this book when I was a teenager and have been looking for it again ever since.I was not sure that it would be as great as I remembered, but it certainly was!!!Loved it then, love it now.
3 I was a huge fan of Robin Hobb's work when she used to write novels as Megan Lindholm, such as `The Ki and Vandien Quartet' which introduced me to a great writer. I certainly feel that Harpy's Flight projects the qualities of a great fantasy writer and those raw traits that the author possessed before the creation of epics (such as the Farseer Trilogy in which Fitz Chivalry was born). This richly evocative tale is full of distinct originality, professing the author's uniquely individualistic style - which is apparent in all her work. Unlike others within this highly competitive and greatly popular genre, Megan Lindholm stands-out for miles with how she puts such creative vision and inspired ideas onto paper with such effortless ease and dexterity. This is a book in a collection of favorites that never cease to amaze me and leave me awestruck, for this is a writer who is so impressive as she is the creator of ambitious masterpieces.`Harpies don't give up on blood debts. Neither do the men who serve them. A life must be given in return'Within a world of ancient rituals and magic, lie harsh mountainous regions and extraordinary races. Instead of remaining in the comfort of her husband's Gypsy people Ki chooses to become an outcast and wander in solitude whilst plagued by haunted memories. As she leaves all that is familiar, Ki encounters all kinds of beings and ends up being hunted by Harpies and a mysterious man who is intent to remain a part of her future. This supremely singular tale is wrought with danger and shrouded in secrets, which will dazzle any fan of epic fantasy and well-written literary works.I do believe that the author's later works (written as Robin Hobb), such as the liveship traders and her phenomenal Farseer trilogy are so accomplished and spectacular compared to her earlier published works as Megan Lindholm. However, if you are a fan of this author then I would strongly recommend reading books such as this (together with others as Megan Lindholm), for you will still enjoy a brilliantly assured work of outstanding proportions and substance. This highly readable, enjoyable tale is one that sparkles as you glimpse the writer emerging from her chrysalis...soon to blossom into something quite remarkable! Robin Hobb (aka. Megan Lindholm) has to be one of the greatest fantasy writers of all-time and who deserves her rightful place next to JRR Tolkien, Raymond E Feist and others.Works as Megan Lindholm:The reindeer peopleThe wolf's brotherCloven Hoovesthe Ki and Vandien quartet3.5 stars
4 I love Robin Hobb or whatever other name she goes by. A fabulous and engaging world is created with many different species.
5 Love, magic and blood is what this tale is about.  Ki is an outcast, partly because of what happened to her family and partly by her own actions.  Now she must decide, where is she going, what will she become?  But what goes around comes around and, after getting her revenge, it looks like she may end up running for her life.  The problem is, who is she running from and who can she trust?I was first exposed to the skill of Megan Lindholm when I read a short fantasy story starring Ki and Vandien while in college, in the early 90s.  I was very impressed by the friendship between the male character and female character.  They were partners in arms but not lovers.  It seemed fresh, interesting and didn't in any way take away from the story.So a few weeks ago, looking for some good fantasy to read I searched for a novel with the same characters.  And I was not disappointed as you can plainly see.
3 This book is so much better than the sequels that I cannot adequately describe the difference.  I enjoyed the book but hoped for the same entertainment in the sequels.  While not deserving of superlatives, this is a decent read.
4 This is the first volume of the Windsingers tetralogy (before The Windsingers, The Limbreth Gate and Luck of the Wheels).Ki is an outcast Romni young woman travelling with her wagon and Sigmund and Sigurd, two grays horses, as sole possession, and set on crossing the ice-clad Sisters' mountain pass and delivering her freight.On the way she almost kills Vandien in self-defense when the hungry and shabby-looking man tries to steal one of her horses to cross the pass. Instead they decide to ride together, although Vandien will try several times to talk her out of taking this road with her wagon.The narrative alternates between the present, with the tale of Ki and Vandien's growing friendship as they face dire perils together, and the past, when Ki reminisces about the events that lead her here. In these episodes, the reader discovers her story: the violent death of her husband and two children, murdered by Harpies, her hunger for revenge and attack on a Harpies' nest, her time with her husband's family, trying to respect their customs and rites and finally leaving, her cousin-in-law Haftor urging her to take the Sisters' Pass.Harpy's Flight is Megan Lindholm's first novel, written in 1982, and although I didn't find it as thrilling as her later trilogies written as Robin Hobb, I was delighted to discover she already had that amazing style and writing talent.
5 My first Megan Lindholm book. I am a huge fan of Robin Hobb so I was not sure what to expect with Megan. It took me a little while to get into the book, but once held I wanted to finish. I prefer Robin.
5 My first plunge in the world that belongs to Lynn Flewelling was through her Nightrunner series.  Admittedly it took me a while to warm up the the Tamir Trilogy; I was too engrossed in the exploits of Seregil and Alec to want to change scenes and characters.  But I absolutely fell in love with the characters in this series, set some four to five centuries before Nightrunner.  The story is darker in nature but no less complex.  Relationships between characters slowly build with each one having their own strengths, weaknesses, and personal quirks.For me, this story started off slow but that is by means a bad thing.  It gave me time to adjust to the new scenes, the new people, and the new concept.  I loved the introduction of characters that were only mentioned in Nightrunner.  So many people, so many histories, I cannot help but admire Mrs. Flewelling for creating (and remembering) so many complex individuals and their relationships.I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoyed the Nightrunner series or anyone looking for a good fantasy read.  And let's not forget the rest of the series, Hidden Warrior and Oracle's Queen.  I will definately be rereading this series.
5 I'd imagine that many fans of Flewelling's Nightrunner books will pick this one up but even if you've never read (or don't care about) that series, this trilogy is an amazing work in it's own right.
5 Wow, this book was awesome.  The story is compelling and the characters complex and fascinating.  Lynn handles the challenge of writing about a girl who thinks she is boy with amazing style and intelligence.  I did not want this book to end, and have been anxiously awaiting "The Hidden Warrior" and the continuation of the story.  It is one of the most unusual stories that I have read, a great concept, magnificently carried off.
4 Long ago a prophecy was made; as long as a Queen of the royal line sits on the throne the kingdom will prosper. Unfortunately, when the last Queen died her adult son took the crown for himself, rather than letting it pass to his three-year-old sister according to custom. His reign has been plagued by war, plague, famine etc (the gender bias of the Gods has not so far been explained - currently I'm left with the rather unfortunate implication that the Gods are semi-sadistic man-haters. Oh well, it's not the characters' fault that this is the reality they have to deal with).The wizard Iya recieves a vision that promises peace and prosperity if the throne is returned to the female line. To prevent such a thing from happening, the King has been busily killing off his female relatives with the exception of his sister, who he retains an affection for. His forbearance does not extend to any female offspring she might have. So when the King's sister bears twins - a boy and a girl - the wizards delve into dark magic to diguise the girl's sex. This requires the death of the boy child. The binding between the dead and living results in an unquiet ghost, understandably angry at his murder.The Bone Doll's Twin is the story of Tobin growing up, unaware of her true sex and the dark secret of her birth, and haunted by the "demon" - the ghost of her dead brother. The story is dark and gripping and you can't help rooting for Toby whilst pitying the malevolent ghost of her brother. The characters are beautifully drawn and the book explores interesting questions of gender identity and 'does the end justify the means?'. I read the book in one sitting and intend to put my hands on the next two in the trilogy as quickly as I can!
5 This book is going to join my other top five in my cabinet. The author's carefully crafted country and history serve to draw you in and ground you in the world--and before you know it, you're right there alongside Tobin, imagining all &quot;he&quot; has to deal with when his secret is a secret no more. I can't wait for the sequel! Please hurry Lynn :-)
5 I loved this book, but I must admit I would never have finished it if a friend hadn't recommended it to me. I recalled as I struggled through the first few chapters that she had told me it starts slow.  It does,but the story picks up once we have the chance to see through the eyes of the main character, Tobin.In quick summary, Tobin is born into a world where female children of the royal line do not survive. Her uncle seized the throne against the well-known prophecy that as long as a daughter of Thelatimos ruled,the kingdom ofSkala will remind untouched by their worst enemies. There was some justification in his taking the throne since his mother turned mad in her latter years, killing many. Still, to be born a girl is dangerous, so before her birth, Tobin's father conspires with a wizard to perform a magic on the baby to hide her as a boy. Of course, this means her twin, a boy, must die because they need some of his skin to complete the spell. So, no one knows except for the few present at Tobin's birth. Even Tobin believes she is a boy...and her twin remains to haunt her.  As he/she grows can they hide her true self from her uncle and his wizards? They will kill her if they find out.This story is thrilling and engrossing once you get past the first few chapters. I can't wait to read the next one!
2 Like other's before me, I was left disappointed by Bone Doll's Twin. I've never read anything by Flewelling, but she came highly recommended and I picked this book off Paperback Swap (I didn't read any reviews first). I thought the plot sounded very interesting, what with Tobin having to hide out as a boy until she could take over the kingdom, and her disguise coming from her dead brother and all. However, the pace was agonizingly slow and I felt that this book was basically a study in character development. Very little action happened, until the end, at which point I was left at a rather large cliffhanger. Unfortunately, the pace of the book, and the fact that I was bored the entire time I was reading, has killed my desire to read the rest of the trilogy.
5 Throughout Skala's history a line of warrior queens have protected the land but when King Erius usurped his sister's throne, plague and drought overran the land. The only way to change this is to restore the female line to the throne. However, finding a new queen of royal blood is no easy task since every female who has even a distant claim to the throne is murdered. That all changes when Ariani, the King's sister, gives birth to twins; a boy and a girl. The boy twin is murdered so that, through dark magic, the girl can take his form. Consequently, young Tobin grows up, unaware of his true identity and perpetually haunted by the ghost of his murdered brother.Very interesting fantasy that borders on dark fantasy. I loved Lynn Flewelling's Nightrunner series so I ran out and bought this one as soon as it came out. Then I stupidly let this gem of a book sit on my bookshelf for two years. Normally when a character in a fantasy novel is a child I'm bored to tears until they grow up but that wasn't the case with Tobin. I adored him and a lot of the other characters, although not quite as much as the Nightruner characters. However, I do think this book is a much more fluid read than the Nightrunner books. Anyway, this book is highly recommended even if you haven't read any of the author's previous work.
5 This is a wonderfully original book, well written with fantastic imagery. I don't think I've ever come across a fantasy book that gave me that creepy feeling so well.  I won't do any spoilers, so that is pretty much all I can say.  GREAT STORY!! The whole series is fantastic!
5 I read this book four years ago, then read it twice more.  Enthrallingly horrible.  I LOVED it.  Anne Rice has NOTHING on this book.  I loved the language and the imagery, and the sheer put-the-shits-up-you nastiness of this book.  Absolutely brilliant, a once-in-a-thousand book.  I can say NOTHING bad about this book.UNFORTUNATELY... the follow-thu was horrible in the worst way.  The next two books of the trilogy SUCKED!  Worse than SUCKED, was they PREDICTABLY sucked.  What a crime, what a shame.But don't miss the first one.  It's one of those, God-if-I-could-write-like-that books.  The sequels aren't even needed, though you want to know what happens.
5 For anyone looking for something different in the fantasy genre this is it. All three books are out in this series which is a big plus. Loved the story!
4 This is a well-written novel, with an excellent premise--a newborn female, through magic, being transformed (temporarily) into an infant boy because the evil king wants his son, and not the newborn (who is the rightful heir), to succeed him to the throne.  The characters are developed well: from the hero (who does not know he is a girl), to his companions, to the witches and wizards (some of whom know the secret and some of whom do not).  Surprizingly, the evil king has rarely been present in the story up to now.The problem is that the story itself proceeds in an entirely predictable pattern.  Once it is clear what is going on (this takes two or three chapters), there are almost no unexpected twists and turns, which are the hallmark of the best fantasy writing.That being said, I recommend the book and anxiously await the next installment of what I assume will be a three (or more) volume series.
3 I'm not sure what happened with this book. It came highly recommended, but my reaction was just "meh."I don't mind being out of step with the majority, but it does make me look more closely, and I feel compelled to try to figure out why. I wonder if it's that most of those who recommended it have read the entire trilogy, which, I assume, would make a big difference.The Bone Doll's Twin begins with the birth of twins--one girl and one boy--to a princess. Because of a prophecy/curse that says the land will only prosper if a female descendant rules, the current king has been killing off all the royal baby girls. To fulfill this prophecy, a witch and a pair of wizards kill the baby boy and magically disguise the baby girl as her brother and call her Tobin.Which drives the mother insane, and the dead child returns as a "demon."The story follows Tobin as s/he grows, with the younger wizard and the witch keeping an eye on him, through the death of his mother, and his father, his introduction to his cousin's court--the current heir to the throne, until Tobin learns the truth, and then... it abruptly stops.It is an interesting character study, I suppose, mostly of Tobin and her brother, but there wasn't much surprising, and there was very little in the way of actual plot. It's a very slow-moving story, as well, and not in a lush, dense way--more like a heavily padded YA story, except for the slightly gratuitous and almost creepily un-sensual sex.A lot of people cited the unusual magic, but I'm having trouble seeing that. Maybe I'm jaded, but it didn't seem all that unusual or all that well described.Mostly, it seems like a one-trick pony. A girl in a boy's body. Everything else in the book is there to support that concept. It's interesting, but not nearly enough to carry a 500+ page book for me. I won't be looking for the sequel.
5 Fate has an important role in this story about the first years of a future hero --who is, in fact, a heroine-- and the ever-present ghost of his twin brother. We see the life of Tobin from the beginning until he (she) realizes who he (she) really is. The tension is built to have its climax in the moment of final discovery, where the novel ends. Even though we witness the secret event and know the truth from the beginning, the author manages to have us thrilled and turning pages at a fast pace to learn HOW what-we-know is going to happen. I also loved the no-nonsense use of magic, always logical and justified, and the role that the &quot;old religion&quot;, the Goddess religion which has almost disappeared, has in the story.There is also love,fear, friendship, loyalty and adventure. I simply loved this novel and will read everything that I find by the same author.
3 I was impressed with _The Bone Doll's Twin_, and found it a promising opening to a series. The set up is an interesting one, and the main character Tobin/Tamir is interesting and well-drawn.I reserve the right to up the starrage with later books. I did not give it four stars for two reasons--1)There are elements that this book has in common with other series by other authors. If these things are handled correctly in later books it will not be a problem, but if those elements are handled poorly then they could really drag the books down into cliche.2)I did not like where the book ended-- felt awkward. I tend to think that even as part of a series a book should stand as a book in its own right. For all of its strengths, this one would not stand on its own. It lacked a plot point or quest that defined this particular installment. It left me with the unfortunate feeling that someone decided there were too many pages and decided to cut it short.I am looking forward to the second book in the series, and we will see how the whole thing turns out.
5 After reading about this time as &quot;history&quot; in Lynn's Nightrunner Series, it was a pleasure to come back and see it happen in real-time.However, what wasn't so fun was watching what the characters had to do to get the good we know is coming later. I found the end to be emotionally draining, in the same way that the movie Dead Ringers was. While I wasn't actually shouting &quot;no, please, don't...&quot; at the characters, it was a near thing.
5 I am a big fan of dark fantasy and this one fits the bill.  Well written with good character development.  I can't wait to read the second book.
5 This book was fantastic!  I probably wouldn't have purchased it if I'd seen the cover art on the book in a bookstore.  Great story.  Wonderful characters.  Fantastic trilogy!
5 The Oracle says that as long as the true-blooded female's of Queen Gherilain's line rule and defend Skala, she will never be conquered.  For generations this has come to pass as a queen rules the empire and females serve in the army and other very important positions in the civilian sector.  All that changed when Erius takes the throne as he is determined that his son Prince Korin rules after him.  To prevent anything from going wrong, all royals of the female gender seem to mysteriously die, save the king's precious sister.Instead, she gives birth to twins, a girl and a boy.  While the male is killed, the female is magically transformed into a male until the time is right to reveal her destiny.  He's called Prince Tobin and the soul of his dead brother haunts him.  When Tobin's father is killed in battle he becomes a ward of the king and is ordered to the capital city where he meets his cousin.  Tobin adjusts to court until he suddenly takes ill and returns to his former home so that the people who know the truth can fix the spell that is dissipating.THE BONE DOLL'S TWIST is a fascinating epic fantasy that shows the lengths those in power will go in order to determine their successor.  Tobin's world is similar to that of medieval Europe so readers will have a good picture of his country life and city adventures.  This is the first book in a trilogy so some threads are left dangling, making readers eager for the next novel to appear so as to see what will happens next.Harriet Klausner
4 I have read many, many ...many fantasy and sci-fi books and this series is very good.Purchase with confidence! Good book!
3 This book is a good alternative if you are a person that easily get stuck in the TV sofa: Why not read abook instead? This book does not offer any extraordinary reading experience, but you know what you get. The first part of the book is rather prolonged and the other part is predictable. But it is a fantasy novel that deliver the goods: Medieval environs, wizards with (crystal!) sceptres and a haunted keep.
4 This series is a sort of prequel to the author's Night Runners series - I personally enjoyed this series more. The setting is fairly generic for the most part, and the story seems a bit stereotypical on the surface (true heir to the throne being raised in hiding), but Flewelling adds enough twists to make this book stand out. The beginning might be a bit disturbing for some readers (it involves an infanticide committed by the "good guys") - like many modern fantasy books the lines between good and evil are not clear-cut. The real strength is the characters, which are more fully developed than those in most fantasies.
4 As a fan of Lynn Flewelling's "Nightrunner" series, I was eager to see what else Lynn was capable of outside of the adventures of Seregil and Alec. I was by no means disappointed by "The Bone Doll's Twin." Ms. Flewelling has crafted an intriguing, chilling, and thoroughly engrossing tale.Why only 4 stars, then? While "The Bone Doll's Twin" is an excellent book as is, there is still much room for improvement, and the story doesn't quite live up to its full potential.The story follows young Tobin. Even before her birth she is destined to become one of the greatest queens in Skalan history. She is prophesized by the god, Illior, to rule the land and end the tyranny of King Erius, who usurped the throne from Tobin's Grandmother. Erius, fearful of the long-standing prophesy of a woman being the only rightful ruler of Skala, has all women with connection to the throne assassinated to solidify his position as king and assure the ascension of his son, Prince Korin. Tobin, who was born a girl, is made into a man by ancient magic to protect her from the King until she is of age to rule.We follow Tobin's life from birth to adolescence. This is one of the book's weak points. Since the book is pretty much about Tobin's day-to-day life in his household, there is very little sense of conflict and virtually no sense of the plot progressing. This is counterbalanced, however, by Tobin's unusual circumstances. His brother--who was murdered when he was born so that Tobin could be made into a man--haunts the house as a poltergeist. His mother, who was driven insane by the death of her son, haunts the household also, as disturbingly as any ghost. There are some genuinely creepy moments here that will have you nervously turning pages.There are, sadly, some plot elements that could have been done better. Tobin's dead twin, for example, could have been portrayed better. There is so much potential for conflict between Tobin and his dead brother, but such a conflict never happens. She really should have experimented with the prospect more, and thought up a better role for him aside from the classic poltergeist.The characters are done very well in this book, though a bit shy of the masterfully human characterizations of the Nightrunner series. Some of the characters play the classic Fantasy archetypes--the fretting nanny, the strong woman, the conniving noble--but most of the characters stand out on their own and grow as the story progresses. Some will even surprise you. For example, King Erius, who is supposed to be an insane tyrant of a king, comes off as a pretty likeable, even-tempered gentleman.All in all, "The Bone Dolls Twin" is a more than worthy tale for lovers of fantasy. I particularly recommend this book to anyone with a taste for the macabre.
5 Gripping, compelling, engrossing...the reviews that were written on the jacket are correct. I found all three books of the Tamir Trilogy to be just that. The Bone Doll's Twin and the two others in the series all deserve 5 stars, in my opinion.
5 I started reading this one at night and had to keep going for a long time -- all through the beginning, I was afraid that if I stopped I'd have nightmares!It's wonderful, just like all of Ms. Flewelling's books, but this one is much more on the dark side.
5 I don't have words for how much I love this book and the series. Flewelling has brought us a wonderful story from the same world as her Luck series. I finished this book and IMMEDIATELY went to the store to buy the next installment, so enthralled was I in the plotline.There's a lot of criticism as to the content of this book, that it's the same old rehashed fantasy stigmas. I agree that this isn't the most oringal story every written, but it is definately one of the best I've read in a long while. Rather than shoving the fantasy down your throat, Flewelling makes it more of a subtle backdrop,integral to the story but not detracting from it like happens in other books. People don't get new powers left and right, and we don't have the steroetypical mage/archer/swordsman etc. technique that Flewelling is even guilty of in her first series.Instead this story is very well written and flows extremely well. I found myself caring for a lot of the characters, even the ones who were on the opposing force. Flewelling pays a lot of attention to details, which I think really makes or breaks a book. The reason there are so many poorly written, rehashed fantasy books out there is because so many people think they can take the same combo and mix their own plot line in, without planning for well written dialogue, the right touch of description, and decent storytelling.This book has all of that and more. It's merely storytelling at its finest.
5 I'm one of those rare, fortunate souls that can read whatever, whenever.  (I own a tiny used book shop.)  And this work is truly awe-inspiring, far beyond the others.With this series, Lynn Flewelling has managed to craft a totally new, totally unique, and totally believable fantasy universe.  Her characters are so real they inspire our love and loyalty, even while they horrify us with their capacity for evil in the name of good.  We feel genuine sympathy for the villain and pity for the wronged.  And, most of all, we know the terrible weight of prophecy, of Destiny unfulfilled.I hear the second book has finally been released.  I'm going to go order it, then add this series to my top shelf, to stand with Tolkien, Elizabeth Moon, Patricia McKillip, George R. R. Martin, and the rest of the truly wondrous works of fantastic fiction.  I don't make much money on new books, but I'll order these, and gladly.  Lynn, you have drawn the highest praise of all - my wallet!
5 Having read Flewelling's other three books in the "Nightrunner" series, I snapped up "Bone Doll's Twin" with a little bit of frustration: it was a prequel.  I wanted more from Alec and Seregil, not new characters, so I resisted for a while before settling down to read this book.I'm glad I waited, because now I'm salivating over the next in the trilogy.The story is actually rather straightforward, and one we know quite a bit about already as "history" in the Nightrunner series.  There was a mad king who killed off all his female relatives, so that the ancient prophecy of a Queen on the throne could not come to pass: even though the prophecies were clear: the kingdom wouldn't prosper without a Queen on the throne.Enter the heroes.  When twins are born to a royal bloodline, one a girl, and one a boy, the heroes kill - yes, kill - the baby boy and wrap the baby girl up in an illusion of being male that will last long enough to keep the girl alive to the point of taking the throne.  Alas, the girl herself doesn't even know what's going on - she believes she's a boy named Tobin, and the dead brother is a haunting demon-spirit, rather upset at being murdered in such a way...The empathy and pathos of this story was remarkable.  The heroes had to get their hands dirty from step one - and it's still coming - and you can't help but be drawn into their plight as they do truly evil things for the greater good.  Likewise, poor Tobin is living a lie throughout the book - and you can keenly feel his sense of not being "quite right," and his desire for a normal life with a good friend.Where this series is going seems likely to be even darker, and the characters all seem to hover in a fragile state: you get the impression that many of these folks are going to die a nasty death.  It's truly captivating.  Fans of James Clemens or George R.R. Martin should definitely give this series a shot.'Nathan
5 Fans of Flewelling's incomparable Nightrunner series will be a little shocked when they pick up THE BONE DOLL'S TWIN. It's impressive how different in tone this new series is when compared to her other books. The Tamir Trilogy promises to be much darker, even a little disturbing, but just as brilliant.THE BONE DOLL'S TWIN is set in the same world as the Nightrunner series, but far earlier in Skala's history. The small kingdom has enjoyed centuries of peace and safety thanks to divine protection which is maintained by a line of warrior queens. When an ambitious young prince decides to steal his sister's throne, he makes sure all contenders for the crown are eliminated. That means all females in the royal family are murdered. When a young woman married to the King's nephew gives birth to twins, a boy and a girl, the children's father takes desperate steps to ensure a return of the divine protection. He brings in an earth-witch to cast dark magic on his daughter, an act that necessitates the death of his son. The girl is magically made to appear male and is raised believing she is a boy.The girl/boy Tobin must survive much before she can become Queen however. Her mother has gone mad, her twin brother still exists as an angry, bitter ghost, and if anyone should discover that he is really a girl, she would be quickly eliminated.The book is amazingly original; I've never read anything remotely like it. Lynn Flewelling has proved herself a master at world building and character development and she doesn't let us down in either case with her latest series. Once again, all her characters, both good and bad, are richly developed and complex. The story, while dark and sinister, is enthralling and I can't wait to read the rest of the trilogy.
4 This book started slow, about the time I thought I would give it up the plot got interesting. This book certainly did not miss anything that might be contained in a fantasy. The book had angry ghosts, witches, Sorcerer. I enjoyed the characters they were well rounded and left one wanting to know more about them. By the time I finished The Bone Doll's Twin I had order book two and three from Amazon. I hope they keep me as interested as this book. I could not put this one down.
2 I guess the novel was well written but I can't help feeling somewhat disappointed. I loved Lynn's three previous novels and have read them so many times I could quote chapter and verse. What I loved about those stories was the beautiful relationship between Seregil and Alec, their comraderie and wit, the dangers and trials and triumphs and eventual love. I've searched for years for novels featuring a male friendship and I miss that dynamic in this latest story by Lynn. Stories of truly wonderful male friendships are difficult to find in any genre but I hit the mother lode with &quot;Luck in the Shadows&quot;, &quot;Stalking Darkness&quot; and &quot;Traitor's Moon.&quot;  As I said, the book was well written for what it was, but I couldn't empathize with the characters.I'm keeping my fingers crossed for the further adventures of  Seregil and Alec.  Please Lynn!!
5 The characters are all believable and well developed.  All struggle with the rights and wrongs of things.  It reminds me in a slight way of the Thomas Covanent series, in that the "good guys"  are certainly not your stereotypical heros. As other's have mentioned, there is a strong theme of "does the end justify the means". It doesn't lay out any answers, but it asks very interesting questions.
5 A very gripping story with realistic characters and a new dimension of fantasy.  I too cannot wait for the next installment!
5 What a refreshing departure from most fantasy novels.  This novel walks a thin line between fantasy and horror.  The emotional struggles of the main character who literally does not know who he/she is as well as the issues of murder and sorcery create a very dark tale.  The issue of love between members of the same sex is raised, and the idea of malicious spirits and dark magic are central to the book.  I loved the characters from this book, all of them were richly detailed and contrasted each other well.  This one is certainly an eyebrow raiser but if you have an open mind you will enjoy every minute of it.
4 Originally posted at FanLit.I finished listening to the audio version of The Bone Doll&#8217;s Twin, the first in Lynn Flewelling&#8217;s fantasy epic THE TAMIR TRIAD, around midnight a few days ago. Instead of going to bed, like normal people might, I immediately downloaded book two, The Hidden Warrior, and listened for a couple more hours. That&#8217;s how much I was involved in this story about a young girl who doesn&#8217;t know she&#8217;s magically hidden in the body of a boy.Tobin, who&#8217;s really a girl, has had a difficult childhood. When he was born, his uncle, the king of Skala, was covertly killing off the royal women and girls because a prophecy says that the land must have a queen as ruler. King Erius had gained his throne through treachery and he intends to keep it. Tobin&#8217;s parents asked a magician to hide their newborn daughter, but they didn&#8217;t realize what kind of dark magic they were getting into. The cost was heavy and now Tobin&#8217;s mother has gone mad and Tobin&#8217;s twin brother is an evil ghost. On top of that, Tobin&#8217;s family has moved to their country estate because they fear that the king&#8217;s magicians might be able to detect the cover up. Tobin is an odd child already, so it doesn&#8217;t help that he&#8217;s being raised so far from noble society. His father and the magicians who help him must mold Tobin into someone worthy to take the throne someday.These days I don&#8217;t have as much patience as I used to for long epic fantasies involving prophecies and boys coming of age, so I was pleasantly surprised to find myself enjoying The Bone Doll&#8217;s Twin so much. Lynn Flewelling&#8217;s writing style is pleasant and her story gently moves along at a pace that&#8217;s leisurely without becoming dull, most comparable perhaps to Robin Hobb&#8217;s FARSEER saga. There is a large cast of male and female, young and old, magical and normal, common and noble characters who are well developed, not simply stock characters. It helps that we see the story from several of their perspectives, not just Tobin&#8217;s.A main theme in The Bone Doll&#8217;s Twin is gender identity and Flewelling handles this very well. While Tobin, who doesn&#8217;t know he&#8217;s a girl, wants to be a famous warrior like his father, and is successfully working toward that goal, he has a softer side, too, which he thinks is a weakness and fears to show others. He sleeps with a doll but we&#8217;re not really sure if that&#8217;s because he&#8217;s a girl and it&#8217;s natural for him to like dolls, or if the doll is a connection to his mother who made it. Similarly, he loves to spend his time building a model of the capitol city, a pursuit that could be seen as either a masculine or feminine hobby. While we see hints of Tobin&#8217;s feminine side, it&#8217;s all tantalizingly ambiguous so far. Things will begin to look different when Tobin reaches puberty in the next book, The Hidden Warrior.I&#8217;m listening to the audio version of THE TAMIR TRIAD which was produced by Audible Frontiers and expertly narrated by Victor Bevine. Lynn Flewelling reads her introduction to the book. As I mentioned at the beginning of this review, I immediately downloaded and started listening to The Hidden Warrior when I finished The Bone Doll&#8217;s Twin. This is a story that&#8217;s worth my time.
5 I first stumbled upon this book after reading some of Anne Bishop's work and having Amazon tell me that I might enjoy Lynn Flewelling stories also. For a long time, the book sat on my shelf - neglected and steadily collecting dust.I had read the back cover probably ten times, and while the book proved interesting, it seemed a little eccentric for my tastes. I picked up the book one afternoon and read the first few chapters and found myself having a hard time getting into the world Flewelling was trying to create for me. Again I discarded the book to the far corners of my room and vowed to try again in a couple of weeks.When the time came for me to once again pick up the book, I threw myself in headfirst and found myself swimming in Flewelling eloquent, but challenging writing style. Chapter by chapter, I found myself becoming more and more enthralled with a young boy named Tobin and his unconventional upbringing.The realm of wizards, kings, and war pulled me in and I found myself not wanting to escape. I throughly enjoyed reading this book; the plot was different from the other books I had engrossed myself in and the suspense and foreshadowing the novel created was facinating.By the end of the story, I was disapointed that I was left hanging right when things had reached the peak of their climax. One thing is for sure, Lynn Flewelling has gained herself another loyal fan.
5 There are only so many LOTR/Dragonlance knock-offs you can read in this world, which is why this series is such a breath of fresh...er, dark and haunting air.  It does still have all the good high fantasy elements like magic and swordplay, but Flewelling takes it in a new direction with her ghostly, gender-twisting storyline.I agree with a previous reviewer that this series is more brooding than the Nightrunner one, but it still shares the same detailed world and characters.  You really get to understand them and live inside their heads.  You can also tell Flewelling isn't making up Oreska magic or other details as she goes along.  She's thought about this stuff and thought about it deeply--hence making you think deeply about it and want more.Final analysis.  If you like dark fantasy, read this.  If you only like cute fantasy, read it anyway.  You need to get in touch with your darker side.
5 Lynn Flewelling's The Bone Twin's Doll (Bantam Spectra 2001) is a vivid example of what a good writer can do with a relatively limited plot. A King, afraid of a prophecy, kills every female in the line of succession to secure his position and assure his continued reign.Flewelling takes this skinny plot and and slowly and lovingly fattens it with character and setting. She uses the traditional Bildungsroman format to show the gradual education of a young boy, Tobin, who is sequestered in the woods, away from the medieval city of his birth, and resides in a crumbling estate with his deranged mother and the angry ghost of his dead brother.However, as is true in most fairy tales and fantasy novels, prophecy has a way of bypassing or frustrating the political machinations of individuals who attempt to circumvent its workings. Fate, like water, seeks its own level and the same is true for prophecy in this well-written, character-driven, first volume of Flewelling's Tamir Trilogy, where two wizards, a witch, and the brother-in-law of the King perpetrate violent actions and employ dire means to protect an infant from the King's assassins.Tobin, a strange child, artistic and shy, has a number of secrets: he is haunted and at times tormented by his dead brother's ghost; he has a friend, a witch, named Lhel that lives inside a tree in the woods; he has a doll that his mother has made with which he is abnormally attached; and he seems to have some powers of forethought.Within the context of the plot, Flewelling slowly builds her secondary world; giving it substance and weight gradually by incrementally measuring out descriptions only when the plot demands it. Tobin's world resembles early medieval England sometime around the 12th century: reavers raid the coast and wizards and witches walk the roads between the walled cities, while strange predators inhabit the thick forests.I picked this book up because I was a bit bored with the usual fantasy fare that is coming out these days. I had heard that Flewelling dealt with human sexuality frankly and I was intrigued. And when I say sexuality, I'm talking about gender and desire, not graphic scenes of sexuality. There are plenty examples of that in the latest fantasy tomes arriving each month. I was more interested in a writer's ability to create believable female and male characters within a fantasy context, illustrating both the similarities and differences that emerge from gender. Flewelling creates indelible characters through detail, through the minute rendering of everyday events within the context and logic of her created secondary world, and thereby illuminates their basic natures. I found myself drawn quickly into Tobin's rough, and lonely life, through the descriptions of his daily activities, his interactions with the other characters, and the psychological struggles that  naturally manifest themselves as he matures within a home, where madness, ghosts, and plain fear reside and rule.The Bone Doll's Twin seems writ on a smaller canvas than most heroic fantasies but its limited scope enhances its intimacy, making Tobin more real and precious as a character.  I'm looking forward to the second volume. In fact, the ending was so perilous and fraught with danger for Tobin that I'm bit afraid and must know what happens next.
5 It's been awhile since I have picked up a fantasy book and read it cover to cover. I did so with this book. I enjoyed all of the characters and the storyline was interesting and original. I went on to read the next two books and they were just as great. Highly recommend.Also, If you happen to be looking for another fantasy author, check out Juliet Marillier. The Sevenwaters Trilogy is brilliant.
5 In my opinion this is even better than her other series. This book is excellent and if you like medieval adventures with prophecies, ghosts, and epic quests you will love it.
3 I read this book because I am absolutely in love with Flewelling's earlier series, Nightrunner.  This book is a prequel of sorts, highlighting the life of one of the warrior queens of Skala, and the prospect of filling in a bit of Skala's already rich history seemed more than worth my reading time.The writing, is as always, very good, with the quality of voice that make you think Flewelling has been in the forests and travelled the roads she describes.  There are some images that I still find stuck in my head, even after reading this book only once.  And there is a lot in this one installment; we're taken from Skala's capitol, to the holdings in the woods, and to the mountains to visit an Oracle.  And all the places have a texture that makes them easy to see and grasp and hold onto.After the initial action, the birth and early, early childhood of the main character, which is slightly terrifying, the book got -- I hate to say it -- boring.  With a few exceptions, I didn't care.  Tobin didn't seem to have a personality so much as personality traits, and he's the main character.  Imagine how the rest of the cast fared.The thing I loved about Flewelling's other books was that she stuck to her plot, and if she failed to do so, I was disappointed.  However, this trilogy seems to be taking the opposite extreme, and is just about the story.  The characters, their relationships, smaller, cultural, or personal events are of no consequence.  And that's what makes writing rich.  After I finished the first book of the Nightrunner series, I couldn't get my mind off of it, I needed to have the second one...With The Bone Doll's Twin, I just sort of closed the book, tossed it off to the side, picked up something else.  I didn't notice when the second book came out at all; my mom picked it up for me.If you are looking for a well-written, compelling fantasy novel, or if you loved Nightrunner to death and are interested in the Skala backstory, you should pick this up.  Just be aware that you'll be fighting to love the characters, and you'll be fighting to care about what happens.
5 I loved this book, I bought the first two at the same time (which is a good idea) and I read them both over two nights. It is an exciting story line, with a dark background. The book is well paced and I didn?t find any bits boring. The story follows the life of one of the Kings nephew, which unknown to most is actually his niece. The land that they live in is dying and only a female can heal it by claming the throne. The King had killed almost off of his female relatives so that only he could rule. To save the land the faithful followers summon a necromancer to the birth of the royal twins. The necromancer binds the twins together, one alive and one dead, so that the female can wear a glamour of her brother?s shape. Though this seem quite dark and gruesome, (it can be a little scary in some parts) it is a very different plot from other fantasy books, but it still involves some elements of other series, for example the element of prophecies. If you want someone new to read, buy the book, (It is part of trilogy) it is worth the time taking to read it.
4 The thing that really separates The Bone Doll's Twin from many other fantasies is it's somewhat dark atmosphere and oftimes spooky imagery. The story follows a tried and true fantasy plot of some prophecy that must be fulfilled, but this is not to the detriment of the novel since many other elements come into play. The prophecy in question states that a female ruler must rule in order for there to be peace and prosperity, when the prophecy is broken and kings instead of queens sit on the throne, all goes to hell. The protagonists of the story devise a clever, if cruel, way to insure a female ruler using magic, but the forces they unleash threaten to be much more than they bargained for.The story is not stand alone, and is meant as the first part of a trilogy but the book tells a compelling story nonetheless. Author Lynn Flewelling has a firm grasp of the genre and adds some darker elements that really make this novel stand out from other more sanitized fantasy tales.
5 This is a well balanced inventive fantasy.  It is refreshing with a unique story line that held up well through the whole series.  Good dialog, interesting and very human characters.  Great balance of action, character development, motivation and plot.  The twist of a girl hidden as a boy is refreshingly different.  The world is full of practical and well researched detail.  The use of magic feels very natural in this work.  The author is now on my list of "read everything they have written."
2 The Bone Doll's Twin employs a nasty bait-and-switch tactic of not actually informing the reader that it's the first of a trilogy on the cover or back cover.  So I expected a complete story and only got, what, one-third of one?The story itself feels remarkably generic.  It's set in a basic feudal society, replete with travelling and consulting wizards having prophecies and trying to guide the future.  The essential hook of the story - that Tobin is a girl unknowingly in boy's form - is intriguing, but almost ignored by the story's substance (it briefly rears its head at the end, in a rather contrived manner, but is otherwise a side issue).  Instead, the book focuses on Tobin's youth shelted at his father's remote keep, learning to be a warrior and bedeviled by a demon.  Not particularly novel stuff, it's competently told, but so are many such fantasies.Two-thirds in, it became clear that Flewelling wasn't going to resolve the story in the next 150 pages, and my interest flagged.  The story that is here could easily have been edited down to half its length with little of import lost.  The characters are fairly bland, sticking to some tried-and-true stereotypes involving honor, duty, and loss.  And the tension is all in the background - there's fairly little true confict for Tobin to face, and very little that he can do about anything directly himself.  In that way - and with the shifting point of view the novel employs - there's no true protagonist, and it's hard to care about any of the characters as characters - just as pawns in a game.Contrast this with Lois McMaster Bujold's Miles Vorkosigan series, which tread similar ground of duty and honor in the name of one's father, but which do so with dramatic, eloquent characterizations and tense conflicts where the character faces the chance of real loss - and doesn't always win.  The Bone Doll's Twin is tame by comparison.  (More obviously, this book feels like a second-rate version of Guy Gavriel Kay's Tigana, or George R. R. Martin's A Game of Thrones, both of which - thought flawed - don't flinch at presenting conflict, pain and loss..)What ultimately sinks the book is that it's just a prologue, and yet it's long enough for a whole novel, but the premise certainly lacks the meat to carry through to a trilogy.  Feeling like I've already read more about Tobin and Iya and Ki and Arkoniel than I really needed to, I can't see any reason to proceed to the second volume.  The first is plenty.
2 I was drawn to this work from a recomendation from George RR Martin, who is my favorite fantasy writer.  But, I was bitterly disappointed in this book.  The writing is competent, the atmosphere chilly and she tries to build up momentum for the main story, a few subplots, and fills in a backstory.  But, very little seems to get accomplished in the first 250 pages.  There were no characters that I actually cared about and no sense of wonder at any mystery that made me want to turn the page.  By way of contrast, GRRM's works by that point had at least 5 characters that I wanted to learn much more about and had started half a dozen story lines that captured my interest.  Bone Doll seems to put almost all its eggs in one basket with its main story, and it's not as interesting as one of the top 3 of GRRM's subplots.  A very competent writer, but there are better books.
4 I was intrigued by the uniqueness of the premise of this series. Here, the story follows a noble girl who has been magically disguised as a boy (Tobin) to avoid being murdered by her uncle king who has already killed all potential female heirs to the throne. He (she) isn't just hidden away, but sent to court like all the young nobles. Problem is he doesn't know his secret until 12 years old.What I found masterful was the fact that the ending is told in the first few pages, but I couldn't for the life of me, while reading the series, work out how events could possibly get to this point. Flewelling just holds the reader captive the whole way.The narrative is easy to follow, while the style is very easy to read. There isn't much 'action' at all, especially in the first book, but what holds it together is the serial-like nature of the story; we want to find out what happens to these great characters - both good and bad. You'll hate the evil wizard and love some of Tobin's friends; the characterisation is great.There are some hairy moments with Tobin's ghost-brother and some questions raised about homosexuality and gender (obviously Tobin's confused and Flewelling does it tastefully ), but the series would be appropriate for mature teenagers. I'm not going to tag it as 'gay fantasy' as I don't think it can be typecast in this way. It's probably better labelled as 'feminist fantasy' as the lead character is a strong female.Overall, a very good series in the mold of Robin Hobb's assassin trilogy.
5 10 stars.  This book made me want to do something I haven't done since I was a child learning about the wonderful lands great storytelling can take you to: It made me want to sneak to the end of the book to make sure everything turned out all right.  I'm not a huge fantasy book lover, I read George R.R Martin and that's about it-so when I read his recommendation for this book, I said why not?  Who knows when the next installment to his Song and Ice book will come out...so I bought it.  And Flewelling has convinced me that I'm totally missing out on whole genre of books.  If she and Martin are this good, what else am I missing?  Anyway, the back blurb for this book doesn't do justice to the story.  The road to greatness is a less traveled road indeed when you read about the sacrifices of Tobin's parents, wizards, witches, and demons. Your heart aches for all of these people.  And let's not forget the heart-tugging loyality of Ki.  Everything you'd want is in this book...but perhaps not romance...though this story isn't over with yet.  I thrilled the second book in this trilogy is out and I rushing to buy it today and leap frogging it the top of my To be Read stack because I HAVE to know what happens next.  Let's hope Flewelling keeps to her deadline better than GRRM and the third book will be out this year.  If you contemplating about a new fantasy book stop right here.  Flewelling has penned a winner.
4 "The Bone Doll's Twin" begins with two wizards, Iya and Arkoniel, who are charged with an unpleasant task.  Erius, the King of the land of Skala, has been exterminating all of his female relatives in order to prevent them from challenging his claim to the throne.  To save Erius' infant niece, Iya and Arkoniel must employ a form of magic to transform the child's body into a male for an indefinite period of time.  Unfortunately, this action necessitates killing the girl's twin brother, and the two wizards are unable to prevent his spirit from escaping and haunting the household.  After this introduction, most of the book is spent showing the girl, raised as the Prince Tobin, growing up in a small castle in a remote part of the country.This book has quite a bit going for it.  Flewelling does an excellent job of capturing a sense of gritty reality.  Life in a medieval society, even for lords and royalty, was never as pleasant as the way that many authors portray it.  There was always a threat of disease and hunger, and, of course, people in those times lacked many of our modern conveniences.  This books spares no details in presenting the truth about life in those times.  All of the characters in this book are solid.  I particularly enjoyed the portrayals of Arkoniel and Iya.  Instead of just using the stereotypical wizard character (old, wise guy with beard and funny language), Flewelling gives each of them a unique and unpredictable personality.  Tobin is also quite different from the overused 'young boy who's destined for greatness' character.  I should also say that the writing has a very nice flow, and that the author does a good job a covering large amounts of time in relatively little space.And yet, there's something a little bit unsatisfying about "The Bone Doll's Twin", particularly during the final fifty pages or so.  I think that what really bothered me was that the author didn't explore the book's full potential, and didn't manage to create a truly dark and frightening mood.  Now there are a few genuinely creepy scenes in here; see especially one near the end where Tobin encounters the evil wizard Niryn in his family's graveyard at night.  But for most of the time there just isn't enough of a sense of imminent danger.  In particular, the scenes featuring the ghost of the murdered child fall short of what they could be.  And then there's the concluding scene.  I don't want to give it away, so I'll just say that it rings false.  Flewelling builds up a fascinating situation for one of the characters, but then that person's reaction to it just isn't believable.So, what's the final analysis?  Well, "The Bone Doll's Twin" is an excellent book, and I'll be the first in line when the sequel comes out.  In my opinion, however, the author did pass up some good opportunities.
3 I didn't like this book all that much. I tried to, I really did, but I just couldn't. It was well written, and had a good flow to it, but I just couldnt accept the plot.(Spoilers ahead- don't read this review if you haven't read the text yet!)I just can't accept the girl hidden in boys clothes until s/he is 13 storyline...even if it's by magic... This device is used in way too many stories. So as soon as I read this plot line I was disinterested...maybe it was just me...This is a big pet peeve of mine... (I know - people are screaming - she looks like a boy because of Magic) - Well, i also cant stand books where Magic is the answer to everything!(Frankly I bought it cause George .R.R. Martin strongly endorsed it on the cover)Skip this one unless you are a huge fan of the "hidden princess" dressed as a little boy plot device...... Otherwise, go read the princess bride again - it's a much nicer tale.
5 I had already been a fan of Lynn Flewelling's _Nightrunner_ series, which was the main reason I picked up this book --the British version, it was out earlier and I couldn't wait.Now, I can see how much the author has grown since her previous series came out.  This novel is full of fascinating characters, intricate and interweaving plots, and sudden sneaky surprises.  It is a difficult book to read, not in readability terms but in that it really makes you think about what is going on.This book is not for the faint-hearted, as there are some themes that some will likely find uncomfortable.  However, if you want to read something different and challenging, this is your book.
3 Granted, it's a bit of a different twist on how the girl is hidden as a boy. It's done in such a way the girl doesn't even know she's a girl. Definetly kept me reading, but for some reason, i just couldnt get into it very much. A bit slow, and Tobin wasn't very likable, which is understandable considering. I really wish ther was more about some of the minor charcters. I did like Tobin's relatiinship with Ki, his squire. It's dark and moody, so if yopu like the darker side of fantasy, this is for you.
5 Damn, this girl can write!  I thought I was blown away by her Nightrunner series.  The Tamir Trilogy promises to be as textured and riveting as Serigil, Alec and Nysander.  LYNN, YOU'RE THE BEST!
4 Tobin is a truly tragic character. Living in the wrong body since birth, he never really settles into being the boy that he is outwardly, but doesn't even know that he was born (and is expected to change back to) a girl.Everyone around him tries their best to keep him safe and protect his place in the kingdom -  doing horrific things in the process - but it is unlikely that he will ever get fully out from under the cloud under which he was born.
4 Lynn Flewelling, The Bone Doll's Twin (Bantam, 2001)There oughta be a law. Really. Ending books like George Martin ended A Storm of Swords or Lynn Flewelling ended The Bone Doll's Twin is simply cruel and unusual punishment. I'm very glad I read this in 2005, when the sequel is already out and I can pick it up ASAP. (I've been gnawing my own arm off for five years waiting for the next Martin novel.)Like most pieces of epic fantasy I've read in the past number of years, The Bone Doll's Twin gets off to something of a low start. I'm finding, however, that the slower the start, the better the book is likely to be. Odd, but true. You'll likely go through a period of confusion while acclimating yourself to Flewelling's world and the various terminology that seems mandatory in fantasy worlds. Once you get to the point where everything clicks, though, there's a story to be had, and it's a good one. It's also rather surprising, in a number of ways.The book opens with a pair of wizards and a hedge-witch attending a royal birth. They're there because the present king, trying to get around a longstanding prophecy, has been having all the female children of the extended royal family killed. This particular birth results in twins, so the wizards and hedge-witch kill the male child and use magic to bind the male child's features to the female child. The male child's spirit, however, refuses to stay dead, and (of course) wants revenge on everyone involved, including his twin sister.Dark enough for you yet? The rest of the book focuses on the surviving twin, named Tobin, who is raised away from court in a secluded summer house owned by his father. It also jets off every now and again to Iya and Arkoniel, the pair of wizards from the birth, whose sections serve to report to us, the readers, how things are faring in the wider world. (A nice conceit, that, and subtly done.)If there are flaws in The Bone Doll's Twin, they are two; the slow beginning, already mentioned, and the fact that this one's mostly setup. Not surprising in the first of a trilogy, but it's a bit on the obvious side. Still, that doesn't make it any less gripping once things get off the ground, and Flewelling looks to have a winning trilogy in the wings.Now I just hope that the third book, Oracle's Queen, comes out on time (supposedly early in 2006, as of this writing). I don't want to have to gnaw my other arm off waiting for this one. *** 
5 And believe me I got upset if anyone interrupted me!  I even took it to work and read a few chapters there!  This book was very well written and the characters grab you.  I am going to find the sequel to this today and order it.  By the way, Im wondering what book the other reviewer was reading that had pornographic sex scenes?  Sounds like a different book altogether, the only characters having sex were the wizard and the witch and i don't think they got to deeply into that.  Great read.
5 The second and third books in this series are available for the Kindle, why not the first?  Boo!
5 The Tamir Trilogy is truly a `proper' trilogy - that is, a single story, broken up into three volumes, as opposed to a series of self-contained, interconnected books. Book 1 (The Bone Doll's Twin) sets-up the story and sends us on our way. In an age of plague and war, a girl child is destined to take her place as the rightful Queen, to reunite the people, and to bring peace back to the land. To thwart this prophecy and ensure his continued rule, the King carefully monitors all noble births and arranges to have the female children murdered.When a daughter is born into the king's family, the odds of her escaping notice (much less death) are decidedly bleak. However, there is another child - a boy - sharing their mother's womb. Sadly, for one to live (and rule), the other must die. An act of darkest magic binds the twins together, concealing Tobin's true gender with that of her brother. Fittingly, for night of such dark magic, events do not go as planned. The boy child, who was to be declared stillborn, draws a single breath before his life is cut short.That bleak mistake leaves the future queen tormented by the angry ghost of her death brother, drives their father into near-exile, and sets their unwitting mother on the path to madness and death. This is a dark, creepy, and deeply unsettling story that will have you questioning whether the end ever really can justify the means. Prince Tobin is brought up believing herself to be a boy, with only her father, her nanny, and a trio of wizards privy to the truth. We watch as she grows up, alone, isolated from the world, trapped in the confines of a gothic castle.Perhaps not surprisingly for an author who so tenderly dealt with the intricacies of bisexual romance in her Nightrunner Series, Lynn Flewelling does an absolutely masterful job of handling Tobin's growing gender conflict. As readers who know the secret, the very subtle cues as to Tobin's true gender are as clear as they are heartbreaking, even while it remains completely conceivable how others can remain oblivious. Transgender readers especially will sympathise with Tobin's plight. For us, the cure may be surgical rather than magical, but we are no less trapped in the wrong sex than her.
5 This book was impressive.Maybe it's only a fantasy book, but the characters seem so real that the only indication that its world is not the same as ours some centuries ago is the little magic used in it.The main character is Tobin, a feminine child whose real identity has been hidden in order to save her life from the king who wants to suppress every feminine heir to the throne: a spell has changed the girl's appearance into a boy's. A prophecy links Tobin to the throne: she must become queen, otherwise her land will be destroyed...The "boy" (Tobin doesn't know his real sex) is haunted by his twin brother's demon, murdered at the moment of birth, and by the dangerous presence of his mad mother. The character description is among the most spectacular I've ever read: the author tells with unbelievable richness how the boy feels. Tobin is a real child: he suffers, he hopes, he feels lonely, he fears, he loves his parents and his few friends.Growing without any friends and only with some old servants and foul spirits trying to harm him makes Tobin wary of people and you suddenly find yourself straining to catch and help him: he is such a wonderful character that he takes hold of you and never let you go.Fantastic.
5 "The Bone Doll's Twin" by Lynn Flewelling is one of the best books I've read in a long time. All of the main characters are believable and interestingly drawn and now that I have finished the book I find myself wondering what will happen to them in the next book.It is dark fantasy though and Flewelling isn't afraid to let you get attached to a character and then kill her or him off, which I generally don't like but the writing was good and the story excellent. I do wish that this hadn't been quite such a dark vision though for the sake of the hero/heroine Tobin who seems to just be almost unreasonably mired in misfortune. I don't generally enjoy a fantasy that has such a dark vision of the world but Flewelling stayed true to her theme throughout and it ended up working for me. This was a haunting and engrossing read and I recommend it wholeheartedly.
5 I had high hopes for this title from the outset, and the author doesn't disappoint.  Flewelling does a marvelous job with both the story and the character development, sweeping me up and keeping me interested right through the full trilogy.  The characters are immediately memorable and likable, and the story moves apace throughout.  The story hooks *drive* the narrative rather than actually *being* the narrative, and the gimmicky feeling that tends to run rife in this sort of plot is utterly absent.Flewelling does an amazing job with a number of daunting tasks.  When difficult questions of sexual identity arise, she never flinches from them; but her treatment of them is so natural that one is only taken even deeper into the story.  She is able to have a matriarchy and strong female characters while maintaining believable, admirable, and equally strong male characters -- no mean task!  And her love for the characters and the world they live in are infused in every page.  Books this engrossing and enjoyable are few and far between.Who should consider this book?  Anyone!  This series is not "chick lit", as this straight, conservative guy can attest to.  It's a brilliant fantasy series from an author whose work I'll continue to read over the years.
5 Never read anything by Flewelling before this book. I'm now a fan.Magic is prevalent, but not intrusive or absurd. I really like this -- it gets aggravating to have a "Star Trek" like moment when magic is used to bail out a poor plot. Not here.The treatment of the undead is so chilling, you believe it. No Caspar or other silly, chummy spirits from beyond playing games or fubmling about powerlessly, just the cold hate of those unjustly deprived, rolling in like a fog, slowly squeezing the color out of a scene. "Brother" is one of the most interesting characters I've seen in sci-fa -- ever. Actually I really like the character development for all the major characters -- I have sympathy for all the majors, and root for them as the story progresses. Turning the last page will make you irritated that the sequel isn't already on your bedstand.If I have any complaints at all, its a personal nit. IMHO, gender-bending seems abused and overused. Lucky for me that this element is almost accidental so far. Guess I'm not into "coming of age" and "what it means to be a boy/girl" story lines embedded into my fantasy.I want epic struggles, good v. evil, triumph and defeat on a grand scale, etc. Lucky for all of us, this first installment delivers these in full, and promises much more in the next two.All in all, "totally engrossing" is a great sum-up. I eagerly await the sequels!
5 I highly recommend this book not only for those who have tried her Nightrunner series, but also for those who worried about the gay romance in the Nightrunner series.  This book is like a mixture of witchcraft and adventure.  The Nightrunner series was more of the wizards feel, but Bone Doll's Twin is more of an earthy-witch feel.  The plot is fast, the details are great, and the characters are definately not like the ones from the Nighrunner's series.  The ghost brother is an interesting touch--something completely different from what most heroines dressed as men have for companions, anyhow.  I like it.  I definately like the ghost.  Creepy as he may be at first, I like how Flewelling uses him to add a different view.  Those that have read Nightrunner, reading this book is like stepping off the airplane, and walking to a Buddhist temple, only to find that the fragrance there-sandalwood-is the same as you smelled once upon a time somewhere, perhaps passing by a shop in the mall.  Those that have not read the Nightrunner series, I'd suggest that also.  That series, and this one, in particular, are excellent.  Shiny silvery baubles woven into a magnificent web.  The book is, as I said, fast paced, but those baubles, those places she does pause at, are very beautifully narrated.
1 I bought this book because it came with an incredibly high rating, and had several reviews (including one by one of my favorite authors, Robin Hobb) that were well-written, coherent pieces of praise. Which leaves me with one question: Which book were they reading, and could they please loan me a copy? What I got was several hundred pages of...nothing. Nothing punctuated with random, gratuitous, and unnecessarily graphic...liaisons. The story was interesting in concept, but poorly executed. There were no sympathetic characters, and little action. I'm ashamed to say I hung on until page 330-something, thinking that surely it got better. Perhaps the sequels improved it; I'll never know.All in all, I've read better and more interesting Star Trek spin-offs than this uninteresting if "original" book. If there was a zero-star rating, this book would've earned it. Now where's that used book store?
5 For more reviews you should check out:  [...]BGJ: 5/5Book: well paced, great dialogue, great characters, deep plot, smooth read, trilogy, fantasy, magic, sword-fighting, awesomeHero/ine: girl disguised as a boy, child, intelligent, clever, ignorant, mature for age, lonelySimilar Authors: Carol Berg, Jennifer Fallon, Robin Hobb, Sarah Monette, Brandon Sanderson, Raymond E. Feist, Ellen KushnerYoung Tobin is not like other boys, the first being that he was born a girl and the second being he- she was a high born female which meant, by order of the king, she was to be murdered to ensure the king's son's succession. Intrigue and magic work together to hide Tobin from the King's eye and ensure that ancient divine prophecies are honored, however there are those that do not want a warrior queen restored to the throne. Tobin will be queen but only if the dark magic that conceals Tobin, magic that killed her twin brother who haunts her is not revealed, only if her insane mother and every evil wizard doesn't kill her first.Usually I don't like books about children but Lynn Flewelling really pulled out all the stops in The Bone Doll's Twin, the first book in the Tamir Trilogy.From page one I was hooked. Flewelling has a marvelous voice and style, her characters and plot are all so well-defined and unpredictable (okay a little predictable but the whole twist she has is great!). One of the great things is the growth of the characters in the book, you get to follow Tobin as she ages, and it's not just the age growth, but maturity and experience, things that make them more REAL.Also Lynn Flewelling doesn't follow the cliched fantasy plots she brings her own unique twist to the lost heir storyline.There are few authors out there that would risk having anything even seem homosexual, but Flewelling risks it. And though there is some head scratching caused by it, it isn't really that way since Tobin is actually a girl... falling for a boy, she just doesn't know it! A friend of mine wasn't sure what to make of that scenario!Each character in The Bone Twin Doll has a history, a personality and a way of grabbing you and keeping you reading. From the insane mother, guilty wizards, demonic brothers to Tobin herself.This is a fantastic introduction to the Tamir Trilogy and a must read for anyone that loves fantasy, deep well thought out fantasies with just plain awesome characters and plot.
5 This is one of the best &quot;I picked it up in the grocery store&quot; books I've ever read. After finishing, I immediately ordered all of Lynn Flewelling's books.As the years go by, I've found that it's become more and more difficult for a book or a movie to scare me. This one did. Not the &quot;I'm frightened out of my wits and will never be able to sleep&quot; sort of scare, but more of a delicious chill that sends goosebumps up my spine and leaves me feeling delighted at the same time.One of the nice things about &quot;The Bone Dolls' Twin&quot; is that so much of it is told in shades of gray. There is no absolute right or wrong here, and in addition to being entertaining, it's a story to really make you think.  I can hardly wait for the third book in the trilogy to be released.
5 While not particularly original or creative, The Bone Dolls Twin is very well written and thought out and is an extremely interesting read. It doesn't commit the crime of being boring or incredibly clich&eacute;. And while some ideas aren't exactly fresh, they are put into perspective. The interesting thing about this book and the sequel, Hidden Warrior, is that they have very little actual magic in them, and the main plot of the Bone Dolls Twin is mainly about growing up in a secluded mountain home. This is, in essence, a coming of age novel in disguise. I loved it and would recommend it to anyone. And while some may claim it's the same old fantasy about a fuedal society and wizards, this book is much much more than that (it helps that tobin is not a wizard). Buy it....it's not that expensive in paperback, or get it from the library. Its not a masterpiece, but it good pleasure reading.
5 Wow.  This book (and the sequel, The Hidden Warrior) are excellent prequels to her Nightstalker series (Luck in the Shadows, Stalking Darkness, and Traitor's Moon).  These two tell the story of Tamir, hidden for most of her young life in the body of a boy, Tobin, and brought up as Companion to her cousin Prince Korin.The magic of Skala, its wizards and hedge-witches, is believable and the beginnings of the Third Oreska (which we see in later years in the earlier series) is fascinating.
3 This book was so so overall. There are some original ideas. The plot is certainly original and interesting. I cared about the protagonist, and I liked the author's sensitive examination of gender and gender roles. The strong and intelligent characters of all genders was a bonus. Unfortunately I don't remember much of the book, but I remember enjoying it. The book can be gritty, confronting and violent. The characters are realistic and flawed, with good humour. The worldbuilding is simple but well done. There's some strong language too.
5 I always watch good movies and read great books, and think about actually posting reviews on here.  But, I find myself being lazy and not taking the effort.  But, I've acted on this.I bought the series (after reading the first two novels in the Nightrunner series) and once I started I just couldn't put it down.  The book is filled with great characters, the story is just how I like it with some dark to it, and it has an interesting premise with Tobin really being a girl, just trapped in a boys body.I could go on and give a more thorough review, but sometimes that's hard for me without giving details about what happens.  All I have to say is pick these books up and you will not be disappointed.  Lynn Flewelling has become one of my favorite authors.
5 I'm getting into the story... it's good escape fiction, well plotted with characters one can identify with.  I'll read more by Ms Flewelling.
3 This is the first book I read from Flewelling, and I enjoyed it quite enough, all in all. Some of its concepts are pretty interesting and got me regularly hooked back into the story, notably the method used by the witch to obfuscate Tobin's real gender, and the haunting presence of the murdered brother, this was chilling to the bone, so to say. The author also depicts a medieval society in many details and with a certain accuracy, while distillating in it elements of fantasy (the magicians) as well as of something darker (the control-freak attitude of some characters).The big "but" here, in my opinion, is that all of this detailing, albeit interesting for the sake of knowing the background, feels more like an introduction than like a real story. Characters and facts take way too much time to get installed, and don't look that interesting in first place, perhaps because of this lingering feeling that they're crossing existence and events, rather than 'living' them.Now that the basis of the story is set, however, I still think that this can go on as an interesting plot, if done the right way. Either I'll hold to or revise thie opinion once I've read the second volume.
4 The USAAF Eighth A.F. was assigned to daylight raids on Axis aircraft factories, transport, oil and submarine facilities. This book is loaded with trivia; the people involved, planes they flew (and demise), the targets, wrecks, interspersed with text describing the battles. Many bombers smashed by flak were caught on film during their final plunge to earth- rarely did all 10 men get out. On many pages, you see old/young men like this German:'Face of a lost generation. Ofhr Alfred Scharf, 7./JG26, KIA in his Fw 190A-8, 16 September 1944 either by a P-47 or a P-38, two months after turning 20. He claimed one victory, a P-47 of the 356th FG, on 18 August, during his few short weeks in the lethal skies over Germany. ' (p. 187) The man looks determined- for all the good it did him- and he looks more like 40.Or later, in Chapter 8- Gotterdammerung, is an aerial picture of the Politz oil refinery. The ground and ruined buildings are pock-marked by many bomb craters. That page also contains a sidebar of the recollection from Uffz Walter Ibold, Bf 109G pilot, flying for JG 76. Over Stendahl on 14 or 15 January 1945, his formation attacked some Boeings:' ...Some were certainly downed, but there was no time to make observations, as the Red Indians (enemy fighters)scattered us. There was a mad dogfight, ratio about 10 to 1. I was able to shoot down one Mustang, but then once again, it was my turn. I came down by parachute at Sandau near Havelberg....When I returned to Reinsdorf a couple days later the commander, Ofterdinger, asked: 'Ibold, where is my Gruppe?' My wingman, Fw Deutscher, was also killed on this day. I can still see his twisted face in my mind's eye. ' (p. 198) The rest of the chapter is similar; injured crewmen being removed from bombers, planes that failed to return from raids, then the jets that arrived too late.Accompanied by list of Luftwaffe rank, abbreviations used in the text.
4 The book contains hundreds of photographs from the air war over Europe (1942-45), many of them never before published, as well as a wealth of first hand accounts of the terrible sky battles. The main drawback of the book is that editors tried hard to put too much text in the pages, resulting in a very small letter font which really made me grow tired after reading a few pages each time.
5 The American air campaign against Germany has been chronicled in hundreds of books over the years. The Boiten and Bowman book is a fresh look at the Mighty 8th's air war with many new personal accounts from American and German aircrews topped off with 300+ photos, some in color. It's a very pleasing package and makes for fascinating reading. If you're an 8th Air Force enthusiast, buy this book. You won't be disappointed. Highly recommended!
5 As with the title of this review, only one word describes this volume and it is outstanding. This book provides a huge collection of rarely seen photographs of not only the Allies, but also the German pilots who confronted them. The pictures are captioned with great detail and the fates of the planes, crews, and pilots are told as well.The narrative and the first person accounts are engaging and bring the events pictured to greater life for the reader. This is a book that I return to again and again despite years of owning it. I find something new that I missed nearly every time. The detail is rich and if you could only have one book regarding the Airwar over Germany, this would have to be it.
5 I lucked upon this volume in a discount book store, and I am glad I did. While it does maintain a somewhat dry chronological overview of primarily 8th Air Force bombing missions from 1942-1945, more than half of the book consists of individual narratives from USAAF bomber & fighter crew, and Luftwaffe fighter pilots and flak crews. These I found to be, by and large, most interesting, and new to me, despite having read numerous works on this subject over the years. Many of the USAAF photos I have seen before, but few of those of the Luftwaffe.The sacrifice of both sides is well described, both in the individual stories, and the dry statistics of bomber and fighter losses, and the attendant casualties. It was a massive effort by both sides, with the issue in doubt until well into 1944.I strongly agree with an earlier reviewer that the print is definitely much too small, and hard on the eyes. Nevertheless, a worthy addition to anyone's library on the air war in Europe, 1942-1945.
1 This book has an enormous amount of small details (i.e., exact airwings participating in specific battles, etc.). The problem is that there is so much of this detail that it bores and swamps the reader with respect to the greater picture. There should have been much more emphasis on strategic considerations and history at higher level. If you are a deep and serious history buff in this niche of history then this book would be a four star for you but, for aforementioned reasons, for the general history interested in overview of the subject the book would only rank one star.
4 I have loved every one of Robin Hobb's books. So when I saw a copy of The Reindeer People, written in the 80s under (what I believe to be) her own name, I grabbed it.The story is relatively simple: a woman in prehistoric times heads north with a "simple" son, tries to survive, and meets up with a community that's reindeer centric. It's Fantasy in kind of an earth-mother way: what the shaman does *works*, and spirit guides are more than belief systems. But most of it is simply people trying to make life work: hunt for food, find someone to love, keep warm.The tale is very predictable, in some ways, and it will definitely make you think of Clan of the Cave Bear. Yet, The Reindeer People is well written, and within a few pages you *do* care about the characters -- particularly the relationship between the heroine and her son. It's a good story, not great; but I'll definitely look for the next book in the series, Wolf's Brother.If you're a fan of Hobb's later work, you'll see her talent before she learned to master her writing skills. For example, this book has far more exposition than do her later novels, and she switches viewpoint characters far more often than you'll see in her more popular fantasy series. But the talent is there, and the story is enjoyable. It's worth reading... but unless you're a die-hard Hobb fan (and I think I do qualify for that role), you probably don't need to go way out of your way to read this novel.
5 Megan Lindholm/Robin Hobb is an artist.She paints such wonderful backdrops for her stories,that you become swept to another place when you read her books.I enjoyed this book as much as I have enjoyed her Dragon Fantasies.
5 Found this book a bit of a surprise as I was expecting something else and was actually pleased when I started to read it.Robin/Megan doesn't let you down. All her books keep you entertained to the very end
5 Having read all of Robin Hobbs's Rain Wilds books, but none she'd published under the name Megan Lindholm (and none being available in my local library), I recently purchased this for my Kindle. Well... It's easily as good as any of the Rain Wilds books. A ripping good read, and there's no question about purchasing the sequel "Wolf's Brother". ("The Reindeer People" doesn't finish on a knife edge, but the story clearly isn't over.) This may have been the author's first book, but it's no less for that. Recommended.
5 a story along the same lines as "clan of the cave bear", interesting, a little slow, but worth reading, wish it was on the kindle.
3 I love books about books, and this is a book that is about a newspaper that is about books. Derwent May has written a 550-page tome (not including index and bibliography) tracing the 100-year history of the Times (of London) Literary Supplement. I once had a trial subscription to the TLS and enjoyed reading it but couldn't afford the subscription price. The best comparable thing we have in the U.S. is the New York Review of Books. (The NYRB, though it's less expensive, gives you only 20 issues a year while the TLS gives you 52.) The London Review of Books is not a good substitute: Fewer than half its pages are devoted to actual book reviews, and this periodical has the annoying habit of not following any rules for breaking words at the ends of lines. The New York Times Book Review is unsatisfactory because the reviews are too short. The New Republic is a good read if you want some politics and current events along with your book reviews. Amazon.com is a great place to get book reviews if you want the opinions of John and Mary Doe. But I digress.May divides his book into convenient time periods. For each time period, he first discusses the people who were employed by the TLS, the format and format changes of the TLS during the period, and then the reviewers and important books reviewed. This last is the best part of each chapter, although the other parts are also interesting.Two sections of photos show TLS personnel and reviewers and four photos of the TLS itself as its format changed over the years. I would have liked to see more photos of the paper itself.The index could have been expanded to include the titles of books reviewed. One can't look up a favorite book to see if it was reviewed (and what was said about it) in the TLS.On the whole, CRITICAL TIMES is a thoroughly enjoyable read.
5 This history of "The Times" literary supplement will delight any interested in learning about the supplement's evolution and years of controversy and humor. From the identities and approaches of hundreds of figures who reviewed for the paper to the controversies which it aroused, Critical Times is a weighty survey and includes many reflections on British and literary history along the way.
5 This voluminous work serves as a both a fascinating history of this most reputable literary magazine in the English language and as an indispensable reference work.  It is filled with interesting information on the authors, the books and the literary concerns of a century.The TLS was founded in 1902; editor Bruce Richmond established its position as the foremost literary/intellectual publication for English literary discourse in the years 1903 to 1937. Richmond believed that the TLS was for keen general readers and that its role was to help readers find the most worthwhile books.Not all of its editors were drawn from Oxbridge circles, since Stanley Morrison (1945 - 1947) started out as typesetter, whilst Arthur Crook (1959 - 1974) began his career as a postal clerk. With some notable exceptions, the talents of gifted writers were recognized early by the TLS: Philip Larkin, Graham Greene, Saul Bellow and Proust.The delicious polemics always added spice to the pages of TLS and the reader can get lost in the obscure and famous quarrels and outrageous observations of a variety of colourful literary figures. One hundred years of books, authors, editors and literary squabbles, who could ask for more? Critical Times is a landmark of English literary history and a must-have reference work.
4 Like the classic pre-First World War Eleventh Edition of The Encyclopaedia Britannica, to which it is in spirit a weekly high-journalistic descendant, The Times Literary Supplement of London is among those prime artifacts of the British Empire of the mind which, if they did not exist, we would find it necessary to invent. The TLS, as it is known to its small but influential audience - its circulation has seldom risen above 40,000 -  throughout the Anglophone realm, has, thanks to a rigorously scholarly editorial and advertising policy we might label "highest-common-denominator", combined with a topical range approaching each week almost that of the old Britannica itself, secured a reputation over its first hundred years as the most authoritative general book review in English, a sort of Recording Angel of contemporary intellectual life.As vital and relevant as ever on its hundredth anniversary, the paper that has been called "the mailbox of the British intelligentsia" and "the booklover's journal of record" has authorised former staffer and veteran English literary editor Derwent May to play Ancient Mariner among its editorial archives, and in Critical Times: The History of the Times Literary Supplement, he has done the centenarian weekly proud, with a panoramic and lucidly-written remembrance of the central literary, intellectual and ideological events of the century past, as seen through the eyes of writers and critics whose work was commissioned from, and in turn broadcast from, the city which was until quite recently the confident pivot of a global empire whose scholars, no less than its consuls, had blanketed the globe. May's work is faithfully descriptive and chronological throughout, with little evaluation or cultural-historical comparative analysis to frame it, but its ideal readers, those with a strong prior interest in the personalities and works it portrays, will discern several keys by its end which help unlock the mystique surrounding the TLS.By 1902, the year of the journal's birth, its parent newspaper, the venerable Times of London, had long distinguished itself by its exhaustive coverage of both Parliament and such far-flung imperial dramas as the Crimean War, its correspondents often scooping by days the inner circle of the governing class for whom its vast and stately columns provided an almost-official daily ritual. The space constraints resulting vied with the rising worldwide flood of new books to be reviewed, and the TLS was launched separately to fill the breach. With the temporary exception of its early owner Lord Northcliffe, whose attempts just before his death to dumb it down in the interests of circulation and profit came to naught under the unyielding highmindedness of those early editors he christened "the Monks of Printing House Square," its half-dozen or so press-baron proprietors - present chief Rupert Murdoch included - have to their enduring credit treated it much like a prize literary orchid, granting it full editorial independence and forgiving its tendency to hover always, in the words of present editor Ferdinand Mount, "on the edge of profitability."For its first seventy-two years, its contributors appeared unsigned - a holdover from a Victorian practice used by leading periodicals to convey a unified institutional authority - but knowing speculation over the identity of those penning its most biting scholarly critiques raged at all times among the tightly-knit ranks of English letters, spilling over into sly references in its contentious letters columns, which for decades have served historians, critics, philosophers and aggrieved authors alike as a sort of Internet avant la lettre, as they debate everything from the precise dating of Wordsworth manuscripts to the social roots of the English Civil War, weeks without end.  In its dawning years, genteel Edwardian bookmen and classically-trained Etonians soon shared column space with such ascending lights of the modernist wave as Virginia Woolf and the young T.S. Eliot, who exclaimed to his mother "this is the highest honour possible in the critical world of literature." As their eminence grew and they came to publish many of their finest and most innovative essays therein, the Lit Supp, as it was then called, granted such arrived stars premiums over and above its famously stingy fees - which for decades were calibrated with a special pounds-per-column-inch ruler. Unlike the dozens of twentieth-century literary journals which have soared and crashed in its wake, wedded as they were to one or another movement, tendency or cultural moment whose days soon enough passed, the TLS has always sustained a refreshing independence from all trace of sectarian tendency, a steadfastly uncliquish refusal to play favorites in its reviewing of books, whether in the spheres of culture or politics - unlike its latter-day cross-Atlantic rivals The New York Review of Books, the home of Lincoln Center left-liberalism, or the London Review of Books, with its high-left Hampstead hauteur. While this "eclectic hospitality", in Mount's phrase, has made it a more-accurate cross-section of the true balance of forces in the world of ideas, a more complete and refreshing diet for the mind, ensuring its longevity, it has led on occasion to what must always appear in hindsight an unavoidable provinciality in time, that hit-or-miss note in contemporary reception which is inseparable from the rise and fall of literary reputation. The paper missed the boat on Ulysses and the early work of D.H. Lawrence, but found offsetting strengths in its glowingly perceptive reviews throughout the 1920s, by one Mme. Duclaux, of the successive installments of Marcel Proust's mammoth cycle A la Recherche du Temps Perdu, arguably the great 20th-century novel. Evelyn Waugh, though, was compelled upon the appearance of his first-reviewed book to write in sardonic correction, having seen himself described as "Miss Waugh," while Kenneth Grahame's children's classic The Wind in the Willows found itself evaluated by E.V. Lucas thus: "As a contribution to natural history the work is negligible." (Part I of II of review)
4 Founded in 1902, the TLS has sought to present the whole range of publishing and writing. Many of its contributors have shown great scholarship, imagination and independence of mind. May recalls that it has given us reviews of and by the 20th century's pre-eminent novelists writing in English, Henry James and Virginia Woolf. Recently it has opposed Critical Theory, and exposed the charlatans Michel Foucault and Jacques Derrida.But May also shows us the TLS's bad traits of `gossip and gentility', the baleful effects of Eton, Oxford and clubbable `literary London'. So it has all too often been a fashion victim, persistently overrating very minor novelists, like Kingsley Amis and George Orwell. May himself does not mention Tony Harrison, our greatest living poet, or Penelope Fitzgerald, possibly our finest recent novelist. The TLS also helped to inflate the reputations of idealist thinkers like Sigmund Freud, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Bertrand Russell, Karl Popper, Noam Chomsky, Terry Eagleton and Roger Scruton.May, like many of his subjects, often uses words to avoid judgement, to veil, not reveal, reality. For instance, he notes of Paul de Man, the Yale Professor who founded `deconstructionism' in the USA, that some of his work was `judged to be fascist in character', but he does not explain why. De Man wrote 104 articles for pro-Nazi, anti-Semitic newspapers in Belgium during World War Two!All too often the TLS propounded the conventional Cold War pieties, without seriously examining the rational kernel of Communism. Consequently, the study of literature substituted for intelligent politics; literary squabbles were given more attention than genuine conflicts of interest.The TLS is now edited by Ferdinand Mount, "educated, like so many of the earlier figures on the Literary Supplement, at Eton and Christ Church." He became the Daily Mail's chief leader writer, then head of Thatcher's Policy Unit, and more recently a political columnist on the Daily Telegraph. So don't expect much TLS criticism of the present conservative government!
5 The songs of distant earth is the only novel which I return to it to read and enjoy over and over again. The author always limits his imaginations by the boundaries set by science, yet he manages to foresee fabulous and far reaching futures, and at the same time create a very gripping plot with lots of interesting side stories. this is the best science fiction novel ever.
5 Songs of Distant Earth is in my Top 5 sci-fi books of all time...Great concept, heart-wrenching at times..Mike Oldfield actually wrote music for this book (the cd has the same title).  Need I say more?
5 Book is still awsome. a futuristic book  written in the 60's, is still a wild imagination taking us to new worls and very plausible scenarions. Gret sci-fi reading!
5 Amazing After all these years.  I read the book when first published.  This extraordinarily updated re-write is really a new book and a must read.
4 As with all Arthur C Clarke stories this was a well-written and well thought out Story that stands alone as one of the great science-fiction works of all time.
5 I read this book many years ago but had forgotten much of it.  Very good story.  I will now get more Arthur C. Clarke books that I have previously read just so I can have them on my Kindle.  I am doing alot of my favorite books by many authors that way so I can clear out my book shelves.
3 I have been a sci-fi fan for years, but amazingly I have just now gotten around to reading Arthur C. Clarke.  I started with 2001 (which was very good), and then moved on to this.  Though it was startling at times how accurately Clarke wrote about some of the things that actually have come to be (vast computer databases for example), and sometimes I forgot he was writing about a half century ago.  But, in the end, the story felt like it was lacking something.  It was good, just not great.
5 I truly enjoy classic sci fi because there is the chance that the story has an element that could happen.  This is one of those reads.  There are so many interesting relationships and the effects those relationships have on the outcome of the story.
5 The Songs of Distant Earth by Arthur C. Clarke tells of humanity's tragic loss of its home planet and of new beginnings. It would seem that the new worlds that Earth's explorers seeded after the demise of the Sun and the incineration of the solar system tell the story of a distant future in which humanity has learned some hard lessons. The planet Thalassa seems to have very little social turmoil and not even the anger and jealousy that infected the late planet Earth. This book is an excellent work of science fiction written by one of the greatest authors of the genre. But I read this book principally concerning my interest in the subject of "free energy;" it is a subject that I write about and is one of my primary fields of interest. "Free" energy is also sometimes referred to as as "zero point" or "overunity" energy.A "quantum drive" machine is developed over the course of roughly 1500 years after the fate of the Sun and the impending doom of the solar system had been determined by scientists. The drive always lingers in the background of the book because its existence is the principal and most critical element--along with suspended animation--in humanity's survivability over long journeys of hundreds of years that spaceships must travel in order to get to the worlds that will become their new homes. What is the nature of the "quantum drive?" Clearly it is a form of "free energy" machine even if Clarke does not use the term or either of the two other terms that I mention (above). But the "quantum drive" is most certainly a free energy machine capable of extracting virtually unlimited quantities of energy out of the vacuum. The qualitative distinction between Clarke's device with recent claims of invention--or more fiction, as debunkers and skeptics would argue--over the past 80 years is that it is far more nuclear-like both in explanation and magnitude of explosive energy. In contrast, most of the purported inventions suggest the possibility of a gentle tapping into the reservoir of cosmic energy that is easily contained; one exemplification of this is the comparison between claims regarding cold fusion, and the hot fusion used in nuclear bombs and reactors.Clarke gives some background for his fictional machine in his Acknowledgments. He references articles by physicists Shinichi Seikej and  H.D. Froning. And, "In what may hopefully be an historic paper...Dr. Robert L. Forward of the Hughes Research Labs has shown that at least a minute fraction of this energy can be tapped." He also mentions the great physicists, Richard Feyman and John Wheeler as also having had views on the subject. Clarke has an interesting view of science fiction, as he says that while "Star Trek" and "Star Wars" cinematic (and TV) productions were sources of great fantasy he writes that they are "not science fiction in the strict meaning of the term."  Clarke believed that science fiction should be reined in by extrapolating from what is plausible in terms of the current state of scientific knowledge. Thus, he says that the future will not see any warp speeds that violate Einstein's fundamental principle that the speed of light is the maximum speed in the universe. However, this puts the imagination in a peculiar straight jacket; it is one thing to assign limits to current knowledge but it is quite another to assign limits to the imagination. He admits that his "quantum drive" is a "wild extrapolation," which in itself, I think, shows the slipperiness and fuzziness of reining in the imagination.Now, to what is my freely admitted primary interest. Good science fiction such as Arthur C. Clarke's Songs of Distant Earth blurs the line between what is plausible and what is mere fantasy. It happens that while the claims made about free energy by the likes of T. Henry Moray and others have real--NOT imaginary and NOT fictional evidence--to back up their claims. Some claims are more credible than others. In Moray's case, many viewed his demonstrations; one of them was the esteemed physicist, Harvey Fletcher who signed an affidavit to that effect before he died. And yet, time and time again courageous individuals have been shut down and/or scoffed to such an extent that the mega-complex of corporate greed, academic rigidity, and government may have accomplished a reverse fiction. Have the power interests suppressed and so distorted the evidence that, by convention, truth now has the appearance of fiction?
4 I read this while researching among the little sci-fi literature there is out there about seeder spaceships. In that regard, the novel is mildly adequate, as it talks about this technology in very broad therms and it doesn't address much of the thousand questions I have about that particular topic.But in all other aspects of the story, the book is incredibly effective :) . I've read little of Clarke I'm afraid, so I was rather stunned at the level of skill with which he wrote his characters and plot. It was a pleasant surprise to see this sensitivity from an author which I (foolishly thought) was famous for his technical explanations.The novel has a good pacing in it and it builds a convincing and nostalgic world around it. It is fascinating to read about the differences (and similarities) between Earth's and Thalassa's cultures and histories.A special good point should be made for the powerful descriptions of the destruction of Earth, the societal collapse and problems that preceded it, and the combination of extreme virtue and immorality that flooded mankind on its last years.One thing I found amazing again and again throughout the book, is how minimalist Clarke's prose is and yet how vibrant it feels in the mind. That's quite a trick I haven't seen much in literature, so it was a double surprise for me to read it from the least expected author I could think of.In short, highly recommendable.
5 I remember buying this book - not really expecting much from it. I also wasn't that familair with Arthur C. Clarke (but that has changed). This is one of the best (if not the best) books that I've ever read. Hmmm.. it could very well be my &quot;favorite&quot;. I'm not usually drawn to male writers. Although male myself, female writers are usually... well, in my opinion - better writers. But, Arthur C. Clarke is awesome and did a first-rate job writing this novel. I wish he had written a companion book about the colonist after they reached Sagan II. I've enjoyed reading and rereading this book many times.
5 a great read and a classic
2 This is one of Clarke's quieter stories. It's a chamber piece rather than a symphony. And because he aims for intimacy and muted volume over grandeur, it doesn't have the sweep of his best work.It tells the story of a society of humans, transplanted from a dying earth, who are visited by a starship of later generation humans also fleeing destruction. In terms of plot, that's really about it. The rest of the story is a relaxed reflection on the consequences of such a meeting. In almost every way, it rehashes themes that Clarke has explored before. The utopian existence of a self satisfied, slightly stagnant society shaken by the arrival of strangers was explored in various stories, but especially The City and the Stars. The evolution of life in a watery environment was covered in 2010. Unattached sex and atheism are to be found in practically all of his works. And a ship full of hibernating passengers on a long and distant journey was used first on 2001 and then on Rama.The trouble with this book is that it suffers in comparison with those other works. If it had come earlier in his career, it could at least have claimed the distinction of originality. But themes so much better presented elsewhere gives this book the feel of a used hand-me-down. It is interesting, in a quaint sort of way, but does not arrest us with the sheer power of revelation that we have come to expect from Clarke's best.This is a work I would only recommend to his most die-hard fans. But even such fans will find the pace slow and the story uninspiring. I sense what he has tried to do here, which is to depart from his usual exploration of vast themes and come closer to the human dimension. But he has always been weak with his character development and he doesn't play the introspection card at all well. Clarke is out of his element here. Intentions are not enough, and marks earned for trying are lost again to mediocrity.
5 Arthur C. Clarke wrote his first draft of The Songs of Distant Earth back in the 1950s, and kept refining his story until setting down to write this novel in 1987. While I have a fondness for 2010: Odyssey Two and The Fountains of Paradise, this is still one of my favorite Clarke stories.The opening chapters of The Songs of Distant Earth alternate between life on the human colony on the planet Thalassa, a warm, wet world with a climate similar to Clarke's native Sri Lanka, and a dying Earth. Thalassa is the product of a computer-supervised seeding program. Using only human embryos (and later, DNA patterns), fully-automated robot factories and tutors raised the first generations of humans (and those born thereafter) without religion. Clarke shows how the Thalassans (or Lassans) create a peaceful society without it, and manage to not create religions of their own.Earth is dying--or, more to the point, does die--because of instability in the Sun. Having learned that the sun will explode in the year 3600 (give or take a decade), humanity launches into space in order to ensure that it will not die off completely when its homeworld is destroyed. The last spacecraft to launch live humans (as opposed to DNA patterns) is the starship Magellan. Carrying only a fraction of remaining humanity, it carries with it the last pieces of our history, dreams, and culture with it. Bound for a harsh, habitable world light-years away, Magellan makes a stop at Thalassa to rebuild the ablation shield that protects it from interstellar dust.Clarke posits his scenario as &quot;realistic&quot; space opera, in that nothing flies faster than light. Magellan uses an advanced &quot;quantum drive,&quot; which is powered by the subatomic fluctuations that cause--among other things--electrons to deflect from circular orbital paths. The quantum fluctuations, each emitting and reabsorbing the equivalent of atomic bombs, still do not provide enough power to reach &quot;warp speed,&quot; or anything close to it. The colonizer ship flies at something like half the speed of light, but is also powerful enough to correct the spin of a planet when the ship lands on it.Anyhow, because Thalassa had lost contact with Earth hundreds of years ago, the Magellan crew was not even expecting to find the planet inhabited, much less with a civilized society. The crew must face all the problems of &quot;first contact,&quot; especially cultural contamination, since the humans from Earth still have their religions. Also, the Magellan crew must face &quot;the Bounty Syndrome,&quot; as Thalassa is a lovely planet, in stark contrast to Sagan 2, Magellan's final destination.As another neat aspect of the story, Clarke adds a semisentient species beneath the waters of Thalassa. These beasties look like enormous lobsters, and Clarke manages to read these aliens' minds very well. He makes a good case for alternate, marine-based evolution.In the midst of all these larger issues, Clarke does something unique in this book--he manages to develop some personal relationships between the characters. The main characters--Captain Bey, Mirissa, Brant, Loren, Kumar, and Moses Kaldor--actually seem human. This was a refreshing change for Clarke, and The Songs of Distant Earth really stands out from all of his previous or subsequent works. Clarke would really like to see this film made into a movie, and I can't blame him. It might give critics of &quot;sci-fi&quot; some food for thought.The prose of this book is also easier to read than in other Clarke works--not as poetic as Childhood's End, perhaps, but much easier to read for all that. Despite some of the heavier overtones in the book, Clarke's writing is brisk and lighthearted, and even the technical parts are told in clear, simple analogies. A non-SF (&quot;mundane&quot;) reader could dig it! As a major Clarke fan, I found this book fun and well worth reading. Two thumbs up, five stars, whatever. Buy it!
3 3.5 stars.Sub-genre: Post ApocalypseLiterary conflict:  nonePOV: 3rd person omniscientMultiple-POV: &#10004;GOOD:Solid editing/polish: &#10004;Fun characters: noWitty repartee: noGreat "how-it-works" technology descriptions: &#10004;Thought provoking: &#10004;Great ending: ?BAD:Rapid head-hopping: &#10004;Idiot aliens won't retreat 'til their dead piled 5+ meters high: noUnbelievable moments: noI couldn't tell you what the literary conflict is in this novel. Perhaps there is none. It is my only criticism. So little happens in this book. Man's foibles have been fixed by the year 3600. Government... fixed. Fighting for limited resources/wealth... fixed. Killing over religious beliefs... fixed. It goes on and on. It's a very upbeat vision of society in the 4th millennium that does not leave a lot of room for anything bad to happen. Lots of hints at things that might go wrong, but they never do. I expect this from author C. J. Cherryh, but Clark's other works have a lot more action (for lack of a better word).There is rapid head-hopping, sentence boundaries. Not my favorite. Here, the 3rd person omniscient POV is handled properly - it's easy to tell who's thoughts your reading about.
3 Great Arthur Clark story as always.  Put things into perspective for our future on planet Earth.  Show's what we should do to secure our future as a human race.  Let's hope we have the will and determination to do what is necessary for the future.
4 Beautifully written classic. Enjoyed it from beginning to end. Reminded me what sci-fi should be like and so rarely is.
5 I am so glad to have finally discovered Arthur C. Clarke as a writer. It was refreshing to enjoy such skilled writing. Clarke definitely stimulated my imagination about a distant world and left me thinking about future possibilities well after the last page.
5 The novels of Arthur Clarke have a depth to them that few other authors have. While he does occasionally invent some physics in order to further the plot, the vast majority of the time he stays within the actual or at least plausible realms.In this story, scientists discover that the apparent deficiency in neutrino emission from the sun is real and an indicator that the sun will eventually explode, consuming the Earth. Humanity's reaction is to build giant space arks that take the essence of humanity out to colonize the stars. While Clarke "invents" a quantum drive to power the ships, he keeps them within the speed bounds of relativity, so the ships are multi-generational in nature. A form of super hibernation is also used; most of the people in the modern ships are in frozen hibernation, to be thawed when they arrive at their destination or when their skills are needed.Magellan is one of the last ships to depart, taking off right before the sun explodes. At their high speeds of travel, it is necessary to use a forward shield, which is made of ice. However, their shield is being destroyed too rapidly for them to make it to their ultimate destination, a star known as Sagan Two.In order to replenish their shield, they stop at a planet (Thalassa) that was the goal of another space ark many years earlier. When the Magellan arrives, they find a thriving culture, although limited in the amount of available land. It is a world where there are only two islands, so population control is severe and they have evolved a stable social and political structure.In the style that differentiates Clarke, he explores many cultures simultaneously, that of the thawed people of Magellan, that of Thalassa and how it has diverged from Earth and the consequences of the interaction of cultures that would have naturally drifted apart. Furthermore, there is a species of large crabs living under the sea that exhibit at least some signs of intelligence and has a social order. Clarke also has the people on Magellan reminisce a bit, so we also see backwards to how human societies on Earth coped with the certainty that human life on Earth was going to cease to exist.There is no one better than Arthur Clarke at inventing scenarios and situations that require thought to create and even more thought to understand. This is an excellent science fiction book; the societies are well engineered into stable orders based on reasonable, yet flexible bounds. Unlike space opera, this is a story that never stretches beyond the bounds of plausibility.
3 Arthur C Clarke never wrote a bad story, but this one comes close. In his waning years, his writing took on the same sadness and lack of hope for the human race that Mark Twain&#8217;s work did. That touch of the mystical that was always the hallmark of Clarke&#8217;s stories is curiously missing here and is in fact replaced by a tirade against religion and spirituality in general. There is none of the wonder at the mysteries of life that we normally look forward to in his books. This is a paint by numbers story; not a bad thing in itself, but also not something that touches our emotions or makes us think. And lastly, there&#8217;s quite a bit of bi-sexuality, homosexuality, and other perverted ways of living exhibited by several of the characters, to the point where it seems obvious that the human race has devolved considerably to the behavior of apes and dogs, and yet we&#8217;re to think this same time period of humankind is smart enough to invent a space drive and traverse the stars. It&#8217;s simply unrealistic and kooky.
1 Its just so so story. I was actually waiting for some really intriguing part...until chapter 52.`The Songs of Distant Earth'.Before it was just a normal science-fiction story but chapter 52 is way too much rubbish for me to proceed reading. First of all the writhing does not make any sense and its amazingly BORING.  I don'y understand why the author suddenly started talking gibberish about non-sense music stuff which is absolutely boring and absolutely out of focus. I would like to read any review on the chapter 52 and get to know other's opinion.I sensed similar frustration at earlier chapter where the author describes the sound from the super-strengthened string between the spaceship and Thallasan sea.Whenever the author tries to describe sound or music, the writing style suddenly changes and it changes badly.I purchased this book as kindle version from daily deal and I was considering Arthur C. Clerk at that time.... I don't think I will give him an another shot in any near future.
3 After reading 2001, 2010, 2061, the Rama series, and Fountains of Paradise, I was expecting a lot more from this book.  Not that it wasn't good; I enjoyed reading it.  Unfortunately, it wasn't up to Sir Clarke's  usual fare...character development was a little weak, there didn't seem to  be an ultimate goal to the story (and this is reflected in the fact that  there isn't really any climax), and he seemed to let the ending kind of  dribble out.  Overall, I would recommend that people pick up the books I've  mentioned above rather than this one...they are much better.
5 Clarke really took his time with this novel, developing characters that stay with you and whose various fates affect you.  But it was just the characters (something that I think was his weakness).  There is a beautifully described engine capable of high speeds.  Yet he did not make it capable of light speed.  That made things more difficult, but also allowed for an interesting plot.  The travelers coming to the planet Thalassa left Earth just as it was dying from Sol going supernova.  And though the planet has been gone for hundreds of years the people on the ship remember it.  They remember what it looked like, what it was like.Then there are ecological and moral issues, something that Clarke didn't normally dwell on, but which he did well.  There is an episode with a developing intelligence under the water that raises questions about our right to destroy another potentially sentient life.  What would happen to our species if we were spread throughout the galaxy with no practical means of traveling to each other, or even of communicating?  Is a person defined by his family and friends or can they still thrive in new surroundings?  Should we terraform a planet because we want to?  And the age-old question of whether a technologically superior group of humans has the right to dominate an inferior group.  These are all beautifully interwoven in the novel.  A great read.
4 Well written story of the last ship (Magellan) to leave a doomed earth making a pit stop for some agua on the previously colonized ocean world of Thalassa, before heading on further to the barren world of Sagan 2.  Great characters from the ship Magellan and inhabitants of Thalassa and believable science await the reader of this book.
5 This is my favorite end-of-the-world story, even though it's been overtaken by events.  The Solar Neutrino Scandal is now resolved, but even so it's a wonderful confection of a little fictional science, much more not-known-to-be-impossible imaginings, and (in my opinion) better work on character development than was typical of ACC.  I'm sorry there was no sequel.
4 I enjoyed the plot and fantasy world Clarke created. If you don't need aliens in a story about space travel, then you will enjoy this book.
5 I have enjoyed good science fiction for many, many years.  It was fun to read this one, written in 1985, to see where we have come technologically since then. Arthur C. Clarke has always been one of my favorite authors of such stories.
4 I can state, after TSODE, that ACC is an excellent writer- well beyond the genre he's best known for. That said, it's easy to see why even hardcore sci fi fans might not be drawn to him in the way they are to the more pulpy Frank Herbert- descendent of the Jules Verne, HG Wells, Edgar Rice Burroughs vein, the more accessible Philip K. Dick, or the more stoic Isaac Asimov. In all of his books ACC is more of a visionary than a storyteller. His characters are merely ins to the greater tale that he sets out to tale- usually of some global, or cosmic, significance- the mysterious aliens of the 2001 series, or the development of technology that renders privacy nil in TLOOD. Who they are & what they represent are not as important as what they do. ACC is also not a great craftsman of gorgeous sentences. 1 does not read him for the joy of wordplay, memorable images, or striking metaphors. Yet, there is a poetry of ideas that most off-the-rack sci fi lacks. Granted, I'm not a voracious reader of the genre, so am guided by the recommendations of others. I am awaiting Robert Heinlein's Stranger In A Strange Land (the uncut version), at the push of my pal Art Durkee, & hope it's alot better than Frank Herbert's Dune- a book I regret reading after another pal, Joe Homrich, persuaded me it was a book that would change my life. It didn't....While this is all interesting, & the stuff novels should rightly deal with there is no great event in the future to counterbalance the destruction of the Earth & solar system, & the novel suffers from a kind of anticlimax in its last , especially after a 1st  detailing earth's demise & humanity's survival. As for some specific good & bad points- on the good ledger is the fact that ACC always seems to strive for harder sci fi, rather than mere fantasy- he pointedly distances himself from the Star Trek/Star Wars sort of sci fi in the Introduction, even as he indulges in Star Trek utopian fantasies- such as the elimination of religion & violence. This `rationalism' is purportedly achieved through collective human determination for specific survival. I could more easily believe genetic engineering succeeding in this, given only centuries till Doomsday. Given the atmosphere of the mid-1980s, when TSODE was adapted from a 1950s short story to full novel length, perhaps this was merely the notoriously Left Wing ACC's reaction against the Reagan/Thatcher imperialism of the day.Similar views re: the free love ideas of the Thalassans seem too contrived & convenient. Especially silly is the idea that bisexuality is the norm for the human condition, & Thalassans have embraced this. Like religion this may have been just his reaction, at the time, to the Moral Majority mindset of the day, as this early PC Era viewpoint has fallen to dust. Fortunately the sexual escapades do not lead to any distracting love story of any consequence.Regardless, while his interstellar science may be more scientific than others (although it's technologically feasible to circumvent or surpass the speed of light- something not seen during the 1980s) his ideas on human nature are outright utopian fantasy. Not that a little positivism isn't in order, now & then, it's just that humanity's best tends to come out at the worst of times. In The Songs Of Distant Earth the worst is already behind us as the tale opens, & its that worst which disallows the best of ACC to shine through in this novel. Still, overall, on a 1-100 scale I'd give it a solid 85. It's a good read that just needed a little more tweaking in its reconcile of science, ideas, & art, as well as its narrative structure. If ever made into a movie let's hope James Cameron, not Steven Spielberg, makes it, because Cameron's darker worldview would balance this book's radiance into a damned good tale, while Spielberg would drown it in schmaltz- & that music is best left to a dying sun.
5 I have read many of arthur c Clarke's books and this is by far my favorite,and I am a fan of most of his books. this books hits all of the main themes I love in fiction. the book is grounded in a smart premise that makes sense, but more importantly has a very emotional part that should relate to anybody. You feel for the characters as they are faced with an awesome responsibility to there mission, yet are challenged by there emotions to go down a different path.
5 Don't ask me why, but this book is one of my top 5 all-time favourites.  The science isn't particularly interesting, there are few unique ideas, and the characters are just characters.  However, it all comes together and  feels right.  I highly recommend it.
5 The Distant Future: The human colonists of the planet Thalassa have never known what is to gaze upon the face of the Earth. Originally borne to safe harbour as DNA banks aboard massive "seedships" fleeing a dying Terran sun, they have survived and endured some six hundred years upon the three islands that make up the continental landmass of their idyllic tropical planet, evolving a carefree culture along the lines of the indigenous Polynesians in the process. However, the arrival of "Magellan", a massive starship carrying the last humans to witness the death of the Earth, will have shattering repercussions for both cultures.That the late Arthur C Clarke was a genius was never open to dispute, but even I was surprised by how profoundly moved I was by the emotional powerhouse that is "Songs Of Distant Earth". In his usual humane, musical, wryly amused prose, Clarke produced an eloquent, elegiac and beautifully subtle rumination on love, loss, desire, courage and redemption that is the equal of any novel in the more self-consciously high-brow literary canon. In many ways, it reminds me of Neville Shute's similarly haunting,On the Beach. There are so many moments of haunting beauty in this novel that it really is impossible to do them justice here - suffice it to say passages such as "the little lion's ascent to the stars" will stay with me for a very long time indeed. For many years now, Clarke's fiction has been my preferred method of transcendence. Some choose narcotics or the rosary, but whenever I need to be swept up in a divine sense of wonder, I reach for my copy ofRendezvous with Rama. No doubt the devoutly atheist Clarke would have been deeply amused by the fact that I, and I'm sure many of his readers, experience something akin to a sense of spiritual communion when they read his books.I urge you to pick up this stunning novel. Reading it can only make you a better human being.
3 "The Songs of Distant Earth" by Arthur C. Clarke is an engaging but somewhat middling sci/fi adventure/romance story. It's not one of my favorite Clarke stories by any means although I thought it was an interesting storyline premise that was lacking the normal dose of action I've become accustomed to from one of my favorite authors. Admittedly, the quality of Clarke's writing offsets some the other shortfalls. 3 stars!!!
4 Earth is about to be destroyed by our Sun that is going nova and humanity must explore the outreaches of the galaxy and reseed alien planets with test tube babies and their robotic handmaidens.Clarke explores the limits of traveling throughout the galaxy and the limits of our technology; there is no magic faster than light (FTL) drives.  Seed ships are sent in the 25th century arriving at their destination hundreds of years later traveling at a respectable fifth of the speed of light.  These ships are sent to other worlds with a partial history of Earth for it's future inhabitants.  The nadir of humanity is erased; wars, religion, guns and violence are eradicated from the archives for the future inhabitants.The new inhabitants of the seeded Thalassa (one of many seeded planets) are a modern day Eden.  Humanity's future on Thalassa is not beset with violence or wars, sexuality is open and permissible and people are generally happy.  One thousand years hence the Lassans are visited by the last ship leaving Earth after it's destruction for a refueling mission before going on to their new home planet Sagan IIThis book is quite good for a number of reasons, the first being the realistic portrayal of spaceships and the limits of technology; how will humans travel in the future?  The second is Clarke's diatribe against religion, guns, and repressed sexuality on Earth.  The only problem with the book was its length; I wish it were a lot longer.  Another great book for one of our greatest science fiction writers
4 Mankind has left the planet earth, about to be engulfed by the explosion of the sun, in spaceships that fanned out around the galaxy, the passengers sleeping for hundreds of years until reaching habitable planets.  A new ship with its cargo of a million Sleeping Beautys has reached the planet  Thalassa, an island surrounded by ocean.  This civilization enjoys all the  virtues and the gentler vices of the South Sea islands, with neither God  (belief in whom had done mankind &quot;more evil than good&quot;) nor  sexual jealousy.  (Clarke goes to pains to emphasize his book is science  fiction, rather than fantasy, but when it comes to human nature he allows  himself a dose of utopian fantasy.)There is not much of a plot here  in the ordinary sense of the word.  But the pictures Clarke evokes of the  death of our planet, colonization of others in a slow-motion diaspora, of  islands in a sea of potentially hostile blue, made the book well worth the  read for me.  Clarke's planet is less exotic and more ominous than  C.S.Lewis' water-world of Perelandra; his literary and psychological  imagination less acute, but more scientifically disciplined.As a  student of comparative religion, I was interested in how faith fared in  Clarke's 27th Century.  Clarke allows vestiges of a vague deism among a  specialist or two, but the idea of a God who answers prayer has long since  been ruled out by &quot;statistical theology,&quot; which shows that good  things happen to good (and bad) people just as often as you would expect by  the laws of chance.  This seems a bit feeble to me; I personally have had  experiences that would take a tremendous number of unanswered prayers to  flatten on the statistic curve.  Another interesting touch is that one of  the refugees has brought with him a tooth of the Buddha, because he  &quot;founded the only religion that never became stained with blood.&quot;  This was a nice touch, artistically.  But I get the impression Clarke,  between writing novels and doing science, had little time left to learn  much about the real religious history of East or West, as opposed to  rubber-stamping popular skeptical prejudices.  Oh well....
5 Songs of Distant Earth is one of my personal favorites from out of all Arthur Clarke's works. The title itself is hauntingly magnetic and this haunting note is a motif for the entire book. I have always maintained that the best science fiction is the type that looks at people and social relationships over future times, not just the bells and whistles of space warps and so on. Songs of Distant Earth is the perfect example; simple on the surface, complex below the skin. Picture a peaceful, near pastoral society in any age that has been long separated from a historic past. They may occasionally wonder how they got this way, but by and large are content to live life the way it is. Then out of the blue, the long lost past suddenly arrives and they must confront not only their past but their future as well. The sudden influx of strangers, different in outlook, in vision, in sheer virility of life rudely shakes the pastoral by its very presence. Even though the intruders have no wish to disrupt the status quo, their very arrival has unalterably changed matters. Over time, the newcomers gain an appreciation of the islanders' apparently placid yet deeply intertwined way of life. In return, some of their youthful challenge rubs off on the islanders. Clarke's exploration of human characters and relationships is among the best in the business. You can easily understand and identify with the people, their dreams, their hurts, their rising above their sorrows. And as with all of Clarke's books (at least his early works) the lyrical turn of prose and the quirky, subtle use of humor is  beautiful. This is a book I have re-read many times and it will always be on my shelf of favorites. Read it, it doesn't matter whether you are a sci-fi buff or not, this is a classic read beyond genres.
2 The storyline is a bit sad, but otherwise intriguing. In AD 3000+ Earth has been destroyed by a Nova. A few have escaped on 'motherships'. Set on a 'waterworld' - one landmass consisting of three large islands. A later mothership arrives for restocking, and interacts with a peaceful, loving society. Comparisons are drawn with early seafarers and the pacific islands.My only dislike was that it spends too much time talking about the evils of religion, both current and futuristic imagined ones.
5 I just read another review of this novel, calling it 'slow, and uninspiring'. All too true, if you're looking for a comic book story. There are no battles among the stars, or intrigues to be had here, just a simple story, told in a way that helps the reader grasp the vast scale of time this novel encompasses. I found this novel to be ambitious, inspirational, and wistfully sad - every bit in keeping with Clarke's style of writing.I often recommend this work to friends that are not Science Fiction fans; I tell them 'while this is not Star Wars or Star Trek, it will be a book that you'll remember for a very long time, and it'll be the best SciFi novel you'll ever read'. The majority return the book with the comment that it was the single best book they ever read, because it put science fiction in a whole new light for them; made it real and believable; something more than a space opera. I really can't think of a better accolade for a SciFi author.
4 An easy book to read that can be just for easy enjoyment or considered in depth. I recommend it to readers of most genres of fiction.
4 Arthur c Clarke has a way of keeping his books, while very immersed in sci-fi, subtle. His way of focusing on smaller seemingly obtainable advancements in technology, and using those small bits to build into quantum leaps is masterful. This book is no exception.This book has a strong melancholy undertone as it deals with as post earth human race, and the scars that losing earth would leave on any survivors. Also this book speaks to a way that a technologically advanced society could encounter a technologically inferior society and still use enough restraint to work for the benefit of all. It is in these two ways that this book will remain timeless.This is a great book for sci-fi fans.
3 Not my favorite novel from A C Clark.  It has some interesting themes but the end is somewhat disappointing.  Feels like he stretched a short story way to long to make into a novel
5 No one claiming to be a sci-fi lover could read this book and not be utterly fascinated by its realistic tale regarding our sun going nova in a few thousand years, forcing humanity to set out in suspended animation for the stars. Landing on a paradisical world, Thalassa, wherein a clash of cultures takes place to intensify the conflict and, thus, add this great book to many others: &quot;Stranger in a Strange Land&quot;, &quot;Puppet Masters&quot;, &quot;2001&quot;, &quot;2010&quot;, &quot;Rendezvous with Rama&quot;, &quot;Ringworld&quot;, all the &quot;Star Trek&quot; and &quot;Star Wars&quot; books, as well as books as new to the genre as &quot;Advent of the Corps&quot; and others.
4 "The Songs of Distant Earth" is an engaging story centered around one of Arthur C. Clarke's deceptively simply plot hooks: Prior to the destruction of the Earth in a nova 1,500 years from now, "seedships" were sent to the stars so humanity could live on. An early seedship birthed a small, Eden-like civilization on a planet called Thalassa.Now, hundreds of years after this society achieved near perfection, another seedship has arrived. And it is carrying people who have come directly from the now destroyed Earth.Like most of Clarke's work, "The Songs of Distant Earth" is a story driven by ideas. Ideas about how the future of humanity will turn out. Ideas about how we will eventually solve the problems of today. And ideas about how we will finally reach the stars, and what we'll do when we get there.Unlike much of his later work, "Songs" holds up well. This is not only the best of his late-period writing, but falls in with the very best novels he has written no matter the era. The pacing is quick, with a new revelation or theory around every corner, luring the reader deeper into the story with short, pithy chapters, each revealing a small (but fascinating) part of an intricate whole.Most of the classic Clarke hallmarks are here, including the handful of themes that grew to dominate his later works. The space elevator, the possibly intelligent yet wholly alien lifeform, the theories on how humans will cross the gulf between the stars, and the diatribes against religion.The cast of characters is not huge, but he rotates the viewpoint from chapter to chapter between about half-a-dozen of the people. The variety is good, as subtlety in painting his characters has never been a Clarke strong suit.As mentioned, "Songs" is driven by ideas. The first third of the book, maybe even the first half, is a never-ending stream of theories and predictions and discoveries. One of the author's great strengths is his ability to easily yet convincingly paint a picture of mankind's future. What takes other authors chapter after chapter to flesh out Clarke manages in small and succinct bites.This book is heavy with the hallmarks of later Clarke. Those of a strongly conservative philosophy may be uncomfortable with some of Clarke's blunt thoughts on matters like religion, guns and sexuality.Like all of his later works, the book is permeated with Clarke's disdain for organized religion (save his soft spot for Buddhism). Sometimes he is subtle, sometimes not; here, one entire chapter is devoted to one character's monologue about why religion is The Great Evil.And Clarke does not limit the anti-religious sentiments to his characters; he openly debases the entire concept of God in the narrator's voice on several occasions. It's somewhat jarring to have the author's philosophy pushed in the voice of the narrator rather than through a character. Of course, Clarke readers should not be surprised by this, as it has been a running theme in his stories for years.The inclusion of one specific passage on another subject, however, is puzzling, as it serves no purpose to the story and seems only to have been included for Clarke to expose a political viewpoint. Clarke uses the irrelevant scene to espouse his view that gun ownership is a "perversion," notes that the character has stirrings in his loins when holding the gun, and passes the gun off as a phallic symbol. The gun never comes into play again. A puzzling and an unnecessary intrusion of politics.Also like later Clarke, the author runs with the presumption that everyone is somewhat bisexual. At one point, he indicates that in the future people who are 100 percent heterosexual are considered flawed and borderline psychotic. The author isn't always so heavy-handed, however, and his frank but not in-your-face treatment of the subject is almost refreshing in its casualness.None of this should serve to ruin the story even for those who lean to the right, because like Arthur C. Clarke at his best, he lays out a possible future and how we got there with almost flawless execution. Only once or twice does his handling of political and social issues feel heavy-handed.Also like Clarke at his best, he lures the reader along with hints of discovery at every turn; discovery, not preaching, drives the story. This is best reflected in the discovery of a life form indigenous to Thalassa. Clarke's revelations about them are spaced evenly throughout the novel - the better to lure you along - and walk that fine balance between telling you enough to keep you interested but not so much that your imagination is spoiled.Because Clarke's stories generally don't hitch on some raging conflict or objective-based scenario, this one included, the ending may seem anti-climatic. Plot threads introduced midway through the book that look as if they will heat up are resolved well before the end. But that is Clarke. He presents an idea, a snapshot of the future, serves up a slice and gets out before the idea wears itself thin. That is a great strength of his work.All in all, "The Songs of Distant Earth" stands as one of Clarke's best novels, surpassed only by his true classics. It is certainly the very best of his later work. No Arthur C. Clarke fan should go without reading this one, and probably neither should any fan of the genre.
4 Not his best work but very good book in its own right.  I liked everything about it.
5 Just a wonderful story told effortlessly by a master storyteller. I'd forgotten how well this man could write and how plausible his futures always seem.
3 I have loved Arthur C. Clarke ever since I was teenager!At that time, I had enjoyed all his books (those that had been translated in Greek).Recently, I started picking up the kindle version of his books only to find out that they still stand the test of time!With that being said though, I have to be honest and admit that "Songs of distant Earth" is average by his standards. Nothing much happens throughout the book, and there is no climax.I think that the story was just an excuse for Arthur Clarke to write about something that he loved very much: the ocean!Don't get me wrong, it is a well written book, easy to read but still one of his weaker works...
5 Arthur C. Clarke is in fine form with this book about humanity after the death of Earth, burnt up by the Sun. Many colonies were started on other planets, and Thalassa was one of the later ones sent out before the Sun blew up. Thalassa is a quiet utopia, with the citizenry leading uneventful lives on their ocean world. This peace is shaken when the starship Magellan comes into their system, containing thousands of humans who were the last to leave the Solar System before the Sun blew up. Unlike the Thalassans, who grew up untroubled by the tensions and violence of Earth, the Magellan crew has fresh memories of the last violent days of Earth and still grieve for their home and loved ones; they remember religion, which was supressed on Thalassa to avoid religious strife; they remember tragedy. Clarke's book is a sensitive telling of what happens when the Thalassans are exposed to the last human survivors of Earth, and how those survivors are touched by the tranquillity of Thalassa. Clarke shows you love, remembrance, and tragedy infused with Clarke's sense of wonder.
2 I picked up this book thinking I was going to get to read Clarke's vision of the End of the Earth. I had previously read some of his other books and knew what to expect of his style. This, I thought, would be an intriguing look at the future of Earth when faced with impending destruction, as told by one of the great masters of the genre.WRONG. This book picks up on a colony of humans living on an ocean world a thousand years after the destruction of Earth. They are visited early on by some of the last humans to escape the solar system, who need to strike a deal with the colonists to continue on their own journey. What followed was a huge disappointment for me. In between the fantastic depiction of Earth's final years (complete with ideas on technological development, sociological processes, doomsday cults, projects on a gigantic scale, etc.) is a clunky personal story about a handful of the colonists and a handful of the interstellar travelers. There's some weird romantic troubles and some unnecessary deaths, and the book develops a secondary plot that doesn't seem to fit the rest of the story (but ends up being more interesting than the fates of the main characters...?)One thing I will give credit to: this book was printed 30 years ago, but the vision of future technology is still pretty good. Computer terms are getting dated (gigabytes and terabytes no longer inspire the kind of awe they once did), but Clarke has looked ahead in most all areas of life, and I appreciate that attention. I was most impressed that he remembered to think of political progress as well - most authors forget this and instead latch on to either socialism or American democracy as the only two viable governments of the future, so it's nice that Clarke had hoped we would some day have something even better.Besides that, about the only thing it did well was to analyze the effect that hundred-year journeys would have on the travelers. Flying about the solar system takes a lot of time, even near the speed of light, and so people would experience an odd grieving process when they awake from suspended animation and realize their loved ones have all died three centuries ago. It's not particularly well done in this book, but at least it is captured.I don't even feel like discussing the rest of the story - it's standard sci-fi fare about aliens and interplanetary colonists, tinged with all the free-love and semi-atheistic stuff I've already read a dozen times over. Maybe I'm being too harsh here, but I was very disappointed with where Clarke took his story. The book I was hoping to read is buried too far under bland storytelling to even be worth searching for.
4 (4.5/5) This one surprised me, not only for its scope and vision, but for some reason it really touched me. I felt the sacrifices and hope of the people of Thalassa and crew of the Magellan. I felt the heartbreak of some of the crew when leaving the world and knowing the next time they woke the people they had learned to love during their short stop on Thalassa would be 300 years dead, while only a week of waking time would pass for them.  I had a sense of the despair that must have taken place during the last days of Earth when only a million could leave and so much history was being left to destruction.Clarke lays it on a bit thick (in parts) concerning religion in the future and its potential impact on developing colonies.  Not that I disagree with his message, but I wasn't expecting him to be so direct about it.Great book.
5 Arthur C. Clarke is among my favorite authors due to his masterful characters, ability to build convincing worlds and amazing track record of predicting future technology.  This story was simultaneously beautiful, tragic, hopeful, sad and uplifting.When it is discovered that the sun will go nova in about 1500 years and completely destroy earth, mankind puts all its creative efforts into constructing vast "seedships" to colonize (hopefully) habitable worlds hundreds of years away, thus preserving the species and other earth flora and fauna.  There is only time to build a few seedships which are launched one by one as they are completed.The story takes place on a planet called "Thalassa," an ocean world with 3 relatively small land masses.  The planet was colonized three centuries ago, and the colonists live a wonderful, bucolic and ideal life.  This is due in large part to the complete lack of religions, superstitions and war.  All references to same were edited out of the books and art taken from earth so as to avoid needless death, suffering, war and hatred.  I think this would give any new society a tremendous advantage, but I note that Clarke, a confirmed atheist, also mentions that several religious ships were launched as well.  Their fate is unknown, but I don't see a happy ending for any civilization founded with the express purpose of furthering a religious belief.Life on Thalassa is shaken upon the arrival of a ship from the now dead earth on route to a destination 300 years away.  The ship contains a million people in suspended animation scheduled to be awakened when they reach their destination. The visitors need ice to repair the shield protecting their ship from interstellar dust and Thalassa has water and other resources in abundance.There is the tantalizing possibility of intelligent alien life in the seas of Thalassa in the form of "sea scorpions."  They certainly seem intelligent, but if they haven't yet crossed that threshold, there is every indication that they will do so at some point.SPOILERS - Relationships form between the crew of the starship and the people of Thalassa, with the focus on the growing love between Loren and Marissa.  There is a love triangle of sorts as Marissa and Brant were a couple before Loren came on the scene.  But the Thalassans are not at all sexually possessive and Brant is content to wait on the sidelines until Loren departs.  Marissa becomes pregnant with Loren's child, but Loren and the rest of the crew leave Thalassa before the child is born.  Brant accepts Loren's child as his own, saying the boy will have two fathers.SPOILERS - Loren and the rest of the crew reach their destination, although their ultimate fate is unknown.  Thanks to transmissions from Thalassa to their new home, Loren gets the very dubious pleasure of witnessing the life of Marissa and his son 300 years after their deaths.
4 This is a book that starts off very, very far into the future and discusses the meeting of humans who colonized another planet and, centuries later, humans who come to visit on their way to a further planet.  It discusses not just their interaction, but differences that have occurred due to distance and lack of communication between Earth and the planet.  The book is well written (unlike this review) and it plays out as a slow moving drama.  Very much recommended.
5 The best A. C. Clarke book I ever read and I have read them all. He was so far ahead of his time it spooks me.
1 As in the equal of the film on top of milk.There's a great premise here, of the destruction of Earth, and the meeting of remnant colonies from different eras.  Not original, but a great premise nonetheless.  However, the greatness of the premise only magnifies the tragedy of the novel development.  Or rather, the lack thereof.  For there is no real development here.  It was incredibly disappointing.  All of the answers you hope for are not included- in fact there are an increasing number of questions raised in the book.  It is like the TV show Lost, if there was never a second season.  It is as if Clarke came up with the first half of the book and forgot to finish it.This book is filled with long, drawn out romances that are neither interesting nor relevant.  It is incredibly anti-Theist, seeking to attack any idea or person who is stupid enough to believe in a god.  All this is ignorable if only it had a semblance of a plot; if events progressed, and the storyline completed.  It doesn't.
1 Meandering, amateurish writing with no conflict.  Please save yourself the time of reading this unsatisfying book.  I kept hoping that all the ideas that were introduced would be developed and paid off, but they never were.  as I got later and later in the book, I thought perhaps there was a big surprise ending, but it never arrives!  Lots of interesting storylines are started - is there intelligent life on the new planet?  Will the starship stay and come into conflict with the native population?  Will the legions of sleeping crew awaken?  Will any of the crew abandon their mission, or natives stow away on the ship?  Will either betrayed lover freak and do something?  Will the VOLCANO go off for christ's sake???  Nothing happens!!! The book stomps all over Chekhov's cardinal rule of drama - if you put a shotgun on the wall in the first act, it damn well better go off in the third.  There are shotguns everywhere in this book but they remain dusty relics that add nothing but frustration to the experience of the reader.The love story is laughably dry, even though it should be a tension-filled shifting love triangle.  You don't read about any of it happening as it develops.  You just get boring, lifeless updates after the fact.  I didn't care about any of the characters - none of them have any goals, they aren't developed beyond the most rudimentary descriptors, and you don't see them make any compelling choices, again we're just told about their actions after the fact in the most boring, lifeless terms.The discussions of religion are amusing in moments, but on the whole pretty uncontroversial.  Although the way it's written, you can tell Clarke THINKS he's blowing your mind.  Maybe for some people it's earth-shattering (ha-ha), but again, even if they're good ideas, there's no reason to care about the ideas, because there's nothing at stake, i.e. no story.seriously, there's no story.  for a moment mutiny is threatened, but it goes away after a polite meeting and one slightly interesting but totally perfunctory interrogation.  i mean it, that's IT.  the love triangle goes nowhere.  one character dies in a tidal wave and even THAT is completely undramatic, and he's brought back to life in a completely routine way on the next page.  yawn!  seriously.  don't read it.instead, if you haven't already, check out Childhood's End, another Clarke novel, which is completely brilliant.  It has good ideas AND a story, complete with conflict, tension and characters you actually care about.  it's still very cerebral, but in a way that works, unlike Songs of Distant Earth.Even the title never pays off in the way you want it to.  The starship brings with it all the artwork, literature and music of obliterated earth, and there's concern over how this influx of information will impact the young civilization.  but then you never see any impact.  there's one very mundane concert at the very end with no aftermath, good or bad! although the setup is there for some fascinating conflicts it just never pays off.  kind of like the rest of the book. very disappointing.
4 Arthur C. Clarke has consistantly provided science fiction stories that are stories to make us think. The action is pulled along not so much by big events but the development of characters and relationships that we come to care about. This is no exception to this. But in it, Clarke weaves his story with large pieces of his own views on religion. In his story, we are transported to Thalassa, a new world - a carefully balanced Eden for some of the remains of mankind after the destruction of the Earth. Yet to balance this vision of Eden, he has removed all concepts of God, removed from the collected knowledge of Earth when we sent outselves out to the stars. Religion is unknown in Eden, and so much of the cultural foundations that we take for granted are now unknown, being so intertwined with religious thoughts. Instead, religion has been debunked, and man has become God, given the choice of who will survive, and who will perish in the end of the Earth. As well as sending out DNA to the stars, to "create" new humans on distant planets. Science seems to be God to Clarke, and in this he makes great strains to show how irrelevant it is and twists his story along to match it. Just as he showed in 3001, religion is illogical and the root of our suffering. Here the new planet thrives, is happy and successful (if not mentally stagnant) without religion. While I support his right to have his view, it sometimes feels as if he's building his stories to support it.Otherwise, however, the book is extremely enjoyable - both a disheartening and hopeful look at the future, the end of one world, and the beginning of new ones for the human race. The central question of whethere the visitors on the Magellen spacecraft should or could stay or not is presented with balance, with reasons for both individuals and society as a whole should or should not just stay. What is a hallmark of Clarke is kept going here - the story is believable. That is Clarke's gift - to let us realistically see beyond our own time and place.
5 I bought this book new in 1987 and it has stayed on my bookshelf for more than two decades. It's my favorite type of science fiction--it presents a mostly positive view of the future of humanity. There is no invading alien race that wants to destroy us. There is no evil empire that we must fight to survive. Instead, this is just a story about what might happen when humanity is spread across the galaxy and loses touch with one settlement or another, and what happens when two separately evolving cultures come in contact with one another. The book is not violent. It's ponderous. I do not mean to imply that the plot is boring. It is not. Instead, there are plenty of twists in the plot to keep the reader engaged. Some of the pleasure that comes from reading the book comes from an appreciation for the simple yet desirable Thalassians, a human population that has developed over a couple centuries of isolation on the planet Thalassa. Appropriately, Thalassa is a planet of vast ocean, and its only landmass is a small island chain where these people live. This is an interesting metaphor for humanity as a whole--how we live in one place surounded by a vast ocean of space.Clarke's Thalassians are mostly naive but a few are politically savvy; all are skilled in one field or another (ranging from art to science) but none are really hard-working; these people remind me of the quirky towns in forgotten places in rural America (or elsewhere) that other authors have come up with--the TV show "Northern Exposure" comes to mind. Even if these people have a small-world mentality, they live a life that any one of us might look for. Thus, the reader can't wait to learn what new challenges will come about and how the Thalassisans endure.There is an interesting allusion to "intelligent design" on page 256 (Chapter 46). But an interesting twist is that Clarke has described a group of Thalassians as "expounding the wonders of Nature as proof that [creator God] was, if not supremely evil, then utterly indifferent to human standards or morality and goodness." This of course is opposite of what present day people on Earth who support intelligent design are doing. Clarke is an athesist. I am not. I still like the book a lot.
5 One of the key scenes in this novel has characters deliberately deciding not to save the life of a friend and colleague by cryopreservation. This dimmed sense of wonder at the future pervades this otherwise typical Clarke novel. Dr Clarke is well aware of present day opportunities of cryopreservation (see the appendix to The Ghost from the Grand Banks) but as far as I know has rejected it for himself. He therefore seems a bit like a butcher who has been converted to vegetarianism but still sells meat because this is the only way he can make a living. In my view Sci-Fi is about big issues and challenging the frontiers of time and space. I do not think the passive acceptance of death has a place here. (For example Asimov's &quot;flying cities&quot; stores had indeterminate lifespan as an essential backdrop. However he did reject cryopreservation as well, and now is annihilated as a person, but &quot;lives on in his works&quot;.)
5 My sci-fi book number one. I really recommend its reading, especially together with the music composed by Mike Oldfield for the book (cd with the same title). It is also recommendable for people who are not so much into  sci-fi because of its beauty.
3 Clarke had a futuristic mind and pushes your thinking in new directions. Interesting...but not his best work. More incite into the space/time phenomenon.
5 For anyone who enjoys Clarke, this 1986 novel, which he called his best, is required reading. The novel is set in 3800 on the planet of Thalassa which has a small human population sent there by an embryonic seed pod, one of many sent in an attempt to assure humanity's existence before Earth is destroyed.One of Arthur C. Clarke's strengths was his comprehensive knowledge of physics and technology, and both are used abundantly in this excellent book.
4 I love the worlds Mr. Clark creates.  It is his style to present ideas & possibilities, to open & challenge our minds.  There are so many things available to think about here.  Even so, I found myself wishing for more details & information about the characters & their experiences.  I would love to know how the people managed after landing on Sagan Two & if the colony survived.  Of course, that is a story for another book--which can never be written by our author.  I recommend anything by Mr. Clark.
5 Incr&iacute;vel a imaginao do autor quanto ao futuro. Ser&aacute; que a energia escura vai ter que ver com o quantum drive?
3 Songs of Distant Earth isn't the most compelling or well-written book unlike Rendezvous with Rama and 2001. However, it is a quick Sunday afternoon read. The characters are one dimensional and forgettable. I do recommend this book for its simple and elegant portrayal of the emotional and social impact of the time lag in realistic interstellar travel.
5 Modern authors are finding it so easy to publish that today's reader ends up reading too much garbage posing as a good read.  "The Songs of Distant Earth," was such a mentally palate cleansing book!  Written back in the day when authors had to run the gamut of editors and earn the privilege of being a published author.  Such a good book, so easy to read.  This was also written back in the day before authors turned one book into a vast series.  Here it is.  This is what happens.  Use your imagination for what happens next.
5 What a great book. Captivating and interesting as well as a believable future of mankind. Arthur C Clarke wish you were still alive today! Thank you!
5 I enjoyed this book very much.  I wish there had been one more (at least) in the series.  Now it is time to start another!
5 I can only strongly echo the high praise offered by the other reviewers.  I have read the book many times, and it never fails to stimulate the sense of awe and wonder which all great works of science fiction evoke.  A superior work by one of the masters of the genre.  Highest recommendation.
4 One of the many awesome things about amazon is that it allows me to easily find books I remember from years or even decades ago. In this case from high school, I was fortunate enough to attend a high school which had a big stock of classic SF titles in the school library Asimov, Clarke and Niven made high school that much more bearable for me. So I was idly reminiscing about this one day and decided to search for this book on amazon.The novel itself is quality hard SF that tells an epic tale full of wonder and plausible science. Clarke builds a theoretically possible scenario and then works his magic.There are only a couple of odd little things that make this novel mildly troublesome, Clarke's loathing of religion really comes out here and sad to say it makes him sound like some sort of edgy uni student trying to upset his parents with his atheism. He writes that the settlers left any trace of religion behind before they left earth even going to the point of destroying Tolstoy's works to avoid religious contamination. Really? You're enlightened and you're burning Tolstoy? I don't think so.Aside from that minor annoyance the novel is solid SF with a real sense of wonder and awe at the universe. Well worth a read.
5 Wonderful story utilizing science fact to make excellent fiction. As always, Clark excels at this. And the intervening decades only reaffirm his prescient thought.
5 I highly recommend this book to any Science-Fiction and Science enthusiast! It entertains, informs, and educates. You will love it!
3 This is a classic science fiction story.  I found the characterization a little dry but the story of a colony and a vast refugee ship coming in for repairs was intriguing. Each were escaping the destruction of Earth, with the new group having better technology and are recently departed, while the colonists have an established life far separated from Earth. When the ship's personnel become split on whether to go forward or remain, the two divergent society's begin to clash.
4 As an &#34;OLD&#34;  SciFi fan I found it surprising how little changes over the years.  Still a good read; AC Clarke was always one of the good ones.
3 This book details the encounter between two groups of humans on a planet fifty years from Earth.  It lacks an interesting plot and well-developed characters, but still is very good.  Clarke masterfully encompasses  thousands of years in his story. The descriptions of the quantum drive are  exciting, and seem convincing (at least to a layperson).  The ending  (Chapter 47 and on) is surprising, sad and poetic, though it recalls other  Clarke books.Clarke acknowledges the inevitable evolution of human  culture by describing people who lack jealousy, sexual posessiveness,  superstition, and religion.  However, he fails to fully develop this  evolution---or consider revolutions---over the years his book encompasses.  The changes that he does describe make the characters difficult to  empathize with.  The inevitable friction between groups who have these  characteristics and groups who don't could have made for a far more  interesting book.
5 Lately I have been going through an Arthur C. Clarke phase, I've always been terribly addicted to his books, and The Songs of Distant Earth is by far one of the best yet. It is a very somber tale which concerns the next phase of humanity, as we leave earth behind upon the destruction of the sun and the rest of the solar system, the future of mankind residing within the stars.The story resolves around one of the new colonies on Thalassa, having been establish for 700 years on an ocean planet, their secluded paradise is soon to change as Magellan, the last ship from earth, arrives in orbit bring with it a million survivors from the last days of earth. Although Magellan are only making a pit stop before continuing onward to their final destination, the 2 years it spends with the Lassans will chage the lives of both cultures forever and will echo down for generations to come...This is not an action, suspense or thriller, there is no twist or surprise ending, it is just beautiful in every sense. Clarke doesn't only show his prowess with scientific accuracy, he also show a profound understanding of humanity, and even though it is present in most of his works, this book captures a truer, more pure essense of us than ever before.A brilliant book, both a Swan Song for Earth and a beacon of hope for us as a species, a very moving text.
5 Arguably one of Arthur C. Clarke's best novels.  Classic Sci-Fi, beautifully written.The story deals with the spread of humans across the galaxy, once it has been determined that the sun is dying and will go supernova.  &#34;Seeder&#34; ships have been sent out to create new civilizations on worlds identified as compatible with human life.In this story, the residents of Thalassa, a planet primarily of ocean with small land masses, must interact with another seeder ship that is in need of repairs in order to continue its voyage to a planet 300 light years away.  The interaction between the Thalasseans, who lead a bucolic, agrarian life, and the people on the space ship is reminiscent of the interactions between the Pacific Islanders and the seafarers of the 1800's.
5 I love science fiction, and Clarke is the pinnacle of Sci-Fi! Good plot, couldn't put it down. Hope to find more of his books on Amazon. There is nothing to dislike about this story. Even though this novel was written decades ago, it seems up-to-date technologically. Their experiences on this planet were so riveting, I wanted to visit it, myself. Everything seemed possible, and plausible. Loved it.THE SONGS OF DISTANT EARTH
4 The reviews sounding interesting... not a lot of hype or far fetched science fiction... the story proved to be a good read.
5 Humankind has a millenium and more to prepare for Terra's destruction. As scientists learn how to send seedships out to the stars, each generation does that job in better ways. The ship that reaches the world called Thalassa arrives fairly early in the great drive for species survival - early enough to establish contact with Terra, and then lose it two centuries later due to a natural disaster. So when the last starship to leave Terra arrives at Thalassa, a necessary stop on its way to a much farther destination, the few crew members not sleeping the journey away do not know what they will find. The small but thriving Human society there provides both a pleasant surprise, and help in obtaining what the Magellan needs to resume its journey. Some crew members like Thalassa and its people so much that they want the ship to stop there permanently. Hospitable as they are, though, the Thalassans really cannot offer the starship's huge sleeping population a new home because their world is mostly covered by ocean. They do not have enough land to sustain more people.What the Thalassans don't know is that they are not alone on the planet they have claimed and made into their home. Deep underneath the oceans, another kind of intelligence is on its slow evolutionary way toward sentience. They also do not know the full history of the planet where both the Magellan's crew and their own ancestors were born. How much of that history to give them - in the form of records carried in the ship's library - creates a daunting dilemma for philosopher and Magellan crew member Moses Kaldor. Do the Thalassans, especially Mirissa Leonidas whose family has kept the planet's archives for generations and whose curiosity knows no bounds, deserve the whole truth? Or is protecting them from at least some of that truth his highest duty?Although I disagree wholeheartedly with at least one of Arthur C. Clarke's most cherished beliefs, which this novel showcases, I thoroughly enjoyed its classic science fiction "feel" as well as its world building and characters. I grew up on this kind of writing. Somehow I missed this one at the time it was published, and reading it now has been a great pleasure. A bit dated? Yes. But for me that didn't matter at all.--Reviewed by Nina M. Osier, author of 2005 EPPIE science fiction winner "Regs"
5 In &quot;The Songs of Distant Earth&quot;, Arthur C. Clarke seems to have a good grasp of the elements of writing, and he's eliminated some of the flaws that appeared in his earlier works.  Like most of his novels, this one presents a lot of ideas in a small space and leaves some major questions unresolved at the conclusion.  It's a book that will leave you thinking for days afterward.The story, which is told partially in explanatory flashbacks, begins when scientists discover that the sun will explode within a few thousand years, leading to the destruction of Earth.  In order to save humanity, several small colonies are established on nearby planets.  Later, after the discovery of a new technology, large spaceships are able to carry millions of colonists out to the stars.  Most of the plot concerns what happens when one of these ships arrives on a planet that was already colonized earlier.  The original concept that drives this book is that the first round of colonies was very carefully engineered by people from Earth.  They were designed to be paradises where people would be raised in an environment quite different from Earth.  Thus, there is a definite culture clash when the big spaceship arrives.I found that Clarke handled the characterization of the two different groups of people quite well.  It was really possible to understand how their backgrounds were totally different and how this gave rise to two different worldviews.  Also, Clarke cut down on unnecessarily thorough descriptions, so &quot;The Songs of Distant Earth&quot; is more compact and readable than some of his earlier efforts.  Finally, as others have mentioned, his language and dialogue is very lyrical and poetic, which helps the reader understand the mood of the characters in this distant paradise.
5 Arthur C Clarke is one of science fiction's most prolific writers, and also one of its most variable, both in style and quality. In The Songs of Distant Earth, Clarke has created something remarkable, a deep, easily read, thoughtful, beautiful and provocative picture of the future.Nominally about a meeting of civilizations - one utopian, one tainted by human flaws and the memory of a home destroyed, Clarke uses the opportunity to sketch out a vision of how humanity might improve itself, what space travel might actually entail, and even a glimpse of alien evolution. Clarke draws a world, Thalassa, created from Earth as an opportunity to begin again anew without human memories or faults. Built by robots, and seeded rather than colonized, Thalassa's society is everything humanity would like itself to be, civilized and untainted by so many millennia of hatred and violence. Earth's motive in creating this world is to ensure the survival of humanity - the Solar System is to end. And from the ashes of Earth flies a refugee ship with the million or so survivors, flying to a third planet in order to begin again, but passing by Thalassa in need of help.This is not an action packed novel, but a slow, thoughtful, discussion of the issues involved. Clarke resists the temptation to exaggerate either his near-perfect Thalan society or the faults of the refugees. Characterization, never Clarke's strong point, seems better than usual, certainly not cardboard. The book's scientific contribution is in part what it does not do. There is no faster-than-light travel for example: ever the scientist, Clarke prefers to hang his hat on what relativity actually tells us, and what the consequences of relativity's laws are on long distance space travel.Not all Clarke fans will enjoy this book - it is not typical of his more popular works, closer to The Fountains of Paradise than 2001: A Space Odyssey or Rendezvous with Rama. Clarke will upset the fundamentalists with his attacks on religion; his provocative stance on what he sees as damaging superstition in many ways weakens the book, not because he is wrong on the evils (he's not wrong) but because of an optimistic view that we are close to throwing such baggage away, which does not feel likely in these newly hyper-religious times. But one can hope. Another criticism one might make is that Clarke is never subtle, his attacks are always spelt out either editorially or by a character.  Finally Clarke's description of the sexual escapades of the Thalans will probably upset one or two puritans.Whether Clarke is right that such a paradise as Thalassa is possible is open to question. But this book paints a beautiful picture, pushes a whole set of buttons, imparts a whole range of ideas, and stimulates the imagination. This magical book is highly recommended.
1 In my opinion this is probably one of the poorest books the author has written -- a shame really because he has so many good ones.
5 This novel is mostly about ideas, especially interstellar travel and the role of time and distance. Surprisingly for this genre, some of the characters are well developed and sympathetic. Clarke is able to think through and present many aspects of the planet he presents, and even takes a shot at describing the next planet the ship will visit, and the proposed plan to terraform it. I'm not sure how well all the science ideas will stand careful scrutiny, but it gives a whole lot to think about.
3 I felt kind of let down by this story. I wasn't expecting to read a romance novel when I picked an Arthur C. Clarke, but the tension between the protagonists was leaning that way and then...well I wont give away the ending, but it's not really the best of his books.
5 Any book that can explain away organized religion (I almost converted to the idea of Alpha the utterly indifferent), expalin away organized politics (not government), explain the missing nutrino problem (what appears to be actual now 15 years later is just as amazing, but far less satifying), explain zero point energy and create a world as wonderful as Tarna deserves to be called the best.  I do think this is my favorite Arthur C. Clarke book (and I rate it up there with Moving Mars by Greg Bear).You could do much worse than reading this book.
5 Set in a distant future where mankind has spread to many worlds far from Earth.  Our Sun is going to go supernova and spaceships carrying millions of refugees leave Earth to travel to the distant colonies.  One of these ships travels to an apparently utopian world named Thalassa where it creates great controversy.  I love the way Clarke develops his characters and portrays a possible future of mankind and this is one of his finest works.
4 This is a very good hard sci-fi novel, about a colony of humans on a distant planet that is visited by the remnants of the human race fleeing catastrophe.  Having been seeded long long before, this colony had lost touch with the home world and developed a culture of its own, highly civilised and quite benign - they are peaceful and pursue their pleasures in an open and innocent way.  However, underneath their oceans, an incredible transformation is taking place, perhaps one of the most significant in the history of the human race.  Then the fleeing ships arrives, shaking things up with new ideas and desires.  While avoiding spectacular adventure, this quiet novel is quite fascinating and chock full of intricately related ideas and systems, which are what Clarke portrays the best.Warmly recommended.  It is an intellectual adventure to read this.
5 I found this book to be not so much science fiction, but, rather a story about how we relate to each other. I don't know about everyone else, but I found it also to be a bittersweet story. It begins with the last spaceship from Earth (before our Sun goes supernova) with the last humans aboard arriving at a "seed" planet where humans were planted seven hundred years earlier. The story goes on to explore the differences between the Thalassans and these "strangers from the sky," before they continue on to their destination planet. Principally, it is the relationship between Loren Lorensen, Lt. Commander of the spaceship; Marissa, a beautiful Thalassan who thirsts for knowledge (and Loren); and Brant, her Thalassan "significant other." While Clarke writes that the Thalassans say they have done away with Jealousy, Lust and Fidelity in order to better mankind, don't you believe it. I read this book several months ago and I still can not stop thinking about. It is thoroughly enjoyable and I highly recommend it.
5 This is a book that you will likely not forget reading.  Clarke's imagination here is staggering.The novel takes place several thousand years from now.  Earth has been destroyed by an unstable sun.  Mankind foresaw the nova of Earth's sun for about two thousand years, and mounted an effort to colonize nearby stars in order to save the species.  This was done in the nick of time.The story takes place on planet Thalassa--a world largely of oceans with a single pair of islands perhaps the size of Taiwan.  The Thalassans, originally colonists from Earth, have been alone for over a thousand years.  Now they are visited by the last starship from Earth, which stops there en route to a different planet intended for colonization.The story deals with the clash of cultures, but the best part are the flashbacks to Earth, and Clarke's highly intelligent and plausible extrapolations as regards science, politics, and societal development.  Clarke's prose is outstanding as well, which is not all that common in science fiction.  This is, quite simply, a wonderful story which will strike a chord in most readers.
4 This book is very thought-provoking.  The ideas brought up challenge one's conception of life on Earth; our political, economic, and religious systems are under Clarke's microscope.It is also very well written, once again convincing me that Clarke is the best pure writer of the big three of his generation of sci-fi authors (Asimov and Heinlein, being the others).Unfortunately, the story itself seems not to progress very much.  There is no "conflict".  The story just seems to meander a bit and then the ends.  I really enjoyed this book because it had so many of the great features of a classic sci-fi novel, but the story-line needed a more.
5 Wow. A must read if you love space and astronomy like I do. Wow..... What I like about this book is that everything Clarke writes about is either confirmed to be true or not proven to be impossible.
4 To me, the best aspect of The Songs of Distant Earth is the fact that, even today, the story is grounded in real science. Clarke goes on at length explaining the difficulties of interstellar travel, and I found it particularly interesting that the hardest part of going close to the speed of light is not just getting to that speed, but stopping once you've reached your destination. According to Clarke, it takes an ungodly amount of energy to brake at sub-light speeds. I also liked his explanation of neutrinos and how they could one day allow us to anticipate the death of our sun.However, The Songs of Distant Earth isn't for everyone. If you demand a lot of action with your sci-fi, you may want to look elsewhere. Most of the conflicts in the story are resolved rather peacefully, and there's only a hint at future violence in the epilogue. Also, people of faith may not like what a few of Clarke's characters have to say about religion. They tend to view it as a negative influence, although at least one of them keeps an open mind about it.Nevertheless, this book is an important piece of science fiction, and most sci-fi fans would do well to read it at least once in their lives.
2 Tried to persevere but gave up about third of the way through.  It just was not to my taste unfortunately
5 Just after the mega success of 2001: A Space Odyssey, Stanley Kubrick told Arthur C. Clarke he'd be more than happy to examine a treatment for another science fiction movie.This time, however, the story would more closely comport with Clarke's vision of plausible science fiction than that of Kubrick.What followed is a brief treatment called Songs of Distant Earth which you can find repeated in its entirety in the Arthur C. Clarke collection of short stories called The Sentinal.  This is especially appropriate because The Sentinal was the original story which gave rise to 2001 (albeit in a revised form).After reading Clarke's treatment, Kubrick summarily dismissed it and moved on to other projects.However, for Clarke fans this book is more instructive about a plausible possible future for humanity.  And in a lot of ways it's actually a much better story.In this book, Clarke envisions a future where humanity learns that its sun is about to explode.  Since there's a lot of notice, some fifteen centuries are spent perfecting cosmic seed ships which are used to dispatch human life to different planets.The last of these seed ships, the Magellan lunched just before Earth's final denouement makes a stop at Thalassa, a water world planet where previously landed human life is confined to three Hawaiian like islands.In explaining the future history and describing the interaction between these long separated groups of humans Clarke is perhaps at his best.This is on of those really good science fiction stories that just keeps you turning the pages in anticipation of what will come next.If you even just liked some of Clarke's other stuff, you'll love this.
5 Arthur C. Clarke is one of my favorite science fiction authors and he did not disappoint in this book.  The book was positive and upbeat, unlike Childhood's End, which was also well written but frankly very depressing.  Although the reason why the Magellan space ship existed and then stopped by Thalassa on the way to a distant planet was heart rending, humans were not the cause of the solar system disaster as they were in Childhood's End.The saving of more than 1 million lives to repopulate a distant planet and the meeting between some people from the Magellan generation ship and the Lassans in what could be considered an idyllic planet was not particularly adventurous but it was very positive, unlike Childhood's End.  It was also very interesting and could have given rise to at least 2 sequels (one for each planet).  But then we always hope that a favorite author could have done sequels to favorite novels.Clarke's writing is very flowing and well done and in certain appropriate sections, very poetic and moving. This book held me riveted until I completed the book over a 2-day period (after all, I do have other things I have to do other than read, like work).  I would greatly recommend this book for an engrossing, relaxing quiet time.
4 I found it compelling and impossible to put down.  I read it in less than a day.  The Mike Oldfield album by the same name (inspired by the book) is also excellent.
5 I read this book when I was a teenager, almost 10 years ago.  It remains fresh in my mind and imagination.Arthur C Clarke is one of my favorite authors, and this is one of his best books.  It stands apart from the rest, not related to them yet encompassing their themes and offerings.The almost mythological quest to leave the Cradle of earth and venture out into the stars is a sad and romantic tale.  Clarke renders it with precision and passion in this work.When humanity is faced with the almost overwhelming possibility of complete annihilation, their last selfless union for the survival of the species is admirable.  When the travellers arrive at the new planet, seeded eons ago by their progeny, a haunting tale of the human spirit is laid out.Clarke remains a master of technological tale weaving.  His fiction is based on fact, and this fires the imagination even futher.  He always presents a concise and powerful version of science, one that is almost artistic and poetic in its manifestation.  Crudeness and raw brutality have no place in this enlightened frontier of space exploration and planetary colonization.The emphasis is laid on the preservation of the sum and substance of human civilization.  Knowledge, and wisdom, are revered and given their due weight.  No longer does power of arms and might hold sway; rather the bonds of lower aspirations are broken.I venture to say if indeed humanity should ever be faced with complete destruction, and the need arises to flee the cradle, then it should be done according to the edicts and principles laid out in this book.
5 One of Arthur C. Clarke's finest novels. While not as widely regarded as Rama, or 2001, this is still one of my favorite all time books. It asks big questions. That's what good Sci Fi should do. It fires the imagination and gives hope, even after our world is gone. Highly recommended.
5 Arthur C. Clarke is a pure "hard" science fiction writer. Paradoxically, this means that his greatest strength is also his greatest weakness. He doesn't have much interest in his characters, the relationships between them, or their development as human beings. Clarke's stories are all about the worlds that these characters inhabit. In the same way that a more conventional writer might use landscape as a prop to tell a story about character, Clarke uses characters as props to tell a story about landscape.And make no mistake: although this is one of his later tales, Songs of Distant Earth is classic Clarke.In this world, the Earth was long ago destroyed when its sun went nova. However, Earth's scientists had centuries of warning before this occurred, and spent most of those centuries sending out "seed ships" to other worlds. These ships contained no living crew, but did contain both the genetic material and the rearing and educational technology to spawn new human colonies on far flung planets. Despite all this, in the final years before Earth was destroyed, human civilization did manage to send out a ship with actual living colonists.This story is all about what happens when that ship stops at a planet that was long ago seeded with human life by one of those seed ships. As you might expect of Clarke, everything is based on real, established science. Among other things this means that all space flight is sub-light. This obviously has implications for the time scale on which certain events occur.The main thing I would stress to anyone deciding whether to read this book is that this is a work of serious scientific speculation. It's about creating a realistic, plausible future, and exploring the kind of world that has been generated in some depth.I enjoy a good laser battle as much as the next sci-fi fan. But you need to know going in that that is absolutely not what this book is about.Theo.
4 A good futuristic story. Fell flat at the end, but I won't spoil the story by giving away details. Still it was a good read and I appreciate a unique concept. If you like the futuristic stuff, you will enjoy.
5 Plausibility and readability come as standard with Arthur C Clarke's novels.  And these are two features that are far from guaranteed in the sci-fi arean.In fact, Clarke writes SO convincingly, that you can easily believe you are reading a factual account rather that a hugely imaginative work of fiction.With this novel there is an additional dimension.Emotion.Sure, it is there in his other novels, in the same way the emotion is with our every living moment.  But this book is genuinely moving as it tells the tale of two cultures meeting and overlapping.  It tells of love and loss, of heartache and tragedy, but without ever ceasing to be a ripping good yarn.The pages skip by - it can be read in a few hours - but its memory will linger.  And for me it is one of those few books that I will recommend to others without any reservations.It is impossible to pick a single one of Clarke's novels as his best, but the Songs of Distant Earth are guaranteed a place in any shortlist.
5 This is the first science fiction book I have ever read; I casually picked it up one day and just couldn't put it back down!  I finished the book in only 2 days; a record for me.  There are some very deep, thought-provoking concepts in there that are incredibly fascinating, but will drive one into  maddness if you think about them too much.  I wish there was a sequel to  this book; I really want to find out what became of Sagan II.
4 Most people either love Paulo Coelho's writing or absolutely hate it.  I haven't seen many who have straddled the fence on this author.  I'm in the former category, though I know quite a few people who don't care for him at all.  While some believe his writing is too simplistic, I, on the other hand, sometimes crave simplicity!  I do quite a bit of heavy reading (though not recently), and it's nice sometimes to curl up with one of Coelho's books and know that I will probably read it in one sitting.  I also believe his 'simple' books have a much deeper meaning to them, and this story is also indicative of that.One day a stranger comes to Viscos, an idyllic mountain town.  The stranger has a plan to tempt the villagers with some gold.  They only have to do one thing to get the gold, but that act is contrary to the basic character of the town's residents.  There hasn't been any trouble in the village for years, and when Miss Prym, the local barmaid, is told of the plan, she is confident the villagers will be able to withstand the temptation.The story raises the question of whether humans are generally good or generally evil, and also why God, if there is one, would allow evil things to happen to good people.Highly recommended.
3 Mr. Coelho's allegorical novels are interestingly anachronistic parables. They speak from the pre WWII milieu where the common reality was was so overwhelming that allegory must have seemed the appropriate manner to discuss moral/religious issues (Here I think first of Kafka, then Camus and Miguel de Unamuno). The world to build for a reader presenting morality w/o religion blurs between ironic, absurd and sermon. The difficulty this novel seemed to struggle with was fundamental, maintaining the integrity of the plot with the imposed conflict of the existence of a personalized  good/evil duality. It might make a good movie.
4 This is my first Coelho book though everybody tells me I should have read the Alchemist first. Whatever; I received this as a birthday present from a dear friend and so began reading it with warm and fuzzy feelings. I felt the beginning was a little disappointing, there was something stilted and unrealistic about the scenario which might be put down to the translation? I don't know. But then the book came to life for me about halfway through. I enjoyed knowing about the devils and the angels and the conflicts they suffered within the main characters. By the end I was entranced, though my own devils and angels were arguing over whether I could stretch my boundaries of belief to allow myself to accept the idea that an entire village would pick on this little old lady who hadn't done anything wrong except babble to her dead husband (not that there's anything wrong with that). In the end it was an easy, enjoyable read.
5 Every once in a while, a book comes along that is so powerful, so engaging that I just can't put it down, and then, despite the speed at which I read it, it hits me like a ton of bricks.  This book is an amazing and inspiring read.  Coelho teaches a lesson about life in the context of a simple yet deeply engaging tale of temptation.  The characters are real, and until the last page, you just don't know how this one is going to end.
5 I loved this book ... am scratching my head at the some of the negative comments.  Some of the most clever, thought-provoking gems are hidden in the middle section that one reviewer considered "rambling" ... I think a more careful read would elicit a different response.  Coelho is known for his layered prose, and this is no exception.  Given the times in which we live, the struggle between good and evil resonates heartily with those of us who so desperately ask "why?".  Although this book does not definitively answer that question, its hidden wisdom is thought-provoking and genuine.  I heartily recommend it.
2 When this book was chosen for my book club I was looking forward to reading it since "The Alchemist" is my all time favorite book.  "The Devil & Miss Prym" could have been easily written into a short story fable.  Al no point did it grip me or suck me into the story line.  I was disappointed as were 6 out of 6 of my book club members. Read "The Alchemist" !!!
4 The theme of evil verses good is explored in a way that really makes you reflect on how we ourselves conduct our lives. Evil is such a strong word and we certainly do not wish to be associated with it, but it asks of you where you may have been evil in some small way. Coelho is always challenging us in our own world, it is just that it is done in such a subtle way as a fable that we can just read it as such. But is that all there is to it or is there that challenge to explore our own lives? Very well written and very engrosing.Dr Gunta Krumins-Caldwell author of On Silver Wings
4 Another fine novel by Paulo Coelho.  We find the struggle of temptation, between good and evil, light and darkness.  A dying village is asked to choose between losing their soul or sacrificing the soul of another to provide the riches necessary to save the village.  The stranger in their midst is also struggling with the same elements of his own soul, as is the protagonist, Miss Prym.  Underlying all of this is a village with a history of conversion, choice and the legend of St. Savin and the conversion of Ahab.  In the end, we realize that Good and Evil struggle within every soul, and we have the ability to choose.  Saints can be sinners and sinners saints given circumstances - it is up to us to control and choose our fate.
5 The struggle between good and evil is a topic that has occupied the minds of men throughout the ages.  Poems, stories, and novels have been written with this contest as its theme, yet few I wager have been penned as compellingly as today's tale by Paulo Coelho.This author who has won a number  of prestigious awards, confines his narrative to a one week period and follows what he has been quoted as believing - that one man's life is every man's.A stranger arrives in the secluded mountain village of Viscos.  This is the place that Chantal Prym would give anything to escape, and she is one of the first to speak with the newcomer.  He is carrying 11 gold bars and a notebook.  He explains that he is seeking  help in answering an important question  - are people basically good or are they evil?It is the stranger's belief that under  certain circumstances every human being would, indeed, do something evil.  Were Chantal to prove this to be true she could escape the confines of Viscos and begin a new life.  However, committing such an act would be against all she believes to be right and true.What will  her choice be and how does this challenge affect the other villagers?Tony nominee and Outer Critics Circle Award winner Linda Emond gives a breathtaking voice performance as Coelho's thought provoking story is revealed.  Few who hear it will soon forget it.- Gail Cooke
5 One of the best reads from PC.  The imagery is used in a subtle way to expose quietly the many frailties of human nature.  Anyone reading this work should clearly be enabled to recognise themselves in at least one of the characters portrayed.
5 This is about what you do when you're in a difficult moral situation and are literally offered a deal with the Devil.  I can't say much more without giving away the entire story.  What I will say is that there's magic in this book... in the story and in the way that Coelho creates this world.  It's a story of right and wrong when the line between them is blurred and the way you discern the difference.
5 I have read almost all of Paulo's books. They are inspirational and carry excellent story lines that hold your attention and grab the imagination.
4 "The Devil and Miss Prym" is certainly no "The Alchemist." I learned a long time ago that the gem of a story that I stumbled across in "The Alchemist" could never be matched by the same author; however, there still are some stories worth telling and worth reading by Paulo Coelho. "The Devil and Miss Prym" also lacks the simple spirtual mystisism and focuses more on specific religious traits.This story is about the struggle of Good and Evil within humanity. One of the most interesting facet of this particular tale is the explored differences between group mentality and individual morality as both struggle with balancing Good and Evil. There are many small "parables" that add to the customary tale-telling that Coelho readers have come to love: small pieces of wisdom in a simple story woven throughout the larger story.While "The Devil and Miss Prym" is definately worth reading, in my opinion it is not worth the $24.99 hardcover price tag. This story seems more forced and over explained; however, this may be the nature of the story since it is not a personal journey but rather the life of a small town over the course of one week. At many times the focus of the story shifted from being a personal story about Miss Prym to a group-oriented story about the town.Do not expect another "The Alchemist" when you read this fable-esque story. There are some wonderfully crafted moments of wisdom throughout this story, but they never seem to be that important or life-altering.As for the publication as a whole, I personally cannot stand the way the pages are cut and printed. "The Devil and Miss Prym" has those torn edges and every page is a different size to make it look like an older tome. However, the cover art is beautiful.Recommended for Coelho fans and those people that enjoy short, easy reading stories with little gems of wisdom throughout.
3 A thought provoking book on the concept of Good vs Evil in the human soul. Coehlo writes a simple but powerful message in an easily accessible style and provides the readers with a glimpse of the human paradox that is the capacity to contain both dark & light in the same soul. Coehlo extends this exploration into the similarities between the collective & individual soul, and the need for the individual to rise above the evil of the collective.The story is translated so one is never sure what has been "lost in translation," but there are sufficient pearls of wisdom scattered throughout the story to keep one thinking while enjoying an easy, quick read. My favourite comes when the sweet Miss Prym has to make her critical choice: "There are only two things which prevent us from achieving our dreams: Believing them to be impossible, and seeing these dreams made possible by some unexpected turn of Fate. For at that precise moment all our fears surface: the fear of setting off along an unknown road; the fear of a life full of new challenges and the fear of losing everything that is familiar." (Pg 34)The morality of the story is perhaps too explicit, but can be excused because it's presented so simply that one can take it or leave it, depending on one's personal response to the issue being examined.
2 I love Paulo Coelho's books but I must admit this is not one of my favorites. It's a decent book but it lacks in many ways. The characters, thought process, and even originality.If you like the premise of this book, then I suggest you read "The man that corrupted Hadleyburg." by Mark Twain. It's much shorter than Coelho's version and the idea is better developed. You can read it here for free:[...]Or just google it, amazon will more than likely edit this post.
4 I've read the Alchemist by this author and decided to get this audiobook to see if it was just as good. I like the message the author delivers, it's a very interesting read and kept me captivated the entire time.
4 Another excellent book on human character and values.  The fight between good and evil in us all.  I have enjoyed all his works.
3 After reading the great write-up about this book I decided to purchase it. I began reading it but was not very excited with it. The story line is a bit simple, mostly about good & evil but done in a way that was confusing.I was not impressed with the characters either. I would not suggest buying it, maybe borrow it instead if you really want to read it.
5 "The Devil and Miss Prym" by Paulo Coelho one of the "1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die."  Therefore, it was added to my own reading list.  I've read "The Alchemist" by Coelho, and while I enjoyed it, I thought it got repetitive and I wasn't thrilled with the book.  I was, however, thrilled with "The Devil and Miss Prym.""The Devil and Miss Prym" is a book about a tormented man, being guided by the devil, who brings temptation in the form of wealth for murder in order to determine if people are inherently good or evil.  The man suffers from a horrific past and believes that if he completes his social experiment, he will be able to truly determine if humans are good or evil beings.  The man chooses the tiny city of Viscos, and opens up to Chantal, a barmaid with a promiscuous reputation and a dream about a more exciting future, about his plan to determine if people will murder for wealth and gold."The Devil and Miss Prym" is a great read that I highly recommend!  The book brings up some good moral questions and was a quick read.Think about this: Would you commit murder in exchange for more money than you could ever spend?
5 There is a capacity to do great good and great evilinside all of us. This was the first book I read writtenby Mr. Coehlo. Have read them all.He is worth reading. Master story teller.
5 Love the book, love the theme. Coelho can get a bit unbelievable in some of his books, but this is just a great bit of fiction with a wonderful moral to the story. It should be on the required reading list in schools.
4 The art of creating fables had seemed to have evaporated with the growing complexities of modern life, for, a fable, in its essence, has to be simple. Given the technological and related commercial evolution of our social structure, with its pervasive economic ripples establishing new social orders, the simple metaphors of good versus evil, or right versus wrong, had seemed to amulgamate into a fused philosophy of confused morality. This book, in my opinion, is a definition of a modern day fable which lays bare the eternal battle of good against evil that ubiquituously occupies the consciousness of every human, providing a succinct analysis of the fundamental basis of the human character, in a simplistic manner. Through some realistic characterization the author succeeds in embarking the reader into a voyage of self discovery of the basic nature of the battle that rages inside all of us, all the time.
5 I first read 11 minutes after a friend suggested it.  Then realized that a lot of quotes I have enjoyed were from him.  Now on a quest to read everything I can by him.  His stories tell a tale in such a way that I can't wait to see what each new one has to share.  I have now finished 7 titles.  Enjoyed them all.
4 "The Devil and Miss Prym" is the last of a Coelho's trilogy that explores the parameters of Good and Evil and their impact on the human soul.  In this story a stranger, battered and disheartened by the absolute worse that life can dish out, visits a small town with the intensions of carrying out an experiment aimed at assuaging some of his bitterness and pain.  While in the village, he enlists the help of Miss Prym who, bored with small town living, sees an opportunity for escape; but at what cost?  As the story unfolds the people of Viscos learn of the experiment and how they, collectively and individually, can benefit from it.  It is Coelho's interrogation of the villagers' intentions that provides the reader with a glimpse of the dueling forces of good and evil.The novel is very well translated from Spanish as I never felt that something was missing while reading it.  The language is loaded with meaning and highly symbolic.  "Viscos is just like any other village in the world and whatever happens there happens in every continent, city, camp, convent, wherever."  This is the wisdom shared with Miss Prym by Berta, the village's aged sage who spends her days watching over the village in an effort to see any evil coming.  I've always enjoyed Coelho's work and "The Devil and Miss Prym" is no different.  This is a solid story that's easily read and internalized.  Ultimately, what we learn about good and evil from this text sounds a lot simpler than I expected and much more easily articulated than done.  This is a quick yet profound read.  Highly Recommended.
4 in essence, my belief of human beings is this: they are basically good and evil. which this book confirms, considering a long shot. it's a fast read, and really a thinker-book, Coelho goes into deep imagination, and limits himself to no limit. but i wasn't fully satisfied, something was missing, probably a love story, or a stronger will from Chantal to get off the town.
1 I can't understand how this book is so popular and a "national bestseller." I'm hoping it is due to the fact that The Alchemist was such a wonderful book that others (like myself) eagerly await another hit by this writer. However, after having read three other books by Mr. Coelho since The Alchemist, I'm finally throwing in the towel because I just don't think they're anything more than ok. Sure, they have all been centered on larger issues of morality, life, and the tough questions we find ourselves asking (such as whether man inherently good or evil, as this book tries to examine). But they have all, this one most of all, seemed too trite to me, considering the weight of their underlying themes. While I appreciate how Mr. Coelho tries to explore interesting and difficult questions, I found this novel in particular undreadable and didn't care enough to find out what the townspeople did at the end of the book...I simply stopped reading.
3 The beauty of The Alchemist was that in Santiago we had a character to love and go on adventures with.  Along the way we learned as the he learned.  That is what made it such a powerful book.The problem with Coelho's more recent works is that he seems to have sacrificed character development and storyline for overt lessons.  While The Devil and Miss Prym had its moments, I mostly felt like I was being preached to throughout the course of the book.  I couldn't bond with the characters and though there was a story, it was weak.  This book had the potential to be much more.  We could have become emotionally attached to "the stranger" by experiencing his loss with him, vs. being told about it.  It was hard to care about Berta's outcome because we didn't really know her.  The five paragraphs of the story of Midas pretty much told the story.  We've heard it before.Overall, I found this latest Coelho fairly disappointing. I wish he would to back to the storytelling and allow the readers to derive their own message.  What we learn through our own discovery is far more powerful than being conked on the head with the message.
5 Paolo Coelho never fails to amaze me with his ideas and ability to knit them into an incredible kaleidascope of captivating words.
4 Loved this one and it was well worth waiting until I could find time to read it. Paulo Caelho again found a simple way to make me look at myself and vow to be just a little better while giving me a great read ... with a plot. My favorite kind of lesson!
5 Once again, Coelho deftly uses his gifts as a storyteller to delve into the meat of the human condition.  This "novel of temptation" is in the same vein as Coelho's The Alchemist, wherein he uses a simple narrative technique to approach some very difficult questions.Although one might think it would be impossible to explore good vs. evil without a certain amount of rhetoric, Coelho's approach is fresh and does not resort to the usual cliches. The heroine does not shine and the villain is a victim of circumstance.  In the two characters we see both sides of ourselves.The book reads like a morality play in that the town of Viscos is Everytown and the Stranger is Everyman.  Coelho has brought on the renaissance of the parable as an art form and should be commended on his ability to explore truth without grandstanding.  This is a book that should humble even the most saintly of readers.
4 I love this book, though it is not as compelling as The Alchemist. This book asks what a person's true nature is-- good or evil. The narration is great, and so is the character-development. I like the portrayal of good and evil and how these two forces struggle in the characters of the &quot;stranger&quot; and Ms. Prym, and all the other simple people in the little town of Viscos. Read it. You might actually like it, too. All I know is I can hardly put the material down.
4 THE DEVIL AND MISS PRYM by Paul Cohelo is one of those books with a hook that draws you in and keeps you reading.  The hook in this particular case is the on going fight between good and evil with a bit of devilish temptation and fear thrown in for good measure. In the small dying village of Viscos old Berta has sat in front of her home for years carrying on conversations with her long dead husband and awaiting the arrival of THE DEVIL. One day she sees a stranger entering the village with the devil by his side.  This stranger is a man with a tragic history who is searching for closure and an answer to the question "is man truly good or evil".  He places temptation in the form of 11 bars of gold within the reach of the villagers in return for an answer to his question.A local barmaid named Chantal Prym is enlisted as an accomplice in the strangers quest for answers and becomes a central figure in the story as she battles her own inner demons. Old Berta, the town's mayor and his wife and a rogue wolf are also prominent characters in the tale whose plot will not be further explored lest it ruin the revelations for each individual reader. Suffice to say that the story microscopically scrutinizes the fact that we all have choices to make in our daily lives, that actions have consequences and ultimately that the good and evil dwells within each of us and it's up to each person to decide which will emerge triumphant.While the plotline of the story may be simple, sometimes simple ideas are the most complex as illustrated by many of the stories in the Bible. Cohelo is given us a moralistic tale where metaphors abound and has provided his readers a literal banquet of food for thought.
4 When I first read the title of the novel it somewhat surprised me. A devil and a miss this is what interested me reading the book and of course as it was paulo coelho's novel so I was a bit sure when I was going to start reading this book that it would surely interest me.This book also relates some part of our life too. It shows that every person has a good and bad person in himself but we realise it only when we are into a situation and that bad person of us is seen. A very good novel as paulo coelho's other novels are for self help.I would like to recommend this book to everyone.
3 All through the book I was thinking "oh this is great, please don't ruin it". I thought this way because of the many books with "bad ends" that I'd read. I think the end is one of the most important aspects of a good book and so, while reading this one, I worried about the finishing of the story.The book talks about the eternal struggle between good and evil and for that purpose it gives a story. The story was smart and creative.However, when the end came, so did the dissapointment. Now, the final conclusion that Coelho had about the whole matter of good versus evil was brilliant. I do not know if I agree with it completely but I do know that I do agree with it to a great extent. It was a very wise and fair conclusion. However, the twist in the story that he used to come to that conclusion was not very convincing to me - in fact it was a big dissapointment. I just do not belive that people's minds can be changed so simply by a speech - specially one that, in my opinion, is not very strong.Bottom line: This book is nice to read and has a very well formulated idea about good and evil in human beings. I do recommend it. But I'm sorry it ended the way it did because it could have been MUCH better.
5 `If even God has a hell, which is his love for mankind, then any man has his hell within easy reach, and that's his love for his family.'This is the best book I have read this year! This book is a real page turner! I highly recommend it!The story is as follows: A stranger appeared in a small village, Viscos, where 108 women and 173 men live. Unknown to the villagers, he was carrying in his rucksack eleven bars of gold, each weighing two kilos. After having checked-in in the only hotel, he plunged into the forest, where he dug two holes. In one, he buried one gold bar, and in the other hole the remaining 10 gold bars. He then walked back to the village. The first person he saw on his way back was a young woman, Chantal Prym, sitting beside a river reading a book. He approached her, and told her that he would like to show her something she had never seen before. At first she hesitated, but wanting adventure, she followed him into the forest. He told her to dig near a Y-shaped rock, where she found the first bar of gold. The stranger then led her to the next hiding place. There she found the remaining gold bars. She was astonished at the quantity of gold she saw before her. At first, she thought that he was showing her all this gold because he was like other older men, obsessed with the idea of sex with a younger woman. But she soon found out that the stranger was carrying out an experiment into the nature of human beings. He told her that he had discovered that confronted by temptation, humans will always fall. Given the right circumstances, every human being on this earth would be willing to commit evil. To test his theory, he then told her to tell the inhabitants of Viscos about the gold she saw, and to convey the message that should they kill one of their own, all the gold would be theirs! He further added that he would only give them a week. If, at the end of seven days, someone in the village is found dead, the money would go to the villagers, and he would conclude that humans are evil. However, should Chantal Prym steal the one gold bar but the village resists temptation, or vice versa, he would conclude that there are good people and evil people. This would mean that there's a spiritual struggle going on that could be won by either side. However, should he leave with all eleven gold bars, then he would conclude that life is good and that it prevails over evil.The stranger had lost his wife and daughters at the hand of terrorists. He now needed to find out whether humans are good or evil. If we are good, he thought, God is just and will forgive him for all he has done, for He was the one who drove him towards the dark. But if we are evil, he concluded, then everything is permitted, he never took a wrong decision, and we are all condemned from the start, and it doesn't matter what we do in this life, for redemption lies beyond either human thought or deed.Coelho is trying to convey to us the message that we are all good and evil; that good and evil have the same face. He recounts two stories to illustrate this. The first story is about the history of Viscos. The story goes as follows: A wicked Arab bandit by the name of Ahab controlled the whole village. One day, a hermit by the name of St Savin came down from his cave, arrived at Ahab's house and asked to spend the night there. Ahab laughed, telling him that he could easily slit his throat while he slept. But Savin insisted. Ahab determined to kill him that very night. They chatted while Ahab sharpened his knife, then Ahab showed Savin where he could sleep and continued menacingly sharpening his knife. After watching him for a few minutes, Savin closed his eyes and went to sleep. Ahab spent all night sharpening his knife. The next day, when Savin awoke, he found Ahab in tears at his side. He told him, "You weren't afraid of me and you didn't judge me. For the first time ever, someone spent a night by my side trusting that I could be a good man, one ready to offer hospitality to those in need. Because you believed I was capable of behaving decently, I did." From that moment on, Ahab abandoned his life of crime.The other story is about The Last Supper, painted by Leonardo da Vinci. When Leonardo was creating this picture, Leonardo da Vinci encountered a serious problem: he had to depict Good - in the person of Jesus - and Evil - in the figure of Judas. He stopped work on the painting until he could find his ideal models. He was quickly able to find his model for Jesus in a boy he saw in a choir. But three years had gone by, and the Last Supper was almost complete, but Leonardo had still not found the perfect model for Judas. After many days spent searching, the artist came across a prematurely aged youth, in rags and lying drunk in the gutter. The beggar was taken to the church, not understanding what was going on.Leonardo immediately started copying the lines of impiety, sin and egotism so clearly etched on the beggar's features. When he had finished, the beggar, who had sobered up slightly, opened his eyes and saw the picture before him. With a mixture of horror he said, "I've seen that picture before!" Leonardo was astonished. He couldn't believe it. The beggar replied, "Three years ago, before I lost everything I had, at a time when I used to sing in a choir and my life was full of dreams. The artist asked me to pose as the model for the face of Jesus." Evil and good have the same face!Chantal Prym did not immediately tell the inhabitants of the village about the gold. But she did tell them eventually on a Friday night at the village bar when all the villagers, including the stranger, were present. After telling them about the stranger and the gold, she told them,"That gold will belong to Viscos if, in the next three days, someone in the village is murdered. If no one dies, the stranger will leave, taking his gold with him."They were all shocked, and some asked the stranger to leave the village at once, while others said to call the police. Chantal Prym was sure that there was no way her fellow villagers would be capable of committing a murder for money. But she was wrong! The villagers actually were contemplating committing the murder. The next day, they all congregated in the church. The priest gave a sermon, saying "In the Gospel according to Luke, there is a moment when an important man approaches Jesus and asks: `Good Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?" And, to our surprise, Jesus responds: `Why callest thou me good? None is good, save one, that is, God.' The priest went on saying, `None is good, says the Lord. No one. We should stop pretending to a goodness that offends God and accept our faults: if one day we have to accept a wager with the devil, let us remember that our Father who is in heaven did exactly the same in order to save the soul of His servant Job.' (In the story of Job, God takes a wager with the devil, allowing the devil to strip Job of his wealth, killing his children, and inflicting a horrible disease on his body, just to see whether Job will continue to love and worship Him!)The priest was once told by a bishop, `Abraham took in strangers, and God was happy. Elijah disliked strangers, and God was happy. David was proud of what he was doing, and God was happy. The publican before the altar was ashamed of what he did, and God was happy. John the Baptist went out into the desert, and God was happy. Paul went to the great cities of the Roman Empire, and God was happy. How can one know what will please the Almighty? Do what your heart commands, and God will be happy.'One passage in the Bible greatly disturbed Viscos' priest. Why did Jesus ask Judas to commit a sin and thus lead him into eternal damnation? Jesus would never do that; in truth, the traitor was merely a victim, as Jesus himself. Evil had to manifest itself and fulfill its role, so that ultimately Good could prevail. If there was no betrayal, there could be no cross, the words of the scriptures would not be fulfilled, and Jesus' sacrifice could not serve as an example.The priest was now set on murder, and he managed to convince the rest of the congregation.The inhabitants of Viscos chose Berta as their victim; an old woman with no friends, who seemed slightly mad, and made no contribution to the growth of the village. All started to dream about the riches that would soon befall them.Chantal Prym had a dream. It was of an angel handing her the eleven gold bars and asking her to keep them. Chantal told the angel that, for this to happen, someone had to be killed. But the angel said that this wasn't the case: on the contrary, the bars were proof that the gold did not exist. She had understood the dream.The priest had taken all the shotguns from the villagers, and loaded all of them except one. In this way, they could all believe that they could have been the ones to shoot a blank.They first sedated Berta, and then took her to the valley to be shot simultaneously by all the villagers. But Chantal Prym intervened. She stood in the line of fire, and asked the villagers if they could use the gold. Can they sell it? She told them the story of Midas, who turned everything he touched into gold, even his food and his wife. Midas died of starvation. Too many questions will be asked by the bank when they tried to change their gold to money. A murder was about to be committed for something they could never have. The villagers were convinced, and the noise of the first shotgun being disarmed was heard, followed by all the rest!
4 I stumbled on Paulo Coelho purely by accident. Overcast day in a used bookstore, and I find Veronika Decides to Die. After that I was captivated by Coelho's writing style and wonderful sense of finding one's spiritual way. The Devil and Miss Prym wasn't anything like I expected, but none of his stories are. The characters are wonderfully created in loving detail, the storyline has so many ways it could turn so that the reader is left really wondering what will happen next, trusting that Coelho will lead us to a place where the injustices of humanity begin to make sense again.
3 This book received such praise, and certainly others who have reviewed it on Amazon include such hyperbole as "THE BEST EVER!!!".  I'm at a loss to understand this.  The story bumps along akwardly at the beginning - the plot gears up with all the smoothness of an organ grinder just beginning to turn the crank.  Once the story gets going, it really does become compelling, and the middle of the book provides much food for thought.  The ending has glimpses of the profound, but is rather messily and hastily tied up and dumped at the curb.  One piece of the resolution (I won't give it away) has no foundation in the many "deals" made between the two main characters - and I ripped through the pages several times trying to find the explanation I surely had missed, only to toss the book aside frustrated when I didn't find it.  All in all, the author has an eye for a topic, a good idea how to frame the debate, but the story needs a lot more tightening up to really pull it off.
5 Once again Paulo Coelho has found a way to leave me even more in love with his writing. I loved this story and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good read about good and evil.
5 This is the second of three in a series of interesting, spiritual works.&#34;Veronika Decides to Die&#34; is the first and well worth reading.Can't wait to get my hands - Kindle - on &#34;By the River Piedra I Sat Down and Wept&#34;
4 I was a big Coelho fan after reading The Alchemist, which is a simple but deep story.Coelho writes very well, or at least the translations don't lose any of his prose, but I found the story to be a bit flat and preachy. If you have seen any Hollywood movies or read fairy tales, it is no more than they can offer. It was an easy book to read and entertaining, but did not leave me enlightened.
5 I'm very impressed with Donald Miller. Prayer and the Art of Volkswagen Maintenance is fun to read and also thought provoking. Very appropiate for youth and college group book discussions.
1 Customer reviews and a review in a Christian magazine led me to buy this book expecting something profound and meaningful. Being both a Christian and a scholar fascinated by the trope of the journey, I was looking for literature that combined both spirituality and deep intellectual/philosophical considerations. What I got was a thin paperback full of typical fundamentalist rhetoric, the assumption that to be a Christian is to be a white male Republican, and the highly individualistic kind of faith that plagues Christianity today.  (He is NOT the next C.S. Lewis, by the way, there can never be another Lewis, and Miller seems to lack Miller's intellectual depth and literary skill).  The book was slightly entertaining, but too stereotypically &quot;Christian&quot; to stimulate any serious thought.  Look elsewhere for intellectually challenging work.  If, though, you are a fan of the likes of Max Lucado or the Left Behind type of pulp fiction, you might enjoy the difficulty of Miller's book. I read it in a couple of days and promptly gave it away to a less demanding friend of mine...
5 There's something about the idea of "finding oneself" on the open road that really gets me going. I'm a sucker for any book along those lines, whether it's about a spontaneous summer road-trip across the States, or the tale of an epic backpacking journey around the world. There's a special place in my heart for the somewhat rare Christian-themed story of this nature, and that's where this excellent book comes in.Adventures like this tend to be lived out by the younger crowd - those in their late teens or early twenties, anxious to see what's "out there" in the world and learn something about themselves in the process. In "Prayer and the Art of Volkswagon Maintenance," the two protagonists fit this description to a tee. Donald and Paul are young twentysomething Christian men, and they have a desire to know God in a deeper sense. Their solution - a road trip! Starting from Texas, they decide to head off to Oregon in Paul's beat-up VW van. Along the way, they discuss the usual questions that young men wrestle with - relationships with women, their future, and so on. They also meet a number of interesting characters on the road, usually when struggling with their somewhat unreliable vehicle.However, since this book has a Christian slant, there is spiritual depth as well. Both of these guys really do want to go deeper with God, and they end up digging into some serious meat along those lines. Donald, driven by intellect and facts, repeatedly explores the book of Ecclesiastes during the trip in an attempt to make sense of the time we are given upon this world. Paul is more in tune with his feelings and emotions, and goes to a deeper level with God via prayer during some tense moments. Together they make the perfect team for this type of excursion, and both come to know more about themselves and their God. All of this is expertly chronicled by Donald's outstanding writing - he made me feel that I was right along with them every step of the way.The neatest thing about this book for me was their detour through my hometown, and the awesome consequence of that seemingly insignificant decision (SPOILER HINT: it has to do with marriage). How cool is that?! Absolutely recommended!
5 The title says it all ... although it could just as easily be titled "Volkswagen's and the art of prayer maintenance".Loved the story and loved the word structure. Donald Miller is able to paint clear and vivid images via his choice and connection of words, and this allows the reader to quickly become part of the story, as opposed to being an outsider. Found myself smiling often and nodding in agreement as the story unfolded. The notion of breaking away from the noise and speed of life ... even just for a few months ... is a dream many people have, but few ever accomplish. Have recommended to friends and family, hopefully they will read and enjoy also.
1 Through Painted DesertsAKA Prayer and the Art of Volkswagen MaintenanceSome books that failed the first time should stay OOP (Out Of Print), and this is definitely one of them. It should have stayed way on the shelves collecting dust.Back in 2003 Donald Miller published a book called Blue Like Jazz and that book went gangbusters - constantly selling out at bookstores and going through a few printings. It appeared, at the time, that every time you turned around someone was recommending the book. It was a collection of penses, thoughts, and meandering recollections of a man who grew up to doubt religion but could not give up on faith. It was marketed as `Nonreligious thoughts on Christian Spirituality'. It was so popular it was even turned into a one-man stage show in Toronto, (jasonhildebrand.com/trailer(dot)htm) and has toured the country.Then some genius at the publishing company decided to resurrect his first book that had failed. That person is responsible for the unwarranted destruction of thousands and thousands of trees.This book is a classic road trip journey, in the vein of Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance by Robert M. Pirsig. Yet unlike that classic book, this one does not live up to all the hype. This book is a shameless money grab by the publisher and the author. This greediness is seen time and time again once an author has a successful endeavor. Everything they have written, or will write, is considered gold. That was not the case with this book. Not only is the publishing of this book shameless marketing and abuse of success, it also has a shameful plug for a band that the author listened to while `rewriting' the book. Miller states: `Robbie's CD Better Days is to me the soundtrack for the revised edition of this book. I am pleased to introduce it to you.'Miller's prose is weak, and his reflections are pedantic. He states: "We are one day out, and home seems an ocean away. My watch ticks inside my boot. I don't need it. I'm not late for anything. There is no disgruntled friend waiting for me at a coffee shop or office.' Are we are all suppose to be enthralled with the story of two guys traveling from Texas to Oregon? It was a chore to get through the book and I would not even recommend it for fans of Miller's writings. Another example is "But because we were born as babies and had to be taught to speak and to pee in a toilet, we think all of this is normal. Well, it isn't normal. Nothing is normal. It is all rather odd, isn't it, our eyes in our heads, our hands with five fingers, the capacity to understand beauty, to feel love, to feel pain." Ok so what do we do with Miller's thoughts? In my opinion, not much!It was just pretentious to republish this book and milk the readers of Blue Like Jazz for money better spent elsewhere.(First Published in Imprint 2006-07-14 as 'Hate It' in the 'Love It Hate it book Review section.)
5 This book is not only about the journey of a couple of guys from Houston to Oregon in a beat-up old VW van. It is a spiritual journey, as well, from a rather theoretical type of Christianity to a really deep relationship with God. All the fun, the trials and tribulations, and the camraderie contribute to a great story, yes, but there are spiritual issues here that resonate very much with me, and, I suspect, many Christians. I don't know how many liberties the author took with what actually happened, but this book is 100% real. It's definitely one of the top two or three books I've read in the past year, and, in a more perfect world, would be a best-seller.
5 I first bought this book because it had an interesting title. After purchasing it, I told my friends about it. Many of them had already read it and told me it was a really good book. I must disagree with them. This is not a good book. This is a great book.Many books recently published dealing with Christianity aren't worth reading, let alone buying. Many of these books claim to have the answer to all life's problems in either three or ten spiritual steps: do this & this & that & God will take care of all your problems. These books aren't evil, but for all their good intentions they turn God into a dashboard Jesus that fits equally well on the dash of your car or in your pocket.Miller is unlike that. In his quest to seek a deeper relationship with God, Miller raises questions that many of us face sometime in our lives; not all of us need to take a physical journey to set sail on a spiritual one. Miller is open and honest. After so much fuzzy-Christianity in the air of our modern culture, his honesty is like a cool breeze after a scorching summer's day.Not only is this book enlightening, but it is also entertaining. I found the physical adventures in the Volkswagen to be quite amusing. My first car was a little red 87 Toyota Corolla and I traveled throughout the country in it. Reading about the troubles the van gave its two adventurers brought back many fond (and not so fond) memories with my little red car. But even if you've never had experiences like that, they still make for fun and entertaining reading.
3 Overall a fun book- but the title seemed more interesting than the content. I knew it was slightly religious- but it was a bit more than I had previously thought.
4 Above, Miller says that he attempted to write a christian book with a secular pen.  I agree with him that he has succeeded in doing this, and praise him for it.  Prayer and the art of Volkswagen Maintenance is a  rarity.  It is a truly well-written Christian book.  I was very happily  surprised.It is a novelized journal of a pilgrimage-trip, and Miller  does an excellent job of moving back and forth between plot narrative and  inner reflection.  Sometimes, the close attention to detail is tedious, but  it's livable. Touches of Annie Dillard, Ernest Hemingway, CS Lewis and John  Steinbeck can all be found here.  Miller has a gift for dialogue and many  passages are really funny, maybe because they feel real.A nice  blending of fun, troubles, and thought and reflection like we all know is  possible, but have a hard time capturing.  Bravo.A  passage:&quot;Pretty big church, is it?&quot;&quot;Yeah, it is.  We've got about 200 people there.&quot;A smile comes to my face as  Paul's definition of large collides with mine.  &quot;Two hundred people  would make for a good Sunday school class in Texas.  I hate to break it to  you, but unless a church has a gym and a bowling alley, they're really not  fulfilling the work of the Lord.  A church has to have a gym and a bowling  alley because people play basketball and bowl and if they do it at church  they are more likely to accept Christ.  Widows and orphans especially, they  play basketball a great deal.&quot;&quot;Is that  right?&quot;&quot;Sure it is.&quot;
5 I use this book all the time I cant imagine my kitchen witch library without this book now that I have it.  There is so much jam packed into this book that makes this book so amazing!  There are ideas for sabbats and esbats there is info on soaps lotions and hair wash.. You can even find home made medicine ideas.  I love this book and think anyone that is a kitchen witch or interested in learning more about kitchen witchery this is a must have!!!
5 I use the recipes all the time! I started using them and researching the ingredients and then also adding to the original recipes to make it my own! LOVE IT
5 kate West is a very good author. This book has alot of good recepes in it. Not only did I buy it but my best friend did also.
2 I bought this because I expected there to be recipes for making soaps, my own healing &amp; bathing products, experimenting with older recipes &amp; so on. The rave reviews for these recipes must be from someone who has NEVER written their own chant, or read a single other Wiccan-type book, and has such a short-term memory problem they don't realize almost all the recipes, even--or especially--the Healing &amp;/or Magick Intended use the EXACT SAME INGREDIENTS in about 80% of these so-called recipes!Lastly, there is one recipe that looks good enough to try, for a type of fermented fruit mead, though I don't know how original  it is. At least it won't be a total loss; besides those 5 ingredients are just a booster--the magick comes from within.Instead of learning how to make liquid soaps,  shower gels &amp; such, THE AUTHOR TELLS US TO BUY READY-MADE PRODUCT and just add oil and herbs to that! That isn't exactly a unique recipe, it's a hodge podge of someone else's product taking the place of what was supposed to be the auhthors recipes. If you are looking for detailed and unique recipes, look ELSEWHERE! This is a lot of hype but no substance unfortunately. I had truly hoped that THIS time the book would be what it says it is. Sigh.
5 I have skimmed through the book a few times and have added it to my list of books to read.
5 This is one of my favorite recipe books of all times,It has not only food recipes but recipes for incense, soaps and much more! Love it!
5 Kate West is my favorite comtemporary wiccan author.  So of coursethumbs way up for any of her books.
5 if your are a pagan and you are a witchs this is a must have to add to your cookery books
5 The recipes in here taste great! I love the energy carrot soup with the orange juice broth. The marzipan is wonderfull as well. The marzipan dosn't contain toxic chemicals like the ones at the store so that is always good.
5 Lovely book filled with recipies for a healthy natural life. Everything from creating aromatherapy forumlas for colds and flue, insect repellants, fomulas for negative thinking, bath and body products, to food.  Highly recommended.
5 It's a difficult, but true message. The author takes an unflinching look at the evil that men are capable of through his own personal experience in Japanese prison camps and carries you through the experience on to the brilliant hope on the other side of his own personal pain. The underlying truth you discover is the genuine potential to be found in one man's selfless, sacrificial care for another. It's an excellent read.
5 While Earnest Gordon's story contains enough description of the atrocities inflicted on him and his fellow POW's by the hands of the Japanese in Southeast Asia during WW2, this does not read like your typical POW story. By typical, I mean a blow-by-blow account (literally at times) of the grueling, horrific experience of Allied soldiers during the war. Though there are passages of such description that aptly set the stage for the story, this book is more about the way in which Gordon and his fellow prisoners of war created the Kingdom of God in the hell of mankind.It is, then, a differently woven story than you might expect. But given the chance, it is a wonderful story of redemption, forgiveness, love and charity - despite overwhelming odds - and is a story that you can't put down. There were times during my reading, that I found myself asking, "Could this be true?" But it is, as Gordon relates his experience from beginning to end, and concludes with an epilogue that completes his life after the war and puts a dose of realism to balance any incredulity the reader may have amassed.Gordon's story is not designed to heap more evidence of damnation on the Japanese for the cruelties they inflicted during the war. That is the job for others, as Gordon clearly points out. Gordon's story, rather, is one to demonstrate that love can conquer hate, that goodness can overcome evil, that to "end all wars" mankind must learn to forgive and to love, even our enemies.A powerful book!
4 I read this book with the mindset that it would be full of action and give a real insight into what the country and conditions were like for these POWs. Not only does it do just that, but it also brings you into the camp as if you were a POW right next to them. The story telling is fantastic and the information you learn is surprising. The only reason I give 4 stars is beause the author bring religion into the narrative for quite an extensive period of time. Granted he nearly died numerous times and that typically brings one to find God, but I did not expect it and became slightly bored. What should have taken me a day to read, took a week, once the religion aspect entered the story, I found myself uninterested and unable to read more than a handful of pages at a time. A fantastic insight into the life of a POW, nonetheless.
4 Not just another war story, but a story of the strong determination that men in WWII had in order to survive.  I am not sure it could be repeated in our generation.  Hopefully it won't need to be.
5 This was one of the most moving Christian testimonies I have read. It is the amazing biography of Ernest Gordon, a British POW in Japanese occupied Thailand. The book is more than that though. The personal and historical account of To End All Wars provides the reader with tremendous hope born in the midst of suffering. In the same spirit as Corrie Ten Boon's the Hiding Place, this work writes about the difficulty of finding and protecting the value of human life through the power of God's love and forgiveness.  Such was the key to Ernest Gordon's end to the war and for many of his fellow inmates, and it is a message that is repeated throughout the account. There are many moments when such self-sacrificing love is put to the test. One defining moment was when the prisoners administered aid to wounded Japanese soldiers who were previously their captors at the very end of the war. The title of my review comes from a quote from Mr. Gordon taken from this event. The book itself is a testament to the grace and mercy of God, which offered these defeated men a restoration of their souls through forgiveness rather than maintain in their hearts the bitterness of hatred despite the cruelty they suffered.  A truly powerful and soul-stirring book!
5 I could not put this book down!  If you have any interest in the treatment of Allied soldiers during their stay in Japanese internment camps, just read this book.  From the introduction to the final page, this book will shock you, horrify you, but amazingly, it will inspire you and leave you with a good feeling about what Ernest Gordon did and became before he died in 2002.  Bless his memory and may this book live on forever!
5 An exciting and truthful account of the Japanese death camps in WW II and a testimony of the good that good can do and the change that can come on men in horrible circumstances when a few start following the Law of Love.
5 My wife  and I had watched the movie a couple months ago (be warned: it is incredibly brutal) and been moved by the power of the story. Unfortunately, as it turned out, the book and the move are not the same story. In fact, other than the similarity of the major premise (a British officer in a Japanese POW camp during WW2), they had almost nothing in common.However. . .That was only disappointing insomuch as I kept waiting for certain events from the movie to show up. The movie had colored my expectations for the book, which meant I couldn't take the book on its own merits. Which is too bad, because, upon completing the book, I would say it is as powerful as the movie, perhaps even more so. But you have to let the book speak for itself. The story is truly miraculous, as this band of prisoners devolve into a wild bunch of animals at the hands of their captors, only to be transformed by the Spirit of Christ into a true Community of compassion and care. Somehow, in the midst of hell, these men found the power to love each other, to care for each other, to even forgive their Japanese tormentors. When people ask "Does Christianity work?", the story of this book says "absolutely!" And in a day and age of spiteful attacks, divisive language, polarized religions and selfish money-grubbing politicians and religious leaders, there is a real lesson here about what being a True Follower of Christ is all about.
5 What lessons on how we change under pressure. We all take the easy road and rarely discover the real meaning of life, forgiveness, community, fellowship, and relationships.
5 I found this book by accident. While doing research for my novel about a Tokyo artist who was getting married in Princeton in the summer of 1961 at Princeton University's Chapel, I found that Ernest Gordon was Dean and that he had written a book about his experience as a POW of the Japanese in Thailand. In many ways his experience paralleled the artist's, as he had survived the Tokyo firebombings of 1945. Another connection is that both men advocate forgiveness and compassion towards one's enemies. So I chose Reverend Gordon to perform the wedding for Seiji and his fianc&eacute;e, whose father was a Princeton University professor. And I bought and read his book. It is very worthwhile read.If you've been in combat, suffer from Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), or know someone who does, Ernest Gordon's "To End All Wars" is a book I heartily recommend. Though it makes for some searing reading, it is one of the most uplifting books on the subject that I have read."Selfishness, hatred, jealousy and greed [are] all anti-life", he writes and "Love, self-sacrifice, mercy and creative faith ... [are] the essence of life, turning mere existence into living in its truest sense" (page viii).Ernest Gordon was a Captain in the 93rd Highlanders when he and some companions were captured at sea and taken to the infamous River Kwai, where thousands of men died building a railroad for the Japanese. The inhumanity of the experience is painful to read, and much, much worse to have lived through. Many of the men he knew had their humanity stripped from them and began treating one another in as beastly a fashion as they were treated. Conditions were appalling: starvation, diseases like beriberi, diphtheria, cholera, malaria, amoebic dysentery, malnutrition and a host of other ailments were rampant. As the prisoners lost hope, they lost their humanity.And then something happened: the men began, one by one, to wake up and help each other. Almost at death's door, two men - Dusty Miller and Dinty Moore - volunteered to nurse Gordon back to health. Serving others began to spread, the men began getting their self-respect back, and the mood (but not the conditions) began to radically change. In one especially ugly scene, a Japanese guard berates a group of prisoners for losing a shovel. When no one confesses, he threatens to shoot them all. One young soldier steps forward and says "I did it." The guard flew into a rage and beat the soldier to death, "stopping only when he was exhausted." "The men of the work detail picked up their comrade's body, shouldered their tools and marched back to camp. When the tools were counted again at the guard-house no shovel was missing... "As this story was told, admiration for the [soldier] transcended hatred for the Japanese guard" (page 102). The prisoners won the day because they kept their self-respect and their dignity.It is beyond high time that we put the foolishness and horror of war behind us and stop honoring it as we do. There are no clear winners in a war because the fallout is so damaging. Love, compassion, respect and treating one another as we would like to be treated is far more effective. "In the case of the Japanese, the effect on the perpetrators was to render them callous to man's individual inhumanity to man. in the case of the West, the effect on the perpetrators was also that of initiating an ignoble callousness to human suffering" (page 49). I couldn't agree more.
5 This is a powerful book. I never did manage to watch &#34;The Bridge on the River Kwai&#34; all the way through but this book, according to the author, tells the true story - the whole story. It only makes one wonder about the youth of today and whether they would be capable of making the sacrifices these young men did in World War II.  Definitely worth the investment. And if you don't believe in God, this book might help you believe.
5 This book was incredibly realistic about the sad situation in many prison camps.  I absolutely love how the people in this story were selfless and honorable in the worst of situations.
5 A very moving tale of the experiences and near death close calls of a prisoner of the Japanese in WWII.  Highly recommended.
5 This book is the story of a young soldier captured by the Japanese and held as a POW. After finding faith in God, he was able to endure the hardships and conditions of the camp and yet find forgiveness in his heart for his captors. He truly shows that love can overcome any situation and any ill feelings toward those who are acting out of hate.
5 Ernest Gordon's first-hand account of being a POW in WWII.  Gordon, a Scottish soldier and later Presbyterian minister and Chaplain of Princeton University, was captured by a Japanese warship and placed on the crew that built the bridge over the river Kwai.  The account is well written and interesting from a historical perspective, but also engaging from a spiritual one as Gordon tells about his own transformation while imprisoned, as well as that of his fellow prisoners.  If you are interested in history and biography told through the eyes of faith, then this makes an excellent read.
5 "To End all Wars" is a recent republish of the late Ernest Gordon's story of survival and finding Christian faith while enduring the hell of the Thai Burma Railway. Gordon (who later became a college chaplain in the U.S.) starts off describing an unsuccessful ocean escape attempt from the Dutch East Indies which led to his capture by the Japanese in 1942. Then came the forced labor camps in the jungle, brutality, starvation, malaria, etc. From a general bleakness the story eventually transitions into one of forgiveness and the strenght of faith. The book has its share of memorable scenes and lessons to be learned. One memorable scene was the destruction of the Bridge over the Kwai by an allied air raid. Another part that may stick with readers was where Gordon learned the fate of the man who probably more than any of the others led him to a deeper Christian faith (a Japanese officer crucified him on a tree). The descriptions of Gordon's return to England were rather fascinating as they highlighted challenges of returning to civilian life. One of the few drawbacks was that I would have personally been interested to have heard more about the author's combat experiences prior to his captivity and after his release how his POW experiences influenced his chaplain capacity in more detail.  Overall though I can't complain.  This book was excellent. It was well-written, powerful, and has the potential to inspire. I should warn readers that it is also quite graphic in its depictions of the squallor and mistreatment endured by POWs and other slave laborers.  In conclusion, I recommend it.
5 This is a story of ultimate forgiveness told firsthand by Ernest Gordon.  The things he and his fellow prisoners of war experienced are near incomprehensible.  ...and out of such despair comes the forever life-changing love they experience through Christ, Who is the example they start to follow in showing similar self-sacrificing love and kindness to their neighbors - even to their enemies.I saw the movie before watching the book which may have been best, as I would've been disappointed had it been the other way around (ie. The book, as many books do, goes into more detail and describes other people encountered by Ernest.  For time and format reason, the movie can't cover all of this.)Also, the book is proof that such a powerful story can be told without foul language (which is present in the movie version).
5 This was an inspiring book. Through extreme deprivation and cruelty British Prisoners of war learn how to love one another.Ernest Gordon was a POW in Thailand during the Pacific struggle against the Japanese in WWII. He recounts the amazing transformation that occurred in three different camps. They went from fighting each other to survive the harsh conditions to sacrificially laying down their lives for one another. The main catalyst of the transformation was Jesus. By reading the gospels many became Christians and imitated Christ's suffering and sacrificial life. Stories of sacrifice abound such as one man's determination to save a friend who was gravely ill. He gave his meager ration of rice to him everyday. Upon his friends recovery he collapsed. The doctors determined he died of starvation.Highly recommended.
5 To End All Wars is the story of the author's time in a series of Japanese POW camps during World War II.  I originally became interested in Ernest Gordon after viewing the movie by the same name.  This is a story of courage, endurance, and resolve and the fact that Ernest Gordon and many of his fellow POW's were able to forgive their Japanese guards despite what they had lived through is a testament to the type of men they were.  How many of us could do the same? This is a must read for all WWII buffs.
5 This account of how a young Scot, captured by the Japanese in April, 1942, managed to survive the brutal treatment accorded POWs under Japan's control has endured long after Ernest Gordon's imprisonment ended, and will continue to endure and influence readers for more years to come.  This book, originally published over 40 years ago, was one of the sources for the highly popular movie of that era, &quot;Bridge Over the River Kwai,&quot; and the more recent &quot;To End All Wars.&quot;Some parts of this book are very difficult to read as Gordon, a Captain in a Scottish regiment, spares no detail as he relates the physical trauma, the diseases, the wretched conditions imposed by their captors and the senseless, sometimes unbelievable treatment by the guards of their captives .  How to survive this vertiable hell hole?  As he notes, without some sort of discipline and some moral compass for guidance, many men gave up hope and died.  But Gordon found within the prison camp two people who selflessly gave of themselves when Gordon was literally at death's door to help restore him to physical health, of people who washed his sores, encouraged, prodded, and inspired.  Through the faith of these two, one a Methodist, the other a Roman Catholic, Gordon reinvestigated the New Testament and from that learned and acted out the commandment to &quot;love others&quot;, even including the brutal Japanese guards, as he would love himself.  Using these simple teachings of love, encouragement, and selfless help to your neighbor, Gordon and others in the various camps were able to overcome the horrific conditions under which they existed. The melding of the spiritual and the discipline of order, neatness, and cooperation saw the POWs triumph over the evil of the system under which they existed.The first part of the book describing Gordon's efforts to escape--he and others bought a sailing vessel that managed to get them half way to Ceylon--is an exciting read in itself.  The second half, the journey into hell and return, is thought provoking and inspiring.  It is also difficult for those who served in the Pacific theater, as I did, as to how and if I would have survived if I had had to bail out over Japan and was imprisoned.  A sobering thought that one does not want to revisit for long.Gordon came home to Scotland, entered the ministry, and served for many years as Dean of the Chapel, Princeton  University.  May he Rest in Peace.
5 I cannot say enough as to how this memoir by Ernest Gordon has impacted me.  Ernest took a horrifying situation and because of the love and charity and help from two fellow inmates was given the hope and will to survive what most likely would have been his death.  As he recovered from many ailments he went on to give to others what had been so selflessly given to him.  This was truly 'paying it forward' and making lemonade out of lemons.  I have always had faith and hope, but as we all face life challenges, think about the angels on Earth as evidenced in Ernest's story and you, too, will be able to see light on the darkest of days.  This will be a book I pass along to many and also one I will read again and again.  Ernest Gordon lived and survived for a reason and when you read this book, you will see why.
4 I visited this area of Thailand in May 2012, and have been impressed with this little know piece of American military history of World War II. The American sailors, marines and soldiers who were taken prisoner and forced to work on the Burma-Thailand Railroad were a small piece of the total of more than 200,000 who were forced to build this rail line. I found this book to be a good example of how a prisoner could survive these terrible conditions and make a contribution to our knowdledge by telling his story.
4 I haven't read this as yet, I'm saving it for my holiday in Bali. however my wife says it's not quite as good as the first in the series but it's stil a wonderul read.
5 Along with the other titles in the trilogy this book is sweeping and epic and fabulously memorable.  Long live Tatiana and Alexander.
5 WOW!!!! This second installment of The Bronze Horseman trilogy was BEYOND BEAUTIFUL!!!!! This is truly the most EPIC LOVE story EVER told bar none. I am writing this review through the tears left over from reading this book.This book was the PERFECT sequel to The Bronze Horseman. In many ways, it not so much followed it as it did complete it. While things are still very open for book 3, I felt like this book was the second half of TBH. It was utterly BREATHTAKING!!!!!!When we left Tatiana and Alexander in TBH, Alexander had arranged for a pregnant Tatiana to get passage to America by having her think he was dead (he was sure they were going to execute him) but as fate would have it, he wasn't and was made to serve in the penal battalions at the front of the war. Tatiana meanwhile in America is forced to try and live on with their infant son believing that he is dead.I don't have words to describe and BEAUTIFULLY and SEAMLESSLY the author wove together Alexander's story with Tatiana's as well as flashbacks and memories. We learn a lot about Alexander in this book. While the books are not written in first person, a lot of what we saw in The Bronze Horseman was through Tatiana's eyes and in this book, we are taken back to events seen in TBH and also some events that we didn't see (that happened in between) and are shown them through Alexander's eyes. It explains so much leaving no question unanswered.... We also see Alexander's childhood through intermingled flashbacks that help the reader understand how he became the man he is.The HEARTACHE and LONGING in this book almost killed me. I was openly crying or sobbing every 10 pages or so. You'll just be reading normally and your emotional state will be relatively stable (well, still full of aching for them missing each other but bearably so) in a `current' scene but then a memory will be inserted and just throw you right over the emotional edge.The happy memories of each other are inserted throughout the entire book at times when Tatiana and Alexander are despairing beyond all hope, and the memories of each other serve as a means to get them through. To get up one more time. To put one foot in front of the other. Not to give up.... In this same way, they help the reader get through their separation by constantly giving hope.And their reunion!!!!! Wow. Wow. Wow.Alexander and Tatiana are both SUCH strong characters - some of the strongest I've ever read about.I don't think I have ever sobbed through a book so much - but in a completely good way. This is such a story of survival and love. The author's ability to make you FEEL every single thing that Tatiana and Alexander are going through is just incredible.No piece of music, book, story, movie, show, anything has EVER made meFEEL as strongly as this book did.If I were going to be stuck on a desert island for the rest of my life and could only bring one series of books, it would be these.The LOVE that Tatiana and Alexander share is beyond words. You just have to experience it for yourself. I don't think anyone but the author can do it justice.Again, this book is long, not as long as the first one though but my print copy is 559 pages. But it did not drag even once. I read every. single. word. every syllable even as slowly as I could. I didn't want it to end.... And there is absolutely zero fluff. Absolutely everything mentioned is a vital part of the story.And as with the first one, the writing is also broken up really interestingly. It is in chapters, but within those chapters are little sections, each one is a writing work of art. I really don't know how to explain it, but each one is not just telling you what is happening, but it has a greater point ... Its achingly beautifully poetic... This writing style becomes more and more poignant as the series goes on because as you know more and more about the characters, the author is able to make the sections more and more emotional until every single one of your heart strings is raw.The ending is perfect and this being the romance love story that it is, everything does work out in the end, which believe me is what will keep you going throughout it.I'm starting book 3 right away which follows Alexander and Tatiana in their new life in America with their son as they face life after the war together.These are by FAR my FAVORITE books ever. There is nothing else in their league.. This story is one that i will reread over and over again and will stay with me forever.
1 So a follow up to a very good book , the author did not get this one together- Was a real disappointment-
5 In this melodramatic, epic sequel to "The Bronze Horseman", Paullina Simons follows Tatiana and Alexander after their parting when Alexander is presumed dead, and pregnant Tatiana escapes to America via Finland and Sweden. Love and war are the two main motifs here and the story focuses more on Alexander, than on Tatiana (who was the central character in "The Bronze Horseman"), although the action goes back and forth between these two protagonists. Additionally, the time and space constraints do not apply (as opposed to "The Bronze Horseman" where the rules of chronology applied, here the narration is non-linear) - the action jumps freely between the past, when Alexander is a boy and a teenager, and present, when he struggles during the war as a prisoner and soldier, and between Alexander's journey from Russia to Germany, and Tatiana's life in the New York City with their baby son, Anthony.The novel begins in Boston, in the 1930s, when Alexander's parents, the Barringtons, make the crucial decision to emigrate to the Soviet Union and renounce the American citizenship. This was already mentioned in "The Bronze Horseman", but here Alexander's family life and childhood in the Soviet Union are described in grisly detail. The disappointment with Communism and subsequent deterioration of the family shape Alexander into the tough, secretive man, living only for himself, desperate to survive, running away into the steppe and finally to Leningrad, where he becomes an officer in the Red Army - until he meets Tatiana and the love for her turns his life upside down. Alexander survives Soviet prison and interrogations, the work with the prisoners' battalion, the escape with the soldiers under his command through ruined Poland, running away from the ruthless, deathly Stalinist system, and the prisoners' camp in Germany, although he is starving, wounded and physically at the end of his capability. On his way, he meets Tatiana's long lost twin brother, only to lose him again, and tests the friendship and the military fidelity and discipline.Tatiana in America holds to the strange, unexplainable belief, that in Europe torn apart by the war she can find her husband, although everyone believes him dead. All her efforts are directed only towards this goal, To reunite with Alexander, she overcomes unbelievable obstacles and, of course, they are finally reunited and move to Arizona (I hope this is not a spoiler, since it is the ending to be expected in such novel, isn't it?)... So that their story can be continued in the last part of the trilogy, "The Summer Garden", which I cannot wait to read.Surely, the ending in Arizona is a little absurd (although, who knows, maybe it was possible then), as well as all the coincidences that bring Tatiana and Alexander together. When the novel is read as a romance, it is pretty old-fashioned (rare nowadays in the tradition of "Gone With the Wind", "Doctor Zhivago" or "The Blue Bicycle"), and no doubt, delivers its promise and is a material for a great movie. For me, the highest value of "Tatiana and Alexander" is in the fabularized background and descriptions of the reality of the Soviet life in the hardest period of the 1930s, the spies and moles, the interrogation methods. Paullina Simons was born in Leningrad, in the dissident family. Her parents and grandparents, heavily stricken by the Communist regime and the war, escaped to the US in 1973, when Paullina was 10, so probably she has some first-hand information about the times, which she faithfully portrayed in her novels.
4 An amazing story which held my attention.  It was a relief to have the characters rewarded with contentment after such a traumatised life to ultimately receive their freedom.  This book was well balanced with drama and romance.
5 Just what I expected and more. Kept me page turning and was the perfect sequel to the bronze horseman. Definitely a must read
4 Spent so much of the book wondering when will they be back together that I blanked out on what was really going on. Still a great read, and can't wait to start "Summer Garden".
4 Great book for history lovers and romantics.  Spicy, exciting, bloody, sad...  This book will not disappoint.  I highly recommend it to all would be socialists...
5 This is one of the best books I've ever read!  It was a little difficult to get into it until around page 15, but once I did, I was completely hooked!  I fell in love with the characters, I was totally immersed in the period, the twists and turns, the joy and misery, everything that happened in the story.  I lost so much sleep because I couldn't put it down!
5 Let me start off by saying that this is a long book. The first book in this series, The Bronze Horseman, was also long, but this one seemed to take a lot longer to get through. The story is a lot more intense. Most of the book is spent on the feelings of desperation of both Tatiana and Alexander. Tatiana is now in New York with their son trying to get on with her life. Alexander is trapped in Russia, trying to escape with little hope. The yearning that both of them feel for each other is heartbreaking. It was very hard to read at times. I honestly don't know who of the two had it harder. Tatiana not knowing if he is dead or alive, or Alexander trying so hard to leave but stopped at every try. They both go through so much in this book, I think that is why I felt it was so much longer than it was.I would not recommend reading this without reading The Bronze Horseman first. I don't think it will have the emotional impact without the full back story. I think the part of this book that fascinated me the most was Simon's ability to show what happened to so many men after the war. Not everyone got to happily return home to their families, especially the Russian soldier's. It is a very sad part of the story seeing what these men went through. The last part of the book does pick up dramatically and I could not put it down until I found out how it ended. The ending is well worth the time of reading the rest of the book. I am now looking forward to the last book in the series, The Summer Garden.
4 This is the 2nd book in the series, was as capivating has the first book. Really enjoyed reading it and gave it to a friend to read, and she loved it has much as I did. Read all 3 novels.
5 What an amazing love story. It was absolutely breathtaking. A great follow up to a beautiful story. I loved every minute.
5 I was lucky enough to have read The Bronze Horseman written by this superb author a few years ago.  At that time, I was completely taken by her elegant words and heart-wrenching look at one of the most truly powerful love stories since Dr. Zhivago first premiered on the scene.Just in case you're one of the unlucky ones who missed the first book, each fantastic page introduced readers to Tatiana and Alexander.  My heart was stolen when I first came across Tatiana.  This was a young woman - teenager - who had the bravery and courage of a lioness.  Her will was so strong, absolutely no one could stop her from doing what she thought was right.  She met Alexander, who was a young officer in the Red Army.  Although not born in Russia, Alexander had a back story (which is explored in this second book).  When they first met, the backdrop was the horrible invasion that Hitler mounted in 1941 against Russia.  And, I have to tell you - from the scenery to the intricate historical detail - this author "hit the ball out of the park."Now, in this second tale, we meet back up with Tatiana who believes that her life is absolutely shattered.  Alexander is dead...so she thinks, and the child they made together is growing inside her as she stares out at the boats in the wharf, wondering whether or not it's even worth it to flee the country and try to build a life for her baby.  There is a part of her that truly believes she should give up, because without the love of her life, nothing much matters to Tatiana anymore.  But her ramrod-straight spine and powerful will pushes her forward, and the next time she sees a `misty glass-like expanse of greenish sea' there is a huge iron arm lifted in the air, holding her mighty flame of freedom above the NY harbor and welcoming Tatiana to her new home.Alexander, meanwhile, hasn't died; although, with the pain and agony of being held in a prison where Stalin's secret police have accused him of being a spy, there are times when Alexander wishes he'd perished on the battlefield.  All he can think of is that his beloved Tatiana made it out of the horrific country and is starting a new life for herself in America.  The author unveils Alexander's, past as he sits in prison thinking about how he got in the position he finds himself.  We go back in time to see when he and his family left the safer, white-shingled, peaceful American town behind, in order to go to Russia and stand-up for their communist views.  Long ago, when Alexander was eleven, his father told him that he was so excited to go back home to Russia and live in freedom - shouting their communist ideas from the hilltops.  The man so wanted to live his faith and beliefs without being persecuted.  Unfortunately, Alexander's parents weren't quite prepared for the wretched smells, fetid and dark hotels, and slovenly conditions that they were walking directly into.My favorite chapters of this book are still the ones that focus on the road that Tatiana has to travel.  As a long admirer and researcher of Ellis Island, it was so interesting to be by Tatiana's side as she went through inspection, met up with a Doctor and his nurse who help the immigrants coming to shore, and raise her baby in (still, to this day) the most remarkable city on the map.  When Tatiana sees the buildings crowded together in that amazing skyline, you - as the reader - can only imagine what the upstart NYC looked like to the people who had nowhere else to go, and came to our shores with fear, desperation, and, most of all, hope in their hearts and minds.Every chapter of this book is a surprise, and the romance is still one of the most beautiful I've ever read.  In fact, one of my favorite lines from any book comes from this author when Tatiana said:  "We walk alone through this world, but if we are lucky, we have a moment of belonging to something, to someone, that sustains us through a lifetime of loneliness."  You just can't get more perfect than that when it comes to showing readers a love so powerful and pure.  Enjoy!Until Next Time,Amy Lignor, [...] Reviewer
5 Enjoyed reading this book, had trouble putting it down.  Loved the characters in the book, it was filled with love and adventure
5 This was one of my favorite series to read. The second book of three, it spans their lifetime. Although the author can ramble a bit, and the story unfolds slowly, it fits into the overall plot very well.
5 AMAZING!!! This is the second book in a trilogy. Start with the Bronze Horseman and then read Tatiana and Alexander. This is a MUST READ SERIES! I am an avid reader and these are by far my favorite books. This book is heart wrenching and beautifully well written. FANTASTIC!!!!
5 I absolutely love all 3 books in the Bronze Horseman Trilogy. I couldnt put any of them down and stayed up till all hours of the morning to finish them.The Bridge to Holy Cross is the 2nd book in the series and is a great link between the 1st and the 3rd book. It provides an insight into Alexanders life before coming to Russia and what circumstances he was presented with once he arrived. Parts of it are written in his perspective and it is great to compare this with Tatianas from the 1st book.You are left hanging right up until the very end of the book as to whether or not Tatiana will find Alexander and then be able to save them both.I have read all 3 books 3 times over and thoroughly recommend them.
5 One word, Fantastic! So well worth reading. Paullina Simons has such a wonderful descriptive way of writing and this story should be read by everyone, it describes the  horrors and futility of War!
5 What lengths would you go to for love?  Would you risk it all?  This is book two out of three of the series (book 1 Bronze Horseman also 5 stars from me).  This is a continuation of a disturbing love story that takes place during WWII.  Everyone knows of the atrocities that took place during Hitler's crazed rampage of Europe but you may not be as aware of how the Russians treated their own let alone their own heroes. This is a story of desperation, hope, love and sacrifice. It isn't easy to stomach at times because of the horrific things that took place during this period but it also shows us a side of the sacrifices some people are willing to make for love.  Well worth the time and I highly recommend it.
4 I enjoyed this book not so much as the first one and the 3rd one....still tied everything together ...I really enjoyed the history of all 3 books
5 This is the second book of the 3.  Mine had been misplaced so I ordered a used one onlne.It arrived in nearly new condition. I have finished it and have nearly finished book 3.
5 I cannot say enough about Paullina's Trilogy - each book is excellent with the last one a brilliant capstone.  I like Alexander's point of view in this one... they all resonate deeply with me, in different ways.... although this is not my favorite book of the trilogy, it is still 5 stars (so that tells you what I think regardless) - my favorite is the final installment The Summer Garden, because it is better than any conclusion I have ever read!.  They all wear you out emotionally, but also fill you with joy - Paullina's mantra must be "we shall overcome!" and they do... which makes me happy!!!!
5 Oh I could not put it down!!! This is the second book to the bronze horseman. This book answered questions from the first book nicely and new ones for the last book. Well done! A must read!
4 Tatiana and Alexander did actually turn out to be a much stronger read for me than its predecessor, The Bronze Horseman. Rarely does a sequel improve upon the first book, so yay for that. While I slogged through book one, this one I read over the course of just a couple of days. Simons' trilogy takes a turn for the historical, rather than the romantic, which is just what I was wanting from this series from the start.Of course, the reason I like this one so much better than The Bronze Horseman is that Tatiana and Alexander are kept apart for the bulk of it. Only in the last 100 pages are they together again, aside from some brief flashbacks that catch the reader up on the events of the first book (and, no, it's not in the least frustrating that an 800 page book can be summed up in a few quick flashbacks). My issues with Tatiana and Alexander's relationship were and are threefold: the idiotic love triangle (which is a non-issue now, but still taints my opinion of the two), the age difference (which isn't really all that large, but Tatiana was not mature for her age), and the way Alexander bosses Tatiana around. I'm sure his bossiness is typically Russian, and it's also what he witnessed from his parents, but I still think he's a dick, even if society taught him to behave that way.However, as I said, they're hardly together in this one and that's a blessing, unless what you loved about book one was the romance, not the part about the siege; in that case, better luck with book three. Simons totally goes for a dramatic irony thing, with the reader knowing that he's alive and Tatiana believing Alexander died. Will she move on? Will she commit suicide out of despair, leaving her son an orphan? Sadly, the latter was much closer to transpiring. Yeah, I knew her husband was alive and that they would be reunited, but I kept hoping she would move on anyway, what with not shipping them in the slightest.Aside from them, though, I pretty much loved everything else. Simons writes well, aside from her tendency to get all gooshy with the romance stuff. Where the story in The Bronze Horseman was entirely linear, Tatiana and Alexander jumps through time, from Tatiana to Alexander. We learn more about Alexander's childhood and follow him from his faked death until their reunion. Since the lovers are parted, the focus is on historical events, not melodrama.With Alexander, Simons is able to cover torture sessions and the way the Soviets try to garner confessions, in which every option is a trap. From there, Alexander moves to a penal brigade, and the reader gets to witness just how poorly managed the Soviet forces were, sending men out to die senselessly. Later, Alexander fights along the front line with Germany, poorly armed and with the NKGB waiting behind to shoot him and his men should they retreat. Forced to surrender or die, his men are then sent to a concentration camp (Sachsenhausen) for having dared to let the enemy win. All of these things are true to the Soviet experience in WWII, and Simons does a good job depicting the bleakness.With only one book left in this saga, I'm hoping for more historical fiction, but suspect that The Summer Garden will be romance, romance, romance. At any rate, with this one, I'm glad I've read the series, and tentatively excited to continue.
5 To me, The Bronze Horseman was an acquired taste -- I wasn't crazy about it in the beginning, but it won me over in more ways than one by the time the book came to end.  I was dying to read the sequel, but said sequel isn't available yet here in the US, so I had to order a copy on the UK site.  Tatiana and Alexander is not only a brilliant sequel, it is by far better than the first installment.  This novel captured me in so many ways it is unbelievable.  So, this one picks up where TBH left off.  The World War II Leningrad is in progress, and it has torn Tatiana and Alexander apart.  Tatiana, bearing Alex's unborn child, flees to America where she finds work, makes friends and begins a life that more or less makes sense.  But her terrible grief plagues her.  She thinks Alexander is dead, and she finds this knowledge difficult to cope.  Alexander isn't dead, but he might as well be.  He is to be executed for treason and espionage.  And the fact that he's an American passing off as a Russian citizen may not help his case.  Will these two star-crossed lovers be together again, or will the war come between them indefinitely?  There are various twists throughout the novel.This novel captured me in such a way that it was almost impossible to put down from the moment I started reading it.  The protagonists are so much more well rounded and better developed this time around.  The further development is essential, for I felt that the author focused too much on the aspect of the Leningrad Siege than in the characters in TBH.  Well, the main characters were well developed -- it was the secondary characters that felt underdeveloped to me -- but knowing more about them is great.  The way the story is written leaves you with a feeling that you want to read more.  And, boy, do I wish there were another sequel out!  This novel enthralled me and made me cry in various occasions and my heart went out for Tatiana and Alexander.  Theirs is a love that has gone through all kinds of trials and struggles and yet fails to die.  The historical aspects are wonderful and accurate.  You can tell that the author used a lot of attention to detail in the writing process.  This saga has gotten all the better and I've begun to like it more than Diana Gabaldon's Outlander series.  I hope the author will come out with more because I am dying to know what will happen next.  Paullina Simons is a must-read author and I can't wait to read the next installment of this enlightening historical saga.
4 Read it in four days. My Kindle was on fire because I was flipping the pages so fast. On to book #3!!
5 Tatiana and Alexander is the second book in The Bronze Horseman Trilogy and it&#8217;s equally as good as the first book but also very different.  Simply said&#8230;I&#8217;ve been rendered speechless.  As much as this story is about loss it&#8217;s also about a love so intense that it breeds hope during the most desperate of times.&#8220;Will you remember that? Anywhere you are, if you can look up and find Perseus in the sky, find that smile, and hear the galactic wind whisper your name, you&#8217;ll know that it&#8217;s me, calling for you&#8230; calling you back to Lazarevo.&#8221;Tatiana and Alexander is mostly told in Alexander&#8217;s POV and I found it to be incredibly insightful.  So many questions are answered due to the flashback sequences of when Alexander was a boy and the intense drama surrounding his parent&#8217;s involvement in the Communist Party movement (which was on the rise in the US).  It was absolutely fascinating.  There are also flashback sequences to when he first saw Tatiana Metanova and when he realized he fell in love with her, it was those very memories that would keep him alive during the war and/or torture him.  While those flashback sequences of how he met Tatiana isn&#8217;t new information, it&#8217;s giving you his perspective on his thoughts and feelings which I very much appreciated.&#8220;Memory &#8211; that fiend, that cruel enemy of comfort.&#8221;What is projected throughout this book is the intense love that both Alexander and Tatiana have for one another, it never falters and it&#8217;s completely unyielding. The longing for each other is there and it&#8217;s magnified over time, even though they have been torn apart in the cruelest of ways.  Both are doing their very best to survive without each other and sadly they become a shell of the people they once were but they are both fighters.&#8220;Do I think she has forgotten me; found a new life? Assumed that I was dead, accepted that I was dead. Alexander shrugged. I think about it all the time. I live inside my heart. But what can I do? I have to move toward her.&#8221;Alexander is filled with such despair that he broke my heart into a thousand pieces. He faced things as a soldier and as a POW that no one should ever have to experience but I suppose that&#8217;s the unfortunate, harsh reality of war.  However, his mind and heart always circled back to Tatia.&#8220;We walk alone through this world, but if we&#8217;re lucky, we have a moment of belonging to something, to someone, that sustains us through a lifetime of loneliness.&#8221;I feel completely gutted after reading this book and I cannot stop thinking about what Tatiana and Alexander had to endure; I&#8217;m emotionally exhausted and i wouldn&#8217;t have it any other way.  This story is so heartbreaking and yet, incredibly moving and touching.  The ending blew me away, it will leave you wanting more&#8230;so much more!!!
5 I found this series just AMAAAAZING! Although I could ot endure the parts when he is so brutally tortured. -
5 I was on edge the entire book, especially at the end.  Tatiana's character is a wonder and although she is just that a character - you can't help but actually feel for her and cheer her on the entire time.  Wonderful story.-D.C. Renee (author of More Than Enough)
5 A beautiful love story from start to finish.  I adored The Bronze Horseman and couldn't wait to read what happened next for Tatiana and Alexander.  I was not disappointed.  Paullina Simons is one of my favorite authors.  I put her right up there with Diana Gabaldon. This book gave the reader more insight into Alexander's past.  I found it humorous at times.  He was a very clever young boy/man.  I have recommended this series to friends and family.  They enjoyed them as much as I have.I recently received The Summer Garden (from an overseas source).  I've yet to read it.  I'm waiting until after the holidays.  These books can not be rushed.
4 I really enjoyed this book. Also the other two books in the triology. Highly reccommend for a read that you cant put down.
5 I first read "Bronze Horseman" in 2001, when I purchased it in England (before it came out in the U.S.) I got so wrapped up in it, that I purchased my copy of Tatiana and Alexander from England because it wasn't coming out fast enough for me.  Tatiana and Alexander is a continuation of the "Bronze Horseman," which was a fantastic read, with a hanging ending - and  Tatiana and Alexander provides more of the saga in a riveting way.  I really hated to put the book down to go do other things - the story was so captivating and the characters were so real.  As a novice on 20th century Russian History, Ms. Simons does an great job providing an accurate, historical canvas to weave her story of two individuals whose love for each other is so powerful that it can persevere through separation and war.  Be sure to read the Bronze Horseman before this however.
5 This was the most  amazing and well-written love story I have read in years.I loved the main characters, Tatiana  and Alexander and I  i was rooting for them to be forever together and in love ALL THE WAY!!
4 Despite everything love prevails! Speechless! Would have liked for the main story to unravel a little faster, but amazing nonetheless! 4.5 stars
5 This is THE BEST SERIES OF ALL TIME. If you have not read these books than you are doing yourself a huge diservice. Words cannot express how wonderful and amazing these books are. These are a definite must read for anyone and everyone. If I could I would give them a  million stars. Five just isn't enough.
4 This is the love story of Tatiana, young Russian girl, and Alexander, son of Americans who came to the Soviet Union in the 1930's. The story is split between Tatiana, who manages to escape to the US while pregnant, and Alexander, from the time he came to the Soviet Union throughout WWII. Simons is a talented author and great storyteller, who is comfortable touching on touchy subjects such as soviet politics, the treatment of prisoners, etc., which gives a lot of credibility to the story. The Soviet Union and WWII are more than a background to this story and I learnt a lot through the experiences of Alexander and how he managed before and during the war as an American at heart. To me this wasn't the best book by Paullina Simons (the best being The Girl in Times Square), but I enjoyed it a lot and it will touch a lot of readers.
4 The "Bronze Horseman" saga soars higher with each new installment, as Paullina Simons acquires more confidence with the characters and they become more and more like real people.  The middle book follows Tatiana as she forges a new destiny for herself and her baby, ensconced in the hospital of Ellis Island, helping to bring German and Italian prisoners of war back to life even as she is unable to move past the memory her own dead soldier.  Meanwhile, Alexander is trapped on the horrific eastern front of the war between Germany and Russia, hated by both sides, wanted dead by both sides.This is a solid historical novel that recalls other epic romances like "The Thorn Birds," Alessandro Manzoni's "I Promessi Sposi," even "Gone With the Wind."  That it does not quite rise to their level is due to the fact that the two protagonists lose far too much time and energy in moping after the past.  Theirs is an undying love, yes, but how many times do we need to be reminded of that?  Simons accounts for the fact that Tania and Sasha are separated for most of the story by plunging us into flashback after flashback of their racy month in Lazarevo.  These passages bored me in the first book and add little to the second.Tatiana is a fascinating character, deceptively small but so strong, a single mother thrust onto the stage of WWII-era New York City:  A time and place where really, anything was possible.  I would have loved to follow her experiences in this strange new world more closely.  Too much Bella Swan, not enough Scarlett O'Hara.
5 TATIANA & ALEXANDER, the sequel to THE BRONZE HORSEMAN was a very emotional story compared to the first novel. This is one to have a box of tissues by your side. The ending left me breathless. The author knocked the breath right out of me with this series, and they are all on my keeper shelf where they will stay so I can re-read them. I can't recommend them highly enough.
1 I read this book when it was only available in hard copy.  It  is captivating! Not only were the historically events graphically described but the passion, courage and endurance of the characters were captivating.  It is one book that I kept and the sequels to it are equally  as poignant making each of them difficult to stop reading even when you have other demands on your time.  This book makes you want to learn more about the ongoing tale of this couple/family. An excellent read!
4 This is the 2nd book in a trilogy.  The writing seems to have improved tremendously since the first book and the story is as well written as the first book - it's just an extremely sad story.
5 amazing amazing! a continuation of the best love saga I have ever read. what an amazing journey she takes us through
4 I thoroughly enjoyed this book, although it could have used some editing of the last 1/4 of the book. Even so, it is well worth reading. The heart wrenching tale of Tatiana and Alexander continues, told from each character's POV as the story switches back and forth between their two lives in the years following Tatiana's arrival in America.
4 Hmm... Still love their story. I hate the time that elapses, I get it but it doesn't make me like it any more. The back and forth of youth and adulthood of Alexander wasn't my favorite.I think if history were presented in such a way that all of it was in this book and this series, it be a lot easier to learn. I am Russian and my grandparents (whom I never got the chance to meet) came over from Russia. And yet I knew almost nothing about my heritage until reading these books. Yes, sad, I know.It is really quite amazing that Alexander survived through all that he did. Yes he is changed but still alive. Once again, Tania who really deserves to cry 'whoa is me, feel sorry for me,' never does. She keeps trudging ahead, hoping and caring for everyone she comes across.It's a happy-ish ending but their road ahead will be filled with bumps.
2 Loved the first book so much I couldn't wait to get the second one which my library didn't carry.  Ugh.  Have read about 60 pages and cannot pick it back up.  Tired of it and find it very annoying now.
5 In 1941 eighteen year old Tatiana Metanova and Red Army Officer Alexander Belov met and fell in love (see The Bronze Horseman).  She becomes pregnant while he goes off to fight Hitler's army.  Tatiana believes her beloved died so as a single mom widow manages to get to Ellis Island via Scandinavia and the across the Atlantic.  Tatiana changes her name to Jane Barrington and gets a position as a nurse on Ellis Island while also raising her son Anthony, but misses her beloved AlexanderMeanwhile Stalin's Secret Police arrests Alexander who is accused of being a traitor.  He is sentenced to die.  He looks back ironically to when his father, a communist believer, left a nice middle class existence in America to relocate the family in Stalin's impoverished Russia.  However, those thoughts add to his pain.  Only remembering his beloved Tatiana keeps him going through the torture and the expectation of death.The sequel to The Bronze Horseman changes perspective from Tatiana's vivid descriptions of the horrors of war especially the Battle of Leningrad with her one light being Alexander; to his bleak tale of all's deadly on the German front especially his only stay of execution being the lead of a suicide mission with his one light being Tatiana.  The terrific story line uses the atrocities of war as the backdrop to the human spirit when love can overcome so much.  Tatiana and Alexander is a love story  that tugs at the heartstrings.Harriet Klausner
5 Oh this book. I read this book all day today, between patients at work. I couldn't put it down. In some ways it was very repetitive, which frustrated me a bit. I think the book either quotes or restates 10% of The Bronze Horseman. It got to be a bit much for me. However, because of the tension, the heart-breaking suspense, I loved this book regardless. I loved reading it and I can't wait to read the next and final one in the series.
5 Rare is it to find such an amazing follow up to the incredible first book. The sweeping saga continued in this amazing read.
5 I really couldn't imagine this book even coming close to be as great as The Bronze Horseman and I was wrong. I fell in love with Tatiana & Alexander in the first book and it grew even more in this one. I am so excited to read the third in the series- The Summer Garden. I am hoping that Paullina will keep writing about these amazing characters.
4 I'm not sure if the writer saw lots of action movies - but sometimes - Although sometimes ridiculous - it works as James Bond Movies - you don't think its possible -but works on your senses like the movie does.
5 Amazing love story set in WW2 Russia.  Didn't think it would hold my interest at all but I loved it!
5 Both this and The Bronze Horseman have become my new ALL TIME FAVORITE book series. I haven't loved a story and set of characters like this since Rhett and Scarlett in Gone with the Wind! I loved it SO incredibly much, it's not funny!!
5 This book (you have to read the whole Trilogy) is one that will stay with me forever.  Pure, unselfish, undying love in the harshest of environments.  What Alexander and Tatiana endured is heartbreaking, breathtaking beautiful and moving.  The tragedy of war and the unbelievable human suffering broke my heart, the resolve and dedication of the two lovers was warming. Tatiana was the most vulnerable, strongest, bravest, unselfish, determined and loving heroine in any book I have read.  Alexander certainly found his angel and he risked everything for her.  My most favourite story.
3 I loved The Bronze Horseman. I mean I really LOVED it. I loved it enough to immediately re-read all 800 pages right after I finished it because I was so lost in their world, I just could not move on yet. Everything about TBH was so authentic, I felt like I was really there. I felt everything the characters were going through.Tatiana and Alexander starts off where TBH ends, and the beginning is very good. I really enjoyed the flashbacks to Alexander's life in the Soviet Union leading up to him meeting Tatiana, but then towards the middle of the book, things went downhill. This book lacked the tenderness that made TBH the epic romance it was. I especially disliked Alexander's account of meeting Dasha and Tatiana and his initial feelings towards them and their family.  It just didn't seem to fit with the way things were portrayed in the first book. The character's personalities in this book were so different than in TBH, and there were about 300 pages right in the middle of the book that were just so boring.  It was a real struggle to keep going at some points because the scenes were extremely repetitive.  Once the pace picks back up towards the last 20% of the book, the plot takes a turn that is so far-fetched, it borders on ridiculous.  Everything that made The Bronze Horseman so real and authentic is gone and we are left with a story that requires a big stretch of the imagination.It is necessary to read Tatiana and Alexander because of the cliffhanger ending at the end of TBH, however I almost wish I hadn't.  I did not enjoy this book nearly as much and felt like it cast a shadow over TBH.  I am going to stop at this point and not read the last book because Tatiana and Alexander gives enough closure for me to leave their story where it is. I read some spoilers for The Summer Garden and feel like that book is going to further taint my feelings about the characters. I prefer to remember the moment when fate made a handsome soldier cross the street for a beautiful young girl sitting on a bench eating ice cream and the epic love that grew out of that.This book gets 3.5 stars from me. It wasn't terrible, but in my opinion, it didn't live up to the first book at all.
5 I read the first book The Bronze Horseman and could not settle it was so tragic and I wanted to find out what had happened to both Alexander and Tania. When I found out that there was two more books after that I just had to get them. So I have just finished The Bridge To the Holy Cross and I have got to say that I could not put it down and I raced through it had to find out what happened. What I did find that it was so graphic and and very descriptive especially about the communism and depriviation of the people of Russia.  I learned a lot about the 2nd World war particularly from the Soviet side which was so cruel and unrelenting.Now I can't wait to start the third book in the trigily.
4 you must read first the ironhorseman than go on to tatiana and alexander,than the summer garden. great story telling. read all three of them.loved them all.
5 This novel is the second in a series of two books.  It is the story of two people in the Soviet Union during World War II.  Great book.
5 Because I read this series years ago, I didn't write reviews for each book. But Paullina Simons is solely responsible for turning me on to romance novels with her amazing hero Alexander (Belov) Barrington, so I had to rectify that omission. I'm rereading this series because I can't get him out of my head.In The Bronze Horseman, Leningrad girl Tatiana meets Russian soldier Alexander at the start of WWII. Tatiana discovers an astonishing secret about Alexander, and they forge a deep bond. But they have to hide their love for each other due to Tatiana's sister. (The war raging around them doesn't make it any easier, either). At the end of the book, we know what has happened to Tatiana but the results of Alexander's sacrifice aren't evident...Until Tatiana and Alexander. Oh! What Alexander endures! It makes me cry just thinking about it. If ever a man needs faith in God to survive what he does, it's Alexander. And Tatiana is his foundation of faith. Though they are apart for most of this book, their love is so deep.I'm so devastated upon finishing this book that I may have to wait a bit to start rereading book #3: The Summer Garden. And I know that Ms. Simons doesn't sugarcoat life after war for these two.If you love emotional reads, I definitely encourage you to grab the reins of The Bronze Horseman. You won't forget the stalwart hero Alexander or his feisty bride Tatiana.
5 Such an interesting perspective. Loved these books immensely. Wish there was more, but it ended soooo well! Enjoy, I sure did!
3 Tatiana and Alexander - Paulina Simon3.5 stars round down to 3...........spoilers....................This is the second book in a trilogy. The love story that began with the siege of Leningrad continues as World War Two comes to a close. Tatiana has escaped Russia, arrived at Ellis Island, and has given birth to her son, Anthony.  Alexander escaped execution only by being put in charge of a penal battalion of convicted Russian criminals who are sent to fight in hopeless situations. Tatiana grieves and suffers as she nurses dying prisoners of war. Alexander suffers and narrowly escapes death again and again in a seemingly endless series of battles and betrayals. Both of the lovers (and the author) spend a great many pages remembering their brief time of peaceful passion in italicized passages of text that are lifted directly from the first book. Once again the level of devotion and the unlikely rescue/escape require some willing collusion on the part of the reader.I do think the book was unnecessarily long and drawn out. Many aspects of the plot are unbelievable. Nevertheless, this is a good book for a certain mood. It's an easy read, a good, action filled, love story.  The protagonists are noble and courageous. Right triumphs over might.
5 Perfect sequal. It was everything I hoped it would be. I was worried that it would focus too much on the child (Anthony) and I tend to shy away from books with kids, but it was perfect. Great insight into the past, present and future.Can't wait till the Summer Garden arrives in the mail!
5 This book, just like the one before it, took me on a roller coaster ride of raw emotion. At first, I didn't think I would like the way it went back and forth between his inner torment and hers, but once I accepted that this was the course the story needed to take, I fell into it with abandon.I can't believe the suffering this one man endured. Knowing that he was going through this because he valued her safety above his own made it even harder to bear.The best word I can think of to describe this novel is 'haunting'. Each of them was like a ghostly presence in the others life. Remembering was bittersweet. They couldn't bear to re-live the memories and couldn't bear to let them go.The end was so perfect I just about burst. I hear the next one will be just as emotionally challenging as the first two, and I can't wait to get my hands on it!! This is the kind of story that is just so satisfying, it's worth every moment.
5 I can't recommend this book highly enough with one caveat.  It is very long.  At times it lags.  Now here's the big - but.  Stay with it.  This book is one of the best I've read in a very, very long time.  It's one which will stay with me and I highly recommend reading it.  The history is so rich and it's a history that I believe - many others - are probably unaware about; at least most of it was new to me.  Then, there's the crushing and, at-times, tear-jerking and heart-ripping passages as I was drawn into the lives of these well-devloped characters.  The ending begs for a sequel.  Don't miss this great read.  It satisfies on many levels.
5 Exceptionally historically realistic.  Anyone who loves Russian history knows that Ms Simons has written this book and her previous prelude to this book with literary authority.  So enjoyable that one will want to read it over and over again through their lifetime.
5 Great book it's the second book of the trilogy . Could not put it down. Highly recommend it.The story is gripping and carries away like on a trip with heroine.
5 Another riveting novel by Paullina Simons. This sequel completes the story of The Bronze Horseman that had the cliffhanger ending. The emotions are again very strong and so sad in places that I had to break away from the book for awhile before I could continue reading. This is the story of such an enduring love that you will be enthralled.(SPOILERS AHEAD)Tatiana and Alexander are separated for the majority of this book and don't even know if one another is alive. World War 2 is shown in its grueling, depressing, and gritty reality as the two lovers attempt to deal with their lives without each other. I was also intrigued to read about Ellis Island and New York City during the war. Tatiana is an endearing and wonderfully strong character, packed in the tiny body of a young woman. She has more determination, stamina, and faith than 10 people together. She is not a Christian, but does more angelic deeds and has a more moral character than any heroine I have ever read about in this type of fiction.  Alexander is the warrior of warriors or the "Eveready battery bunny" that just keeps going and going and going despite unsurmountable hardships. A good portion of the book is told through his eyes. Although he attempts to always do the right thing, he manages to surround himself with "friends" who betray him. Tatiana is the only steadfast beacon of hope in his life. (I loved everything about Alexander except his chain-smoking.) If you can make it through several hundreds of pages of painful emotions, you will be rewarded with a happy ending.The only negative thing I have to say about this book is that it is too difficult to find. Local bookstores in the USA do not carry it, but Amazon does.
5 This was the first Paullina Simons book that I read, quite by accident.  I picked it for the picture on the cover.  Since I spent time in Russia and have a print of the cover shot, I knew the book would be something I'd enjoy.  I not only enjoyed it, I loved it!  I started calling my husband Alexander for a few days...just for the romance of it.  He thought I was nuts, but understood that I get very emotionally involved with the characters in the books I read.  No, I'm not a crack-head...just a hopeless romantic!  Buy the book!  It's great!
4 I loved bronze horseman more than anything. This book was excellent.  There was a lot more details of the war in this book.
4 I enjoyed so much the bronze Horseman that maybe I was expecting too much from the sequel "Tatiana and Alexander". Although the story itself is very well written, Tatiana and Alexander reunion is disappointingly just at the end of the book and even if the reunion is very emotional they spent most of the time together fighting. I was expecting more interaction between the two characters and instead I got lot of memories and rewind of past story.
5 I loved this series of books.  I can't believe I waited so long to read them.  These moved straight to the top of my list!
5 My friend Lee talked me into getting this book. I enjoy reading about Russian history.  This story of love, danger , tragedy and  hope shows the ironies of the people trying to deal with the war and starvation.  This is the second book of the trilogy and I am now reading the last. This is a great read.  I loved it.
5 ****May Contain Spoilers*****I have to say that I really loved this book. Tania shows preserverence as she begins her new life and struggles to think that Alexander is really dead.The story has alot of emotions and touched my heart. My heart went out to Alexander as he struggled through the war and how he and Tania were apart for most of the novel. But this love knows no limits and Tania AND Alexander risk ALOT for eachother.I have to say that I liked this one better than the first book in the Trilogy (The Bronze Horseman). I highly recommend both!!I am currently reading the third and final book.
5 I got through this book just as fast as the first, finding it nearly impossible to put it down, and even dreaming about it when I slept. Rarely do books reach that aspect of my life, and when they do I know the book is special. Though I found it very frustrating to wait till near the end of the book to reunite Tatiana and Alexander, it made it even more special when they did, almost as if you waited as long as they did. I also enjoyed hearing more about Alexander's past, especially that of when he moved to the Soviet Union with his family, and how that whole situation fell apart. I really want to read the next one of course but it looks like I will be waiting for a new edition that will be published early next year. Can't wait!
5 Again, read the whole trilogy and it will all fit together. Nice read. I ordered the actual books of the triology and loved feeling the covers and pages as this story enfolds.
5 I am extremely happy to have found books by Paullina Simons.  I have ready almost every book and love each one.  "Tatiana and Alexander" has been my favorite so far, but I don't think I would have enjoyed it as much had I not read "The Bronze Horseman".  I cannot wait to get my hands on "The Summer Garden".  I highly recommend this book.
5 Thoroughly enjoyable. Much like the first. Fast paced, wonderful story line. & I love the context of the story, all the beautiful details of the times and places involved. Would definitely recommend this trilogy.
5 Tatiana and Alexander is a great sequel to The Bronze Horseman. If you fell in love with the main characters in the first book, this story will keep you hooked. I read it very quickly because I couldn't wait to see how it would end. While I didn't love it quite as much as The Bronze Horseman, the sequel remains compelling and complex. Author is very good at illustrating the horrors of war and creating complicated characters with chemistry. I agree with some reviewers that the pace picks up in the second half but I enjoyed reading about Alexander's early years in Russia and seeing some experiences from his point of view. 4.5 stars.
5 Tatiana and Alexander is the continuence of The Bronze Horseman and is just as wonderful. In this story Tatia and Shura are separated and we relive much of the first novel through flash backs from both of the main characters. Much of the story is told through Alexander's perspective as he fights his way through the Soviet Union with only memories to keep him going. I love the way the author moves her characters seemlessly through history.
5 This book was the perfect read, to continue the love story and heartache that is, Alexander and Tatiana. I am in love with the characters and can't stop reading these books! Highly recommend all 3 in the series.
5 Same book as &#34;Tatiana and Alexander&#34; but there is more in the story.  There is extra content that was edited out of &#34;T&A&#34;.  Worth getting to read the extras if you love this story as much as i do :)
5 WOW, In 2001, I read the first book in this series (only I didn't know it was the first in a series until recently). I was incredibly moved by the love stoty in The Bronze Horseman and absolutely loved the characters. I was disappointed when it ended. For years, I checked to see if a sequel was out and after a while, forgot to check. A few months ago I discovered that Tatiana and Alexander was available and when it arrived in the mail, it was like a "bronze" gift. This book has a different writing syle but still filled me with more insight and stories of these two strong and resilient characters. It's one of those books that my family knows to "leave me alone when I'm reading" or else!Can't wait to read the final book in the series.
3 Liked most of it but really didn't like repeat episodes of book one.  I skipped thru those.  Hopefully the next book won't do the same
5 I loved this book.  It has intrigue, romance, intense drama during WWII while Alexander fights and tries to get back to Tania.  She grows into a woman and a nurse yet Alexander is never out of her mind.  Then an amazing revelation and her world turns upside down.  I am so glad to have discovered this three part story when all three were available.  It would have been hard to wait for the next part.  Get The Bronze Horseman, then Tatiana and Alexander, and The Summer Garden.  You will be glad you read them.  The characters are charming and very real.  This historical aspects of Leningrad and the War make you feel that you are experiencing the terrible events.  It is a marvelous book series.  I'm going to have to read some other of Paullina Simons.
5 this is a great book on my kindle.  It is a saga/ trilogy. I like that I was given the option to add the next book at the end.
5 I loved every second of this book!  It is heart wrenching, heart stopping, & so good!  If you loved the Bronze Horseman, you will not be disappointed in the 2nd book in this trilogy! I can't believe there aren't more great reviews for this wonderful book.
2 I enjoyed the book. But I do have to say that the sex was too descriptive. It was not necessary to make it into soft porn. I finally figured out when it was going to happen and then had to skip over several pages at times just to get past it.  For that reason alone I give the book a 2.  I can't even recommend it due to all the sex, sorry!! It was a great story though!
5 Although I don't usually read such long books, this book was well worth the effort. I loved it.  A true love story.
3 Even though I liked the book, for someone who had read The Bonze Horseman, it was too repetitive. Every memory Tatiana and Alexander had about their time in Leningrad, in Luga, in Lazarevo, etc. was played over and over again. Some of the situations were not realistic such  as the time when Alexander was hung by his feet and dislocated both his ankles, yet later he escaped running.I liked how the author build up the characters,the descriptions of the different battles were extremely well done. I could feel their cold, their fear, their frustrations. The portrayal of the deep and strong love Tatiana and Alexander felt for each other was described beautifully. It is clear that the author researched well all topics presented.I will read the last book of the trilogy because I like closing the circles. However,I believe, the feeling I had upon finishing the first book will be confirmed. It did not have to be a trilogy, it would have been a great single book.
4 I felt this book was a little slow at times, bit just had to keep reading to see the outcome of the two main characters, as they lived on different continents, separated by the ravages of war. if you have read The Bronze Horseman, this one is a must
5 Takes place in difficult times, but love conquers all.  A quite incendiary love story.  Hang on to your hat, and cheer on the couple.
5 I really enjoyed this book.  It was equally as good as the first one. difficult to put down. would thoroughly recommend it - especially if you have read the first book in this series.
5 Loved the whole Tatiana and Alexander series starting with the Bronze Horseman.  Once I read the first book I was hooked.
5 This is a book series that must be read by all. It was incredible. I can't say enough how this has changed my expectations for what the books I read will be like, but it was an incredible read! It was thorough, it was wonderfully written, and the research put into making this book real and accurate was expertly done. The characters were perfectly developed and featured enough that you didn't get overwhelmed by an author who makes it very obvious that they took the time to think about what they were doing. This book and the entire series was worth the read. I seriously couldn't put them down. You owe it to yourself to read these!
5 Of the hundreds of books that I have read. This series is in my top 10. I am so glad that I did not miss reading it.
5 This was an exceptionally rich and detailed sequel to the Bronze Horseman.. The story line is historically vivid and fascinating, exciting and tense, climatic and heroic..  Several stories, past, present and future build to create a whole picture that is impossible to stop reading..  Highly recommended!
4 After finishing TBH, I dove right into this book.  I was heartbroken that Alexander faked his death to save Tatiana so I was dying to know what was going to happen next.  I was desperately hoping neither of them had moved on, or that it wouldn't take 50 years or some insane amount of time to bring them back together.  I really enjoyed learning more of Alexander's story, starting from right before his family left America and ending with him meeting Tatiana for the first time.  I think I enjoyed Alexander's part of the book more than Tatiana's.  Tatiana was just trying to adjust to life in America with her son and mourn her husband while having a nagging feeling something wasn't right about his death.  My heart broke for Alexander though.  Sacrificing himself to save his wife and unborn child.  Then trying everything in his power to stay alive so he could one day search for them.The only thing I didn't really like was the way the book began.  We already went through Tatiana making it out of the Soviet Union, getting into Sweden and making her way to America.  I didn't really need a more detailed recap of all that.  It should have picked up where it left off for her after TBH.  But that was really my only complaint.  Still a good read.
4 I absolutely loved the beginning! I enjoyed the flashbacks that give us more insight into Alexander's story before he and Tatiana meet in the first book. Even though they are apart, I still enjoy the love story that is Tatiana and Alexander!The middle left me frustrated. It tended to drag on and make me wonder what kind of love story would spend hundreds of pages on everything but ROMANCE. I seriously wanted to claw Tatiana's eyes out every time she contemplated dropping her son off with the nearest stranger or putting a bullet through her head. If she even remotely believed that Alexander was dead, what reason did she have to live?? Apparently their son was not reason enough??Once Tatiana snapped out of her "woe is me" mode towards the end, it was fantastic.Overall, I still enjoyed the story despite my issues with Tatiana's character.
4 ****If you haven't read The Bronze Horseman you might not want to read further****Published in the UK as Bridge to Holy Cross, this book takes up Tatiana and Alexander's story where the first one left off. Alexander is presumed dead in Russia while a pregnant Tatiana was able to escape to sanctuary United States as WWII rages around them. As Tatiana builds herself a new life as a nurse and raises her son, the not-so-dead Alexander finds himself at the very front of the lines commanding a unit of convicted prisoners. The author also goes into background detail of Alexander's parents and how they came to live in Russia, their lives there as communists and their subsequent imprisonment and death. Tatiana eventually comes across a couple of clues left by Alexander and sets her on a dangerous path through enemy territory that....More than that, I am not willing to tell as I'd be giving away the whole plot, I am not into spoilers. Both our lovers are heartbreaking as they pine for one another and their lost love, and Simons does keep you sitting on the edge of your seat until the very end wondering if you're going to get a HEA after all (story continued in book #3, The Summer Garden). The good - the scenes at the front lines and the prison camps were chilling - most especially when Alexander's troops came across one of Hitler's concentration camps and realized what had really happened there.The not so good - for some unknown reason Simons felt the need to flashback and rehash Tatiana and Alexander's entire relationship, albeit this time from Alexander's POV (Editor, wherefore art thou?). While one does gain some additional background aspect seeing their romance from Alexander's eyes, it really does not add to the story line at all and one could easily skim quickly past those 100 or so pages - especially if you picked up book two right after finishing the first. Despite its flaws, it was a very enjoyable read and as in the first I had a hard time putting it down. A shaky (almost gave it three) 4/5 stars.
5 One of the best books I have ever read.  Family, history, love, action.  Something for everyone.  Absolutely couldn't put it down.  Highly recommend.
5 My father was in World War one and World War 2 - as a Hungarian, he has witnessed many similar situations as did the character Alexander from the Bronze Horseman Trilogy. Reading these books made me understand the suffering that had to be endured during war in eastern Europe, and many of what is told in this book sounds so familiar from the stories my father used to tell us when he felt like dwelling in the past. While it is heart breaking to read what happens to Alexander during war, it is also a book full of hopes with a wonderful ending. You must read the first book and the third book in order to grasp what Alexander and Tatiana went through and their never ending love for each other is wonderfully described - a wonderful book!
4 This was a welcome but not enriching sequel to &#34;The Bronze Horseman.&#34;  The flagship novel was amazing, in my opinion -- I actually dreamed about it for days, and was so impressed with it that I gave copies to my close friends for Christmas.  When I myself finished The Bronze Horseman, I couldn't imagine not reading this sequel, and overall I am glad I did, because it resolved lingering tensions that existed after the close of the first book.  It was, however, a bit lukewarm after The Bronze Horseman, mainly because it felt like a reprise in many ways.  It's still very much worth reading, but in other trilogies or series I've read, the author introduces fresh dramas or conflicts to hook the reader in new ways, and I didn't find that with Tatiana and Alexander.  It didn't compel me enough to go on to read the third book in the series.
5 Another great book by Paulinna Simons!  She never disappoints.  If you have read others, read this one!
3 Paullina Simons' sequel to the LOVELY Bronze Horseman just failed to charm and capture in the same manner as its predecessor. It wasn't BAD, and in fact some of the things I didn't like about The Bronze Horseman (the wild sentence structure and the just-missed colloquialisms) seem to have improved in this book.  Tatiana and Alexander may have made a great novella, or better yet, could have seen its pertinent content interwoven with The Bronze Horseman to create one phenomenal book on par with Gabaldon's Outlander. I understand there's a third book, but in my mind, this story feels complete after Tatiana and Alexander.This book had its startlingly good moments but it completely missed golden opportunities to develop/redevelop characters, like Pasha and Anthony. And speaking of Anthony...he didn't seem to matter much to Tatiana at all. I think that's where the bloom fell off the rose for me. I can't say I'm sorry I read this book, but it sure didn't have the beauty of the first. Read it if you need closure!
5 Became very involved with the characters in this book.  Tatiana was a very determined woman from the most humble backgroundand proven to be quite a success professionally and in her permanent life.I have already finished the third book in the trilogy and wish there was more to read!!!
5 I love the first and third books. I loved this one too but it was a bit frustrating. I don't want to spoil anything by giving the story away but be prepared to wait fro answers when you read this book. I spent almost all of one day reading it before I could quit. I think Ms Simons writes suspense better than most people. Her characters are alive and fully formed. Her descriptions of scenery, battlefields, family life, soviet life, Ellis Island life, nursing life, you name it, resonate as authentic. You cannot miss this and the last book after you have read the first.
5 Loved this book as it is the second in a trilogy by Paullina Simons.  Very well written.  I find myself reading more and more, not wanting to put the book down. Glad to have all three books now:  The Bronze Horseman, Tatiana and Alexander, and The Summer Garden.
4 Tatiana and Alexander was difficult for me to get used to reading and first -- there is so much internal dialogue between characters that sometimes you forget who is talking. Once you get over this, the story line is engaging and heartbreaking. Sometimes I wanted to scream at the characters in this book -- at Tatiana who was too afraid to let her sister know about her true love and at Alexander who pretended for so long to Tatiana's face not to love her just to appease her sister. When Tatiana and Alexander could be together, the heat and passion were palpable and you yourself wish for such love in your own life. Mixed with love and passion was the struggle all of the characters went through in the harsh and unforgiving Leningrad; there was no hiding the sometimes inhumane conditions and actions that went on in that desperate city. Overall this is a great love story mixed with war, struggle and survival.
5 This series is wonderful. I can not wait to read the third and final book. What an emotional whirlwind this has been thus far.
5 Must read before you die!  I like this one even better than the first book.  For those of you dying to know what happens to the cliffhanger ending of book 1, brace yourself - you're in for the long haul and will be reading a ton of stuff before you even get there.  BUT this is all about the journey and I loved it.  The story telling on this was so good that it was worth it.  I hope you enjoy it too!Paullina does a lot of flashbacks to when Alexander was younger and we get to see some interactions with his parents (how they first came to Russia, how Alexander's mom copes with the major lifestyle change, how Alex copes, how Alex's dad refuses to see).  There's also flashbacks to Alex's first time, how he first met Dasha, his POV on meeting Tatiana, and lots and lots of flashbacks that highlight Tatiana and Alex's love.  I liked how these were all done because the flashbacks were weaved into the story so you do get to see what happens to Tatiana and her baby going forward... and what happens to Alexander too.  Although a bit unbelievable, I really liked where the plot went and it was a great story that showed love, hope, strength and the determination of the spirit.Don't know how to hide spoilers on an Amazon review, so see my profile's website link for spoilers.
4 A prequel as well as sequel to The Bronze Horseman. Much of what we heard about in The Bronze Horseman is repeated but in more depth. We are given more information on Harold and Jane Barrington and how Alexander fared when he was brought over as a child to the Soviet Union.We learn of his escape on his way to Vladistock prison at age 17. We see again how he meets Demetri, who helps him locate and visit his father in jail and who subsequently becomes a ball and chain around Alexander. Again we see how he meets Dasha and later Tatiana. Some of the Lazarevo scenes are repeated.The reader observes what actually happened in Lake Ladoga and subsequently when the NKVD came for Alexander.The story is hair-raising. The brutality of war and all its hellishness is well described. What I found most thrilling was Tatiana's input in Alexander's freeing. That woman has balls! the story shouted.However, some of the story was hard to believe. Alexander smoked like a chimney but was a super fit soldier. The number of times he narrowly escaped death made me think he was a cat with nine lives. While not a surgeon, he successfully performed throat surgery on Pasha, who seemed to recover immediately.All in all a very good read, which I preferred  to The Bronze Horseman.
5 The book was very well written, I felt like I lived at that time and experienced their angst. It was amazing. The characters were believable and I rooted for them, the book is a real romance.
5 It may have taken me a while to get into the first book, but once I did i was hooked.  A very gripping series, I felt like crying for the most part.  Would definitely recommend!princessemzor.blogspot.com
5 The epic saga of love and war continues--the heart-stopping sequel to Paullina Simons's beloved international bestseller The Bronze Horseman. Tatiana is eighteen years old, pregnant, and widowed when she escapes war-torn Leningrad to find a new life in America. Her long standing one and only love really never leaves her soul! They need each other and this keeps me glued!! Meanwhile, oceans and continents away in the Soviet Union, Alexander barely escapes execution, and is forced to lead a battalion of soldiers considered expendable by the Soviet high command. Yet Alexander is determined to take his men through the ruins of Europe in one last desperate bid to escape Stalin's death machine and somehow find his way to Tatiana once again.This was the shortest of the books and I cant choose they are all equally great!!
5 I cannot say enough good things about this book.  I was halfway through Bronze Horseman before I became totally addicted to the characters and the story, but this one grabbed me from the first page and never let go.  It was emotional, heartwrenching, action-packed with war scenes and completely and totally realistic.  This was one of the best books I have ever read and it is a must for those who read the first book.  Anyone who has an interest in the second World War and the effect it had on the people of Europe and the Soviet Union would enjoy this.  After reading this book, I now feel like Tatiana and Alexander are part of my family.
5 4.5 Stars.  ***Possible Spoilers***The second installment of The Bronze Horseman trilogy is simply named Tatiana and Alexander.  Tatiana and Alexander are separated for a large portion of this novel, with the author alternating between both of their points of view.  Each of them longs for the other, while existing under entirely different circumstances.  Paullina Simons was fantastic in portraying how the separateness affects both of them on a personal level, especially Alexander.Tatiana arrives in the United States as a pregnant refugee.  Soon after her arrival at Ellis Island in New York, she gives birth to a son whom she names Anthony Alexander Barrington.  Tania is placed in the hospital at Ellis Island to recover from childbirth and her lingering illness, and is eventually hired as a nurse to assist other incoming refugees. Tatiana is granted asylum and safety in America while she continues to mourn the loss of her husband.  She reflects back to her time spent with Alexander while going through the motions and barely existing.Readers soon learn what has become of Major Alexander Belov.  Although Alexander arranged for it to appear to Tatiana that he was killed in an attack while traveling to accept his Red Army promotion, he was actually taken prisoner by the Soviet NKVD after Dimitri informed Soviet authorities that he was an escaped American prisoner named Alexander Barrington who infiltrated Red Army ranks.  The Soviet NKVD question and imprison Alexander Belov, hoping to coerce him into admitting that he is Alexander Barrington.  Although he does not admit his true identity, Alexander is sentenced to a Red Army penal battalion to continue fighting against Germany during World War II.After some time has passed, Tania becomes convinced that Alexander faked his death in order to convince her to escape Russia.  Alexander becomes ruthless in his fight to survive the war, hoping that he will someday be reunited with his wife.  Paullina Simons takes readers on an incredible journey as Tatiana and Alexander attempt to find their way back to each other.In my opinion, Tatiana and Alexander does not quite measure up to the quality of The Bronze Horseman, which is one of the best novels that I have ever read, but I did find this novel to be well-written and fascinating.  There were parts of the story that I found to be really beautiful, especially when Alexander reflects back to his own memories of the time he spent with his wife in Lazarevo.  These memories were unique to the moments we had previously read about in The Bronze Horseman!  I thought the historical aspect of Tatiana and Alexander was very interesting.  The alternating points of view between the two main characters emphasized a huge contrast between the terrible reality for soldiers who fought in World War II battles in Europe and the freedom, safety and benefits found by individuals living in America during this same period of time.  I found myself full of emotions and anxiety, hoping for our couple to be reunited before the novel was complete.  Those that have read The Bronze Horseman will not want to miss the continuation of this beautiful story of love!
4 I really enjoyed this book.  The author is wonderful with words and several times I felt the "cold" from the bitter Russian weather.
2 As with the first book, I enjoyed the story enough to want to keep reading but felt some parts were a bit over the top.  It got a bit too much in the end however for me, and I did not continue on with the final book.  I'm not a big romance reader to begin with so maybe my view is tainted, but I'm not a fan of Tatiana and even less so of Alexander.
5 I wish I could start this whole series with Tatiana and Alex all over again.  Aaaaaaah,  I love them so much!  This book was probably the more slow moving of the trilogy, but still it was amazing!
3 I felt like the book dragged on for about 400 pages. it was just about how sad tatiana and alexander were during their separation. Tatiana was not my favorite character in this book at all. I thought she was being a bit selfish with her emotions especially since she had a son that needed her. The first book The bronze Horseman was much much better.
5 The three books (&#34;Tatianna & Alexander, Bronze Horseman and Summer Garden&#34;) cover the full life story of the heroine and hero.As this first book &#34;Tatianna and Alexander&#34; ends one is left feeling bereft, leading the readier to the 2nd book.  I enjoyed them very much and appreciated the details of the characters thoughts and feelings. There is great joy, intense struggles for survival, deep sadness, sacrifice, loyalty, romance, sexy love scenes, and testing of the human spirit to overcome obstacles in life. The author did a good job of research into the history of the USSR, Germany, and USA military. The writing style was good, not as many typos as other Kindle books I've read. I would recommend to a reader who enjoys historical and contemporary, romantic literature. I was left with the impression at the end of the 3rd book, that a grandchild had written these as the life-story of her grandparents.
5 Captivating final novel in this trilogy. Enjoyed this good read although not quite as much as the first two. Regardless would recommend. Finally a trilogy that actually followed a couple right through their lives not just a small snap shot.
4 I really enjoyed this book although I probably preffered The Bronze Horseman by the same author. After reading The Bronze Horseman, I wanted to read what happened to Tatiana and Alexander and it didn't disappoint.  I couldn't put the book down.
5 My feelings went all over the place with this book. At one time, I considered giving it three stars, but Simmons pulled it out of the quagmire. This book, the sequel to the wonderful Bronze Horseman, follows the lives of Alexander and Tatiana after they have parted during WWII. Tatiana's story picks up with her new life in New York. Alexander's life&#8211;&#8211;ALL of it&#8211;&#8211;is told in a series of flashbacks. It's necessary to bring readers who haven't read the first book up to speed with what's going on. It isn't necessary to repeat the first book, which the author does for all purposes. That got really tiresome. I wanted to call up Simmons' editor and say, &#34;Are you aware of what she's doing?&#34; Someone should have awakened and rendered the lives of the two in scene. In  contemporary time. Another thing. Sex is good. Maybe lots of sex is good. But more and more and more, especially since we heard all about it in the Bronze Horseman&#8211;&#8211;where it also got boring? Too much. Not until Simmons pulls the focus back to the war does the book start popping again, hence the title of this review. I will say that I adore Tatiana. I hate wimpy heroines. No one comes near the diminutive Tatiana for sheer guts and power. You go girl! The series is addictive. I bought the Summer Garden, even though HarperCollins' price of $12.49 for a Kindle amounts to robbery.
5 The Bronze Horseman was a beautiful story of love during WWII. It was so well written and I found myself so consumed with Tatiana and Alexander's story that I could hardly put this down. In addition to the love story you also become so consumed by the consequences of living during a time of war.You will fell every emotion possible while reading this book and will not be disappointed.
5 the second instalment in the tatiana alexander saga, and whilst at first it may just seem like a lot of going backwards and forwards in the timeline and it may seem unnecessary, it is totally necessary, so stick it out! the depth of emotion is astounding, and the historical aspect of the series is mind-blowing. i thought i knew about russia and ww2, but then i read this and even though it is fiction there is so much that mainstream history books will not tell you. life changing!
5 I recommend this series to everyone! You will be on the edge of your seat and not able to put the books down. There is so much history about Russia and the war in these stories. The romance, suspense, drama, tragedy that Tania and Alexander go through is heart wrenching! You will cry, yell, get mad! I recommend for anyone who's looking to read a great series.
5 I went on Amazon as soon as I finished TBH to buy this book.  I had to find out what happens next with Tatania and Alexander.  Some reviewers are saying it wasn't as good at TBH.  I agree, but it is well written and it does give you more of Alexander's background and you understand him more because of it.  I have aslo read The Summer Garden (book #3) and it was better than this one.  Reading all three is a must!
5 Paullina Simons is by far my favorite Author ever. The Bronze Horseman made me love to read again. This is the sequel to it.  I love the story so so much
5 Tatiana and Alexander are going on my list of most favorite couples of all time. I finished the Bronze Horseman (which, by the way, is an absolute must read before trying this one-- you will not come anywhere near realizing the depth of emotion unless you read that first) and then had to wait two weeks to get my copy of this book shipped from the UK. It was SO worth the wait. I sobbed through parts of it as though these people were my family members, and was astounded at the gift the author has for wringing emotion from the reader and truly capturing "it" with words. The ending left me breathless. Paullina Simons blew me away with this series, and they are all on my keeper shelf where they will stay so I can re-read them over and over again. I can't recommend them highly enough.
2 3/4 of this story is a repeat of book 1.  Very little happens until you get to the end.  I felt like this story was completely unrealistic, unlike book 1 and 3 in the series.  I felt like this was a filler book for the author to make more money.  You really don't need this story... 1 and 3 in the series are good enough.
5 TBH is my favorite book of all time, and I loved reading more about Tatiana and Alexander. You see these characters develop oceans apart. Tatiana (now living in the USA) begins to doubt what happened when she left Russia and wonders if Alexander is still alive afterall. She becomes obsessed with looking for clues to what really happened and knows she cannot move on until she uncovers the truth. Alexander struggles with inner demons and the emotional/physical torture in Russian prison camps and the Red Army. The romantic tension between the two that was so powerful throughout the first novel isn't as apparent in this one (because they are apart), but it is just as riveting. Talk about 3-dimensional characters...this author is amazing. The last 100 pages are so intense that I raced through them at lightening speed. A must read if you loved The Bronze Horseman.
5 This book amazed me, its the toughest of all three books in this trilogy to read. This is when the destruction of war is laid out before us in all its gritty detail. I could not stop reading, read it one go, maybe I did not even blink throughout those hours because it sure felt like everything hurt after reading this book. There was no way I was not going to read it though. What amazed me were not the historic details, the why and how of the separation of Tatiana and Alexander, the war setting, the lead up to re-union, the angst of living life like there is no tomorrow, no....what still makes me take a deep breath after reading this book is the amazing love that Alexander had for his Tatiana. That's what I remember, even when he could not know he was going to ever see her again he was true to his feelings and that just floors me. If this is the kind of emotion you haven't read about before, then here it is laid out in front of you with the ugliest part of life as the context for something amazingly beautiful.
5 I read The Bronze Horseman about a year ago and fell in love, wanting more at the end.  After i discovered that this book is a trilogy i about died ! I fell in love with this book just as i did the one before.  I needed this book.  Great read that i could not put down, and this time there was a happy ending, and whats greater is knowing i get to know more when the last book comes out.  I love all the characters in this story !
5 I loved the Bronze Horseman series immediately.  Historical fiction is my favorite genre, although when I saw the size of the novel I was wondering what I was getting myself into, and this series didn't dissappoint.  The historical part is very informative without being boring, and the love story is believeable.  My only criticism would be the detailed description of the love scenes.  At times, the scenes were more detailed than I thought was necessary. I just finished the last book of the series; just when you can't imagine what is going to happen, the author throws in another twist to hold your attention.  I have already recommended the series to friends.
5 A truly spellbinding novel following the lives of Tatiana and Alexander who we met in The Bronze Horseman. I loved the way both characters had flashbacks, revisiting their brief time together. The faith they both have in each other is remarkable and helps them in their darkest times.I can not wait to read the last book in the trilogy.
5 A story of enduring love and hope amidst the bleakest of circumstances. It moved me to tears and consumed me completely. There isn't a more beautiful love story than that of Tatiana and Alexander."In Alexander's life there was one thread that could not be broken by death, by distance, by time, by ward. Could not be broken. As long as I am in the world, she said with her breath and her body, as long as I am, you are permanent soldier."Once again. Big, fat, ugly tears. This story has gripped me so completely, heart and soul. I am not a huge crier, although I'm definitely an emotional reader, but these books have turned me into a crying mess, so deeply connected to the characters that the line between reality and fiction blurs. The horrifying experiences they go through, the painful longing for each other and all those times when they felt like giving up hope, it totally gutted me, tore my heart open and had me shedding tears. This book was just as amazing as the first, but a bit different because much of the book, they spent apart. The story unfolds through alternating past and present POVs, both through Tatiana's and Alexander's eyes. It's done seamlessly and in a way that offers a deeper understanding of everything that's transpired and of what they are each going through individually. It's incredibly powerful and eye-opening.In this book, we learn so much more about Alexander's past, his parents and his experiences as a child moving into the Soviet Union. His grit, prowess and intelligence is apparent early on as he endures constant change and tribulations from a young age, carrying the burdens of his parent's choices. Understanding his past helped me better understand the man Alexander was now."Don't worry, Dad. I'll make you proud. I'll be ungreedy and unselfish, unprideful and unvengeful. I'll be as hard a man as they come.""I don't want you to be a hard man, Alexander. I want you to be a good man... A better man than me."And now, Alexander is a prisoner, accused of treason, forced to live an existence without Tatiana, where he is constantly beaten down mentally and physically. Reading about Alexander's journey here and what happens to him after is distressing and horrifying. I felt his pain, as he worked so hard to survive, to have courage, to remain stolid in his beliefs and in his love for Tatiana."He dreamed of Tatiana, and when he woke up, he thought of Tatiana. Dreams and reality were mingled. Alexander didn't know where the nightmare ended and real life began."But naturally, as days turned into weeks and months turned into years, his once unwavering hope began to falter as insecurities began to take over. Would he make it out alive? Would he be the man he was? Would he see Tatiana again? Would she be waiting for him as she had promised?"There was no escape, not from the thoughts, not from the fear, not from the throbbing. Not from the realization that it had been many months, many years, and how long would one faithful wife wait for her dead husband? Even his Tatiana, the brightest star in the sky. How long could she wait before she moved on?"Meanwhile, Tatiana endures, establishing a half-life for herself and her child, caught between the responsibilities of her present and her past, including her undying love for Alexander. She's unable to let go of him, despite not knowing whether he's alive or dead, her heart just doesn't function without its soul mate."I will make you insane, her memory screamed at her near the winter window sill as Tatiana smelled the brine of eternity. On the outside you will walk and smile as if indeed you are a normal woman, but on the inside you will twists and burn on the stake, I will never free you, you will never be free."The longing, the yearning, the unabated desire they feel for each other is ardent and alive despite their circumstances. It is absolutely painful to read. Their sadness consumed me and it was during many of these times that I felt crushed by their story. Life just didn't seem to give them a break. But again, this is the most amazing love story ever, and it was so inspiring to see how deeply, how completely they loved each other. It was more than a feeling though, they were simply not complete without the other."Do you hear the stellar winds, carrying from the heavens a whisper, straight from antiquity... into eternity...""What are they whispering?""Tatiana... Tatiana... Ta...tiana...""Will you remember that? Anywhere you are, if you can look up and find Perseus in the sky, find that smile, and hear the galactic wind whisper your name, you'll know that it's me, calling for you... calling you back to Lazarevo."This story is one of survival, hope and love. They must both survive their situations to be with each other again, as hope wavers, vacillating between the fortifying dream of seeing each other again and the looming threat of death and consuming hopelessness. Their enduring love is everything. Thoughts of Larezevo and benches and ice cream and white dresses with red roses... it's everything they grasp to keep going, keep loving, keep hope alive. There is truly no other series like this one, even as I write this review, with a lump in my throat, I marvel at the way the brilliant writing and this story of true love has affected me so much. It's beautiful. It's perfection. And it's absolutely unforgettable."Shura, I'm yours. You may not like it today, you may not want it tonight, you may wish for it all to be different now, but it remains, and I remain as always, only yours. Nothing can change that. Not your wrath, your fists, your body, or your death."
4 I had to read this book.  The first book, A Bronze Horseman, left me hungry for answers. I remember not being fully invested with this novel 'till about page 300.  I knew I had to go through this journey with these characters, even though I knew how it would end.  I was disappointed with some of the author's story line choices, but I believe that's to the author's credit--I was attached to all the characters.  I will be purchasing book #3.
4 I loved The Bronze Horseman, but it was such an emotional ride, that it took be a few months before I felt like I was ready to tackle the sequel.  I fell in love with the characters all over again.  The writing was just as beautiful as the first book.  I didn't like the fact that they spent so much of the book apart, but then again, that was the reality of war.  I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who love a gripping story.
4 4.5 Stars. This was a great second book to the incredible Bronze Horseman. What I loved most about this was that we get a lot of answers to the questions that most of us were probably asking ourselves throughout the first book. It really made me understand their story much more and of course, Paullina Simons drives you to the brink of madness-- hoping and praying for the reunion that HAS TO BE!There's also quite a stunner in this book that left my mouth agape-- I couldn't believe what I was reading and was blown out of the water about it.Tatiana and Alexander is a must read for those who adored The Bronze Horseman.
3 No-one can deny Simmons ability to write and this book was at times too compelling to put down.  However by the end I felt a little battered by the whole thing - there is far too much going on - a girl disappearing, alcoholism, cancer, a lottery win, tales of the holocaust, family betrayal a passionate affair between a police officer and the sister of his chief suspect - she might carry off maybe three of those themes but taken together I was suffering from emotional overload - by the end - to the extent that when the mystery of missing Amy is finally solved I found I'd lost interest. I think Simmons is at her best when dealing with family and romantic relationships - her ideas of how cops/doctors might carry out their professional duties is sometimes a little off - for example doctors blurting out confidential information about a patient to the first person who asks them  - and the whole police enquiry about Spencer strikes a false note to me. It could have done with some serious editing - the first section drags and the ridiculous business with the uncashed lottery ticket irritated me to the point I almost threw the book down. And the whole cancer/alcoholism story often threatened to veer into wild family melodrama though much of it was very compelling.  The end greatly disappointed - the Milo storyline was unbelievable and some of the parts where he is spouting Marxist/anarchist doctrine to Lily are laughably bad.I think she could either have written a book about a girl whose flatmate disappears and whose brother is a suspect or a book about a girl who has an alcoholic mother, a dysfunctional family and has to battle cancer.  Either of those storylines could have made a great novel but taken together it's way way too much to digest ...
5 If you've read Paullina Simons' epic historical novels, you'll find this one to be very different.  It's contemporary, but with lots of conflict and twists to keep the reader interested.  Characters are well developed into the kind you love and the kind you hate. It's a great mix of narrative and action.  At times, it seems a bit unrealistic, but then it IS fiction!  Overall, a great read!
5 I reluctantly gave this book a try but because I love the author Paullina Simons so much I gave it a try.  I had this book for some time before a actually read it because I know it involves girl with cancer and who wants to read a book like this right?  I was so wrong not to start this book right away. Ms. Simons has done it again.  It was fast pace and really hard it put. A who-done-it with romance.  Lily is a unforgettable character.
5 Lily has won the lottery, has her best friend and roommate disappear, gets cancer, finds love, and has to deal with a very disfunctional, and selfish family. Found nothing redeeming about most of her family. While Lily is in a fight for her life, her Mother's busy complaining about her problems, and dismissing Lily's. The relationship betwwen Lily and Spencer is the bright light of the book. Just wish I know what happened to her at the end of the book.
5 This was an excellent read. Read late into the night to see how the story unravelled. Interesting twists. Highly recommended.
5 yeah right i was still in shock with the end anyway lily is a girl who has loads of issues with life...and her family especially her mom was really depressing... i think its a book for every ageps the love between spencer and lily effected me big time and while you're reading you become a piece of itWONDERFUL AWESOME THE BEST.........
5 Paullina Simons holds nothing back, plunging the reader into an intense world of a disappearance, sickness, political ambition, great contrasts in loving compassion and self-centredness.  I'd previously read 'Tully' which was also a no-holds-barred intensively emotional story.  There is redemption in that book, too.  I am looking forward to reading 'The Bronze Horsemen' which has been warmly recommended.  Great to discover a new author, even if you do need to be in a strong space to read her books!
4 This is the first paullina Simons book I have read so I can't compare it to her other books. I did really like this one though. At first it was a little confusing and at times overwhelming with all the different characters and story lines going on, and it did take quite a while to get into. But once I did get into it, it became hard to put the book down. The beauty of following so many story lines is that you'll be interested in Atleast 1, if not them all. I found this book to be creative and unpredictable. The characters were really relatable and lily was particularly likeable. I like how the storylines all came together at the end and interrelated. In saying all of this, I do have to agree with some of the other reviewers about the whole lotto ticket not being cashed straightaway as highly ridiculous and frustrating. With all that said I do recommend this book, it's a good read in my opinion. And I never say that lightly!
5 This book took me totally by surprise - this is the story of Lily, a 25 year old girl living in New York, whose flatmate and bestfriend Amy suddenly goes missing. In comes Detective Spencer O'Malley, who by searching for Amy unravels more than Lily and himself could ever have imagined. This is an amazing story of a girl struck by luck, both good and bad, who tries to make her way through life when revelations on herself, her family and her loved ones come crashing down on her. Paullina Simmons has done an amazing job with this difficult story. I read the book in less than a week and couldn't wait to find out about Lily, Spencer, and those around them. Truly truly wonderful book, I cannot recommend it enough.
5 I'm definately a Paullina Simons fan.  This book was a surprise.  It wasn't exactly typical, though my thoughts were searching throughout the reading for the answers, and I did come up with a few of them.I think Paullina Simons is an excellent writer.  Towards the end, I couldn't put the book down until I "found out" who, when, where, what and why.I'd recommend this to a friend anyday.
5 This book is very good.  I would like to say that I did not have tears in my eyes while reading the pages, but that is not true.  The unlikely romance is desireable.  The main character-Lily's family is most suprising.  Maybe because I am from a close family, but I was disgusted by the way Lily's family treated her. The ongoing battle with Lily's illness was depressing at times, but I still gave it 5 stars.
5 This was my first Paullina Simon's book and I made sure I picked up all of her other novels as soon as I finished "The Girl in Times Square".  Paullina is a brilliant storyteller and this was a really good book.This novel contains romance, mystery and I loved the surprise twist at the end.  I loved all the characters in the novel, and the detective Spencer is a character from another of Paullina's books.Highly recommend this book!
5 Apart from perhaps &#34;The Bronze Horseman&#34;, this is my favourite of Paullina Simons books however I struggled to get into it the first time around and almost didn't bother.  It took me about 100 pages to get into this book yet I have gone on to read it about four times.  There are enough character flaws to make the story plausible (if a bit annoying at times).  Much as I love this book, I do think the story could have been told equally well over a whole lot less pages.
5 I've been a fan of Paullina Simons ever since I once stumbled across The Broze Horseman. Since then I've read every other Paullina Simons book I can get my hands on. If I absolutely had to compare it to another Simons novel I'd compare it to Tully in that it's very much a character study, but really it's not all that similar. It's new literary ground for Simons.Basically the plot deals with a 24 year old New Yorker named Lily, who sort of floats through life. She's broke and afraid to commit to anything. Suddenly several unexpected events occur at once and the ever superstitous Lily is shaken to the core: Her best friend and roommate, Amy, goes missing suddenly, and Lily wins $18 million in the lottery. Lily is terrified to cash in her ticket because she's waiting for her luck to  run out (which she thinks will happen by something bad happening to Amy). But Lily can't escape her fate even by not cashing in her ticket. She's diagnosed with an extrememly rare form of leukemia. On the verge of death Lily suddenly realises that she can't bear to leave the life that she's been afraid to commit to. She's fallen in love with Spencer, the detective in charge of looking for Amy. Meanwhile Spencer has uncovered disturbing evidence linking Amy's disappearance to Lily's brother Andrew, and the consequences of a case from his past have come back to haunt him (Simons fans might remember Spencer from the book "Red Leaves").The plot sounds confusing but that's because the book seems to defy genre- it's a love story (Lily and Spencer), a mystery (what happened to Amy? How was Andrew involved?) a family drama (wait to you read about Lily's family!) and the story of Lily coming to find herself as she fights for her life, and tries to fight Spencer's demons so that he can share that life with her. Anyway, I recommend it to all of Simon's fans, and I can't wait to read her next book.
5 Book was EXCELLENT - Paulina Simons can really weave a story.  Servicefrom my supplier was fantastic !
4 This is a book that keeps your interest, value for money also with so many chapters. I was taken in by all the caracters
5 This is a great book!  Long read, and with that comes some dry patches.  Wonderful book though!! I loved it!
4 This is a 600 page plus book, but it doesn't feel like it.Lily, an aimless but happy 25 year old, finds her entire life changed when her flatmate, Amy, goes missing. What follows is the unraveling of Lily's life - her every assumption about who she is, who her family is, what she deserves in life and the delicate balance of self belief vs what the universe has in store for her. Lily battles cancer, tears down some relationships and builds others. At heart this really is a love story - the love story both of Lily and herself and Lily and the man in her life. All of the characters in this book are deeply flawed in one way or another, and not all of the stories end happily. I like that. Life doesn't always offer up happy endings and I don't like books that pretend they do. Sure, sometimes it is okay (and some things certainly are okay for Lily in this book) but some things just aren't. The language of this book is simple and evocative. The pages fly by as you are immersed in Lily's world.My only complaint would be that sometimes the author went a bit too far - Lily wins the lottery, Lily is an incredible painter who sells all of her paintings and is offered thousands of dollars for them, someone in the story is in a convent in Mexico after a psychotic break, someone cut off a vital part of their anatomy in a drug fulled frenzy. Sometimes that goes just a tad too far, you know? But it is all a part of the magic of this book, of the slightly unreal feel it has. It's a book that stays with you for a long time.
5 I REALLY loved this book. There are enough plot summaries, so I won't add mine. This book has everything: murder mystery, suspense, family skeletons, great plot/character development, and a tender love story. Lily is just such a lovable character. She remains loyal to her dysfunctional/shady family--all the while battling cancer. As much as I was captivated by all the subplots, it was the love story between Spencer and Lily that had me turning pages until the wee hours of the night. It will capture your heart.Paullina Simons is incredible. This novel is very different from The Bronze Horseman trilogy, but it is just as moving. One of the many things that Ms. Simons gets right again and again is the character development. She is so detail-oriented and thorough. You leave her stories really caring about these characters.I highly recommend this book, and hopefully you will cherish it as much as I have
5 I've found that I either love Paullina Simons books or can't stand them - there doesn't seem to be a middle ground. This is one of her books that I love - the whole twisting several stories together is great although of course you end up liking some better than others. I do find that she can be a bit wordy at times but I love the characters and the story so I would definitely recommend it.
1 The first 500 pages of the book were great.  I loved the relationship between Lily and Spencer.  I liked the mystery.  But then, the last 100 pages of the book got STRANGE.  I mean disturbing strange.  I mean I had nightmares strange.  How did a touching, romantic story go so off the rails?  I was in love with the book, and by the end I was so disgusted and disturbed, that I literally threw the book in the trash.  Usually I donate books that I don't like, but this was so awful, that I would not even give it to some poor unsuspecting stranger.The whole story line with Milo was unnecessary.  It ruined what should have been a great book.  And it was all out of nowhere.  All of a sudden, in the final 100 pages of the book there is a drug infested cult, suicides, people cutting out their tounges and hacking off their private parts.  What?  How does a love story about a girl with cancer, and an alcoholic mother turn into this?  Did the author run out of ideas?  Have too many bad ideas?  I don't know.  The only way I would recommend this book would be if someone was looking for tips on how to destroy what could have been a beautiful story.By the way, I loved The Bronze Horseman trilogy, but this book was some foolishness.
4 I don't have long excerpts or quotes from the book to back up my praise - it's simple - I liked the book, it spoke to me, and I enjoyed reading it.  It's stayed in my mind, and is creeping into my soul.
3 The title of this book drew me to it, and Feldman did imbue the content with her years of experience with Buddhist practice, but I found the book somewhat repetitive and tedious to read. I thought it was overwritten, but I did find her ideas useful.Carol Grever
1 I wanted to like a book called "The Buddhist Path to Simplicity."  I like simple, clear books, like those by Thich Nhat Hanh.  Unfortunately, this book is very badly written.  Ms. Feldman doesn't know where she wants to go with this book.  She mixes in anecdotes, which is nice enough, but the connector sentences, the structure, the conclusions that are supposed to make sense of it all, are missing.  Her sentences are disjointed, and she throws adjectives and nouns all over the place, in a chaotic manner.  I will show you one sentence as an example of what is wrong with this book.  This sentence is from the chapter entitled, "Integrity": "Treasuring freedom and compassion, we cultivate an ethical life not as an end in itself, but as a means to serenity and wisdom."  Can you see the problem?  The whole book is like this.  The chapter is about Integrity, but this sentence says that because we treasure freedom and compassion, we cultivate ethics to get serenity and wisdom.  How can I make sense of this?  What is she talking about?  Integrity?  Wisdom?  Ethics?  She makes no real distinction of terms, and she uses so many of them, that the reader is left rudderless.  There is no coherence to the book.  Every page, and every paragraph, is a hodgepodge of mixed up sentences like that.  The book is, frankly, unreadable.  I really don't want to blast Ms. Feldman, because I figure any Buddhist teacher is a really nice person, but I felt this book deserves one star, and that I should, as a service to other readers, warn them to stay clear of this one, and grab one of the many other fine Buddhist books out there.
5 An excellent guide to living awake and free. Bare and direct=simple. Christina Feldman is a natural l teacher and friend.
3 I paid for this book so I am reading it, but it has taken me several months and I am only half way through.  It is definately not compelling or life-changing.  But it does make you re-evaluate your life in small ways, which is good, and I can say I have gotten some useful insights out of it at the end of the day.  Although to what degree they will stick with me I am not sure.  I was expecting more of a "how to" or "what to do to become more enlightened" type of book.  This is more of a description of the already enlightened mind.  It doesn't really explain how to get from point a to point b.  I keep waiting for her to tell me what to do.  I thought it was going to teach me how to simplify my life, and ultimately it has not.  I think there are probably better books on the topic out there.
3 The Under Dog and Other StoriesThis book has nine short stories that were written in the 1920s. Agatha Christie is &#8220;the most popular mystery writer of all time&#8221; and the world&#8217;s best-selling author. Christie&#8217;s books tell about early 20th century England by using that era for its background. The quality of these stories varies. In the last decades there have been many books that used the &#8220;Sherlock Holmes&#8221; character, will anyone use the character &#8220;Hercule Poirot&#8221; in the future? These stories compare unfavorably to Conan Doyle&#8217;s stories. They are good but not great. Most of Christie&#8217;s work were novels not short stories. She gained fame with &#8220;The Murder of Roger Ackroyd&#8221;.The Under Dog. An old wealthy man is found murdered. His nephew and heir was the last person seen with him. Are there any doubts? Will a trick reveal the real murderer?The Plymouth Express. A young woman is found murdered, her body placed in a train compartment. Who killed this wealthy heiress? The man describes the man she saw with her. [Was there a trick in this story?]The Affair at the Victory Ball. Lord Cronshaw gave a fancy-dress ball. At the end he was found dead! His actress girlfriend died the next day of a drug overdose. Will the reconstruction of the crime lead to a solution?The Market Basing Mystery. A man is found shot dead in a locked room. The doctor says it could not be a suicide, he was dead for twelve hours. Would the wrong man be accused? Is there a clue in the air?The Lemesurier Inheritance. There is a legend about the family Lemesurier, a curse that says the first born son of this family would never inherit. Will it strike again? Is it of supernatural origin? Poirot solves this mystery. There is a surprise at the end.The Cornish Mystery. A married woman is worried about a possible poisoning. When Poirot arrives he learns his client is dead! He learns more. The exhumation shows arsenic. There is a surprise solution!The King of Clubs. A impresario has been murdered. The actress who was with him said a tramp did it. Did Poirot detect a problem in her story? That tramp was never found by anyone. Was Justice served?The Submarine Plans. Poirot is summoned in the middle of the night to investigate the disappearance of the new submarine plans at the Minister of Defence&#8217;s country mansion. He had just stepped out of the room for a minute and then they were gone. An inside job? [This story is too contrived and implausible?]The Adventure of the Clapham Cook. A woman asks Poirot to find her missing cook. Was she lured away as part of a criminal scheme? What could it be? Poirot explains his theory, which is later confirmed. [The mention of &#8220;the dole&#8221; and a boarder says this was in the Great Depression.]
5 I couldn't stop reading this book!!! It was amazingly written. I love how the author introduced the story. Hercules Poirot was fantastic.The book itself was delivered in great condition, shipped in time. You should read this book, you won't be disappointed!
3 I completely and utterly enjoyed this Christie book. It was good in every way.There weren't a huge number of characters to keep track of like the other Christie books I have read. The characters were an interesting bunch as well, even though they did fall into the categories of A) Rich and snobby or B) Poor and meddling.This has been the first Christie book in which I didn't either already know or correctly guess the ending. So I was very pleased by this.I was glad that the man who helps Poirot solve the mystery wasn't annoying, but kind of likeable. In the last Christie book I read (Death on the Nile) the partner was just the most aggravating twit.Something I thought interesting is that Poirot seemed calm during the investigation. Usually, in the books I have read, Poirot seems a little anxious but not in this one. Maybe it was the beach setting? lol.Go ahead and read this one. Very fun and enjoyable.
4 I am among the spoiled ones who came to this book through the 1982 movie starring Peter Ustinov as the legendary Belgian sleuth. So I got curious to read something by the Queen of Crime and see if she is really that good on paper. Well, yes and no, but definitely more "yes" than "no". I will be reading her again. Now what about this "Evil Under the Sun".In a way, knowing pretty well the murder plan, for the screenplay is fairly close to the original, increased my appreciation for the meticulous preparation of the clues - including the misleading ones. I would never have guessed the denouement anyway.The plot is simple enough on the surface. You know the drill. Soon after the first page - but late enough to raise suspicions against several of the characters - the most auspicious event in every crime mystery happens: somebody is murdered. After long and ingenious investigation by the locale police, but with an indispensable brain input from Hercule Poirot, a mighty conspiracy is uncovered, the murderer is caught, his guilt proven beyond doubt, and all of the rest live happily ever after.The whole thing is perfectly preposterous and totally incredible. And that should be expected, of course. Agatha Christie would have no truck with nonsensical cliches like "life is stranger than fiction". Were she not a lady of impeccable manners, she might have exclaimed something like: ''Balls!'' The important thing is that the book is stupendously readable and highly entertaining. The picturesque setting of a small hotel on a private island full of lovely coves and beaches only increases its value as an exercise in sheer escapism. Ridiculous as it is, the plot is masterfully revealed and expertly paced.The omniscient Wikipedia, the closest approximation to God on Earth, tells me that Agatha Christie was also a celebrated dramatist and that her most successful play, "The Mousetrap", is the longest running in history. Apparently it has never been quite off-stage since its premiere in 1952! "Evil Under the Sun" provides an ample evidence of the authoress' flair for drama. The novel is virtually a play: it consists almost exclusively of dialogue; the pieces of third-person narrative inserted in between are shorter than the stage directions in Shaw's plays. And the dialogue is extremely accomplished indeed: pointed, dramatically relevant, always in character, even with some food for thought about human nature now and then.With the possible exception of Hercule Poirot (to be dissected in a minute), all characters are entirely one-dimensional; only very occasionally a hint of second dimension is to be glimpsed; a third one is of course out of the question. The important point to appreciate is the diversity and especially the individuality of the characters. Quite a colourful bunch they are!We have one Reverend Lane, a religious fanatic obsessed with evil, especially under feminine disguise. There's the quiet, reserved and well-off Captain Marshall who just happens to be husband of the victim (and the deep waters... you know); and his daughter, Linda, granted the vulnerability of her tender age, is rather wacky creature, not terribly fond of her stepmother. Then there is Major Barrie, a stuffy old bore with an incredible propensity for telling tedious stories from his Indian years. Mr Blatt is a very rich and very talkative fellow who never misses the opportunity to tell you that his money is as good as anybody else's and especially what a dud this remote hotel full of dullards really is. Mr Blatt's amateur analysis of the suspects, given to the police with his usual and blunt frankness, is colourful enough to deserve quotation:"As I said before, it wasn't me! No such luck! Let me see, couldn't have been Gardener - his wife keeps far too sharp an eye on him! That old ass Barrie? Rot! And it would hardly be the parson. Although, mind you, I've seen his Reverence watching her a good bit. All holy disapproval, but perhaps an eye for the contours all the same! Eh? Lot of hypocrites, most parsons. Did you read that case last month? Parson and the churchwarden's daughter! Bit of an eye-opener."Amusing chap, this Mr Blatt, isn't he? Then we have two lovely couples. The Gardeners are Americans of uncertain age, but probably in the senior range; she talks nineteen to dozen, his vocabulary is largely reduced to "Yes, darling". The Redferns are much younger and conspicuously British; Patrick is dashing and handsome to the extreme, with physique that combines the best of Apollo and Hercules; Christine is "pretty in washed-out way" and obviously in the possession of impressive amount of brains. And speaking of brains, we have two remarkable women more: Miss Brewster, always cool-headed about the tragedy, and Rosamund Darnley, the epitome of the emancipated woman from the late 1930s, own fashion business, pots of money and all.Like I said, a really colourful bunch. So who murdered the "poor, foolish, beautiful" Arlena Marshall? And how exactly was such virtuoso crime performance planned and executed? Tough, eh! No more spoilers (for now).In the "stage directions" there often are gems of concise description that start from the outside and reveal the inner worlds of the characters in a most compelling way. They usually employ excessively formal style to a great comic effect. To take but one memorable example:"On the slightly apoplectic countenance of Major Barrie various emotions seemed contending for mastery. He was endeavoruing to look properly horrified but could not subdue a kind of shamefaced gusto."Hercule Poirot, though fussy and pedantic, is a fellow of considerable charm. His elaborate cordiality is quite endearing: ''Will you permit me to be impertinent, Mademoiselle?'' His candour and bluntness, especially when questioning suspects, are remarkable enough to embarrass his English colleagues. If you mistake him for French, perhaps misled by his delicious accent, he would reply with unmistakable coldness ''I am NOT French'', and if you suggest the classic ''crime of passion'' he would caress his well-groomed moustache, inspect reflectively the roof, and murmur ''There are many passions.''He is a cool customer all right. People lying on the beach sunbathing? Why, they remind one of bodies in the morgue: arranged on the slabs, like butcher's meat! However, Poirot's comment (his emphasis) that ''Today everything is STANDARDIZED'' is frightfully prescient. He is always ready with an answer, usually a chilling one. Isn't such a lovely beach resort a most unlikely place for a crime? But you forget, madam, that there is everywhere evil under the sun. And you also forget that nobody has to account for being on holiday - which in fact makes beach resorts an even more likely place for murder than the cities. Smart bloke, no argument about that.Above all, Poirot is a patient observer and a shrewd judge of human nature. He is like a sponge for multifarious impressions and minute details: the real sleuth never knows what might turn out to be of critical importance later. He formulates and classifies with the precision and impartiality of a computer program. One could introduce him as the newest software for generating penetrating psychological profiles of real people on the basis of the shortest acquaintance; say, ''Poirot v5.1''. The pithy summaries of the characters, including the victim, he gives to the guys from the police in the beginning of the investigation are fabulously accurate.The most fascinating thing about Hercule Poirot is that he is in some ways a very unpleasant character. To begin with, he is a pathological eavesdropper. And I don't mean casual overhearing of a few words from the next table. I mean following people to most unlikely places with the sole intention of aural prying into their private matters. He has no scruples about that and if you ask him why, he would reply that it was a question of murder. Of course you object that at the time the murder in question hadn't been committed yet, but Poirot is imperturbable: he could already sense it. But why on earth didn't you prevent it then? Well, Monsieur, when somebody is determined to commit murder, it is very difficult to prevent it. Personally, I think it was inevitable.Sometimes I wonder if Poirot wouldn't prevent a crime even if he could, simply because it would devoid him of the opportunity to solve the riddle, expose the murderer and no doubt satisfy his considerable vanity. He is not heartless or cruel or anything like that. He is certainly susceptible to intellectual feminine company (e.g. Rosamund), though spectacularly impervious to sensual one (e.g. Arlena), and he is not unsympathetic to the disturbed mental state of the young Linda Marshall. And yet, Poirot's cold and dispassionate observations often border on inhumanity.In short, Hercule Poirot is a curious, ambiguous, charming and disturbing character. Not a bad achievement for a crime mystery.Leaving aside usual drawbacks such as idiotic plots, flat characters and clipped writing - inherent in genre itself and therefore no real shortcomings - there are several aspects in which "Evil Under the Sun" does leave something to be desired. For one thing, I wish Agatha Christie had spent more time dwelling on Poirot's psychological make-up. This is a golden mine of characterization that is left somewhat undeveloped. Maybe she has better fleshed out the elusive Belgian in some of her other novels.Also, the book is a little uneven. There are some parts, such as the interrogation of the hotel guests immediately after the murder, which tend to be monotonous and repetitive. Even the best dialogue can't save these from being a bit dull. By the way, considering Christie's remarkable flair for writing natural yet precise dialogue, there are far too many "he said" and "she said" that should have been cut; sometimes such parasites can be quite annoying. Last and least, some of the subplots - I can't tell you which ones without spoiling - look a trifle too far-fetched. It's difficult to believe that both the police and Poirot take them seriously, and they look like mere pastiche.And there is another common trap in this type of literature that the Queen of Crime doesn't quite escape. This is the ISV syndrome, that is ''Insufficient Sympathy for the Victim''. Arlena is such a fabulous incarnation of bitchiness, everybody is so convinced she ''had it coming'', ''asked for it'' or ''deserved it'', that it's rather easy to actually sympathize with her killer, namely the subject who ''does her in'', ''put her out'', etc. lovely idioms. Since the latter is inevitably discovered in the end, much to his/her trouble, this is a most undesirable side effect. Only in the very end of the book, much too late, does Poirot himself, no less, manage to suggest that the likes of Arlena should indeed be sorry about. In other words, the proverbial femme fatale normally leads a life that is equally fatal, if not more so, for her as it is for the men she makes mad. And her ''fatal attraction'', apart from obvious physical gifts, rests (if only unconsciously) on profound loneliness.All in all, for sheer, one-off, unabashed, escapist fun, Evil Under the Sun is an excellent choice. There is some room for improvement and I wonder if Agatha Christie does improve in some of her other famous ''Poirot mysteries''. I don't really believe she does, but I intend to find out all the same. Even if she doesn't, Poirot's mind and method are still worth the time, and so are those marvelously suggestive secondary characters.
4 Poirot is a master.  The way a little trivia seems to all make sense in the end is amazing.  Modern CSI shows have nothing on Christie.
5 In this novel, Agatha Christie does what she does best:  assembles a group of diverse characters on holiday, has one of them murdered, and provides the rest with plenty of opportunity and motive to have committed the crime.Arlena Marshall is a beautiful woman known for her affairs with men, both before and during her marriage.  While on holiday at the Jolly Roger Hotel on England's South Coast, she openly cavorts with Patrick Redfern while her husband and his wife watch helplessly.  Tragedy is inevitable and few are surprised when Arlena is murdered.What sets Christie apart from other mystery writers is the wonderful skill she exhibits with characterizations.  This novel, one of her best in my opinion, is complete with many well-developed ones which make for a believable crime.  Miss Rosamund Darnley, a talented dress designer, and Mr. and Mrs. Odell Gardener, the outspoken American woman and her long-suffering husband, are just a few of the many who fill this story.  And of course, the famous detective Hercule Poirot also happens to be on holiday here at the time of the murder. Everybody is a suspect as voodoo practices, drug-smuggling, religious mania, and two murders from the past add intrigue.The book was adapted to the big screen in 1982 with Peter Ustinov as Hercule Poirot, Dianna Rigg as Arlena Marshall, and Maggie Smith, Roddy McDowall, James Mason, Colin Blakely, and Jane Birkin also starring. A new made-for-tv version will air in 2001 with David Suchet as Poirot and Hugh Fraser as Arthur Hastings.
3 Having already read the excellent MURDER OF ROGER ACKROYD, and being slapped in the face with one of the biggest twists I've ever read in any novel, I was really looking forward to another good mystery from this legendary author, and featuring the underrated and entertaining Inspector Hercule Poirot.  Sadly, however, I was actually disappointed with this one, and as a result, I was disappointed - disappointed that I was actually disappointed with an Agatha Christie novel.  How did--how *could*--THAT happen??The mystery took so long to really start dropping clues, and by the time I was nearly done with it, things started to actually getting mysterIOUS.  A major (though false) lead appeared halfway through, and while there was speculation as to how it tied in to everything, there was no real resolution to it.  And when the revelation happened, it was done in a sort of offbeat way, and the last chapter was just a giant, lengthy explanation from Poirot as to what actually happened and why, which was interesting...until the last page and a half were taken up by a conversation between two characters that really could have been a lot shorter.Why am I even breaking down the book into the reasons I didn't like it??  How could I have this much negative stuff to say about an Agatha Christie novel?  She's AGATHA CHRISTIE!Hopefully this was, much like Poirot's vacation in the novel, a sort of temporary lull in the bigger adventures.  I'll still read other novels, but sadly, my second Christie read left much to be desired.
4 For some reason this is one of my favorite Agatha Christie whodunits, perhaps it is because of the brilliant film set in the mediterainian but I love the fact that it is on an island and the landscape plays a role in the action. I enjoyed reading this a bit of a rest after reading the crazy whodunit Bigfoot Littlfoot and West. A good read.
4 Summary: Arlena Stuart-Marshall is found strangled at a seaside resort. Who did it-her possibly cuckolded husband; smitten Patrick Redfern; the displeased Mrs. Redfern; or someone else? Luckily Hercule Poirot is on the case.*No spoilers*Thoughts: Poirot was not annoying in this book! I think it's because she'd been writing him for a while and then the involvement of the English police diluted his presence, which made me very grateful.I did not figure out the murder and to be honest I think one of the clues the reader would be unable to use because it was based on physical description and there is a lack of it. I wonder if for my next AC I should make up a table and just input all of the information I receive. For example, physical description, likes/dislikes, alibi, possible motive, etc. Yet I still don't think I'd solve it. I did think the murder was committed in a very clever way. I was afraid this was going to end, like another one of Christies, in a manner which irked me the first time I read it but it's doesn't! I realize that doesn't mean much to you because of course I'm writing around the plot point which references the murder but I was very happy!I loved the Gardeners; Mrs. Gardener talks and talks and talks while Mr. Gardener nods his head and obeys. They were good comic characters to include in a murder mystery which is rather dark by nature.Overall: 4/5. Another good entry in the Poriot category.
5 Another master piece by Agatha. While Poirot is on a vacation,a woman hated by most of her gender, is found dead on a beach. Since all the hotel members think her husband did it, Poirot sets out to prove them wrong. This is another well-written mystery that will shock you when you read the ending.
4 It's interesting that this anthology of Agatha Christie's early Hercule Poirot short stories has remained unadulterated through several reprints over the years. A prolific writer's shorter works are often shuffled and reshuffled for successive anthologies.  I just read a crumbling Dell edition from the late 1950s/early 1960s (the price on the cover is 45), and the table of contents is consistent with other editions under this title.  Together, this particular set of stories collects early markers of Poirot style and themes.  It would be ripe for a critical introduction, because the stories are apparently plunked unedited from their original appearance.  The novella length title story, "The Under Dog," is narrated in the 3rd person, but the rest are narrated by Poirot's friend Hastings--if you are not familiar with other Poirot stories narrated by Hastings, you may be at a loss for wondering to whom the voice belongs at first.  There is a pause about three-quarters of the way through in one of the stories with an insert signed "the editors" that suggests the reader stop right there, formulate a guess as to the solution and then read on to see if it pans out.  None of the others do that, so I'm assuming that is a leftover device from the magazine in which it originally appeared.The stories are mostly fine, vintage Christie. She was obviously enjoying herself. I did not fully appreciate the debt Christie owed Sherlock Holmes for Hercule Poirot until I read this group together, the confident, eccentric detective and the play along friend/narrator.  And one of the stories, "The Lemesurier Inheritance" has a Sherlock Gothicism going for it.  That said, you can see Poirot and Christie bursting out on their own, creating a measurable distance from Holmes and the 19th century.
5 The classic British mystery tradition's doyen of death is Dame Agatha Christie. Evil Under the Sun is a Poirot novel written in 1941. The book is able to hold its own and is a fine representative of Christie's brilliant work.The Plot: the loci of the action is the Jolly Roger Hotel a resort area on the Devon coast. Hercule Poirot, the retired little Belgian detective, is taking a much needed holiday. However, in Christie's universe there is no escape from murder! The murder victim is the lovely "man-killer" Arlena Marshall. Her husband is Captain Kenneth Marshall. He had earlier been married to a deceased woman who was acquitted of a heinous murder. Living with the Marshalls is Linda the daughter Captain Marshall had with his first wife. Stepdaughter and stepmother do not like one another! Christine Redfern is also believed to be angry at Arlena for seducing her husband Patrick Redfern. Rosamund Darley is a former flame of Captain Marshall. When Arlena is found strangled and found dead on a secluded beach there is no shortage of suspects. Several of the guests at the Jolly Roger Hotel had reason to wish the beautiful woman out of the picture. Whodunit?As in so many Christie novels,the key to solving who murdered the victim is to examine the past lives of the chief suspects. The book is a fine way to spend a few hours with Hercule Poirot as the reader seeks to match wits with the crime detecting whiz! Enjoy!
4 &#34;Evil Under the Sun&#34; is a historical mystery set in 1941 in England (though it was a contemporary mystery when it was written). It's a clue-based puzzle mystery, and there were plenty of clues. There were enough clues that whodunit was on my suspect list. The critical clues that narrowed that list down to whodunit and how weren't reveled by Poirot until the very end. Still, it was interesting to read and puzzle over. The characters were interesting and varied.There was only one instance of bad language. There were no sex scenes. Overall, I'd recommend this book to Christie fans.
5 Like so many others, I'm and Agatha fan and it was a pleasure  to find a story I hadn't read before.
3 Enjoyed the characters but something should have been done about the title.  Definitely not for a &#34;who-done-it&#34;  This is not Christie at her best.
4 Agatha Christie's EVIL UNDER THE SUN was immensely respected when it debuted in the 1940s.  Today it pales a bit alongside the truly great Christie novels of the 1930s, 1940s, and 1950s--but it is still a tremendously entertaining read that will appeal to both new and long-established fans.The novel is cast in a "classic English mystery" mold: a group of vacationers at an exclusive resort with limited public access fall under suspicion when a beautiful femme fatale is found strangled to death on an isolated beach.  Is the killer a jealous husband, a jealous wife, an unstable step-daughter--or is it connected with the occult, a possible serial killer, an unknown blackmailer, or a member of a drug distribution ring?  The plot complications come tumbling one on top of another, but fortunately for the innocent the island resort is host to a private detective on vacation: the celebrated Hercule Poirot.The novel is particularly memorable for the way in which Christie requires readers to interpret the personality of her characters... and in the process leads you completely astray. Long time fans may recognize the plot device on which the solution rests, for Christie used it earlier in a number of celebrated short stories and would repeat it in a number of later works as well--but to give the Queen of Crime her due, she so neatly works the story that even the most astute reader is unlikely to arrive at the full truth until Poirot deigns to expose it.  Tremendous fun, and well recommended.
4 If you have read her famous works, you may already figure out the ending. The book has a great title, but the characters are hard to like in this tale. I found myself not very sympathetic to many or any of them. This made it harder for me to read the book. I do like however Agatha Christie twists. Someday, I hope to write my own mystery book!  I think she makes up interesting plots though and conclusions. This book had a nice little wrap up.  There were many red herrings.I think that the book could have been strengthened if there were less characters or more background given to flesh out individual characters. Compared to Sad Cypress, there was less story telling and more narration.  I felt like I was just getting a lot of facts as opposed to really learning about the individual characters. The characters didn't seem very complex. But, I could be biased because Sad Cypress is my favorite so far.I also think that those who have read previous Agatha Christie works, especially the famous ones (Orient Express, Ten Little Indians, Death on the Nile) may have the ending figured out.  I kind of had an idea of what had happened. It's still a good book, but I do think if you are trying to figure out if you'd like Agatha Christie, you might want to start with a stronger work.
5 The details are fascinating!  And M. Poirot engages in &#34;the method&#34; in such elegant fashion as he always does.  It's a page-tuner, like all her mysteries.
5 Title - Evil Under The SunWell done as are most Agatha Christy stories. Clever plot and good characters. Holds your interest from start to finish!.
4 I haven't read Agatha Christie since junior high or so, and I recall her writing as equal parts frustration -- tying my brain in a knot -- and exhilaration -- even if I didn't scry the mystery, I felt smarter for having read Christie. Not wanting to jump back into her writing with what I was sure was going to be a convoluted, complex, and complicated full-length novel, I wanted to reintroduce myself to the world of Hercule Poirot with some shorter-form fiction. Hence, "The Under Dog and Other Stories."Christie's writing isn't as tangled as I remembered -- and while I still feel smarter having read her, I'm just as frustrated by my inability to be one step ahead of the Belgian detective. There are nine stories here, ranging between 12 and 70 pages in length. And they're all satisfying. My favorites include "The Under Dog" and "The Plymouth Express," but they all have their charm.One major irritation: In this Berkley paperback edition, the editors opted to insert little text bits before the end of several stories that state something akin to, "It is suggested that the reader pause in his perusal of the story at this point, make his own solution of the mystery -- and then see how close he comes to that of the author."Christie isn't a juvenile writer, and her work deserves less juvenile treatment. Thoughtful readers will take pause regardless of the editors recommendation.
5 Hercule Poirot, Belgian mystery solver extroindinare, seems to be a magnet for non-violent murders. At a fun seaside resort, Poirot is in the midst of relaxing among the gossiping guests (what else have they got to do?), with the main subject being stunning ex actor Arlena Marshall, who beguiles men and sucks them dry. Cruel and gorgeous, she may be useless, but that doesn't mean she had to die. So Poirot begins investigating the death of the strangled woman (she really was drop-dead gorgeous). And thus begins my first ever Christie novel, and I enjoyed it through and through. Christie gives dozen of red herrings and has you guessing who-dun-it constantly, each time differently, and by the time it was over, I was still wrong. Really, really enjoyable.
5 Poirot has traveled to a seaside resort seeking a vacation.  Naturally a murder soon occurs and Poirot is quickly doing what he does best, sorting through suspects to track down the murderer.  The search leads him through drug dealing, adulteries, family conflicts, blackmail and witchcraft.The descriptions of the people at the resort are wonderful, the interactions among them are delightful.  The crime is done in a clever manner, the motives are plausible and, as always, Christie plays fairly with the reader.  All the clues are there among the red herrings for the reader to sort out.
4 Evil Under the Sun threw me through a loop. I wasn't even close when it came to figuring out what was going on. So many tiny details mixed with an abundance of obvious possibilities made this book a wonderful mystery from beginning to end.Poirot wasn't the least bit annoying in Evil Under the Sun. You know how he can get with his "little gray cells." This was one of the times when he's on vacation and actually seems to mean it for the majority of the trip.I wasn't thrilled with the way the victim was blamed for her own death due to the way she lived her life. I was equally unhappy with the defense that she was not the brightest girl in the world, so she shouldn't be held responsible for her actions. I'll admit to strongly disliking the victim, but the concept of "she was asking for it" was insulting. It was also stereotypical of the time and must be viewed as such.Evil Under the Sun was a great mystery with an ending you'll never see coming. This was definitely one of the better Poirot novels.
5 As always Agatha Christie is a wonderful author. I could read her books over and over again. You will love it.
5 As an example of how ingeniously a whodunit might be plotted, and how expertly an audio book might be read, this package could hardly be bettered.Agatha Christie wrote "Evil Under the Sun" in the early 1940s.  It was a time when the second world war had brought widespread misery, pain and austerity.  A welcome antidote, therefore was to devise a little budget-priced escapism, to depict a group of guests at a sea-side holiday resort relaxing and exchanging gossip and tittle-tattle as they overlook a beach and the bathers who are using it.The inane gossip and the lack of suspense in the opening pages might wear your patience, but keep alert!  Many significant clues are scattered here.The subsequent murder and the possible motivation relate mainly to a context of human relationships.  A drug smuggling racket is occasionally suggested.  Hercule Poirot is present, of course, to lead police, readers, and everybody else to the solution of the mystery, even if he needs to ruin a good pair of shoes and risk seasickness during the hunt.Addictive and ingenious as her books can be, Agatha Christie's prose and dialogue are not renowned for literary merit.  All the more remarkable, therefore, is the contribution of David Suchet. Such is the reading of the great British actor that the banal is transformed into the brilliant, the commonplace into the courtly, and the mediocre into the memorable.
5 Evil Under the Sun takes place at a secluded seaside resort in England. Arlena Stuart Marshall, is young and beautiful and one of those Agatha Christie characters who seems to inspire all she meets to wish her dead. So it is small surprise when she is killed and none other than Hercule Poirot is called upon to solve the case using little more than his famous little grey cells.This is a very typical Christie novel in many ways. It happens in a "bottle" environment where no one else comes and goes, it has an eclectic cast of characters almost all of whom seem to have a motive, and the crime seems impossible to solve. It is, however, different from many of Dame Agatha's works in the sense that it is executed so very well. Not to say that most of her novels are poor, but this one really shines. The suspects are both interesting and entertaining. Poirot is at his best as he works through things in his fashion with his little remarks raining dry humor at just the right moments. And the mystery itself definitely kept me engaged from start to finish.I've read a number of Hercule Poirot novels, and found some very good and a few not so good. Evil Under the Sun is an excellent mystery novel that I would recommend as a great starting point to readers new to Agatha Christie as well as established fans of her work. It's both funny and compelling and features one of the great fictional detectives at his very best.
3 Entertaining little collection including the very funny title story; one of Poirot's most hilarious cases. As stated in another review, the Cornish Mystery is identical to another tale in the Labors of Hercules (with a few slim changes)while the Plymouth Express is a very close prelude to Christie's longer story (in novel form) The Mystery of the Blue Train (again with almost identical similarities.) Some of the tales are in third person then abruptly turn to first person when Col. Hastings takes over to round out the remaining adventures. Overall: a nice, diverting addition to the Christie library, if only to compare the stories to their different versions. P.S> The Submarine Plans was also published in Murder on the Mews under the title the Incredible Theft; again with some slight modifications.
4 I have to say that this audio book accomplishes a very great deal for being only 2 CDs long, worth mentioning.  I also wanted to remark on how perfectly David Suchet captures the wide variety of characters involved.  I also find reviewers noting the visual acuity of this area, with its craggy bays, caves and cliffs: Christie does very well in capturing the allure of the area in this work.  I was less pleased with what felt like a somewhat forced resolution, which felt insufficiently developed.  Still, predictability is to be avoided in all matters mysterious, and so I can give it 4 stars of 5.
5 Another gem from Agatha!  A posh seaside resort.  An interesting mix of characters.  The beautiful, sexy stage actress, on holiday with her husband.  The pale, quiet, wallflower.....on holiday with her tanned, handsome husband. (Tanned husbandand sexy stage actress are having an affair.)  The stepdaughter of the sexy stage actress......who has nothing but hatred andcontempt for her beautiful, cold stepmother.  The famous detective, Hercule Poirot.  A very clever murder, carried out inbroad daylight.  Agatha's fans will not be disappointed.
4 (part of the Lost Literary Reference Marathon) Agatha Christie is always good for a character-driven murder mystery. Sure, it's all the typical stuff: a lone hotel on the sea, a dead body strangled on the beach. But it's the characters and psychology--especially of the sleuth Hercule Poirot--that sets her apart. Arlena Marshall is a rich, pretty woman that attracts the scorn of women and the attention of all the men--except her husband. She is found strangled, and her stepdaughter's room contains relics of witchcraft. The setting and the theme of evil and its definition, as well as the mysterious characters, make it perfect for a Lost reference. Grade: B+
5 Agatha Christie continued her winning streak with Evil Under the Sun, a masterpiece of misdirection.  If in subsequent years EUTS has seemed a bit inferior to the earlier Death on the Nile, it is possibly because, well, for one thing it is the same story just told from a different angle; and for another, it just misses creating a character as mesmerizingly passionate as Jacqueline de Bellefort in Nile.  The focus here, and the best character study, is on the "evil" woman of the title, Arlena Stuart.  Arlena is a startlingly physical presence on the beach of the Jolly Roger Hotel, the kind of woman who puts others in the shade.  No man can resist her for long, but that's her tragedy too as well as her claim to fame.  I will say that the Pixy's Cave seems like a perfect place for Arlena and I'm sure that Freudian-minded Agatha Christie must have had a ball devising this chamber for her.The story from which she disappears is also a bittersweet, heartwarming tale about how a group of damaged people reconstitutes family life after the death of the mother.  Community is much on Christie's mind in this book.  There's another extraordinary scene in which Poirot manages to get all the available suspects to accompany him on a picnic, which goes completely the opposite of how you'd think it would go: i.e, it makes the characters loveable, the meanest of the bunch revealing unexpected strengths and charms.Maybe in retrospect it's hard to believe that the killer could count on his witness to respond exactly as she does.  I can't make up my mind whether or not the whole plot would have collapsed had she decided to read a book instead.  Well, Christie makes it plain she wasn't the bookish type.
4 The beautiful and flirtatious Arlena Stewart is holidaying in the South West Coast of England with her husband, Captain Marshall and her stepdaughter Linda, staying at the Jolly Roger Hotel on an exclusive island. There she carries out a not too discreet affair with the handsome Patrick Redfern, husband of poor quiet Christine Redfern. Amongst the hotel guests are an American couple, a retired priest, a longwinded army chap, a spinster, a female friend of Captain Marshall and Hercule Poirot.One bright sunny morning, Arlena is found dead, strangled at Pixy Cove. Hercule Poirot and the local police are called in to investigate the matter. Could the jealous husband have murdered her or perhaps it was the long suffering wife. Could it be that Arlena was blackmailed by some unscrupulous cad? Could she have stumbled across a smuggling operation at the cove? Hercule Poirot fits the pieces of the puzzle together. Amongst the clues are a pair of scissors found at the scene of the crime, pieces of a green calendar and wax in the fire grate in one of the guests rooms, an empty bottle thrown out of a window, the sound of bath water draining from a tub at midday.This is classic Agatha Christie at her best. The scene is set, the characters introduced, the clues planted. As always the reader wil be left wondering right up to the end of the book as to who comitted the crime. As with all Agatha Christie novels, there are as many twists and turn in the plot to keep you changing your mind as to the identity of the killer. Agatha Christie is always a joy to read and this is no exception.Lea Ling Tsang
4 Hard to believe, with all the books I read, that I've never read an Agatha Christie before, but indeed, I have not. This was my first, and I can certainly see why Christie is the world's most-published novelist. If there's one thing Christie can do, it's tell a good story. And that's precisely what she does in Evil under the Sun. I can see why readers find Christie's work compelling; she draws her readers in quickly, with a large cast of thickly-described characters and a vivid sense of surroundings. Evil under the Sun brings us to a seaside resort, where a group of holiday-makers, including Christie's famous Inspector Poirot, find themselves attempting to deal with a broad range of personalities. Likely the most abrasive of all is the beautiful and capricious socialite Arlena Marshall. When she turns up dead in a remote part of the beach, it becomes Poirot's calling to determine her murderer. The resort's island location makes it unlikely that anyone outside the hotel could be responsible. Thus, Poirot must discover the murderer in his midst. Everyone, it seems, had a motive. Yet everyone too had an alibi. The answer turns out to be far more complicated than anyone had anticipated. Christie's gift is clearly to tell a gripping story. While there are no great lessons on morality or statements on the human condition within this it is certainly entertaining, enjoyable, and just a bit scary.
4 Written in 1941 this is not Agatha Christie's best book, but it is right up there at the top.  I highly recommend this as a book to take on your next beach vacation!  It follows a theme also found in A Caribbean Mystery, that you don't really know the people you meet on holiday.  (It really gets you thinking about that couple you had dinner with last night.)  Set on the English coast outside Devon, Evil takes place in an island resort and is filled with such typically British characters you'll find yourself reaching for the suntan lotion and craving tea and cakes as you read it.  Even if you're not on vacation, Evil Under the Sun is a bright spot for any day.
5 This is a great Poirot story.  I can't say anything more about the mysteries, they are all fabulous!!! I love how they take place in an era where there were big hotels, and people went away for holiday and met others at resorts.  Everyone dresses for dinner etc.
4 Classic Christie abounds in this Hercule Poirot mystery.  Sex, violence, wealth and murder all hidden behind a veneer of civility at the tranquil English seaside getaway the Jolly Roger.  The usual suspects abound; a beautiful, egocentric, enchanting woman, another woman's husband who's enamored with her, a frustrated, jealous wife, the adoring husband who seems oblivious to his wife's naughty behavior and the step daughter who loathes her.  Throw this dangerous cocktail together with some eccentric secondary characters and the result is murder.  Only Hercule Poirot can solve this one, because nothing is as it really seems.  The "little gray cells" do not disappoint with a particularly unseen twist  that satisfies and shocks readers once again proving that Agatha Christie is the queen of mystery.
5 The title really says it all.  Plenty of suspense and a well worked out conclusion.  Status really was gifted as a plotter.
4 Evil Under the Sun was written and published in the dark days of 1941, when Britain stood alone against the Axis powers (or did until Hitler got the bright idea to invade Russia that June). The book makes no allusion to the war, no doubt by design as the last thing Britons wanted from their escapist reading was a reminder that there was a war on.Instead, we get a highly engaging murder mystery with a set of colorful characters, an interesting setting (a resort hotel located on a promontory that is cut off from the mainland at high tide) and a fully engaged Hercule Poirot, who just happens to be vacationing there. Unlike in her most recent previous Poirot books (Hercule Poirot's Christmas, Sad Cypress, The Patriotic Murders), author Agatha Christie makes her detective a main character right off the bat in this one instead of bringing him in after the murder had been committed.There is much less time spent at the start filling in the back stories of the supporting characters than in the previous books and no real romantic subplot. What is familiar is the idea of having sympathetic characters as suspects and an unsympathetic character as the murder victim. Christie had played with this dynamic in Appointment With Death and Death on the Nile several years earlier.It is quite effective here as we feel our emotions put through the ringer as clues emerge and red herrings are introduced. You find yourself constantly thinking, "Oh no, I hope it isn't him/her who did it!" The resolution is rather convoluted and a bit "unfair" in that it introduces new evidence to support the conclusion. Still, there is a very active Poirot and that is always supremely entertaining.
4 The stories herein first appeared in various magazines; they're sorted here by original publication date rather than order of appearance in the book."The King of Clubs" - (March, 1923) Valerie Saintclair, the famous dancer, has just been all over the papers, having discovered the murdered body of Henry Reedburn. Prince Paul of Maurania comes to Poirot, since he proposes to marry her, saying (in one breath), "We are living now in more enlightened days, free from the old caste prejudices," while *also* saying that 1) it'll be a morganatic marriage (i.e., the children would be out of the succession), and 2) it doesn't matter because she's actually the daughter of a Russian grand duchess. (He says that she's bound to secrecy, but has let him guess that much).In other words, Prince Paul is a pompous idiot, who half-suspects Mlle. Saintclair of murdering Reedburn, based on her reaction to a fortuneteller's card reading turning up the king of clubs (a fearsome man holding her in his power), and he's hiring Poirot to find out what really happened. (If you have even a passing acquaintance with that method of fortunetelling, incidentally, don't let Christie's misuse of terms distract you from the facts of the case.)"The Affair at the Victory Ball" - (March, 1923) The Victory in question was the end of WW I. Young Lord Cronshaw and his fiancee Coco Courtenay attended the ball with several friends, all dressed as characters from the Italian Comedy, he as Harlequin, she as Columbine, and both died that night, she from a cocaine overdose in her flat, he with a table knife through his heart at the ball. (There are no Quin or Satterthwaite appearances, incidentally, despite the Harlequin references.) This story is that rare animal, a Christie creation that pauses and offers a challenge to the reader before revealing the solution."The Plymouth Express" - (April, 1923) Flossie Halliday Carrington, soon-to-be ex wife of the Honourable Rupert Carrington, who married her for her father's money, was found murdered during a train journey, and her father has hired Poirot to find the killer (he wants his own man, not just the usual police investigation). This story strongly resembles _The Mystery of the Blue Train_, but the actual puzzle (i.e. who/how/why) isn't really the same, so don't be misled."The Market Basing Mystery" - (October, 1923) Japp, Hastings, and Poirot are spending a weekend on holiday in Market Basing, and Japp is called in on a local locked-room mystery. This case bears a striking resemblance to another locked-room case, "Murder in the Mews"; see the book of the same name if you'd like to compare them."The Adventure of the Clapham Cook" - (November, 1923) The cook in question, a middle-aged, respectable, plain woman working in a private household, quit without a word of warning; no formal complaints, no quarrel with the only other staff member. She just went out on her day off, never came back, and sent for her trunk (not even formally resigning). Her now-ex employer wants to find her, since it's *very* fishy, and good cooks are hard to come by."The Cornish Mystery" -  (November, 1923) Mrs. Pengelley, a plain, ordinary woman of about 50, is afraid that her husband is slowly poisoning her - whenever he's away, her 'gastritis' gets better, the weed-killer is running low, and he's got a young blond hussy of an assistant. (He's the one with the money, though.) Poirot finds it interesting, partly because of Mrs. Pengelley's unusual reaction to her suspicions; but his arrival in Cornwall the day after she hires him, it turns out, is too late. The general framework of the story resembles at least 3 other Christie stories, one quite strongly (each for a different detective), but they differ in detail, so don't jump to any conclusions."The Submarine Plans" - (November, 1923) - Same story as "The Incredible Theft" in _Dead Man's Mirror_; Christie did a little revision, but not enough to make it a different story."The Lemesurier Inheritance" - (December, 1923) This case begins with a chance meeting during WWI between Poirot, Hastings, and Captain Vincent Lemesurier, on the night that Vincent receives word that his father is dying of injuries received in a riding accident. The family has a tradition, dating back to the middle ages, that no eldest son of a Lemesurier will ever inherit - and sure enough, Vincent takes a misstep on the train home, and the next in line inherits. Several times over the next few years, one member or another of the family dies: an allergic reaction to a wasp sting here, a shooting accident there. Finally, Mrs. Hugo Lemesurier comes to Poirot and Hastings: her husband, now terminally ill, has a morbid belief that his eldest son won't outlive him. For her part, she doesn't believe that a curse could saw through a vine under the nursery window that the kids like to climb out of. Compare this one with "The Adventure of the Egyptian Tomb" in _Poirot Investigates_, as 2 examples of Poirot's theory of the power of superstition."The Under Dog" - (October, 1926) Mercifully, in my opinion, we don't have Hastings narrating this one, although he relates all the other stories in this volume. Hot-tempered Sir Reuben Astwell has been found murdered in his country home, his head smashed with a club in his own study. (Some of the family have travelled in Africa; the club was part of the decor). His fortune is divided between Lady Astwell and his ineffectual nephew Charles. Charles, a failure in business who drinks, is the prime suspect, but Lady Astwell insists that Owen Trefusis, the browbeaten little secretary, did it, and engages Poirot to uncover the truth.
3 Once again, Agatha Christie has written a tale that challenges the reader to solve a murder mystery.This time, the place is a hotel on an isolated island, and the victim a beautiful ex-actress that is a part of a relationship triangle.Christie has written a bunch of interesting characters, and manages to convey the atmosphere of the era (1940) and the sunny island and even if the plot is very simple by Christie standards, she has done a good job in constructing the story and writing the character of Hercule Poirot, the most interesting detective in the history of criminal literature."Evil Under the Sun" is an entertaining and fun piece of mystery I recommend as a holiday reading.
5 Audible.com released this short story -- long enough for a novella, actually -- from Dame Agatha Christie's 1951 short story collection, eponymously titledThe Under Dog and Other Stories Featuring Hercule Poirot. Read as usual by Hugh Fraser, the story deals with the murder of Sir Reuben Astwell for which his ne'er-do-well nephew Charles Leverson has been arrested. Despite overwhelming evidence, Sir Reuben's widow, Lady Astwell, a great believer in intuition, is certain that her nephew by marriage is innocent and summons detective Hercule Poirot.No need to doubt that the Belgian detective will apply his little gray cells to the problem and come up with the truth. It even has a finale in which Poirot gathers all of the suspects into the Tower for a dramatic reveal! "The Under Dog" is a great way to while away a few hours.
5 .love to read the mysteries with H. Poirot and Miss Marple also like the movies.I have read several more then once also watched the movies several times
4 Set at an English seaside summer resort, EVIL UNDER THE SUN is one of several Hercule Poirot mysteries involving a "love triangle" that is not quite what it appears to be (DEATH ON THE NILE is another and the most famous).  In EVIL UNDER THE SUN, beautiful but brainless Arlena Marshall is strangled on a beach, and the most obvious suspect appears to be Captain Marshall, her husband, who was jealous of her relationship with young, handsome Patrick Redfern.  While the police are eager to convict Marshall, Poirot (as usual) concerns himself with the case's psychological aspect, asking himself who at the resort is the true focus of evil:  Arlena (as everyone else assumes) or somebody else?  When Poirot finds the answer to this question, then he will have found Arlena's killer.  As always, Poirot's logic is brilliant; in fact, the dialogue contains a very funny line about Poirot's eternal competition with the dim-witted "local police."  Agatha Christie's one flaw is neglecting to explain the drug-smuggling thread of the mystery in tying up the loose ends of the plot in the novel's final pages.  Two bits of trivia:  EVIL UNDER THE SUN was filmed in 1982, with Peter Ustinov as Poirot, and the more recent TV adaptation of "Triangle at Rhodes" - another "love triangle" story - starring David Suchet as Poirot, borrows some dialogue from EVIL UNDER THE SUN.
5 I always enjoy reading Agatha Chirstie.  A marvelous author.  She hold your interest and the mysteries always have a good twist. Love her books.
5 WOW ! What more can I say except that Agatha Christie is the worlds GREATEST mystery writer and with "Hercule Poirot" put in the story ,how could it possibly get any better.These stories absolutely "ROCK" !!! Pat Simmons
5 good read in the tradition of Agatha Christie. I enjoy all of her books.This short story was a very nice afternoon read.
5 Don't go by the movie (which is not bad!)- the book is much better! Its definately in the league of her other masterpiece- Death on the Nile; those who enjoyed Death on the Nile would definately like this one (and vice- versa). I would strongly recommend this one to those who enjoy a murder in an exotic setting!
4 Poirot just can&#8217;t take a vacation!  Everytime he shows up anywhere, no business in mind, just relaxing, a dead body shows up!This time he is at a seaside hotel where the usual cross-section of British society is taking their holiday and, as seems to be usual in an Agatha Christie novel, there are a couple of Americans also.One of the guests is an actress known for collecting men.  A young newlywed seems to be the man du jour.  Unfortunately, her husband and the wife of the newlywed don&#8217;t seem too happy with the arrangement. When she turns up dead in a sheltered cove, the suspects are many.  Poirot pulls together many obscure clues such as a bottle thrown out of a window and a pair of scissors found on the beach to capably assist the local police in apprehending the killer in a plot that feels somewhat familiar.  The ending will surprise those who are not familiar with Agatha Christie&#8217;s style and will be satisfying but not surprising to those who are.After reading two Poirot novels in a row that do have Captain Hastings in them, I find that I am missing him.  I think he humanizes Poirot in a way that is missing from this book.  That being said, any Poirot book is better than a lot of what is being written today.  If I were new to Poirot, I wouldn&#8217;t start with this one.  I would start with The Mysterious Affair at Styles.  If you are a fan of Poirot, you&#8217;ll enjoy this outing with the Belgian.
5 The mystery books and short stories written by Agatha Christie are timeless and her characters are as interesting as the plot.  Many of her delightful characters are found throughout different books, so the continuity makes it seem like you are reading about people that you know.  It's hard to imagine that murder mysteries are fun to read, but Agatha Christie's mysteries are fun to read!
4 "Evil Under the Sun" is a fast-paced enjoyable mystery set at an almost hidden seaside resort.  One would think that vacationing with the inimitable Hercule Poirot would be motive enough to curb a murderer, but such is not the case.  This is a classic Christie mystery - a closed setting, too many likely suspects, and a unique twist at the end.Arlena Marshall was an extremely beautiful woman - the kind that men fell instantly in love with and women fell instantly into hate with.  While vacationing at the Jolly Roger, she fans the flames of rumor with the attention she pays to Patrick Redfern, a handsome and married young man.  So when Arlena's body is discovered strangled on the beach of a secluded cove, Patrick is the most obvious suspect, but he was no where near the scene of the crime when it happened.  Therefore, it must be Arlena's husband, the almost unemotional Captain Marshall, who was well aware of his wife's proclivities toward other men.  Yet he has a rock solid alibi (perhaps one that is too rock solid for Poirot's liking).  It seems obvious that Arlena was killed by a male, but there are plenty of women on the island - Patrick Redfern's scorned wife, Captain Marshall's daughter from a previous marriage and an old friend from his youth - who would've also liked to see her dead.  Hercule Poirot must separate the facts from the fictions and the true clues from the false, all while guaranteeing that another death does not occur."Evil Under the Sun" is a delightful mystery with enough puzzling clues to keep readers guessing.  Anyone familiar with Christie's works, especially some of her short stories featuring Poirot, may find the general plot a little too similar to other works.  Although aspects of the plot are familiar the ending offers a completely fresh twist to a common story of apparent jealousy, for looks can be very deceiving indeed.
5 "Evil Under the Sun" is one of Agatha Christie's best mysteries, right up there withThe Murder of Roger Ackroyd,Murder on the Orient ExpressandAnd Then There Were None. To my knowledge, it's been filmed twice, a rather melodramaticfeature filmstarring Peter Ustinov as the famous Belgian detective, and then more sedately with David Suchet as part of the ongoingtelevision series. It's also been adapted as avideo game!At first glance, it's a typical mystery set-up: a group of colorful characters are gathered together in an isolated area, a murder is committed, everyone has motivation, but not all have opportunity. Throw in your usual red herrings, obscure clues, false leads, and a detective that can successfully puzzle it all out, and you have a perfect whodunit.Hercule Poirot is enjoying a sunny holiday at the Jolly Roger Hotel, built on the idyllic Smuggler's Island. Around him the talkative guests sunbathe, gossip, knit, swim and watch each other. An observer of human nature, Poirot is in his element, and it's with interest (but little surprise) that everyone's attention is on Arlena Marshall, a retired but beautiful film actress, who revels in the attention. Tall, slender and bronzed, with curly red hair and oozing sex appeal, all the men are left dumbstruck in Arlena's presence, whilst the women gnash their teeth in disapproval. Not even Poirot is left unaffected by her beauty, but he's amply aware of the chaos that the woman is causing.The man-eating Arlena enjoys toying with men, and currently has her hooks into Patrick Redfern, a young man who seems completely under her spell. The fact Arlena is a married woman and that Patrick's young, distressed wife is watching her husband engage in an affair right before her eyes, seems of little importance to Arlena.Naturally, she ends up dead, and having already engaged in conversation with a rather fanatical reverent in which both men acknowledge that there is evil everywhere under the sun, Poirot is not hugely surprised to hear that Arlena has been strangled on an isolated beach on the island known as Pixy Cove. The only access to the island is via a causeway, though the police can't rule out someone coming by boat to the isolated Pixy Cove, Poirot instinctively suspects that one of the guests is the culprit. As the last one to see Arlena alive, pushing a dingy out to sea and clearly on her way to meet somebody, Poirot begins his investigation.Who's the murderer? Everyone seemed to have a motive to kill her, from a resentful stepdaughter, a cuckolded husband, a jilted lover, a jealous wife, a romantic rival with designs on Arlena's husband...or was it something less personal? Was she the target of a religious fanatic? Did she disturb drug-dealers using Pixy Cove as a drop-off point? Was she being blackmailed? The possibilities keep piling up, as do the obscure clues scattered about: a bottle thrown out of a window, a pair of scissors on a beach, a bath drawn in the middle of the day - it all means something only to Poirot.The atmosphere of "Evil Under the Sun" is brilliant; after first introducing the island as the home of a reclusive captain who never had a family, the story starts some years later after his house has been renovated into a resort (and most copies of the book even come with a map of the island). Despite the warm sunshine and sandy beaches, Christie infuses the book with a clammy sense of foreboding, danger, and even - evil. The characterization is vivid and as always, the twists and turns keep you guessing right till the end.If you've never read Christie before, then this is a perfect place to start.
4 The notorious Arlena Stuart Marshall is found strangled on an empty beach, and Hercule Poirot sets about identifying the killer.  It is not an easy task; there is no shortage of suspects, beginning with the dead woman's cuckolded husband and the young wife of Arlena's latest conquest.  As the investigation continues, more questions arise.  Was Arlena being blackmailed?  Was she involved with drug smuggling?  And is there a mad clergyman roaming the countryside intent on bringing scarlet women to divine justice?This is classic Agatha Christie.  Reading it reminds you why she is the master of mystery genre.
4 Agatha Christie seems fascinated with the eternal love triangle plot (usually a husband, a wife, and a mistress); she uses it again and again in her books.  Here we have a devoted couple; the husband is distracted by a  grasping beauty, and murder ensues.  Christie's handling of this theme is  always sure-footed (possibly due to the breakup of her own first marriage  due to a philandering husband); here she takes these commonplace elements  and twists them to produce an end result that will lift the reader out of  his chair.  There are, perhaps, more exciting Christies, but this is quite  satisfying and interesting.  After all, the lady wrote a tremendous number  of books and short stories; they can't all be her &quot;best.&quot;  See  how many different variations on this theme Christie was capable of in  &quot;Five Little Pigs,&quot; &quot;Death On the Nile,&quot; &quot;Towards  Zero,&quot; and &quot;The Hollow,&quot; in which the triangle is more of a  square, with four sides instead of three.
5 If you haven't read any of the Hercule Poirot books by Agatha Christie, this is the one I recommend to start with. If you have already read other Poirot books, don't miss this one.
5 This book represents Agatha Christie at her absolute best. But then, it's so hard for her not to be at her best...Anyway, I read this book over the summer in a day. I just couldn't put it down. No one can. Besides having a brilliant mind that can create these fascinating plots, Agatha Christie also had that way of writing that keeps the reader hooked. I will not go into the plot because that would be spoiling it, but I will say that this book is set at a high class beach resort in the early twentieth century, and of course, involves a murder (maybe more!). There is nothing more I can say without spoiling the book for you, so, now, after reading my brilliant and insightful review, leave a comment saying it was helpful and order or check this book out of a library immediately!
3 THE UNDER DOG by Agatha Christie.A short story written in 1923 in which Hercule Poirot is called uponto solve the murder of Sir Reuben Astwell and clear the nephew who mayor may not be unjustly accused.A solid short work by Christie featuring Poirot though the murderer isatypically for Christie revealed in the title.
5 This Hercule Poirot mystery is set on an island resort.  In this exotic setting, the vacationers watch each other, and learn a bit about each other's history and personalities - and gossip about the flamboyant, and possibly unfaithful wife, of one of the guests.  When she's found dead, the investigation shows the guests have many secrets - suspicions of murder, financial difficulties, previous romantic entanglements with other guests.As is typical of many Christie stories, it's one of those secrets that is key to solving the mystery.Classic Christie puzzle plot with engaging characters.  Well-written and a very enjoyable read.  Recommended.
4 I enjoyed this book because the history of the area showed me how different religions and cultures can or cannot live together well. Easy and informative reading for the casual reader like myself
4 Mr. Mazower provides a very good discussion of the history of the City of Salonica.  It is interesting to see how he covers the various religious and ethnic groups that resided in Salonica over the years.  The book describes the interactions and relationships between the various groups.  He also presents a good overview of the population changes in the early part of the 20th century and the affect of World War II.
3 I read this book with particular interest because I was born in Salonica (in 1934, a child of parents who were refugees from Asia Minor) but I found it rather disappointing. While it filled gaps in the stories I had heard from my parents I also found that it treated some stories superficially, such as the the "Macedonian struggle" that was, in effect, a three way conflict between Greek and Bulgarian bands and Turkish gendarmes. My main problem with the book is that the history of the Salonica is covered through the lens of a political bias. Mazower does not like nationalism and he is quite critical of the Greek policy of Hellenization of Salonica after 1912. Therefore he is sympathetic to all non Greek inhabits of Salonica (including the Jews). But the same attitude would lead him to be negative towards Zionism (Jewish nationalism) and Israel. If I had any doubts about such an inference, they were cleared on page 439 where the following sentence occurs."The history of the nationalists is all about false continuities and convenient silences, the fictions necessary to tell the story of the rendezvous of a chosen people with the land marked out for them by destiny."This seems to be out of place because the Greeks never call themselves the chosen people and for them there was no issue of rendezvous with the land because there was always a large Greek population in what is now Greece and no significant immigration of Greeks from outside the territory of Greece for the first century of the existence of the modern Greek state. The large immigration of 1922-24 was forced on the Greeks from Asia Minor who left their old homelands unwillingly. So either the author has misjudged completely the Greek situation or, more likely, he is taking a shot at Israel. In short, any good words for the Jewish community of Salonica, are to be used, in effect, to make later a case against Israel.It would be nice if we lived in a world where nationalism did not exist but, unfortunately, this is not the case. Ethnic identity seems to be rooted in the human psyche and it is too pat to dismiss it by attributing nationalism to 19th century ideologies. It would have been nice if the Ottoman empire had been modernized without a break up in a multitude of states and all the ethnic groups lived in harmony instead of the horrendous ethnic strife that took place. (My late father was of this view. When he died, I found amongst his files, his Ottoman citizenship papers that he had saved for over half a century.) But it did not happen and it is unfair to single one or two of the states that emerged from the Ottoman empire break up for the offense of nationalism. Interestingly when the Soviet Union collapsed in 1990, it was also broken up into a multitude of states. Also ethnic strife is by no means limited to the Middle East or Eastern Europe. His bias against nationalism causes the author to downplay the strength of the Bulgarian ethnic identity which results in the weakness of his coverage of the "Macedonian struggle."The author laments the loss of the multiethnic character of the city that persisted between the late fifteenth and early twentieth centuries. We must remember that the 20th century saw several cities lose their multi-ethnic character, most notably Alexandria in Egypt, as well as Smyrna, Istanbul, and several others in Turkey, Monastir in Macedonia, etc. (All of these used to have significant Greek populations, and in some cases significant Jewish populations as well.) Why single out the actions of the Greek government for criticism? As a person who has a close connection with this "exotic" city I found the book far too condescending.If you can take the political commentary with a grain of salt you may find the book interesting reading. It does cover a lot of ground and other reviewers have given a good summary of the contents.
4 Salonica, City of Ghosts functions well both as a history of Thessaloniki and as a meditation about nationalism. There is a lot to learn, particularly in Europe, from this city which has served as a home for so many cultures.Mazower's book begins with the Hellanistic origins of Salonica and takes it and the reader through years of conquest and recapture beginning with the Ottoman victory in 1430. The book ends with the aftermath of World War II and the birth of the city which we know today. Mazower has a very clear point to make about the way in which conquest becomes an act of erasure and forgetting. The subject of national identity is the thread that ties the pages of the book together.Salonica is very complete and thorough. The pictures selected are appropriate and illustrative and the notes helpful. Mazower is a good writer. I was not as engaged with the book as the material warranted-- Mazower can have a very dry tone which does not always welcome the reader into the work.Recommended for anyone with an interest in Greek or Turkish history. This should also appeal to readers with a general interest in the subject of nationalism and national identity.
3 This is a rating of the book - not of the Kindle Edition. I felt the author was biased for some religions and against others. Just a feeling, nothing overt. That turned me off when I read the book. Interesting enough to make me want to learn more, but maybe from other authors.  I agree with the two  star reviews of this book on Amazon, except for the star rating. In spite of it's seeming bias, one does learn much about the history and cultures of Thessaloniki.
4 Salonika was an anachronism.  Unlike most of Europe, where nations had been formed around a major city or a capital, and where ethnic and religious minorities had been absorbed, expelled, killed, or at least marginalized in some fashion, in Salonika different groups lived shoulder to shoulder for over 400 years.Mazower tells the story.  First we get Greeks, then Turks, then after 1492 Spanish (and Portugese and Italian) Jews (speaking Ladino, Judeo-Spanish). The first half of the book describes the communities, daily lives, interactions.More communities developed.  Sabbatai Zevi declared himself Messaiah, won a following, converted to Islam, and his followers, well, followed him.  "Donme" or "Apostates" (the descendants of these Jewish converts to Islam) remained a distinct part of Salonika's fabric. Albanians arrived. And eventually Bosnians and Bulgarians as well (there is dispute over whether they should be called Bulgarians or Macedonian Slavs).The first half of the book is jumpy.  It is not organized chronologically. Primary document spellings are not followed by modern equivalents. There are insufficient maps. It makes for slow reading. But Mazower hit his stride around 1700.  The history begins to flow chronologically.  And he tells history as an engaging story. Modern is definitely his period. And the more modern, the better he gets.He includes details that would be easy to gloss over. The story is complex.  Mazower makes it flow, and makes it clear, and makes it engaging.The book ends with two major chapters: the Nazi extermination of almost the entire Jewish population of the city is told with great detail. The Greek Civil War seems to be strangely tacked on, with little detail, and little of Mazower's flair. But it hardly takes away from the book's overall strength.
5 500 years of a city in the Balkans makes for an awful lot of history. Salonica (or Thessaloniki as it is known today) is located at one of the crossroads of the world. It is Greek at the moment, but has at times been Turkish. As a crossroads it had strong Christian, Muslim and Jewish communities. It was not without conflict, but they lived together for centuries. Only in fairly modern times were the Muslims forced to leave, and during World War II the Germans rounded up the Jews as part of the final solution (which makes for tragic reading).This is an area far from the mainstream of most modern American history books. Most of our history comes from other areas of the world. So this book opens new areas to study for the first time. It is exhaustively researched and provides an insight into a world, a culture far from our own. For many years, this was considered the orient, where east meets west.A fascinating place, a fascinating read.
4 Well, after reading this book during and after my first trip to Greece, I learned how little I knew about the Balkans.  I now know more, and this book certainly helped.  It is also enjoyable to read.  The Balkans are complicated; focusing on one unique city which has a rich past is a useful entree.  The author does a fine job describing the upheavals of mass population movements over the centuries.  I was little aware of those in the early twentieth century between Greece and Turkey; this book describes them well, and allows one to better appreciate the variety of ethnic cleansings which have gone on over the decades.
3 Just started reading this book. It is still a good promise...
2 I was born in Thessaloniki and after reading this book I feel like I should excuse myself for being born there a Greek! Interestingly the 5 and 4 stars are coming from folks who from their comments seem to have never visited the city. One wrote "the once cosmopolitan city..." The city is very much cosmopolitan today as ever and even politically it played and still plays a prominent role in Greek politics including the November 17th revolts and so much the same in the tough times that Greece goes through today.The author provides a caricature of the hardships in Greece during the German occupation using of all sources a full paragraph from the pro-nazi French government about Thessaloniki of the 40-42. He goes as far as to claim that the Germans brought food to help the Greeks!!! This is an outrageous assertion neglecting completely the fact that the Greeks were punished with a blockade by the Germans both for their successful resistance against the Italian invasion and the general strike that followed after the German invasion itself. In fact the author chose to omit altogether the fact that WWII was brought by the Italians first! In his narrative WWII was brought by the Germans in Greece from the North. In so many ways the author presents a pretext of Greek intend if not a plan for the German holocaust!It would have just been a book after all had I not met with a Jewish friend who went on and on about this narrative to me of all people when my family at the time took grave risks to provide shelter and hide people who were otherwise heading to the trains of death.I would have read it differently if it were entitled "The Jewish History of Salonika: A City of Ghosts" than this misleading title. Salonica is not a City of Ghosts, she is a city of glory and drama as most other cities in the region are. She stood over one century after another seeing her residents falling victims to one destructive force after another, witnessing massacre and peril by what a Bosnian intellectual called the destroyers of cities, folks who came to take, from armies to politicians. Only in that common destiny is the second part of the title "Christians, Jews and Muslims" justified.There is no love for the City in this book to begin with. For the author this city is merely a city of ghosts. For me and for those who lived and died in it regardless of time and religion it was, is and will always be sweet home. I am a Greek and proud for the city's history and its legacy, for being the birthplace of legendary reformers and men of action, from the Cyril brothers to Kemal Ataturk and the Venizelos revolution, to the Politechnic School of '73 and the resistance against the great sellout of today my city is strong and alive. The voices,colors and the wisdom of those being forcefully taken and of those who left are still there and trust me they are no ghosts at all. Come visit and then write a review about the "once cosmopolitan city."I maintain two stars for the effort. I cut off two stars for the inaccuracies and the bias, and one for the destructive intent and effect of both. I would love to see a book that would address the wounds of the city without the chauvinism; constructively, and with the city's past present and future in mind.
5 Mark Mazower breathes life into a place completely swept away by the conflicts of the 20th century. Masterfully written and eminently readable despite its size, Professor Mazower's work provides depth of detail and real context to all the cross-currents of culture and politics at play, of which he clearly has a profound understanding. While he does show a sympathy toward the much-maligned Ottoman Empire, the effort convincingly argues that the commonly held perception of the Empire in the 18th & 19th century as a decrepit, dysfunctional state was not deserved. He brings to life the lost Turkish presence, as complex as it was often ruthless, the once thriving predominantly-Jewish city the Greeks have willfully buried and forgotten and the substantial Slavic component in the surrounding provinces that dated back to their arrival in the 6th century. He handles the volatile period between the tragic dispossession of the local Turks and the arrival of the horribly tormented Greeks of Asia Minor with great sensitivity by focusing instead on the tragedy of individuals instead of faceless masses. The final chapter is devoted to the Nazi annihilation of the Jews and the city's subsequent metamorphosis into a completely Greek metropolis consciously revising its identity in the older Hellenic context. The singular glaring lapse of this work lies in the author's gratuitous swipes at Greek and Jewish national aspirations, as alluded to by another reviewer below. Somehow, Ottoman hegemony and its destruction of the Classical world it usurped trumps the desires of others who followed it (or more accurately, preceded it). The author seems unable to reasonably reconcile this inconsistency.
4 Thessalonika, or "Salonica," in this book, is the second city of Greece and-as in Athens, the capital-there has been a self-conscious attempt to bring the classical and Byzantine past to the forefront. In the center of the city is the ancient arch built to honor the Roman Emperor Galerius who defeated the Persians. There is a new museum devoted to the Byzantines and when a traveler departs from the train station, the locals might ask if "Constantinople" is the destination.There are some hints of a less homogenized past. For example, there are places that serve Anatolian food or Turkish-style ice cream and there is the Ottoman-built White Tower near the waterfront as well as some disused Turkish baths. And, of course, the boyhood home of Mustafa Kemal, or Atat&uuml;rk, is a great tourist attraction. Still there are few remnants of the Ottoman Turks and even fewer of a Jewish community that was one of the largest in Europe. Today Salonica appears to be purely Greek and Christian. Symbolic of this is the university built on the site of the old Jewish cemetery.So, it is ironic that in recent years Salonica has been praised for its "multicultural" history. Mark Mazower writes about the period from 1430 to the 1950s when the city really was multicultural; when this historically Christian city was ruled by Muslims and the largest community was Jewish.Ottoman rule began when Sultan Murad II conquered the city after, legend says, a dream in which Allah told him that Salonica was his to take. Christians watched as the Ottomans changed Byzantine churches into mosques and welcomed in large numbers of Sefardim Jews who were fleeing persecution in Spain. By the 16th century, the city was divided among the Christians, Muslims and Jews, with the last group being the largest in number.There are many tragic episodes to tell. After the Ottomans arrive, many of the conquered Greeks are sold in the slave market or reduced to begging for alms. Centuries later, after the Ottoman Empire had ended, the Muslims were forced to leave the city and Greece as a condition of the Balkan wars. As the Muslims left, millions of Christian and mainly Greek-speaking refugees arrived: they had also been expelled from their homes in the new republic of Turkey. Finally, the Nazis took away the Salonica Jews in the Second World War.Most of this book is about the city under Muslim rule. The three communities identified themselves more by religion than by race, yet the Ottomans didn't attempt to extinguish the Christian and Jewish communities. Mazower writes that "for contrary to what our secular notions of a religious state might lead us to believe, the Ottoman authorities were not greatly interested in policing people's private beliefs. In general, they did not care what their subjects thought so long as they preserved the outward forms of piety."  So Turks, Greeks, Jews, Albanians, Bulgarians, Serbs, and Vlachs were able to live together.Often the different faiths shared curious similarities. Salonica became a center of Mevlevis, who followed the ideals of the Muslim teacher Haci Bektasi, and were "always to be found in the company of Greek monks."  In fact, among the Albanians who followed the faith, there was the legend that Haci Bektasi had invented Bektashism as a bridge between Christianity and Islam. There was also the Ma'min sect of Judeo-Spanish speaking Muslims. These were followers of Sabbatai Zevi, who proclaimed himself the Messiah for the Jews before converting to Islam in the 18th century. Mazower writes "in short, the city found itself at the intersection of many different creeds."The book also describes other aspects of the city and its history. How the Ottoman Jannisaries became a law unto themselves in the 18th century. How Greek merchants became wealthy despite Ottoman rule. How a British national and Salonica resident Jackie Abbott became rich selling leeches to the local healers. There is also much about the 19th century rush to excavate and haul away archeological treasures from the city and the effect of the Muslim women on European visitors.To Europeans in the 18th and 19th centuries, Salonica was the orient. However, at the same time, the city residents began to build and dress in "the Frankish style." This period also saw the decline of Ottoman power in the region. In the first part of the 19th century, the new state of Greece was created. The presence of an independent Greek speaking country nearby greatly exacerbated the tensions between Christians and Muslims in Salonica. A wider-spread tension resulted in a series of wars between the Greek state and the Ottomans and eventually brought Salonica into the Greek state. Finally, the new republic of Turkey defeated Greece in the 1922 Balkan War and the two governments agreed on exchange of Muslim and Christian populations. Greece received over a million Orthodox Christians from Asia Minor while Turkey received over 500,000 Muslims. The Muslim presence in Salonica was gone.Twenty years later, with the Nazi occupation, the Jewish presence would disappear as well. Salonica had been one of the great centers of Jewish culture, Alfred Rosenberg reminded Martin Bormann in a letter; so the Nazis gave the city special attention. (The Nazis were surprised to learn that the city had never had a Jewish ghetto.) The occupiers looted the synagogues and sent the Jews to the concentration camps. This part of the book makes chilling reading.Mazower's book could be seen as a counterpart to Philip Mansel's book on Istanbul, "Constantinople: City of the World's Desire 1453-1924." That book covers roughly the same period and ends with a lament for the Greeks that once lived in that now almost entirely Muslim city. And many Turks today will express a wish to see Salonica, which was the birthplace of Ataturk, the poet Nazim Hikmet, and very often, their grandparents.Mazower`s book has some dry pages but also some interesting anecdotes about this once cosmopolitan city. And it is a valuable book because it covers a period of European history that is unknown to many readers. In 2004, many people watching the Olympic games in Athens wondered why "The Greeks" only referred to Plato, Aristotle, and Alexander the Great and what had happened after the classical era. This book will fill in some of that gap.
5 This is an interesting book about an interesting city.  Salonica, after the Turkish conquest in 1430 and before the upheavals of the 20th century, was city ruled by the Ottoman Empire, populated largely by Jews, and surrounded by a Christian hinterland.  The book describes how this came to be - how the Ottoman Empire conquered the city, how it became home to Jews fleeing Spain and Portugal, and how by 1950 the population became almost all Greek Orthodox.  The book discusses almost every conceivable aspect of the city - its history, ethnicity, governance and geography.  I learned how the various ethnic groups cooperated in making Salonica a trading hub, how they generally got along very peacefully.  I learned about the Sufi aspects of Islam, about Sabbatai Zvi and how his Jewish followers became Muslims after his conversion and then became a bridge between Islam and the Jewish community of Salonica.  The book covers the early period of Muslim rule, how the Christian West culturally influenced the city in the 19th century and how it eventually prevailed in the 20th century, making the city again Christian, but Jews constituting the largest ethnic group until WWII.This is a very well written book that discuses much more than just about the city of Salonicia.  I learned a lot about the Ottoman Empire, about the exchange of Christians in the Ottoman Empire with Muslims in the territories re-conquered by the Greeks in the early 20th century, about Bulgarian and Greek conflicts, about the Balkan wars that broke out just prior to WWI and about the Holocaust that destroyed the Jewish community of Salonica in 1943.  The book also explains the roots of the right and left wing conflicts that still bedevil Greece today.I highly recommend this book to those interested in history, especially those interested in European history, the history of the Ottoman Empire and Jewish history.
5 Instead of trying to fit everything into the imaginary frame of nation-state based historical accounts, it is much better to focus on a place and observe the interaction of civilizations through time.This book very successfully undermines any simplistic understanding of Balkans and the relationship between faith, state and society.Essential book for anyone who is seriously interested in history
5 Today I got Mark Mazower's first book in Hebrew, a translation of this book I have in English.Two Quotations from the Paperback copy.p 12 "By 1950, when this book concludes, Salonica's Muslims had been resettled in Turkey, and the Jews had been deported by the Germans and most of them killed."On the same page "Similar transformations occurred in cities across a wide swathe of the globe - Lviv Wroslaw Vilna Tiflis, Jerusalem, Jaffa and Lahore..."(I know live with Arabs in Jaffa. S.C.)p 460 "The Aftermath" : "For returning Jews the experience was a haunting one, Jacques Stroumsa was a young engineer who helped construct the Hirsch camp, and had survived Auschwitz, where his parents and his pregnant wife had been killed. After the war, unwilling to return home , he had left for good. When he eventually he came back for a brief visit, he spent hours sitting on his hotel balcony and looking out over the sea: 'I was smoking cigarette after cigarette for fear the tears would come. A Greek Orthodox friend found me alone around midnight and said: "I understand you, Jacques, you don't really know any more where to go in Salonica, the city where you once knew every stone." And that's how it was."S.C.: Jacques was my fathers friend at school and Sorbonne in Paris. My father survived WW2 and saved most of the family by leaving Salonica for Athens and hiding there as Christians.But the book is the History of Salonica from 1430-1950, not only WW2.WW1 and the Fire in Salonica in 1916.Very Good reading!
4 This book covers Salonica, a city in North East Greece, where once thrived a more diverse community.  It covers the mostly Ottoman period and then into the period of nationalism, war and the present.A few significant items are brought to light through this read.  The book tries to reconstruct and explain how this city thrived with so many diverse peoples as a trading center in the Mediteranean.  Unlike many books published today on the region this book does not cover up the Ottoman Muslim slave trade that invovled 11 million Africans and millions of Russians and Slavic peoples, many of whome passed through Salonica as it was a center of the slave trade in the Mediteranean.  This book also tells the truth regarding the fact that it was the British and the West that stamped out slavery in the Mediteranean.The most significant proposal of this book is to try to look at the interplay within a city that was at one time almost 1/3 Jewish with large Greek and Turkish populations and the resulting three religions.  The idea here is to try to create a picture of Spain before 1492.  In doing so certain negative apsects of Ottoman Muslim imperialism in the region and colonization of Greece are swept under the carpet to make for a more politically correct read.  However no punches are pulled relating the population exchange whereby Greekse were forcibly removed from Turkey in 1922 and settled in Salonica and Turks left the city for Turkey.  In the 1940s the Nazis came to Salonica and the once thriving ancient community was brutally deported and destroyed almost to a man.  THis is the modern world, and Salonica only serves as a good example of the evils of modernity and runaway social extremes and political 'solutions'.Seth J. Frantzman
5 Mark Mazower&#8217;s Salonica, City of Ghosts: Christians, Muslims and Jews 1430-1950 is a micro historical study of Thessaloniki. The monograph, broken into three parts, begins with the 1430 conquest of Salonica by Sultan Murad II and concludes in 1950. Mazower exhibits &#8220;a history of forgotten alternatives and wrong choices, of identities assumed and discarded.&#8221; (p. 439) Salonica, he argues with &#8220;more than two thousand years of continuous urban life,&#8221; was a culturally and religiously diverse city. (p. 7) However, he contends contemporary Greek nationalism has obscured the rich history of Ottoman Muslim and Jewish influence in the city&#8217;s past.The first part of the monograph, &#8220;The Rose of Sultan Murad,&#8221; establishes a dynamic urban community where commerce and culture are dominated by Sephardic Jews. After the Spanish Reconquista concluded in 1492, Sultan Bayezid II welcomed the commercially skilled Sephardic tribe into the Ottoman Empire. Mazower advocates that this immigration of Spanish Jews to Salonica in the mid-sixteenth century &#8220;succeeded in revitalizing the city&#8221; after its 1430 conquest. (p. 63) In exchange for the economic prosperity, the Ottomans did not intervene in Jewish affairs. Therefore, Mazower ascribes that Rabbis then became a strong political force influencing the daily operations of the city. In addition to exploring the revitalization of the city, Mazower posits that the Ottoman Empire&#8217;s decline was a symptom of its decentralized structure. As power was not concentrated in Istanbul, regional Ottoman elites were forced to negotiate locally in order to maintain their position. Consequently, Mazower maintains the Sephardic presence in Salonica resulted in the &#8220;Hispanization of its culture [and] was long lasting&#8230; felt right up to the end of the empire.&#8221; (p. 63)Mazower&#8217;s second part, &#8220;In the Shadow of Europe,&#8221; then explores the beginning of the Ottoman Empire&#8217;s integration into Europe while simultaneously facing the threat of growing Greek nationalism. Following the 1856 Treaty of Paris, which acknowledged the Ottoman Empire for the first time as privy to the &#8220;Public Law and System of Europe,&#8221; Mazower argues that &#8220;Salonica changed faster and more dramatically than ever before.&#8221; (p. 173-174) Salonica, considered exotically romantic, experienced increasing numbers of Western tourists. According to Mazower, the tourists believed &#8220;the real city of Salonica lay beneath the Ottoman surface&#8221; and the Ottomans were to be &#8220;blamed for the city&#8217;s squalor, and openly doubted [for] their ability to modernize and reform.&#8221; (p. 207-208) In addition, social stratification of the city became further delineated, resulting in an increasing anti-Ottoman Greek nationalism reinforced by these European tourists&#8217; critiques. Unable to forcefully assert control, the Ottoman governor of the city could do nothing to counter this movement toward Greek reunification. The long held tradition of decentralized rule and accommodation would lead to eventual loss of the city.Mazower&#8217;s third part, &#8220;Making the City Greek,&#8221; chronicles the end of the Ottoman Empire&#8217;s rule in Salonica with the 1912 &#8220;coordinated offensive by the Balkan states [that] resulted in the loss of almost all [Ottoman] European territories.&#8221; (p. 276) In addition, he continues to discuss other pivotal events that changed Salonica following the Ottoman defeat; a massive city-wide fire in 1917, the &#8216;Convention Concerning the Exchange of Greek and Turkish Populations&#8217; in 1923, the arrival of the Nazis in World War Two and the extermination of the Sephardic Jews starting in 1942. Mazower&#8217;s overarching theme in this final part follows the narrative of the city from an Ottoman holding, with a large diverse population, to the modern city of Thessaloniki, with an overwhelmingly Greek Orthodox population and little recall of a Turkish past.Mazower&#8217;s monograph establishes that Salonica was once a cosmopolitan city consisting of Jews, Muslims, and Greek Orthodox Christians. However, he holds that modern Greek nationalistic history in Thessaloniki &#8220;is all about false continuities and convenient silences&#8221; (p. 439) that ignores the diverse Ottoman past. His sources are predominately Sephardic memoirs and Ottoman court proceedings which highlights the Jewish experience. The monograph serves as a micro study, displaying the diverse minutiae of Salonica&#8217;s society. Mazower then employs his microcosm of the Ottoman Empire in Salonica to counter the various nationalist movements that designate a convenient history in the creation of nationalistic propaganda. Illuminating a ghostly past, whispering and not completely forgotten, Mazower&#8217;s monograph shines light in the dark crypts of the dead: the ignored history of Salonica.
5 Among Christie's favorite sleuths was Hercule Poirot. Every Christie book is essentially a classic of the mystery genre.Sure to please.
4 We chose this book for our mystery book group fo December because of the title.  The book is a classic Poroit book with lots of red herrings, a locked room murder and a bit of a surprise ending. I enjoyed the book and I think there will be quite a bit of discussion about what holidays are like in a disfunctional family.
4 If you love a great mystery, you cannot go wrong with Agatha Christie.  Hercule Poirot is a funny little man who pays attention to the details and in the end always get his man, or woman.
5 Superb, the presentation and surprise conclusion was lovely, one of her very best endeavors. To say it better would be a waste of words, a twenty-one gun salute effort.
5 I have long been an Agatha Christie fan and Poirot tops the list of favorite detectives.  This is my first experience with Hercule Poirot's Christmas and I was delighted with the characters and the twists and turns of this story.
4 Agatha can still interest a reader, even as old as this story is.  The Age is apparent from the descriptions of the characters, and means of travel and communication, but the story is still very enjoyable,  I found myself trying to second-guess Hercule to find the culprit, and being dealt a surprise by finding out my &#34;deduction&#34; was way off.  As far as I am concerned these stories are right there with Sherlock in being well worth the time to download and read - and re-read... Sometimes the old classis are the best.
5 Am never disappointed in either Agatha or Poirot!  One of my favorite pleasures is a good Agatha Christie story have always preferred Hercule and Marple.
5 I'm a big fan of Hercule Poirot mysteries and this was a good one. I would recommend it to any Agatha Christie fan.
4 Reading this mystery during the holiday season, reminded me of all the little conflicts that exist in most families.  The fact that many had motives, means and opportunities made the entire situation impossible to figure out.  Hopefully most families don't have that much anger to work out at the holidays.
5 This is a must read even if you saw the film. (Can be seen for free on Amazon Prime)  It was fun to compare the two to see how the screen writers change around plot details...  However, to Turkey appreciate the Queen of Mystery's talent, you MUST read the book!
2 I don't understand all the 5-star reviews for this book.  The writing is dated, the plot contrived, the killer unbelievable.  The story takes place at Christmas but that is the only Christmas-y thing about it.  I generally like AC, but this story seems forced.  I wonder if it was written at the same time as The Mousetrap, since the plot is so similar.  I did not enjoy it and felt cheated by the ending.  I used to own a book of Poirot Christmas short stories that was very enjoyable, and I was looking forward to more of the same.  No such luck!
4 This is one of my favorite Hercule Poirot stories.  Good plot!  My fave, of course, is The Murder of Roger Ackroyd.
4 This is a great book. I love Agatha Christie. I'm not complaining about the book or the writing. The text is way too small. I'm hoping that in later editions of the book they actually use text that's readable. I would love to read more of the Christie catalog of novels but I can't read text this small. I'm a young guy in his late 20's and I have trouble reading these. Please make the text big enough to read in later editions. I've been seeing a taller paperback coming out in new books the last couple of years. There are about 4 or 5 Agatha Christies in this newer format. I'm was hoping that they'd print more in that format. I don't buy books I can't read because the type is so small. I didn't buy this book because the type was too small. I went to the library and got it for free. I'm sure you publishers are loosing a lot of sales from making the type so small. I know that me and my friends don't buy books with the type so small. We'll find other ways, like getting an older printing at the library or buying it used online for a couple bucks. THE TEXT IS TOO SMALL ON PAPERBACKS THESE DAYS. STOP BEING GREEDY AND PRINT A LEGIBLE TEXT. PEOPLE DON'T BUY BOOKS WHEN YOU GET CHEAPO TO SAVE 20 pages... they buy books they can actually read.
5 I am a fan of Christie 's stories.  I was familiar with this story from seeing the PBS broadcast of Poirot.  However, even though I think the TV show was faithful to the story, there is nothing like reading the story from the author.
4 My main reservation was that this was rather a gloomy novel. It opens in a smoky, dismal train station and moves to a cold, gloomy estate home. There is also more blood than is usual in A.C. novels, which she did on purpose following a criticism from her brother-in-law. All in all, a clever plot (as usual), but not much to do with Poirot's Christmas or even Christmas in general. For a contemporary Agatha Christie-style mystery with all the Christmas trimmings, check outChristmas is Murder: A Rex Graves Mystery (Rex Graves Mysteries)by another British author. In spite of multiple murders, it makes for light and festive reading.
5 Agatha is the best mystery writer of all time.  She uses humor, modern words and phrases, and her characters are well thought out.  Fabulous read.
5 Agatha Christie comes thru again with Hercule Poirots little gray cells this book is a must read for Agatha Christie fans!!
5 A classic Poirot mystery that has not lost its charm.  I read it many years ago, and I still enjoyed it and was still surprised by the solution.
5 What to expect:  large cast of well defined characters, variety of characters, complex plot, plot is well defined before Poirot  enters the drama.  And of course, the amazing conclusion when the murder is exposed - and you would have never guessed in a hundred years who is was!  The writing is simply exceptional.  No one comes near Ms. Christi.  That is why she is still read over and over again many years after her death.  Once one starts reading Hercule Poirot, all other mysteries pale.
5 Agatha Christie is the master of mysteries!  This book is no exception, she has the murder in a locked room, a wonderful cast of suspects, and the intrepid Hercule Poirot to reveal murderer at the end.
4 I really enjoyed this book. It's a little different from the movie. If you have a chance to watch the movie do it!  Can't go wrong with the book if you love Poirot.
4 (This book was originally titled "Murder for Christmas", which I like better.)If you're looking for a sentimental holiday read....this isn't it!  If you're looking for a murder mystery that will have you scratching your head and gasping at the end, you're in the right place.The story focuses on the murder of patriarch Simeon Lee, a bitter and hateful old man who traumatizes his children and is brutally murdered in a locked room.  This has all the other classic markers of a Christie tale:  unlikeable victim that many people would want to kill; murder in a selaed room; family that hate one another; secret siblings and offspring; family secrets; secret family treasure, etc.  World-famous detective Hercule Poirot is on the case, but acts much different than his usual modus operandi.  He holds all the cards close to his chest and gives us, the readers, very little to go on.  The ending was complete shock.  While I had plenty of guesses, none of them even came close.I loved the way this book starts.  It opens with an unknown character and the reader watches and watches for him/her to return and tries to figure out how all these pieces fit together.  I am not one of those really smart readers who keep track of all the clues and try to solve the mystery.  For most mysteries, I'm just in it for the ride and this one is no exception.  What a thrill ride from beginning to end!  The Dame does it again.
5 I think that any Agatha Christie story that features Hercule Poirot has got to be good and I wasn't disappointed with this one.  It is fun to have a Christmas story to read during the holiday season but this book was not really &#34;Christmasy&#34;--no tree, no presents, no caroling.  The relationship it had to Christmas was that a family got together  for a reunion.  A wealthy old man (rather a nasty sort) asked all of his children to come to the family home to celebrate the holiday with him.  They all showed up, rather reluctantly, and guess what---the nasty old man ended up dead--a classic locked room mystery.  Any mystery story fan who has some spare time during the busy holiday season and wants a quick read this is just right.
5 Great book and easy reading.  Love Hercule Poirot!  Thought I had read of all this series, but this one slipped by somehow.  Well worth reading.
3 I admit that I'm not a regular Agatha Christie reader, but I found this book to be just so so as a murder mystery.  The writing was spare and the circumstances somewhat contrived.  The murderer's m.o. was also a bit hard to believe.  Poirot is not all that interesting either.  I was entertained while reading, but by the end, I wondered if it was worth my time.
4 Agatha Christie often used illustrations and quotes from famous literary works; the Bible; fairy tales and folklore. The preface to "Hercule Poirot's Christmas" is culled from Shakespeare's "Macbeth." "Yet who would have thought the old man had so much blood in him?"  The elderly chap in question is Simeon Lee. Lee has called his dysfunctional family together at his estate for a Christmas gathering. Lee has been a dishonest businessman and is worth a fortune, He is found murdered in his upstairs bedroom. The doors are locked but the room is filled with gallons of blood; it appears there was fierce struggle prior to the murder. Whodunit? Only Hercule Poirot can solve this most nettlesome murder puzzle. The old man's valuable collection of uncuts diamonds are stolen! Among the suspects:Harry Lee-A prodigal son of old Simeon who returns home from South Africa.George and Magdalene Lee-This son is a member of parliament. His much younger sexy wife Magdalene is greedy for money and prestige.David and Hilda Lee-George is a painter while his wife Hilda mothers him. They have not seen Simeon in several years prior to the Christmas reunion.Albert and Lydia Lee: Albert is the son who has remained in business with his father for several years. He is to receive 50% of the estate of old Lee with the rest of his siblings and family members having to divide the other 50% amongst themselves.Stephen Farr-A South African who is supposedly the son of Simeon Lee's business partner.Conchita Lopez-the supposed daughter of Lee's late daughter Jennifer who was wed to a Latin man.Sugden-a local police offical who is assinged the Lee case.All of the major characters have reasons to murder Simeon Lee. This is a a difficult mystery to solve. The plot is ingenious even though the characters are lifeless. A good Poirot mysterey novel from 1938. A good lightweight way to while away an afternoon.  Christmas is much merrier devoid of murder! Happy Reading!
3 This is a great book, like most of Agatha Christie's, and the format is clean and high quality, but, at least on my Kindle Paperwhite, the font style refused to change. I could change the font size, but the style stayed Helvetica, even when I selected Palatino or one of the others. Helvetica isn't one of my favorite fonts, so it took away from the experience a little. Still, the story is very enjoyable. I would give it four stars if the font hadn't been an issue.
5 First let me indulge in a few housekeeping chores.  This was a library find that I am reviewing.  It is published by Black Dog and Laventral Publishers - a publishing company who is apparently trying to republish most of Christie's works.  These are nice books and our library is attempting to collect them all.  this is a good thing. It should be noted that even after all these years (This particular book was first published in 1938), these books are still being checked out quite frequently.  Christie's fan base has not diminished over the years.  This was, I believe, Christie's 32nd detection novel and was first published in America under the title Murder for Christmas.  (It should be noted that while the murder took place during the Christmas season, that fact has very little to do with the story...overall, i.e. this is not a Christmas story my any means. It should also be noted that this was written during a period where the author was cranking out two or three crime novels per year.This particular novel, Hercule Poirot's Christmas is not one of Christie's best known works.  Somehow it has been sort of lost in the shuffle of time.  It is though well worth the read for any Christie fan.  I will tell you right now thought that our strange little detective, Hercule Poirot, with his wonderful `little gray cells,' does not make an entrance until later in the book so there is quite a lengthy set-up on this one.As with many of this author's novels, this is a closed room mystery and murder.  One big difference in this and many of her other works is that there is just a wee bit more blood in this one than her normal offering.  There is a reason for this of course which bring up a good point:  When you read this work read it as you would any other Christie book.  There is NOTHING is this book that does not have some meaning.  Read closely every sentence, every paragraph, every conversation...pay very close attention!  The author does not waste time or words.  There are mysteries within mysteries in this one folks!I am always uncomfortable doing reviews on this author's work as I am fearful of giving a plot summary.  It is simply too easy to drop a spoiler here and there.  The description of this book on the product page has given a pretty good plot summary so I suggest you read it as it is pretty accurate and does not give anything away.  This "spoiler problem" is particularly important in this work as the ending hinges on complete surprise.  Yes, after you finish you will probably slap yourself on the forehead as I did and wonder how you missed the clues because, indeed, the clues are there!Christie has populated this story with some very unlikeable characters and plenty of suspects.  Starting with the murder victim, a truly unlikeable old wretch, and including some of the almost disgustingly weak (in a moral sense) family members, you have problems with who you hope eventually performs the dastardly deed.  It was difficult being sympathetic with any of the characters - one and all.All in all this is an enjoyable read.  Of course I am a big Christie fan which I suppose makes a difference.  As you read, good luck on figuring out who done it!Don BlankenshipThe Ozarks
5 If you like Mr Poirot, then you'll like this.  Agatha Christie tells a good story and this is no exception.  I could read her all day... and do.
5 Best Agatha Christie character, in my opinion, he adds the right element to every story.  This Christmas story was perfect, for me, and even I think I have read it before I enjoyed the characters and all the interactions. LOVE HERCULE  POIROT
5 You can never go wrong with a classic mystery like Agatha Christie! I can read and reread her books forever. This one was especially clever!
5 It is the dream of every reader that he or she might find a book by a favorite author that he/she hasn't read. That it should be an exceptionally good read is too much to hope for. So imagine my surprise to come upon "Hercules Poirot's Christmas" during Christmas week and to discover that it was one of Dame Agatha's best!  I seldom try to solve mysteries as I read them , but with so many clever clues, I couldn't help myself. Talk about a surprise ending! I have to admit that, over the years, I have grown tired of Agatha Christie 's somewhat drawn out gather-the-suspects-in-the-library explanations and denouement s, but this tale scalloped along to the end. Nouveaux Noel!
5 Of the several Christie mysteries that I have read, I must admit to being quite pleased with this particular novel.  Christie dedicated this particularly this "good violent murder with lots of blood" to her brother-in-law, James.  Of the ten main suspects, I had develeped definite ideas of the identity of the murderer.  In his inimitable manner, the great Belgian detective, Hercule Poirot, considers the spatial and temporal facts in relation to the very important psychological characteristics of the individual suspects.  Poirot, of course, is more clever in seeing the importance of clues which are initially seen as unimportant.  Christie allows her hero to pull the reader along to a surprising and stunning ending.  My only criticism is towards Bantam Books in regard to the very small type and shoddy printing in this particular edition (35th printing with cover artwork of fireplace and broken chair and broken glass by John Alcorn).  Nonetheless, I heartily recommend this mystery for any mystery fan at Christmastide or any other time of the year.
3 I don't know why I was not as thrilled with this A. Christie book as I have been with others. It just seemed contrived which is the other books by her that i have read.
5 I am really not in a position to make a recommendation for or against this book. Over many years, I have read all of Agatha Christie, more than once, I have read this one, heard it dramatised on radio, seen the outstanding BBC production of it, starring the best of the  Poirot actors, and, therefore, read it again without there being any mystery, suspense or surprises. Nevertheless, I enjoyed it since I enjoy Christie and it is like revisiting an old favorite site. About all that I can say is that she is still a quite readable author, the occasional weakness in Poirot's reasoning is quite bearable, and that being in the company of her problem solver and the source of the problems is a  pleasure.  If you have not yet sampled her work, this is a good  place to start.
4 I have always enjoyed Agatha Christie, and this book was no exception! It is so much fun to follow Hercule Poirot as he unravels a mystery.
4 When most families get together for Christmas, they can end up wanting to kill each other. Most don't actually do it.But when a family patriarch is a malevolent old lecher like Simeon Lee with vast quantities of money, it's no surprise when he ends up dead. Agatha Christie's "Hercule Poirot's Christmas" is a decidedly unsentimental little Yuletide murder mystery, full of snow-covered manorhouses, gruesome noises and plenty of people who have come for the holidays -- and aren't what they claim to be.As the book opens, a young Spanish girl named Pilar and Stephan Farr from Africa encounter each other on a train, heading for the exact same house -- that of Simeon Lee. Oh yeah, and they both obviously have something to hide.Turns out that old diamond mogul Simeon is gathering his adult children at his house, where the downtrodden Alfred and increasingly fed up Lydia live. Among the kids: stuffy MP George and his slinky wife Magdalene, globe-trotting "black sheep" Harry, and sensitive mama's boy David and his steadfast wife Hilda. Pilar and Stephen are welcomed with open arms, but Simeon starts playing mind games with his resentful offspring by revealing the intention of changing his will. That night, the house is roused by a gruesome howl -- and he's found with his throat cut in a locked room.Due to the puzzling nature of the crime and the bizarre evidence, local superintendent Sugden calls in the famed detective Hercule Poirot -- especially since Lee has not only been killed, but his uncut diamonds have been stolen. With his little grey cells, Poirot begins unravelling all the family secrets and lies -- including some surprising facts about Pilar and Stephen. But since the murderer is close at hand, Poirot must solve the seemingly impossible crime before another Yuletide murder happens.Apparently Agatha Christie wrote "Hercule Poirot's Christmas" for a funny reason -- her brother-in-law complained that her murders were all so clean and bloodless. Ladylike murders tended to be more Christie's forte. So this one is not only bloody, but downright gory -- Simeon gets his throat cut and the whole room is sprayed with blood. You can tell Christie had some fun writing about that, especially with the obligatory quote from the Scottish play: "who would have thought the old man had so much blood in him?"So even though "Hercule Poirot's Christmas" has everything a Christmas story should have, it's actually really lacking in festivity -- from the very first scene, we're treated to a Yuletide England that is dark, smoky, grimy and full of barely-hidden resentments and old wounds. Christie sprinkles the plot with plenty of suspense, bizarre clues that aren't easily figured out (especially a rubber scrap that Pilar picks off the floor), and a plethora of suspects who would have liked to see Simeon cold'n'dead, but who couldn't possibly have gotten inside to do it.And while the investigation is pretty straightforward, it's strewn with some surprising revelations about a couple of the family members. Christie's writing and dialogue tend to be a bit choppy, with many short exclaimations. But her vivid descriptions (London girls are described as "smooth egg-shaped faced, scarlet-lipped") and tightly coiled plot keep the story chugging along, although the murderer is only moderately hard to figure out.Hercule Poirot comes in when the book is already well underway, and in a way he almost takes a backseat to the other characters. The spawn of Simeon cross a wide range -- the scrappy bad-boy, the whiny mama's boy, the stuffy airbag and the downtrodden guy -- as do their wives, who range from a plain "nice woman" to a flaky sexpot with a rather shady sexual past. Pilar and Stephen are perhaps the most colorful and least resentful people in the cast -- and Simeon is a nasty, malevolent old tyrant."Hercule Poirot's Christmas" is thankfully devoid of sentimental reason-for-the-season dribbling -- it's all about wretchedly dysfunctional families, gruesome murder and the occasional popped balloon.
5 No one does it quite like the English!!  I always enjoy Poirot's antics.  He is sooo professional and always gets his man (or woman).  A fun read.
5 Simeon Lee, an aging millionaire, and the master of Gorston Hall, has invited all of his relatives for a holiday vacation filled with fun, games, mystery, and death. As soon as Simeon's relatives are comfortable, the alterations begin. First Simeon changes parts of his will, leaving many relatives unhappy, and him dead. The strange part of the murder isn't who slashed Simeon's throat, or why, but rather how, as he was murdered in his bedroom, where the door was locked from the inside. Now a new guest has arrived at Gorston Hall, Hercule Poirot, and he's brought with him the gift of detection.Written in scenes, instead of chapters, as if it were a play, HERCULE POIROT'S CHRISTMAS, has brought a new element to the mystery world. Christie has outdone herself with this novel. Weaving strange story twists and plots into one, to create an amazingly creative, and interesting mystery that will keep all readers on the edge of their seat until the very last page. A must-have book for all mystery fans.Erika Sorocco
5 this book was published the title under murder for christmas in the US.in 40s ,when it was reissued in paperback in the US,title was changed to a holiday for murder .in this book,an patriarch is brutally murdered on christmas eve.suspects are members of family,which are a money-grubbing politician,a baby-in-arms man,a black sheep guy,a spain swart lass,a dad-lover man,a stranger from spain.  book is one of the least realistic but most ingenuous CHristies and Poiret solves it brillantly.a singular book.watch out to DEJA VU reality that Tressilian had mentioned.
4 Agatha Christie&#8217;s Hercule Poirot was one of my first favorite detectives as a teenager. I cut my wisdom teeth on mysteries. A strong branch of my family tree is Belgian and an astute detective from Belgium appealed to me. When I recently came across the author&#8217;s ebook, Hercule Poirot&#8217;s Christmas (Hercule Poirot Mysteries), available for Kindle, it seemed the perfect choice for a middle-of-December read.Ms. Christie did a fabulous job of setting up a locked-door murder mystery. Her red herrings had me guessing all over the board for the true culprit, or was it two culprits? She also offered a delightful cast of characters, diverse and colorful. The plot was intricate and complex enough to hold my interest throughout the story.A mild disappointment lay in the lack of Christmas in Hercule Poirot&#8217;s Christmas. Granted, no one is in a festive mood once a body takes center stage, but the title raised my expectations and I would have liked a bit of holiday spirit, at least before the murder scene.Within Hercule Poirot&#8217;s Christmas, there is still the holiday madness, however, and this author&#8217;s superb writing is worth the read.
5 All the suspense exists in the bloody murder mystery that happens at Christmas time in England.  Surprise ending - never saw it coming!
5 I have always loved the TV series with both Miss Marple and Hercule Poirot.The book stands up to the TV show. Marvelously written a very enjoyable book, very hard to guess as always with Christies stroies. The characters are interesting and very diverse. I would really recomend this to any one who enjoys a good mystery.
5 Have you ever gotten one of those easy-to-assemble kits and discovered that no matter how you try, the pieces just will not go together?  Have you ever labored to solve a puzzle only to find a piece or two missing?In this case Christie assembles a cast of suspects, gives them ample motive and opportunity, gives them all reasons to lie, throws in a group of clues that simply cannot be reconciled in any logical fashion, and then brings off a solution which explains everything and exposes a killer you'd never suspect.The story (originally titled &quot;Murder for Christmas&quot;) was written in 1938, the same year Christie wrote &quot;Appointment with Death.&quot;  The two stories share much in common.  &quot;Appointment&quot; features a fabulously wealthy, tyrannical matriarch who delights in tormenting her children.  &quot;Christmas&quot; features a fabulously wealthy, tyrannical patriarch who delights in tormenting his children.  By the time the matriarch/patriarch is bumped off, the reader is ready help kill him/her.  The children in both stories are all pathetic weaklings.  Despite their weakness, the reader can develop affection for some of them.&quot;Appointment&quot; featured a rather straightforward, easily achieved modus operandi and Christie's favorite murder weapon--poison.  &quot;Christmas&quot; served up a locked room mystery with a diabolically clever methodology fraught with the peril of miscarriage.One feature of the murder was the vast amount of blood shed when the victim was stabbed.  The murderer would have been covered with blood, but none of the suspects seems to have any blood on them.  Having read &quot;Murder on the Orient Express,&quot;  I was familiar with Christie's seeming lack of understanding of the dynamics of blood spatter in stabbing cases.  In this case, however, there was a very good explanation for the non-detection of blood on any of the suspects.Christie never ceases to amaze with her perpetrators.  In one case the narrator was the killer.  In another the apparent victim turned out to be the murderer.  Murderers keep falling out of the woodwork from the most unexpected places.  She once even had the butler do it!  Poirot's theory of the case insisted on the murderer being a family member.  In the end, I think even Poirot was surprised at which family member it was.Christie plants the clues to the murderer's identity so skillfully, that even though they're there, you'll read right past them without taking any note whatever.  When the killer is revealed, you'll slap your forehead and say &quot;of course!&quot;
4 Christie would sometimes interject some levity into her novels, particularly the Poirot mysteries.  So, it might be reasonable to expect that a book titled "Hercule Poirot's Christmas" would be an enjoyable "Christmassy" mystery.  Actually, though, it is a fairly conventional Poirot mystery that has very little to do with Christmas.  Setting the novel during Christmas at one of Christie's typical large, country houses is just a plot device to bring together a big, unhappy family.  Once the family is assembled and the murder occurs, references to Christmas drop away.The mystery is decent, although given that the novel was written in 1938, during the heart of Christie's prime, it might have been a bit more innovative.  If you are new to Christie, I would start with "The Murder of Roger Ackroyd" or the "ABC Murders" rather than with this book.  But if you are a Christie fan, you will likely find this book enjoyable.  Just know what you are getting -- a Christmas story, it ain't!
5 Was not familiar with this Hercule Poirot mystery.  Enjoyed reading it very much.  As usual Agatha does not dissapoint the reader.
5 Great reading for a cold rainy day. Her characters, plot and discriptions are always interesting. Her writing style has made her a classic who stays true to form.
5 It is Christmas 1938, as our fussy Belgian sleuth is aghast at the thought of a broken furnace in his posh London apartment.  Reluctantly accepting creepy tycoon Simeon Lee's invitation for a case (and, yes, Lee's mansion has central heating, as Poirot must be assured), Poirot finds his first impression is correct: his new client is as greedy and despicable as they come.  Soon after, with Poirot uneasily present as a witness, the elderly, wheelchair-bound Simeon proceeds to wretchedly enjoy taunting his three sons and their wives, plus an adult granddaughter, about changing his will again and showing off his vaunted South African diamonds.  If anything, in the Lee family, hating patriarch Simeon and sponging off his vast wealth go hand in hand.  Inevitably, later that night, old Simeon is found brutally murdered in his ransacked, locked study.  No surprise, his diamonds have been stolen from the safe.With a household full of suspects (including a servant or two), Poirot, Scotland Yard Inspector Japp, and local cop Sugden have their hands full interrogating the Lee family (none of whom are actually grieving).  The question remains: who ingeniously has the perfect alibi while still managing to slip away to viciously murder and rob Simeon before disappearing into thin air.  Only some chance clues Poirot puts together reveals the solution.  Unlike the generally faithful film adaptation starring David Suchet, the original novel doesn't drop broad hints and instead leaves readers guessing until the very end.  This is vintage Agatha Christie for the holidays.Rating: 5/5 stars.P.S. For a nice companion piece, look for Christie's short story "Theft of the Royal Ruby," which was also expanded into the novella, "The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding," for anyone wanting to share another Christmas with Hercule Poirot.
3 I really enjoyed this throw-back, Clue-style mystery novel.  I knew there would be a twist, and I was certain that the direction she was leading us in the investigation would not be the obvious answer.  But even though I was waiting for the out-of-the-box revalation, I was still very surprised when the murderer was finally announced!It was a great book!  Kept me interested the whole time and Poirot was a great character to follow.I am happy I finally read an Agatha Christie book and I am excited to start my next one!
4 Agatha Christie never disappoints.  There were alot of twists and turns in this book.  The ending was a surpise but Poirots line of deducing was masterful.  As always Poirot triumps to find the culprit.
5 Always a fan, but this was New to me.  Characters are bang on in detail and consistency.  Motives galore, and of course who done it is a complete surprise.  Loved it.
4 I used to read all the mysteries written by Agatha Christie.  This one is just as fasinating.  This time from past experience...I predicted who the murderer was and was right!
4 I make it a tradition to read a holiday themed book during the Christmas season so when this was a special for Kindle I snatched it.  It was perfect, a quick, smart, not overly predictable little mystery for the holidays!
4 Simeon Lee was not a nice man. He was, however, very rich.  His chief form of amusement since his retirement from business was to torment his sons and their wives.  All, including the long absent black sheep of the family, are summoned to spent Christmas in the isolated family home.  They are joined by a never before met granddaughter and the son of a former business partner.  Before the the holidays are over Simeon is found dead in a locked room, diamonds are missing and suspicion is cast over the whole household.In the hands of an author less skilled than Christie this would be just another locked room murder but Christie brings the story to life.  As always her characters seem real, her detective (Poirot) is marvelously quirky and even if the reader should happen to solve the crime first it is still a fun read.This book has been published under several titles, always a problem with Christie's works, which can lead a reader to inadvertently pick up a 'new' book only to discover an old friend in disguise.  To further complicate matters the basic premise of this work is very much the same as 4:50 From Paddington - a Miss Marple story.
3 Hercule Poirot's Christmas is another Agatha Christie novel that leaves you wanting more - more Christmas, more Poirot, more useful clues and a more realistic ending.While the murder takes place at Christmas time, the holiday is in the background. The suspects all happen to be at the crime scene because of it and it is mentioned occasionally, but I didn't fell a big holiday focus. Poirot arrives about a third of the way through the novel, causing a large portion of the beginning of the book to be mostly set-up and contain little actual detection. The book is ripe with red herrings to the point where you stop believing that any clue is a clue at all.The clues end up not being an issue because the killer is a total surprise. It's virtually impossible to figure it out before the big reveal. Even after Poirot accuses the guilty, you're left wondering how that could have possibly happened. While I loved the surprise, I would have rather had the evidence support the guilt better.Not a bad mystery, but not of the same caliber of other Agatha Christie novels. If you won't be reading the entire Christie backlist, I'd skip this one in favor of another.
5 Excellent book with a great plot which typical.  Found myself constantly looking at Poirot as the TV character and found him a little lacking in his typical personality.
5 As usual the sweet, unassuming Poirot solves the mystery, but this seemed to have a new little &#34;quirk&#34; to it.  I'll re-read it.
3 Slow start gets better ending threw me off could not figure out... 1st book i read by this author not sure about a second maybe. i have started read some books gave up and would not get another by that author but i finished this one....
4 Although generally regarded as typifying the cozy murder mystery writer in whose books there is either a murder in a locked room or a murder at a family reunion in a country house, Agatha Christie rarely tried her hand at either of these murder mystery genres.  In "Hercule Poirot's Christmas", however, she combines both.The family is the dysfunctional Lee family, summoned to pass Christmas together in the house of old Simeon Lee, the patriarch.  During this stressful reunion, a commotion followed by a blood-curdling scream is heard from the room on the first floor occupied by old Simeon.  When the locked door is forced open, the furniture is found upended, the safe rifled, and Simeon is found lying dead with his throat cut.  The door key is in place, on the inside of the door.Having depicted how the family members despise, hate, or resent each other up to this point, Agatha Christie next allows the investigations and theories to develop.  Poirot is on hand, but she cleverly allows other police inspectors and investigators to do most of the work and make most of the mistakes.The solution is one you will never forget, but also one that you will probably never arrive at before Poirot reveals all.  Agatha Christie is wonderfully clever at laying out all the clues in an arrangement that directs the reader away from the vital ones.Apart from a few lines of description, almost everything in the text is dialogue.  To anyone in the world who has not yet read this 1940 mystery nothing more need be said.  To those who are re-reading it, I suggest they notice how cleverly it is plotted and planned.
3 Hercule Poirot's Christmas follows the trials of a wealthy English family in the days immediately before and after Christmas day.  The family patriarch is a despicably unlikable old fellow.  About the only things he seems to enjoy are tormenting his family and fondling some uncut diamonds he keeps in his room.  As you might imagine, he ends up murdered and the stones go missing.  The police are called in to investigate and it just so happens that Poirot is visiting at the station when the call comes in.  The usual interviews ensue.  The old man was such an obnoxious sort that you can easily imagine almost anyone killing him.  The little Belgian puts his grey cells to the task and, of course, solves the crime in the end.The murder plot itself is the strongest aspect of this novel.  It's typically Byzantine and will certainly keep you guessing.  The story moves along at a decent pace, though the murder could have come a bit more quickly.  Unfortunately, the cast and most of the story is uninspired and recycled from numerous other Christie novels.  I don't really mind re-using concepts if they're well done, but this book generally has a plodding feel as if it is just going through the motions.  Not one of the family was a truly interesting character and even Poirot seemed a bit flat.Overall, this book was something of a disappointment.  It isn't as bad as the worst Poirot novels I've read but it's far from the best.  The intricate murder can't make up for the insipid characters.  I recommend this book only to established fans of Hercule Poirot.  First time readers can do much better with books likeEvil Under the Sun: A Hercule Poirot MysteryorMurder on the Orient Express: A Hercule Poirot Mystery (Hercule Poirot).
4 If you like Christie, and haven't read this one, it's worth it.  I hadn't read her for many years now and this reminded me why I liked her so much.
4 This was a good old fashioned novel with lots of twists and turns.  You could never predict who was the guilty party.
4 Great Agatha Christie/Hercule Poirot movie.  Poirot looses the heat in his building on the eve of Christmas so he accepts an invitation spend Christmas elsewhere.  This lands him in the middle of a murder.
5 I love anything that Agatha Christie writes. I can read her books over and over again and never get bored. I can't wait until I've read every single one of her books!
5 This book was yet another wonderful example of why Agatha Christie is the queen of mystery writers! The circumstances are interesting and any number of people could be the murderer. One thing Hercule Poirot always says is that it has something to do with the murder victim's character and personality. And it does every time.
5 Agatha Christie is a wonderful author.  This is an entertaining book. Somehow, this little, pecular man is attractive and I found myself thinking it would be great to meet him in real life.  Interesting plot, great writing.
5 Book was very exciting and led one to believe in the various opinions of the inspectors. The ending was a complete surprise.
4 Agatha Christie is a wonderful writter. Everything written by her is a classic, and this one is no exception. It has everything a mystery book is suposed to have.
5 This is a good read with a very unexpected ending....that is why she is the best and won't fail you this time.
5 The epitome of the puzzle type of mystery, with the typical Christie touch at the end. Poirot, as usual, fits the minutest observations into the web that ensnares the killer.
5 &Eacute; v&eacute;spera de Natal e a festa da fam&iacute;lia Lee &eacute; interrompida pelo barulho de m&oacute;veis quebrando e um alarmante grito.No andar de cima, dentro de um quarto trancado, o tirano Simeon Lee &eacute; encontrado morto numa poa de sangue, com sua garganta cortada.  E o cofre arrombado.Mas quando Hercule Poirot, que estava na cidade, hospedado na casa de um amigo para o Natal, se oferece para ajudar, ele encontra um clima de suspeita entre todos os membros da fam&iacute;lia.Parece que todos tinham seus motivos para odiar o velho homem.Um dos aspectos desse assassinato &eacute; a grande quantidade de sangue que cerca a v&iacute;tima.  O assassino deveria estar coberto de sangue, mas nenhum dos suspeitos apresenta esta caracter&iacute;stica.Nesta &eacute;poca, no se dava muita importncia aos detalhes de uma cena de crime, como hoje vemos nos thrillers mais modernos.  Entretanto, h&aacute; uma boa explicao para essa no-existncia de sangue nos suspeitos.A teoria de Poirot, neste caso, &eacute; a de que o assassino &eacute; um dos mebros da fam&iacute;lia - certo - isso at&eacute; n&oacute;s, leitores, concordamos.  Mas, no final, at&eacute; Poirot ficou surpreso ao saber quem era o culpado.E o leitor ir&aacute; bater na testa: - "&Eacute; claro!"A trama desse livro &eacute; parecida com a trama de "Um encontro com a morte", escrito no mesmo ano, 1938, onde uma matriarca tirana tamb&eacute;m &eacute; assassinada e at&eacute; o leitor torce pelo assassino.  Em ambas as est&oacute;rias, os filhos dos tiranos so fracos e pat&eacute;ticos.Tudo no livro: os di&aacute;logos, os detalhes, e as pistas, so chaves para a soluo do mist&eacute;rio.A trama &eacute; preciosa, os personagens confusos e deliciosos e a concluso, chocante.
5 Christie doesn't disappoint, and this has a little something special that I can't put my finger on. Suffice it to say, it's a fun locked room mystery with a twist of an ending.  Christie was a true puzzle master.
3 I'm a life-long Christie reader (and that's quite a few decades), but this one left me as cold as Christmas at the North Pole. Just could NOT push my way through it, and Poirot hadn't appeared a good number of pages in, so I had to give up.
4 First Sentence:  Stephen pulled up the collar of his coat as he walked briskly along the platform.Elderly, wealthy Simon Lee has gathered his family around him for a Christmas reunion.  Hardly a joyous celebration when the guests hear furniture being overturned, an inhuman scream and find Simon murdered in his locked room.  Visiting a friend in the area, Hercule Poirot offers to assist in solving this case where everyone had reason to wish the old man dead.Reading Christie is always a delight.  There is wonderful, wry humor in her writing such as the description of the butler being like a faithful old retainer of fiction and the Inspector inquiring "Do you mean to tell me, Superintendent, that this is one of those damned cases you get in detective stories where a man is killed in a locked room by some apparent supernatural agency?"Ms. Christie's books were contemporary when written and historical to us now.  Her strong descriptions of that time and the related social mores make fascinating reading.  Her sense of place is equally strong.  I find it interesting that she, as did many English authors of that time and later, assumed her audience had a classical education as evidence by her use of non-translated French phrases and Shakespearian quotations.It is her plotting and use of characters I most enjoy.  She sets her story up by introducing each of her very distinctive characters assuring the reader knows who they are and how they relate in the story.  I greatly appreciate that Ms. Christie didn't feel it necessary to make the local police seem incompetent in order to have Poirot be brilliant.  There was only one mild portent when Hilda said "Not of you.  I am afraid--for you!", and one coincidence to which Poirot says "I am always prepared to admit one coincidence."  Thank you, Miss Christie!There are several very clever twists to the plot and the classic revelation at the end.  If you've not read Christie, I highly recommend so doing.  For me, she is a reliable, enjoyable reread.HERCULE POIROT'S CHRISTMAS (Trad Mys-Hercule Poirot-England-1930s) - VG+Christie, Agatha - 19th in Poirot seriesBerkley; reissue 2000, US Paperback - ISBN:  9780425177419
5 Hercule Poirot is spending Christmas in the country with his friend Colonel Johnson, Chief Constable of Middleshire, and suffering greatly from the lack of central heating, "Nothing like a wood fire" says Colonel Johnson, but Poirot disagrees.  Then nasty, malicious old millionaire Simeon Lee is bloodily murdered, and Poirot is called in to investigate.The house is full of Simeon Lee's put-upon sons and their put-upon wives, any one of whom might have wanted to do the old tyrant in, especially as Lee was about to change his will, apparently to include his beautiful granddaughter Pilar, just arrived from Spain, whom none of the family had ever set eyes on before.  The family are naturally anxious to insist that the murder must have been an outside job, whereas Poirot is equally convinced that one of the family is responsible.This is one of the most delightful of the Poirot mysteries, with an interesting set of characters,especially vivacious, unconventional Pilar, amusing dialogue, and a cunning murderer to unmask.  A real Christmas treat.
4 Agatha Christie books are all fabulous, this was no exception.  Really enjoyed reading it. Hercule Poirot is my all-time favorite!
5 Hercule Poirot is at his best in this classic who-dun-it by Christiel  The clues are very subtle and easily missed.  But the ending is satisfying.
5 I've read 'em all--over 80.  This is one of the best and most fun.  Very tricky in a totally fair way....
3 Christie made a point to get a Christmas mystery out most years, and sometimes they are Christmas in word only. This takes place at Christmas, but could have happened at any other time. Worth reading.
4 As always, I enjoy Christie's mysteries, not just for plot, but for tone and setting.  This story does not disappoint.
3 I'm sorry but the resolution of this mystery is pretty ridiculous, a Rube Goldberg contraption worthy of John Dickson Carr. Christie had by this point established a reputation for surprise endings and it looks like she was straining to live up to that here. Even the usually reliable Hercule Poirot seems enervated in this tale, which was serialized almost concurrently with another non-Poirot Christie mystery (Easy to Kill) in late 1938 (both were subsequently published in book form a few months later).The opening of Hercule Poirot's Christmas is some of Christie's worst writing, a series of expository scenes that read like the opening acts of a bad drawing room drama where characters go about telling each other things that logically they all already know as a clumsy way of bringing the audience up to speed. My guess is that by this point Christie was getting a little tired of Poirot and wasn't sure where to go with him but felt obligated to continue cranking out Poirot mysteries on a regular schedule because he was such a popular character (the next two years would bring three more Poirot books). The fact that Easy to Kill and her next novel, And Then There Were None, did not feature the little Belgian, shows that she was at the same time also trying to expand her horizons. So does the fact that both Hercule Poirot's Christmas and Easy to Kill have strong romantic subplots, which seem to indicate a desire on the part of the author to branch out to other genres (in fact, Christie had already published a couple of romance novels by this point under a pseudonym).I had just finished Easy to Kill before reading Poirot's Christmas and I thought that the former had a dynamism the latter lacked because the main character was fresher. Luke Fitzwilliam is no Hercule Poirot when it comes to detection, but he is a lot more interesting because he's more human. Christie had been trying to round out and humanize Poirot in several previous books (Death on the Nile, Appointment With Death) by making him more empathetic, less an arrogant calculating machine but there's little of that here. Instead, Hercule shows up, Hercule sifts the evidence, Hercule pronounces a verdict and everyone goes home (or to jail). As I said, very mechanical.Now, does that mean this is a bad book? No. Even mediocre Christie is worth reading if you're a mystery fan. There is an interesting setup, an intriguing set of characters/suspects, red herrings galore and a logical if far-fetched solution. You could do a lot worse.
5 Wonderful Poirot mystery; perfect for a holiday read.  This one did not disappoint and kept my attention.  A definite winner.
5 Everything a mystery should be! Especially an Agatha Christie mystery.  They don't make them like that any more, do they?
4 -Agatha Christie has done it again.  A wonderful mystery about a dysfunctional family that includes a murder.You will be surprised to find who the actual murder is.  I was.
3 Originally published in 1938, as A MURDER FOR CHRISTMAS and later as A HOLIDAY MURDER, HERCULE POIROT'S CHRISTMAS is a stock story. An old man invites his family for the holidays and gets a few unexpected visitors. The disappearance of the murder weapon and its hiding place add a little spice, but this is not one of Christie's best.In some regards, Georgette Heyer's ENVIOUS CASA, which was published in 1941 is similar.Got a little spare time during the holidays, enjoy because like all Cristies it is a clever puzzle, it is the characters that leave you bored.Nash Black, author of TRAVELERS and SINS OF THE FATHERS.
5 I am a huge fan of Agatha Christie.  All of her characters make lasting impressions on me, especially Hercule Poirot.
4 Love Hercule Poirot mysteries and I have not read any of the Hercule Poirot dealing with murders during  the holidays.
5 As always, Agatha Christie has come through with a typical suspenseful English mystery with the indomitable Hercule Poirot to the rescue solving the &#34;who dunnit&#34;.  A joy to read and I highly recommend this book.Paul D. SmithCaldwell, Idaho
4 The holiday setting is always a fun one, and Poirot's eccentricities, set down in a household full of more eccentrics, one of whom is lethal, makes for a very entertaining read. This is one of Christie's better plots, convoluted, deceiving, yet with all the major details fully accounted for on the final page. I enjoyed it greatly. Also recommend the TV series version of this, which has some nice atmospherics.
5 I am amazed that I have not read this before. Is is classic Christie, complex clues not at all obvious to the reader. Proably not one of the best ever, but still worth reading.
4 If you like Poirot this book will be a pleasant read.A maybe too short but quick read.I liked it.
4 I would recommend this book to other Poirot's fans.  It is intriguing and held my attention.  I could not leave this lay for long because I had to know who did the crime.  It was a surprise..
5 Agatha Christie mysteries are timeless. I enjoy re-reading them from time to time, especially the ones featuring Hercule Poirot. I would recommend this one to anyone who enjoys a good mystery without graphic sex or violence.
5 I cannot really explain why, but for me this is one of the best Poirot book. As usual, expect very intricate plot, memorable characters, and a lot of humour.
5 Agatha Christie, one of the great authors! This story was one that kept me changing my mind more than once as to who the killer was, and Poirot's deductions were always interesting with a new look on things that most persons would not consider and, many times humorous.In fact, the story would not have been as appealing without Poirot.I understand that this is one of the first books written by Christie and, believe it or not, I have not read many by her, but intend to get started. If other readers have not read any of her books, it is time to begin!GREAT PLOT!
5 As always Agatha Christie comes through with an amazing ending. You try to figure it out and she will surprise you every time. If you want a good mystery, read a Christie.
5 There's never been an Agatha Christie Hercule Poirot book that I haven't liked. I enjoy them all immensely and this book was no exception.
5 This is yet another stunner by Agatha Christie. There are lots of intriguing characters for you tp puzzle over the possible guilt or innoncence thereof, there is a brilliant victim. (Rather in the style of "Appointment With Death"'s Mrs Boynton) who, though a despicable character, is quirky and livens up the writing. He is fun to read about, and despite his apparent callousness, quite likeable.The final solution is incredibly good. Really, its almost as notable as the solution to "The Murder of Roger Ackroyd", completely unexpected, yet makes the reader kick themself for their ignorance and blindness.Poirot is on fine form once again this seasonal mystery, which has many twists and turns towards the end, which delight.
5 "Hercule Poirot's Christmas", originally published as "Murder for Christmas" contains Agatha Christie's bloodiest crime scene ever, a special treat for her brother-in-law.  But it also contains perhaps one of her most ingenious and twisted solutions of any Hercule Poirot novel.  This yuletide murder story is a perfect present for any Christie fan.The Lee family, estranged and bitter, have been called together for Christmas by their father, Simeon Lee.  While an invalid, Simeon still has plenty of fight left in him and desires his four sons and only granddaughter to be around him, if only to stir up trouble among his ungrateful offspring.  On Christmas Eve, Simeon Lee is found brutally murdered, and the circumstances are such that all fingers point to someone within the family.  But which member of the family could it be, when almost every member disliked or even loathed the prideful patriarch?  Hercule Poirot is quite befuddled himself, until he can look outside the circle of suspects and into the mind of the victim himself."Hercule Poirot's Christmas" is a fast-paced and delightful mystery, offering plenty of psychological drama among the various embittered family members.  As with any Christie mystery, there is always a twist within a twist, but the solution to this murder is beyond fathoming for any reader.  It takes the mind of Hercule Poirot, and Agatha Christie, to solve and create such a convoluted, fulfilling ending.
3 A good, workman like read but not one of Agatha Christie's standouts.  However, I must admit that the ending was quite unexpected (by me, you understand), even though the clues were all there.
3 Two strangers meet on a train: a beautiful Spanish woman and an Englishman who has spent most of his life in South Africa, and there's an instant attraction. Coincidentally enough, both are heading for the same destination: Gorston Hall. There, patriarch Simeon Lee has called his three sons and their wives (and two unexpected guests) back to his home for Christmas. A sadistic old man by nature, he is just as disappointed in his sons as they are resentful toward him; his only pleasure in life seems to be handling a stash of uncut diamonds that he keeps in his safe, and playing mind-games with his assorted family and servants.Naturally, it isn't long before Simeon is found brutally murdered and the police are called in to investigate the matter - bringing with them Hercule Poirot. Created out of her brother-in-law's desire for a bloody, messy murder, this is a standard Christie: a house full of suspects, imposters, a locked room mystery, a changing will, and a malevolent murder victim that everyone had motive and opportunity to kill.Taking place over a week (including Christmas Day, as the title would indicate), Poirot looks into the murder and uncovers several family secrets. As always, all the clues are there for the astute reader, though Christie manages to perform a last-minute twist that throws the entire situation on its head. And yet, this is not her best work, and for long-time fans, it may feel somewhat formulaic.The characters aren't as well drawn this time around. There are the servants, the brothers and their wives, none of whom are particularly interesting (and with a couple of exceptions, rather interchangeable), and not even the two would-be lovers are particularly involving. Poirot himself is a little...bland. There is none of his intellectual arrogance that makes him so memorable in other books, as here he simply takes in the information and then passes on his findings to the police: there is no teasing, no word-play, no riddles, that can make the character so fun and yet so infuriating.Of course, no Christie book could ever be considered a waste of time: this is a great little puzzle-book that's perfect for curling up with next to the fire in the winter (Christmas?) holidays. It's just not one of the juiciest samples that Christie has to offer.
5 I had not read this book by Christie and finding it during the Christmas holidays was an added benefit.  Perfect as are all of her works.
4 I am a big fan and always look forward to the book I may have missed. He always surprises me at the end.
5 This is a Mystery book written by Agatha Christie in 1938. It was also sold with different titles, as "Murder for Christmas" and "A Holiday for Murder".The book features detective Hercule Poirot trying (and succeeding) to solve a murder. A wealthy old man (Simeon Lee) invites his family (sons and granddaughter) to gather at his home for the Christmas party. Not all family members are on good terms with one another. An unexpected guest (Stephen Farr) arrives claiming to be the son of his former partner. So the house is full of potential suspects, and at Christmas Eve there is a commotion on the bedroom where the old man stays and everybody hears crashing of furniture followed by a scream. When they arrive at Simeon's room, it is looked and they have to break the door down. Inside they find the old man dead, his throat slit and a great pool of blood.Poirot is called to investigate and the questions, as usual, are the same: Who killed the victim? How was the victim killed inside a locked room? Is there any connection to the theft of diamonds? What is the meaning of the small triangle rubber and the peg that were found inside the room? Poirot explores the nature of the victim and the way these characteristics come out in his children. During his investigation, he tries to avoid another murder and barely succeeds. Poirot is able to unmask several characters that are impostors and solves the crime.Main characters: Hercule Poirot, Colonel Johnson, Superintendent Sugden, Simeon Lee, Alfred Lee (son), Lydia Lee (Alfred's wife), George Lee (son), Magdalene Lee (George's wife), David Lee (son), Hilda Lee (David's wife), Harry Lee (son), Pilar Estravados (granddaughter), Stephen Farr (partner's son), Horbury (Simeon's valet), Tressilian (butler).If you are a Christie's fan, you will love this book. It is a very easy and fast reading, also very entertaining and excelent plot.
5 I have always like stories by this author and have probably read it before but it was good to read it again. A great story.
5 A closed room murder, a family gathering at Christmas, and Poirot's little gray cells at work, what more is needed for a good Christmas mystery!  Listened to this on audio.  Made this good story great!!
4 i love agatha... but not one of her better efforts...didn't really care about the characters that muchresolution at the end i thought was quite interesting (of course completely unrealistic)...... but i found the first 3/4 of the book flagged
5 Sorry, Shelley, dear, but if you don't like confusing books, STAY AWAY FROM AGATHA CHRISTIE!  This is indeed a confusing book; Dame Agatha is at her most misleading here, directing the reader's attention to unimportant  bits of business or dialogue, focusing the reader on the trivia while she  floats the real clue softly past him.  The whole point of a Christie book  is to NOT REALLY KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON!This one is truly one of her  most deceptive books; you have to read extremely carefully (paying  particular attention to dialogue) in order to have a clue (pun intended) of  what's going on.  She writes with even greater care here than usual,  misdirecting the reader so effectively that the ending is a complete  surprise (it literally could be anybody until the last few pages! ).  One  of her classics.
5 This was definately a different kind of Hercule Poirot novel, but I really enjoyed it just the same. Always love a Christie.
5 What can I say that hasn't already been said about the Queen of mysteries.  In my book, her books can't be beat.  The mysteries are always well planned and are indeed a mystery till the end.
5 My first Agatha Christie. I guessed one of the not-who-he-appears-to-be. But I didn't know whodunnit or howdunnit. Very fun read.
5 Agatha Christie, did it again. People, this is a must read. We have Simeon Lee, a rich and powerful man. He had five children, four boys and a daughter,who died the previous year,  a grown granddaughter, whom he never met, from his deceased daughter. Of his sons, there is a kiss up, mama's boy, money hungry one and a wild one.Now all of them have left home except the eldest one,(the kiss up). Simeon decided to invite all of his other sons and his granddaughter to come home for Christmas and for the granddaughter to come and live there. The sons agreed, thinking the old man was going to bury the hatchet and they would be a family again.After every one was settled, the old man summoned them to his room. The old man proceeded to lam into them, telling them that they were worthless and blasted his deceased wife for being weak and giving him worthless sons, and that his granddaughter was worth two of them.Now you know that this pissed the sons off, especially the mama's  boy. He demanded they leave his room and he will see them in the morning.Everyone was in the dinning room when they heard this loud crash and furniture being flung about. Everyone raced upstairs to the father's room only to find the door locked. The fellers tried to shoulder ram the door, but it would not budge. So they used something else to break the door down. Now this door is a heavy mahogany wood  When they entered the room they found their dad lying on the floor with his throat slit from ear to ear, and so much blood,from such a frail man.Now mind you the door was locked, one window was latched,the other open about 6 inches, was that way for decades, because it was stuck and the furniture in the room was of the same mahogany wood.Not one of his sons, except the kiss up, liked the dad, and after that blow out in the old mans room. All I can say is so many suspects and so many motives.
3 This book is on sale for the holidays and it&#8216;s hard to top a good murder mystery set at Christmas. This is doubly true when Hercule Poirot is on the case, and while Agatha Christie breaks no new ground here or even deviates much from her traditional style, the story of a feuding wealthy family is full of interesting characters and ample intrigue. Well worth the discounted price.
4 One of the best of the Poirot mysteries.  Great twist at the end. Certain elements of how the murder was done a bit far fetched,but par for the course in this genre. If you like Agatha Christie, though, you'll love this.
3 Haven't read Agatha Christie before as I'm not a big mystery fan.  The characters and their relationships to each other were interesting.
5 Reading Agatha Christie is always like a wonderful visit to an old friend. This story is full of her iconic characters and lots of twists and turns... If you are looking for a "Comfort Read", this is a good bet! Kindle makes it a great value too.
5 A Poirot mystery is always interesting and fun! This one is no exception. It kept me guessing which I enjoy.
5 THIS IS ONE OF CHRISTIES BEST.THE CHARACTERS ARE ENGROSSING AND THE PLOT WILL CATCH YOUR INTEREST FROM THE BEGINNING.THE ENDING YOU WILL NEVER GUESS.DONT MISS THIS BOOK.
3 I had not read any Hercule Poirot books although I really enjoy the TV series - even in reruns - with David Suchet.  I thought the book was quite boring - Interview all suspects; eliminate suspects; pick primary suspects; put all suspects in room, yada, yada, yada....... So my conclusion is that what makes Poirot so.... well.... Poirot is Mr. Suchet and not the mystery itself.
4 I have read most of Agatha Christie's books and this is not one of my favorites but I do like it.
5 This is  an interesting read for anyone but especially for people who love the classic detective stories. It is hard to beat Agatha Christie and no one in the modern era comes close. Nothing is offensively graphic but the story is engaging. The mystery is intriguing and the writing is entertaining. It is not the customary family gathering at Christmas since they are all suspicious about being invited to a man's home not taken to family hospitality. The host is promptly murdered.That is when the plot thickens. This turns into a psychological unrivaling of the characters of the children of this sadistic man (the victim) in which the biblical theme of the sins of one generation visited on subsequent generations is intertwined with Poirot's charming subtle ways.  Christie ebbs and flows in her depiction of this character but I always like him and find that whatever mood she is in while developing his interactions is up to the task. There may be a few more coincidences than most of us experience but it is a liberty I am more than willing to grant the brilliant logical deductions.
4 Require too much xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxx xxx xxx x xx x x x x x x x x x x x
3 I love Agatha Christie novels and especially Hercule Poirot. Maybe I'm just getting to used to them.I just didn't find this one that engaging. Beyond that, I definitely was disappointed with the ending.
5 Lots of twists and turns that were totally unexpected and really held my attention.  Great book to read for our book club at Christmas.
3 A good story but the ending seem contrived. I was disappointed that the killer was too unlikely. No one would have guessed his or her identity.
5 I've finished that book within 2 days; I simply couldn't stop reading it!I've always liked that author's books, but Poirot's Christmas made me a big fan.
3 This was the last Hercule Poirot novel, the Belgian detective who sought refuge in England during the Great War and worked as a consulting detective ("private enquiry agent") after his retirement. Poirot's first murder case was at Styles Court. It was a classic English murder mystery where numerous individuals gathered at a country estate and murder was committed. [Does this scenario tell something about the psychology of those times?] Styles Court is now a retirement home for the lower middle class. Those who are wealthy can find a better place, those who are poor can't afford it. Poirot has taken residence there and invited Hastings to join him. We learn Poirot believes that a murder will take place and the solution will be the last act for a seriously ill Poirot (congestive heart failure). The conversations introduce the people who are staying there.Does Hastings understand what is really going on? Are there little hints given about the clue to the suspected murderer? If a murderer does not have a motive how can he or she be suspected? Does character and psychology play a part in creating a murderer? Or is this Agatha Christie's personal bias? The wife of a scientist is found dead. Is it murder or suicide? Could it be some sort of mistake? Then a resident is found dead of a gunshot to the forehead in a locked room? Suicide, of course. Then Poirot does what all those who are born must do. What about his medicine? Hastings is puzzled over the inexplicable last words of Poirot.Months after Poirot's death Hastings receives a last letter from Poirot (held back by his lawyers) that explained the mysteries. There is shocking news that seems unbelievable. It explained the behavior that Hastings noticed but didn't understand. Was Christie mocking her past work and the conventions of mystery novels? Does the ending seem forced as a way to tie up loose ends?
5 After all these years, it came to this.  A secluded vacation spot, a long list of suspects, crimes that may or may not even be crimes and her trademark lover matchmaking - Curtain has every Agatha Christie trademark wrapped in a very tight package.Poirot is almost a superhero to me after making my way through his library of adventures.  And this final note, is a worthy end to his road.Curtain has a fresh air many of the other later novels do not - obviously because it was written decades before most the other novels.  For a good portion of the novel, we aren't even sure what the hell is going on, until it is too late.  A key piece of the denouement is predictable, if not finally expected, but the overall solution is clever and entirely consistent with Chrisitie's best.What amazed me the most about the story, is how short but completely satisfying it really is.  After gunning through so many of Agatha Christie's novels, it is hard to be floored by any plot twists, but this one does have a bittersweet finish.I'm not sure exactly where to rank it, but it is someplace near the top.
5 It was very difficult for me to read this book.  I love Poirot... he is my favorite Agatha Cristie's character.There is no other like Poirot, when you read this book, it will bring tears to your eyes and an ache to your heart...if you love Poirot as I do.  I can recommend all of the Poirot books, every one of them.I read them over and over again.
5 What "improvements" have been made for the Berkley edition?  There are already major differences in punctuation, word choices, and scene breaks between the original Collins and Dodd Mead editions of this novel. There are further differences between the Dodd Mead editions republished by Random House/Avenel and the Dodd Mead editions republished by Simon & Shuster/Pocket.  There are further differences still in the Signet, Bantam, and Black Dog & Leventhal editions.  For every publishing house putting out her works, there seem to be a new batch of editors altering Agatha Christie's words and the sound of her voice.  What's the matter with these publishers? Whose voice do they think we want to hear when we sit down to a novel by Agatha Christie? And what will she sound like twenty years from now? It's frightening that her estate has failed to see the importance of guarding her words as she wrote them.  Please tell me I'm not the only one here who senses that a crime has been committed.
5 I gave this novel 5 stars because it was crafted so well.  Believe it or not, I had never read any Agatha Christie novels.  What a way to begin!  One of the reasons I loved it so much is that the information presented  allowed me to put my mind to work.  Throughout the novel I suspected  everyone from Hercule Poirot himself to Judith Hastings to Dr. Franklin.  I  won't ruin the ending, but the situation that Hercule Poirot reveals was so  shocking that my mouth dropped almost to the floor!  I can't wait to read  more Agatha Christie novels.
5 I really loved this book.  Agatha Christie has an incredible ability to draw the reader in to her story.  I enjoyed all of the characters in this novel and was a little surprised to find out just who the real murderer was  at the end.  I like the way Christie forces her reader to use their minds  and their instincts to solve a murder.
5 At the beginning of Curtain, Hercule Poirot is in a sorry state. The little Belgian detective with the egg-shaped head, the perfect moustache, the impeccable suits, the tight shoes, and the "little grey cells of the mind" is nearing the end of his life. Confined to a wheelchair, the once proud Poirot is now old and feeble. His hair and moustache are still jet black - but a black that came out of a bottle. His body is crippled with arthiritis, and yet, Poirot insists, the little grey cells are not diminished.Captain Arthur Hastings, our Watson, is here too, narrating the story. Long since widowed, Hastings has only Poirot and his daughter Judith - a beautiful, rebellious young woman, to call family. Yet gone is Hastings signature light-heartedness, his humour, his happiness.Curtain: Poirot's Last Case is a sad book. It's characters look back on an illustrious past, remembering the crimes they solved and the women they wooed, the times when they were young. Great deeds long since forgotten. Curtain is set at Styles, the setting of the first ever Poirot novel - The Mysterious Affair at Styles. Yet it is not the bustling manor it once was. After WWII, Styles decayed, it's residents died or moved away, and it was turned into a boarding house.Setting the last book at the same place as the first book is a brilliant move on Christie's part. As we read, we are constantly reminded that this is Poirot's Last Case, and fans will be filled with sadness and nostalgia.Yet Curtain is not a slow drama, or a period piece. It is a riveting thriller, an engrossing, convoluted whodunit. It has one of the best plots of any Christie novel, definitely one of the best premises, and the ending! By Jove! the ending is so shocking, so brilliant, that it surpasses anything Christie ever wrote, and anything ever written since. The premise starts simple, but the book is anything but. It is filled with plot twists, surprise endings, red herrings, and suspense. As the reader sees through Hasting's eyes, taking in the plot, judging characters, searching for a serial killer, weighing who to trust, doubting everyone - including Poirot, we become engrossed in solving a crime, where the victim could be anyone, and the perpetrator? A remorseless serial killer who has gotten away with murder 5 times.PREMISE. No Spoilers: A dozen guests at a hotel. One of them is the world's greatest private detective, and the other his trusty companion. A chemist, his invalid wife, Hasting's daughter, a nurse, a British offical, a womanizer, an introverted bird watcher, and the owners of the hotel round off the characters.To the ordinary eye, they seem a harmless, varied, random group of people.And yet Hercule Poirot knows better. He insists that one of the guests is more than they seem. Poirot believes that "X" has returned. "X", he claims, is a 5-time murderer. Five times a serial killer has walked free. Five times an innocent has died.And "X" will strike again, and he will strike soon. Poirot assigns Hastings to find the murderer, yet chooses to keep him in the dark about his suspicions for his own safety. Suspicion, suspense, twists, turns, intrigue, and violence rise to a devastating, devilishly clever conclusion.Curtain: Poirot's Last Case is another brilliant masterpiece from the Queen of Crime - Agatha Christie.
5 &quot;Nothing is so sad, in my opinion,&quot; muses Captain Hastings, &quot;as the devastation wrought by age.&quot;  In this final outing for the inimitable Hercule Poirot and his loyal friend Arthur Hastings, the body may be weak but Poirot's brain is still functioning magnificently.  A murder will be committed, the famous detective tells his friend, and Hastings must function as Poirot's legs. Aging and failing in health, the once energetic Poirot is now confined to a wheelchair. However, that does not stop the two friends from once again going on the hunt together in a case Poirot himself tells Hastings will be his last case but his most interesting one. As a special bonus for Poirot fans, we return once again to Styles, the scene of Poirot's first adventure. A near-death of one woman followed by the actual death of another, a sadist who is able to convince others to murder, a most surprising act by Hastings himself, a peep through a keyhole, a visit to a faithful valet, and murder most symmetrical are clues that lead to the uncovering of the criminal Poirot has come to Styles to unmask.  Surely, this must rank as one of Christie's finest as we bid a fond adieu to Hercule Poirot.  We shall not hunt together again, my friend.
5 Sad, my hero incapacitated. Oh woe is me. All good things must come to an end. How about and alternativeending?
5 A very short book but enjoyable none the less.  Have read all of the Poirot books and I was a bit sad to read the final one.A little predictable, but I have read so many Agatha Christie books you can't help but understand her plots.  It was a fitting finale.
3 I realize I am in the vast minority in giving Curtain 3 stars while everyone else seems to be overjoyed by it by handing out 5 stars ad nauseam.  That's not to say that Hercule Poirot's finale is not worth reading - because it is.  It's just not up to snuff with such prior Poirot great reads as Murder on the Orient Express and Death on the Nile.While suspenseful and enthralling at times, it failed to hold my attention and make me want to keep reading at times.  I suppose the dichotomy of our esteemed sleuth ailing as well as the somewhat lackluster storyline made for a less than stellar read.  That being said, being Poirot's last gig, it is doubtless worth a perusal."Truth," Poirot said, "is seldom appreciated.  And yet it saves a lot of time and a lot of inaccurate speech."
4 ....and a kicker, for it represents the ideal detective against the perfect murderer who will never be caught for his crimes.  What would you do?
5 The story was very mysterious, and lead up to a terrific ending. One thing that caught my attention is that Poirot's decision to take the life of the villain and thereby acting as judge and jury which is directly opposite to the speech he gave to the killers in the Murder on the Orient Express who also acted as judge and jury. Poirot castigated them for acting as such, but did let them go in the end.  We should all mourn the death of Poirot and his little grey cells.
5 take everything i say after this sentence with the following thought in mind:  agathie christie is brilliant and talented, her work, for what it is, seamless.problems i had with this book:  dragged along for a large portion of the book, many/most her clues were totally obscure, buried, often miniscule and even ambiguous, the characters were, as usual (it's my second christie book) shallow, the message was little or no redemptive value, and...and:  i guess here's my big thing i think reading agatha christie...that she wants to confound and even abuse the reader, trick him or her into feeling stupid and frustrated and unintelligent, so that she can prove, in the end, just how brilliant and clever she is.  and what i think she's really unconsciously attempting to do is prove to her parents that she really is a good little girl, and clever, and smart, and i suspect she in some way was abused, neglected or overlooked in some way by her own parents...and she takes it out on her audience...in a just loving enough way to keep them hooked, in the same way, incidentally, that poirot abuses hastings...but keeps him hooked with a few crumbs of love.for those of you who have read christie's autobiography, you'll know better than i do if i'm right or wrong, but i'll be reading it soon to find out for myself.  in the meantime, i'll bet money i'm right.
5 I loved this book. Agatha Christie wrote before she died and her feelings about the aging process are expressed during this mystery. What I most enjoyed was the details of Hastings life after he married the young lady he meets in the book, Murder on the Links. Hastings in now in his fifties, his wife has died, and he has four adult children. The youngest in a 21 one year old girl who has always been Hastings' favorite but he hasn't ever told anyone that. Poirot is in poor health and in a wheelchair. He is living in a mansion which has been turned into a boarding house. The house was the site of the first mystery Poirot and Hastings solved together.Poirot has spotted a murderer and he has found four or five other murders this person has committed. Poirot need Hastings to be his eyes and ears since Poirot can't move about and he drives Hasting crazy by not telling him who the murderer. This is a good well written story. All Christie lovers should read this one.
4 This story completes the cycle for Hercule Poirot, from his first story to his last.  Justice is done. Hastings never has a clue...
5 this book absolutely deserves 5 stars.every page of it is fabulous.this is worth praising too much for a crime fiction votaries.
5 For those who have long enjoyed the fantastic writing of the incomparable Agatha Christie, you won't be disappointed with this one!  And it's a great lead-in to the upcoming film starring the fantastic David Suchet as Hercule Poirot.  So grab your copy, curl up on the sofa with a glass of pinot noir, a fire crackling nearby....and ENJOY!
5 Christie herself regarded the character with a mixture of bemused affection and frustration, and frequently expressed the wish that she had never created such an eccentric character--but of all her creations, Hercule Poroit was the most popular with the reading public.  Indeed, such was the public's devotion that in the 1940s or 1950s Christie became concerned that others might attempt to &quot;franchise&quot; the character after her death, resurrecting him for other novels for the sake of a fast buck.Determined to thwart this, in the 1950s Christie wrote CURTAIN. Once more Poroit and his faithful Captain Hastings return to the great country estate of Styles, the location of Christie's first novel and Poroit's first appearance, THE MYSTERIOUS AFFAIR AT STYLES.  But time has wrought many changes.  Styles has been sold and converted to a second-rate guest house.  Captain Hastings is in mourning for his much loved and recently deceased wife.  And Poroit... is dying.But although his body is failing, Poroit's little gray cells remain as sharp as ever, and he is once more on the trail of a killer--indeed, the perfect killer, one completely unlike any he has pursued before.  A killer who now resides at Styles and who is coiled to strike again.  But can Poroit defeat this killer before mortality rings down the curtian on his fabulous career? Stylistically, CURTAIN belongs to the great Christie novels of the 1940s and 1950s, and in terms of plot it is easily among her most remarkable achievements, easily ranking with such celebrated twists as those found in THE MURDER OF ROGER ACKROYD and A MURDER IS ANNOUNCED.  The writing is strong, the characterizations are vivid, and when the solution unfolds one is left with a startled gasp.I do not recommend CURTAIN for those new to Christie's novels.  It is indeed Hercule Poroit's last case, and it really should be read as such.  But for those who have followed Poroit through a number of adventures, it is a truly satisfying conclusion to a long and brilliant career.--GFT (Amazon.com Reviewer)--
5 Hercule Poirot, the little Belgian detective has returned to Styles Court, the scene of his first English adventure in crime for his final case. But now the handsome country mansion is a guest house and Poirot, old and arthritic, is one of the guests. He invites Captain Hastings to join him and then reveals the reason for his request. Poirot informs his old friend that they are "here to hunt down a murderer." And to find out who is the killer, first a murder has to be committed. But who will be the victim?Although Curtain was written during the London blitz in the early years of World War II, it never got published until 1975. The reason being that in this book the famous detective Hercule Poirot concludes his wonderful career. Agatha Christie wanted Poirot not to survive his creator. Therefore she finished his career by writing Curtain and locked the manuscript in a bank vault. Dame Agatha Christie died on January 12, 1976, one year later than her most famous creation.Curtain is a vintage Christie. The plot is ingenious and seems totally committed to putting the reader on the wrong track. Although the actual motive and operation procedure of the murderer are quite dubious and unbelievable there is only one word that can truly describe the denouement: sublime. In a few lines Poirot explains how the unsuspicious reader probably missed five smartly interwoven clues. When you read these lines you can only but hit yourself on the head for being so short-sighted, exactly the same feeling reflected by Captain Hastings at the end of the book.
5 This is an exceptionally fine ending to the Poirot series.Poirot and Hastings are reunited at Styles Court, now a guest house.  Poirot reveals that he is pursuing a mysterious X, who has been associated with at least five murders, and he asserts that another murder is imminent.The story is narrated by Hastings, who Poirot carefully keeps in the dark about many of his key suspicions.  So we see the various guests through Hastings' very civilized, very well intentioned, but not always very insightful eyes.  We are allowed to spot much which Hastings misses.  Hastings is also distracted by his concerns for his adult daughter, Judith, who is one of the guests.Christie gleefully scatters both critical clues and red herrings with wild abandon.  Most of the guests know one another and are in some way associated with at least one of the murders.  Hastings is present for many intriguingly suggestive conversations and learns that there are many reasons why various guests might desire another's sudden death.  Needless to say, murder soon follows.In the end, Poirot reveals all, in a very clever and satisfactory conclusion.  (I'd say more, but I don't want to leave any spoilers!)  In my opinion this was Christie near her peak in both ingenuity and skillful writing.
4 This novel was written by Christie in the early 1940s, but not published until 1975.  As the subtitle indicates, it presents Hercule Poirot's last case.  Apparently, Christie wanted to make sure that Poirot received a proper sendoff even though she intended to write additional novels about him, which would be set before the events of Curtain.  The result is somewhat awkward because the story clearly appears to be set during World War II to which Hastings makes an indirect reference and it has the feel and tone of the other novels she wrote during this period.  Chronologically, though, the events should be taking place during the 1970s.  Chronology was always a bit of a problem for Christie, though, because she introduced Poirot in "The Mysterious Affair at Styles," which is set in 1916 when Poirot is already retired and is described as elderly.  If he was at least 60 in 1916, he would have been at least 119 in 1975.  No wonder he is described as being very infirm!  By the time Christie decided to allow this manuscript to be published, she was herself too elderly to spend time smoothing out its rough edges or eliminating inconstancies with the events of later Poirot novels.Overall, Poirot's physical problems cast a pall over the story, which is otherwise a serviceable, if not great, mystery.  Christie's mysteries are meant as pure escapism, hence the relative lack of description or of much character development.  Focusing on Poirot's medical problems brings in too much of the real world for my taste.  So, although you have to read this book if you are an Agatha Christie fan, I would certainly not make it the first -- or one of the first -- Christie novels to read.  Much better to start with, say, the "Murder of Roger Ackroyd."  For someone reading this novel without having read most of the other Poirot novels, I would knock a star off my rating.
5 If you haven't reached for an Agatha Christie novel lately, this might be the one to reacquaint you with Christie and our favorite Belgian detective. Always, always a pleasure. These books remain timeless mainly because they are character-centric. And interesting people stay interesting. Enjoy a trip with Christie and Poirot, sublime companions.
5 After years of solving some of the best murder mysteries of all time, Poirot goes back to the place it all began for his final case. And boy is it a good won.Knowing that he is in his final days, Poirot reunites with his old friend Captain Hastings at Styles, the house where their first case took place. The owners have long since died, and the House is now basically a bed & breakfast. Here, Poirot is convinced a cunning murder is in hiding, and he is determined to stop him before he dies.The writing in this book is devastatingly good. You get inside Hastings head like never before. the characters are Christie's standard collection of enjoyable oddballs. The mystery is very hard to figure out on the first reading, but once you've read the solution and go back through, you'll slap yourself in the head with after seeing how well it was set up. I wouldn't say it's the best mystery Christie's written, because it's tough to compete with 'The Murder of Roger Ackroyd', but it's probably the second best.If you haven't already done so, go buy some other Poirot mysteries, and then read this. Then pour one out and shed a tear for one of the greatest detectives in the history of fiction.
5 Capt. Hastings was back in England.  His beloved Cinders has died,  their children settled into their own lives and now Hastings is rather at loose ends when Hercule Poirot contacts him.  Poirot, it seems, is staying at Styles, the country house where the two had met and had their first adventure all those years before.  Once Hastings gets there he discovers that changes had occured even there.  No longer a private home, Styles is now a guest house and filled with an assortment of guests, including his youngest daugther, Judith, her employer and his wife.  Change too has come to his old friend, Poirot is now confined to a wheelchair and attended not by his longtime valet but instead by a new man.  One thing has not changed though, Poirot's little grey cells are still active.  He tells Hastings that he is on the trail of a murderer, tells Hastings of several crimes but then refuses to tell Hastings anymore.  Hastings tries to puzzle out what his old friend is up to but he is also distracted by worry for his daughter who seems to be infatuated with a most unsuitable man.This is the final Poirot case, although it was not the last one Christie wrote.  She wrote this during WWII and had it safely locked away for years to ensure that no other author would attempt to continue Poirot's adventures after her death.  As always with Christie's work, the clues are all present for the reader to try to follow, the plot is clever and challenging but I doubt that this will ever become anyone's favorite novel.This is absolutely NOT the book to begin reading about Poirot, nor would I recommend it to anyone who had read only a few of the novels.  This is for a true fan only, one who has read most, if not all the previous works, for it truly is the great detective's swan song, much more than Christie's send offs for Miss Marple (SLEEPING MURDER) or Tommy and Tuppence (POSTERN OF FATE).
5 I am like TOTALLY an Agatha Christie fan & have never been so devoted to any other author. BBC's MYSTERY! has been successfully producing AC's work for years, but despite that, I hope the enjoyment of her wonderful books gets across to new generations, particularly in the United States.So did Agatha save her best for last? Christie created 2 detectives who grace & dominates the crime genre pantheon: The peculiar little Belgium detective Hercule Poirot (pwah-roh) & the crafty old lady Miss Jane Marple. If I were forced to speculate which is the most popular, I'd opt for Poirot, but Jane Marple's great too. Despite her old bitty, English persona, she is really up to date. For example, in one story (THIRD GIRL) set in the 1960's, the always curious senior finds herself accidentally lost while walking in a tough London neighborhood. Rather than freak out, she mulls over her predicament & comes to the conclusion that human nature is much the same almost everywhere & people are usually pretty decent. She overcomes her initial sense of alarm & the resulting positive asttitude is contagious as several of the "toughs" actually help her out.But I digress. It's Poirot who stars in CURTAIN, It IS his last case, but AC wrote it years before it was eventually released. This much of the plot I can divulge: An ancient Poirot has returned to the mansion of his first case (THE MYSTERIOUS AFFAIR AT STYLES) set during World War I in the English countryside. He was already close to middle-age in that story, so he had to be about a hundred in CURTAIN, but there is such a thing as creative license, so we'll let that pass.Anyway, Styles has been downgraded over the years to a rather shabby B&B; run by a sharp-tongued shrew & her henpecked husband. So why is the celebrated detective staying at such a dump? Ah, that's where the plot thickens. It seems that Poirot has become aware of a series of murders connected only by the "coincidence" of a same person being on the periphery of each crime, but who has a with a cast iron alibi for each murder. The great detective knows who it is--one of the other guests, of course (OR one of the current owners)--but he can't prove it.Poirot knows he needs help in this complex case, so he invites his old buddy Captain Hastings to join him from his home in Argentina (Hastings was also involved in the earlier crime). The devoted Hastings is still grieving the loss of his wife (whom he met in another case, MURDER ON THE LINKS). Complicating things even more, Hastings beautiful & indepent daughter Judith is also on ther scene, assistant to a brilliant scientist trapped in a loveless marriage. In fact, everybody has a good motive to murder any of the other guests. As the body count rises, who is the mysterious & manipulative killer?Finding the answer is Agatha Christie at her very best.
3 Whilst it is not the very best of &#34;Agatha Christie&#34; I could not possibly fail to say goodbye to Poirot, who has given me so many wonderful hours of conundrums. He has been there for most of my life and I will definitely be dipping in and out again of his wonderful casebooks in the future.
5 Do read this if you are an Agatha Christie fan and even more importantly a Poirot fan.He ages exactly as one presumes he will and it is a joy to see him still in action despite his advanced years.I felt fondly towards him and identified with his problems while still in awe of his detection skills.A lovely nostalgic read and great final mystery with a surprise ending.
4 Agatha Christie seems to have had at least three things in mind when she wrote this book in the early 1940s.  One was a wish to kill off her famous sleuth Hercule Poirot in order to forestall possible attempts by later writers to keep him alive.  Another was to have the death occur at  Styles, the house where he was first introduced to the public in 1920.  A third was to contrive yet another ingenious mystery that would baffle the reader and introduce at least one trick that had never been tried before.Accordingly we find here that Styles is now a guesthouse where the guests include the full range of suspects and victims, Poirot, Captain Hastings (Poirot's original crony), and Hastings' daughter Judith.  Poirot is feebler in body but not in mind.Devising such a setting and having Poirot near death meant that there is very little action in this book.  Captain Hastings is the narrator.  The mystery itself, however, is as ingenious as anything ever contrived by Agatha Christie.In summary, "Curtain" is strong in puzzle content but weak in narrative energy.  It is a cleverly constructed puzzle that doesn't quite work as a novel.  Revealing the solution to the puzzle requires one of those long "to be read after my death" letters at the end of the book.The book itself was intended for publication after Agatha Christie's death but it actually appeared during the last years of her life.
5 A sad farewell to Agatha Christie's first great creation (and the lady herself!) made generally almost joyous by a solid reading. Much appreciated.
5 Curtain is the last book in the Hercule Poirot series from Agatha Christie and as such is a must read for all fans of this character. As with other Poirot books it is a tale of murder with a lot of suspects. The book is sad and dark, Poirot is depicted as physically incapacitated and on the verge of death. He calls in his friend Col. Hastings to help him catch this last killer who he only identifies as "X."  A number of people die in mysterious ways before the conclusion and the reader is again challenged to figure out who done it before the ending.
3 Curtain is subtitled as Poirot's Last Case and it is a true enough.  Prospective readers should be aware that this is a fairly atypical Poirot novel and should probably be the last one you read, if you choose to read it at all.  I found it far less satisfying than other Poirot novels for several reasons.  First, Poirot himself is scarcely present.  It is really a book about Captain Hastings stumbling around without a clue and reporting back to a wheelchair-bound Poirot each night.  Because Poirot is an invalid, he is not present in most scenes and this largely robs the book of the trademark humor and charm that made the Belgian detective so popular.Beyond the absence of Poirot, there are other problems with this story as well.  First, the conclusion was shocking to me, but in a wholly negative way.  I won't give it away, but Poirot is portrayed as taking action that I do not believe he would ever do.  It is a violation of everything he has shown to believe in previous stories and I'm more than a bit surprised that reviews here don't seem to show any concern for such a blatant breach of the character's established patterns.  Finally, it is also an oddity that the murderer apparently isn't a murderer at all.  He/she is expert at manipulating people and manages to nudge them into killing others but that's it.  While despicable, it is not at all clear to me that this constitutes murder but Poirot/Christie maintain steadfastly that it is.Having dished all my negative comments about the book, let me hasten to add that this is by no means a poorly told story.  Agatha Christie was far too accomplished a writer to write a truly bad novel.  There are some interesting characters and there are a few moments (if far too few) with Poirot that are entertaining.  There are some spoilers in here referring back to past cases, so again I would warn that this is far better reserved for after you have read all the prior Poirot stories (at a minimum, readMysterious Affair at Styles: A Hercule Poirot Mysteryfirst as that story is frequently referred to here).
5 This is Hercole Poirot's  saddest, finest hour. Comparisions to Othello abound. The plot is incredibley detailed... It will break your heart.
5 This is Hercule Poirot's last case and is a fitting climax to the wonderful series by Agatha Christie.  Poirot has invited his dear friend Hastings to return to Styles where the detective solved his first case.  He is concerned that a murderer is staying in Styles and that he will soon strike again, as he has five times previously.  He knows the murderer's identity but will not reveal it to Hastings, and says he is counting on his old friend to help him prevent any further deaths.  That hope is dashed when not one, but two murders occur and an accident almost takes the life of a third victim.  Christie's plot is razor-sharp as befits the last book of this series and old and new fans will be captivated by this wonderful book.
5 Originally written in the 1940's during World War II when Mrs. Christie thoughtthat she might die and wished to tie up the Poirot books.  Last book releasedbefore her own death.  Poirot's last novel.Told from Hastings' point of view.  Poirot calls on Hastings for one last case - there will be amurder and the suspect is X.  Poirot is now frail, old and wheelchair bound.  Hastings agrees andthey go back to Styles where their adventures first began back in the Mysterious Affair of Styles.But who is X?  That is what they must find out!  Must read.  The ending will surprise you.
5 What is there to say? It is another gift to the world from A.C. This is definitely a fun and exciting read.
5 The book was wonderful and finally we hear about Hastings again.  It was great to catch up with him.  The story was very good and wonderful to read.
5 Much older now, and after a full life lived with his beloved late-wife, Arthur Hastings returns to the house where he first met Hercule Poirot, Styles Court. And it seems that the great detective is on the hunt for yet another murderer. But, after all these years, Monsieur Poirot has finally found the perfect murderer, one who kills leaving absolutely nothing pointing at himself. Confined to a wheelchair and heading towards his own death, Poirot sets Hastings onto the trail of the murderer, can Hastings get to the bottom of it all?This was a very unusual Poirot story, indeed, it is unique! Written in the early 1940s, the book was locked away, intended to be published after Dame Christie's own death. In 1975, mere months before her death, the book was taken out and published.Overall, I found it to be a very interesting book. True, having been written before many of the other Poirot books, this one has a few anachronisms. But, these are not significant enough to ruin the story. The story itself is very interesting and very different. If you like a good Poirot mystery, then I know you will like this book, which is so deliciously different. I really liked the book and am quite glad that I read it!
5 I have long been a DAME AGATHA CHRISTIE fan. Indeed I compare other mystery writers against the high standards I know Dame Agatha has earned.Curtain and The Mysterious Affair at Styles...together in one book...brings us the beginning of Hercule Poirot's successful stint as the finest detective mind in all of the British Empire with The Mysterious Affair At Styles. to his finale with Curtain.Both stories take place at the same estate...Styles...Hastings, destined to become Poriot's engaging right hand foil throughout many of his adventures arrives at Styles an injured soldier with a keen mind meant for his military intelligence position. Poirot appears as a refugee from his homeland Belguim, a cop without a land to protect...or so it seems.Naturally murder is the bone and marrow of this adventure...murder with clues so cleverly inserted you will not recognize them as such until you have read the ending and then gone back to reread the story once more.In Curtain, Hastings returns to Styles where Poirot, a mere shadow of his former self, enlists Hastings to be his eyes and ears because murder is afoot...and Poirot means to prevent it.The surprise ending to Curtain will never leave a true Hercule Poirot fan, nor will it fail to amaze a NEW Hercule Poirot fan.Agatha Christe's brilliant mind for writing mystery is timeless. Generations to come will be no less fans of Christie than those who met her first...back when Wars ruled the London landscape while mankind continued to be the good, the bad, the sneaky, the greedy, and the murderous...in other words...human and ripe fodder for the Dame to create around.
5 I have read over 50 Christie books and this is among the best.  I'm not giving anything away in revealing that Poirot meets his demise in this novel - it was surprisingly like losing an old friend.
4 I am an Agatha Christie fan, but I put off reading Curtain for a long time. I just wasn't ready for my old friend Poirot's last case. I wasn't ready to see him old,frail and well "human", although his "little grey cells" were still working perfectly. I guess I just prefer the more vibrant Poirot, from earlier books.This book left me sad, and I have to honestly say, I don't think I liked it. I know lots of reviewers did, but for me not so much. Immediately after finishing Curtain, I started re-reading an earlier Poirot. I'm not certain I will ever re-read Curtain, once was enough.Curtain certainly kept your attention, so that's why I gave it 4 stars
5 First and last Poirot case in one book.  Typical Christie story line with twists and turns and excellent characters.
4 If you are hooked on Poirot, either from other books or from TV, you will enjoy this book about his last case, in which the "little grey cells" are as active as ever, although the detective himself has aged. Captain Hastings is as dense as ever and you learn about his marriage and his years away from Poirot.Following the story there is a list of all books which have featured Poirot, with a short review. I found titles I had never heard of before and plan to see if they are available for Kindles through Amazon.
2 This story was written during the early 1940s, and then left locked in a safe until it was pulled out to be the last published Poirot when Christie could no longer write. Now I know why. In this book, Poirot is a frail and elderly man who can no longer climb stairs, leaving Hastings to do all the 'detecting.' As a result, this could more accurately be called a Captain Hastings book. Hasting the narrator becomes Hastings the protagonist, with occasional glimpses of Poirot in passing. This might work, but the story degenerates when Hastings becomes concerned that his daughter (on the scene, buy pure coincidence) is falling in love with a 'cad.' One of the cardinal rules of mystery writing during the 'golden age' of the genre was that there was no room for romance. In this case, you get soap opera, with father battling daughter, and a rather unpleasant daughter at that. I don't know what Christie intended, but Hastings' daughter would have fit right in to a Nazi S.S. troop - she wants 80% of the population done away with because they don't 'contribute to society.' And that apparently includes putting down her own father - against his will - if he became infirm in old age. Nice character!After having invested a good deal of time in this book, I eventually gave it up. In mystery stories, the plot must move on. IN this one, it comes to a screeching halt while Hastings deals with his daughter. I can only assume that Christie needed to fill pages, and decided to add the father/daughter melodrama to fluff it out. I'll never know what the book's crime was, because Christie lost my interest before I got there. If you've read every other Poirot book, you might want to give this one a try for 'completist' sake. I gave it more than one star only to satisfy Christie apologists.
5 A nice one. A bit unhappy perhaps, but the ending is overwhelming. A must for the collector.
4 In Curtain Agatha Christie tells of Hercule Poirot's last case, and she constructs a nice, tidy, tight plot that in many ways complements Hercule Poirot's first case, The Mysterious Affair at Styles.  Hercule Poirot returns to Styles, the scene of his very first crime solved many years before.  He also summons his friend Arthur Hastings; old, feeble, with a fatal illness and confined to a wheelchair, Poirot tells Hastings that he wants him to be his eyes and ears.  Hastings gladly goes to Styles, a place full of memories both good bad; good for it was here that he met his dear friend Poirot, and bad for the murder committed at Styles many years before seems to have left a lingering effect on the place, even after the passage of decades and a change in ownership.Poirot tells Hastings of a series of five crimes that have occurred over a number of years, which seemingly had no connection whatsoever, and each of which were easily and indisputably solved.  Poirot, however, has discovered that there was a common denominator -- a person he refers to as "X" -- and that X has gotten off scott free.  Further, he reveals that X is now at Styles, although he repeatedly refuses to tell Hastings who X is.  Poirot is convinced that another murder will shortly take place at Styles and, although his mind is as sharp as ever, he needs Hastings to be his legs.As in most of her other Hercule Poirot cases, this one is a "closed room" whodunit, with the murderer obviously being one of a cast of characters whose relationships with each other are intertwined.  Hastings' daughter Judith is one of the residents at Styles, further complicating matters for him.The solution, when revealed, is not so convoluted and contrived as many of Christie's other plots, though the ending fell a little flat which is why I'm only giving this book four stars.  Hugh Fraser's narration is excellent; of the many Agatha Christie narrators I've listened to he is about the best.
3 Wow. Having read several Agatha Christie books, including many with Hercule Poirot, I was really disappointed in this one. Not only is it clear from the start that this is his last case, it is clearly shocking (in a disappointing way) how it ends. I agree with the reviewers who say it ends with Hercule Poirot totally out of character and acting in a way that negates all the previous books. And it turns out the "murderer" is someone who is not really a murderer, but a manipulator. The expounder Poirot gives at how he arrived at his solution seems really far-fetched. This is the only one of Christie's novels that I have read so far that I have not really cared for.
5 Hercule Poirot and Captain Hastings began their first renowned case together withThe Mysterious Affair at Styles (Hercule Poirot Mysteries (Audio)). And in their concluding encounter, Poirot's last case, the pair completes the circle, again teaming up at Styles Court (which is under new ownership) to ferret out a murderer.The old mansion of Styles is now a renovated boarding house run by an elderly couple and Poirot calls upon his life-long friend and Man Friday, Captain Hastings, to abet him in his final and most compelling case. Hasting's modernistic and independent daughter is also on the premises and the Captain's unwelcome exertions in attempting to sort out her future provides an appetizing sub-plot.One of the numerous residents of Styles is a serial killer and the motive for this murderer's heinous crimes remains unclear for a time. The solution to this one is a real zinger and Christie fans will certainly not be let down.This is a "Golden Age" classic British mystery in every sense, even though the book was published in 1975. The fact is that, doubting her own survival in the face of the endless World War Two conflagrations, Christie wrote this fine whodunnit in the early 1940s! The Poirot mystery which Christie last wrote (1972) wasElephants Can Remember (Hercule Poirot), and her final work (which featured Tommy and Tuppence Beresford) wasPostern of Fate, published in 1973. Agatha Christie died in 1976.Hugh Fraser reads this story from the first-person perspective of Captain Hastings. His reading and rhythm are just top-notch, as it is with all the Christie works which he has taken on. Prospective buyers should be aware that this title is also available with an alternative reader:Curtain: Complete & Unabridged: Poirot's Last Case. This edition is read by John Moffatt, another master of the art. Which one is best? I cannot say for anyone else but I prefer Fraser on this particular work but most folks will be pleased with either one.I really like the packaging on my Harpercollins audiobook, which is notably different than the one pictured. My CDs are securely housed in a clear, heavy plastic, music-type container and all five CDs are "stacked" inside, a method which I find preferable to the typical cardboard "slip cases" where each CD slides into a slot. If this is an issue, you might contact the seller in advance to see which packaging format s/he is offering. In any event, the total time for this unabridged audiobook is six hours and what a superb listening experience it is!There is little else to say except to reiterate that this is a terrific Hercule Poirot mystery that all Christie fans will want to hear time and again.
4 I put off reading this because I could not imagine the precise Poirot letting himself be victimized by a killer. Well, guess what, he goes out in a manner of his own choosing! And the murderer is the sort of assassin we all meet at one time or another in our lives. A wise novel by the ever clever, but not always brilliant Christie. This is a worthy last act for one of her most enduring creations.
5 I was quite disappointed that it arrived well after Christmas, and I do not recall being told prior to purchase that it was coming from the UK, thus the delay, or I may not have purchased it.  But the person I purchased it for as a gift loves it, so I guess alls well that ends well.
5 This is actually the very last Poirot book, and for good reason (... I won't disclose too much not to spoil readers...). Themes of death and melancholy are felt throughout the book, reinforced by the fact that this is taking place in Styles, which was the same place as Poirot first case (which I read a while back but I can hardly now remember exactly the details, as is the case with some Poirot book , as the plots are usually very complex). Cpt Hasting is here which bring some life into the book, and led to usual banters between him and Poirot, who is here physically weak, but his little grey cells are as sharp as ever. If you are a fan you will appreciate that we learn here more about Hasting's family, and one of his daughter has an important role in the story. The relation between Hasting and his daughter is also quite entertaining, as he hopelessly tries to discourage her for what seems to be her love interest, and of course he fails miserably. There are other surprises in this book and twists and turns, which I won't disclose again. All in all you will have to read this book if you like Poirot's stories (and you certainly won't regret it, though you might regret that this is indeed the very last case...).
4 Agatha Christie's books are always enjoyable and, in many cases, unpredictable. Another masterpiece of the Mystery lady! It should become a movie soon.
4 CurtainThe Mysterious Affair at StylesThe first and last Poirot mysteries all in one book; a well packaged set!The near perfection of crime where even the detectives are woven into the threads of deceit.I think the art of this writing is making everyone look guilty.Without a doubt Agatha Christie is the great mystery writer.
5 I love a good mystery, but the old ones are best. Not so much gore just a good story. Once you own them you'll read them more than once.
4 It's the 42nd and LAST of the Hercule Poirot cases! Needless to say, I simply must endeavor to read them all!I was dazed and confused at first, but got into the swing of the story and was soon captivated! The ending was a total and complete surprise! HP is a champion deceiver! But can he even fool his best "sleuth" friend, Captain Hastings? All evidence seems to point to someone close to Captain Hasting's... who would turn out to be the killer? I was so surprised! Excellent; highly recommended
5 Warning: spoilers galore!  Read this review only if you've already read the book.As my review title has already indicated, I am totally flabbergasted by the novel's ending.  Not at all what I expected!  Our beloved Belgian detective has summoned Captain Arthur Hastings to assist him with his final case.  Hastings is to play the part of a set of surrogate ears and eyes for the detective.  Apparently, Poirot has succumbed to crippling arthritis and is confined to a wheelchair.  Apparently, his restorative trip to Egypt failed to bring about any revitalization.  Note that I write, "apparently."  And so the plot thickens.Hercule Poirot and his faithful sidekick are hunting down a murderer who kills without physical weapons or chemical poisons.  Poirot has "X," the unnamed murderer, implicated in several cases where each case appeared pretty cut and dry as to "whodunnit."  Yet this murderer's tactics are suggestive, psychologically manipulating people to do away with people whom they think are holding them or others back.  Somehow "X" manages to make bad appear good and good appear bad. (It is perhaps dubious as to whether this technique would work as effectively in the real world as it appears to in this novel.)  When a murder occurs at Styles (the setting of the first and last Poirot mystery), "X" is deprived of his "pound of flesh" when the murder is interpreted as suicide.  (However, the murder actually was unintentional suicide!)  "X" wants to stir the pot and claims to have witnessed something suspicious with his binoculars.  Hastings suggests that "X" consult Poirot for advice.  Poirot confronts "X" before hearing whatever false witness "X" was planning to contrive.  What follows is what blew me away in terms of inventive and unexpected storytelling."X" manages to create one more murderer and to bring about one more murder, yet at his own expense.  In a sense, "X" wins in terms of bringing an otherwise highly principled person to commit the unthinkable, yet "X" will not be around to gloat over his latest and final victim.There is a detail about the manner in which "X" apparently commits suicide--the perfect symmetry of the bullet wound that reeks of the fastidiousness (i.e., OCD) of a certain person.  I was dumbfounded and blown away with the closing of Curtain.I absolutely love the David Suchet Poirot feature films and TV series.  The man I am dating is convinced that I have a thing for either the character Poirot or the actor David Suchet. (My feelings for both the character and the actor are more "avuncular," to quote The Blue Train, though I could listen to the actor's British accent all day long.)  When it is my turn to choose which DVD to pop into the player, Poirot whodunnits dominate.  I can hardly wait until Curtain is made into a movie in the near future.  I think other Poirot fans will likewise be "totally flabbergasted."
3 Have read, and enjoyed the Poirot books for years, enjoying them all until Curtain.  The ending was very disapointing.  Just fell flat.
5 If you are a Piriot aficionado this is a good book. I always enjoy Belgian detective. I wish Agatha Christie would have gone more into characterizations and more details to make the enjoyment last longer.
5 throughout the story the original premise still holds true. The clueless Hastings and the ever put upon :Hercule Poiriot, forever the teacher.No one before or since has ever held a candle to his intellect. still as sharp as a tack, although I felt,much more unforgiving this time around  to Hastings lack of seeing what is not so obvious.Quite the twist of an ending , did not  see that one coming
4 I ususally rate all Agatha Christie books 5 stars, but thisbook wasn't appealing to me. I'm not saying that the plot wasn't good or the murderer was someone expected, but I didn't like the ending. Though, I'd like very much to say what hapens in the end, I'm forced to keep quiet(for those who haven't read the book) In this book, Hercule Poirot faces his last case, but though his health is rapidly detoriorating &amp; he's practically an invalid, he solves the case in a most ingenious way. I really missed Poirot's usual boastfulness &amp; the cracks about his moustache. This book is really a very sad ending to Poirot's life of adventure &amp; mysteries.  I really wish Agatha Christie hadn't ended it this way...I'd recommend it to any of Poirot's staunch fans.
5 Despite the fact that Dame Christie was less fond of Poirot than Miss Marple---note that Miss Marple is still alive in the last venture written for her---many of her readers find the flourishes of his nature irrestible.We meet him in STYLES and from the very beginning he is egotistical, overbearing, solipsistic, and utterly delightful.  His "little grey cells" work much better than most anyone else's, allow him to see what we do not, and rival Sherlock Holmes' in his Gallic version of rasciocination.  In CURTAIN, we have come full circle---he is elderly and ill, in the care of a nurse, and unable to venture himself physically into the world of the small hotel where he and Hastings are staying---but he is just as sharp and discerning as ever.  He is as determined to uncover the murderer who kills, casting blame on others, as he was when he began, discovering the odd couple at the heart of the Styles murders.I will enjoy reading these again--they are complex enough to bear a third and fourth reading.  Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple are the king and queen of the "cozy mysteries" and we read them not to be surprised by her endings, but to spend a little time in her lovely worlds that never were.
4 Poirot and Hastings return to Styles, where they solved their first crime together. Instead of a gorgeous manor house filled with wealthy, interesting people, Styles is now a run-down B&B; whose dozen or so inhabitants are disappointed cast-offs. Poirot, aged and confined to a wheelchair, is on the trail of X, a prolific killer who is also staying at Styles. For his own protection, Poirot won't tell Hastings who X is, but enlists Hastings to be his eyes and ears while Poirot's "little gray cells" do their work."Curtain" is different from other novels starring Poirot for many reasons - Poirot is chasing a killer, rather than stumbling upon or being called into help solve a murder, Poirot is elderly and sick, no one else knows Poirot and Hastings are looking for a murderer, etc. That didn't stop it from being a page turner. As with all of Christie's brilliant works, you get to the end and are shocked, yet wonder how you missed the solution because it's so obvious. Though ever-so-slightly less enjoyable than some of my favorites by Christie (hence the 4 stars instead of 5 - if I could give it 4.5 stars I would have), it might be one of her most brilliant works just because the storyline is so different from the standard "someone is murdered/Poirot catches the killer" plot. "Curtain" is hard to put down, and I've re-read it several times and noticed a little something different each time I have.If you're new to Christie and Poirot, this might not be the best book to start with. I noticed several references to other Poirot novels. Also, knowledge of the history between Hastings and Poirot, as well as a general affection for Poirot before he was a cantankerous old coot in a wheelchair, would help the novel be more enjoyable.
5 What a great surprise to find I had read this. Wonderful way to end a great career. Wonderful find for me.
1 Agatha Christie has written some stinkers, but really this is the worse.  The plot was unbelievable, and I had the misfortune of buying the Audible edition.  Couldn't skip over the boring bits.  All the characters were one dimensional, and none would be missed if killed.Really, a couple of words at the psychological moment and people go kill others.  What??? It made no sense.Hastings had the most obnoxious daughter, there were no signs of a life long relationship between Hasting and Poirot, and the setting was just plain dreary.
4 I'd read a couple of Poirot books years ago, and finally decided to read them straight through.  I enjoy classic amateur detective stories, and this was one of the finest.  Poirot and his sidekick Hastings make a terrific read alike for Holmes and Watson.  I can't help but wonder what the four would have thought of each other.
5 Since I love all Agatha Christie novels it was great.  I enjoyed the short stories and they were very interesting and complex.  Great book.  Highly recommend to all Agatha Christie lovers.
3 Little that caught my interest.  Hastings plays Watson to Poirot.  Brief and terse short stories with very few red herrings.  Everything is a clue.  I liked the Veiled Lady, particularly because even seemingly casual conversation on unrelated items had a bearing on the case.  Otherwise the collection reads too much like a textbook in detection.
5 Poirot, Capt. Hastings, and a lot of odd situations as only Christie could tell them. This is a must for Christie fans.
4 As always Agatha Christie keeps you guessing in these early stories with M.Poirot solving the mystery.Having read almost all of her mysteries, it's always a pleasure to step her world.
4 It was a good read.  A collection of Hercule Poirot short stories that made for easy reading.  Several stories had been presented on the Poirot television series and it was interesting to see what the author said.
5 These short, short stories make you appreciate David Suchet and writers who created that great series.
5 If you only have one edition of the Lord of the Rings trilogy - make sure it is this one.  The illustrator, Alan Lee, brings to life some of the scenes in such a way, it is as if he collaborated with Mr. Tolkien.These are a treasured part of of family library!
5 The Lord of the Rings is a magnificent novel that lures you in with a wealth of descriptions and characters that only an author like J.R.R. Tolkien could imagine. This book is one of the best I have ever read and I  recommend that you read this at least once in your lifetime. The characters  have personalities uniquely their own and the conficts are well defined and  easy to comprehend. Even though a few of teh characters switch names in the  course of the reading, (which was a little confusing, but not to the extent  of turning the story sour), The Lord of the Rings' characters still uphold  thier sense of qualities throughout the entire narrative. I was esspecially  satified with the cornucopia of descriptions. The vivacity o fhte imagery  the author created was overwhelming; I could almost smell what the  characters smelled; almost feel what the characters felt. This passage  illistrates that point to the utmost extremes of human imagination and  perception. Let yourself envision the gardens of Lothlorien, the place  where the &quot;company&quot; rests and replenishes their packs: &quot;When  thier were in turn uncovered, Frodo looked up and cought his breath. They  were standing in an open space. To the left stood a great mound, covered  with a sward of grass as green as Springtime in the Elder Days. Upon it, as  a double crown, grew two circles of trees: the outer had bark of snowy  white, and were leafless but beautiful in thier sharply nakedness...  'Behold! You are come to Cerin Amroth,' Said Haldir&quot; From the heart of  the Shire, to the midst of the Nazgul, The Lord of the Rings is a book that  no one shoulod go without.
5 I've read the trilogy probably 25 times throughout my life. I've just re-read them after 10 years, and I can't put it down. The character development takes your breath away, and the diversity of ideas and characters and description of locations and evil-ness is awe-inspiring. My  favorites are the Ents, the flight through Moria, and of course...Frodo  &amp; Sam's journey. It's amazing. A classic!
5 This book is one of the most beautiful I have ever seen, the script and map and paper are just astounding, to say nothing of the binding. And then it is the best book ever written outside of the Bible! I would give this book 10 out of 10, 100 out of a 100, and maybe 9999 out of a 1000 because nothing is perfect. ;-)
5 Fast shipping, great price.If you want an heirloom copy get the same in hardcover.This is the set I read and loan to family members who haven't read it yet.
5 i only bought this book because i wanted the dwarven runes and elven language from the back.the elven language is not  written out dictionary style like the nadsat dialect from "a clockwork orange",which is what i was hoping for.despite all of that,the book is quite good.its really long ,like the bible long.i have been reading it ever since a year and a half ago.no im not a really slow reader i just get distracted because i read it while im taking a dump a lot.also,the author uses a writing technique called personification a lot.personification is giving a non-human thing human qualities.no i dont mean like orcs and goblins but more like in nature.he uses this technique A LOT,all the time,every page......if you saw the movies then you know whats going on.there are a few weird sort of differences though.the action,few and far between,is descibed poorly.sometimes i lost track of what even happened or forgot they were even fighting.there is A LOT of poetry too.its written sort of strangely.like there will be two lines matched with 3 lines.its not even good mostly so i dont know why the author spent so much time writing it.but in the big picture those are really just details,it doesnt take away from this being a top ten ever kind of book.but,if i may,i'd like to recite one short poem from the book that is quite good.it describes the style of the author.all that is gold does not glitternot all those who wander are lostthe old that is strong does not witherdeep roots are not reached by frostfrom the ashes a fire may be awokena light from the shadows shall springrenewed shall be the blade that was brokenthe crownless again shall be kingthe majority of the book is simply very detailed descriptions of the forest if someone were paying really close attention.how far the sun had came down among which part of the tree.if you could hear water.eyes playing tricks through the night etc.it was like the forest was alive!i think you should definately buy it if you are a book or nature lover.
5 No need to review the story here.  If you're willing to spend this amount of money on the book you are most likely familiar with the story.  Over the years I've obtained several hardback and paperback copies of this story.  While I've used the paperbacks for reading and not cared if they suffered damage I do get upset when the hardbacks end up falling apart.  You know the type of hardback book I mean.  The pages are loosely glued to the spine and sit uneven.  When you read the book many of the pages become loose and fall out.  The spine becomes cracked or split even though you do nothing more than open and shut the cover.  Well if you want a nice hardback edition of the entire LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy you will want to purchase this book.I was impressed with the leather cover and the gilded pages.  The price here at Amazon.com is at least 30% cheaper than anywhere else I've checked.  I have a copy of the 50th anniversary hardback edition of THE HOBBIT and it is no where near as nice as this edition.  I was surprised to find so many reviewers, here at Amazon.com, that found faults with this edition.  I'm sure they may be right but I'm pretty sure some of them are nitpicking.  If you can find a better edition out there then by all means buy it.  If you're not that big a fan of THE LORD OF THE RINGS than there are plenty of cheaper editions to choose from.  However, if you're a real fan and want a nice hardback edition that will stay with you a lifetime than this is the edition for you.  My only problem is that I probably won't be able to read it for another decade.  I'd love to leave it on the table next to my armchair but I can't.  With a kitten that scratches everything it can find and kids that turn anything into a drink coaster, I think I'll wait until the kids are grown and the cat is old to leave this book out and read it.  When I do read this edition I'm sure I'll be glad I purchased this edition when I had the chance.  After all, how often does a 50th anniversary edition come along?
2 To some, Tolkien's greatest stregnth is creating a different world.  To me, that is to some extent, his greatest weakness.  He seemed to indulge that creativity too much in the third book.  I found that the story and character development was greatly hampered by the constant description of locations.  I know some love that aspect of the book, but to me, it made it unbearably slow at times.  As soon as the action began, Tolkien would launch into detailed descriptions of places and their relation to other places.  I could have skipped half this book and not have missed a thing.  While I did enjoy the ultimate conclusion and happy ending, as well as the farewell between characters, this book largely could have been subsumed in the maps!
5 This should really be everyone's first fantasy novel because it set the standard for the entire genre.  I'm one of the lucky ones.  I read LOTR first.  Before Shannara.  Before Jordan.  Before even the Earthsea trilogy.  And it was and remains the most amazing book I have ever read in my life, the book which has had a greater impact on our culture than any other published in the twentieth century.Oh, it isn't all gold - Tom Bombadil is horrible.  Other people find the journey of Sam and Frodo to Mordor to be tedious.  And so on.  But these are really minor flaws in a brilliant work.Tolkien set the gold standard for fantasy novels, and even the best writers in the genre don't quite match up to his accomplishments.  The world is rich and more fully developed than that of any of his imitators (and anyone writing epic fantasy is an imitator of Tolkien).  The characters are fully developed.  You agonize with Sam when he stands over the body of Frodo in Shelob's Lair.  You share the joy of Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli when they meet Gandalf the White.  And you cry at the end, feeling the sorrow of Frodo and Sam and Pippin and Merry.Pick up this book and put your life on hold until you finish.
5 Although Tolkien's work scarcely requires further comment, I feel obligated to pay homage to the father of the modern fantasy genre.  The impact of his work on literature is incalculable, and I might venture to  say that it created the entire fantasy subculture as a byproduct.  No one  can be considered an educated person without reading the Lord of the Rings;  their influence is that great.  But The Lord of the Rings shouldn't be read  simply because of it's importance to literature- it's a work of art,  beautifully written, and should be appreciated as such.  This particular  edition is absolutely stunning, and the illustrations a works of art in and  of themselves.  I highly reccomend these books as a gift to any reader.
5 I'm far too busy to go into the Beauty, drama and horror in this book, of the Trilogy. I've been reading and re-reading these J.R.R. Tolkien books since I was twelve. I am fifty-five years older now, and I still feel the awe I felt at my first reading of these masterpieces. 'Nuff said.
5 This is an out of this world masterpiece. I was captivated by all of these books, starting with &quot;The Hobbit&quot;. This was the most fun I've had for a long time; although I found it very sad that I didn't read these books as a child. As adults it is difficult to actually have a mental picture of these wonderful creatures in your mind while you go with them through their adventures, where as a child there would have been no question in my mind that they actually did exist. If you want to stimulate your mind and let yourself be swept away to Middle Earth, read this masterpiece of all times.
5 This is a particularly beautiful edition of The Lord of the Rings (ISBN: 0618260587 ), and is probably best suited for someone who is already a fan of the book, rather than for someone who is reading the book for the first time.The format of this edition is larger than most books tend to be making it very difficult to read in any position other than sitting upright holding the book on your lap or on a desk.  Each of the three volumes features a beautiful glossy dust jacket and is filled with a dozen or so full color illustrations by the famous Alan Lee.My main problem with this edition, besides the weight and size of the books, is that the pages containing text are glossy paper.  The glare caused by this type of glossy paper make it a little irritating on the eyes when reading for long stretches of time.  It would have been much nicer had they published this edition with matte paper for the text and saved the glossy solely for the illustrations.If you are a fan of Alan Lee's artwork, and don't necessarily intend on READING this edition, though, this is a great piece to pick up and will most likely be the type of book you end up treasuring for years to come -- even if it isn't the one you give your kids to read.
5 I don't think it's possible to say enough about &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot;  I've lost track of the number of times I've read it, and yet during my latest reading I still learned new things.  J. R. R. Tolkien created a world of such intricacy that there are layers of depth hinted at throughout the book.  These can be read casually without detracting from the beauty of the story, but a closer understanding of the majesty behind Tolkien's First Age allusions makes for a far greater appreciation and enjoyment of the world created.  Unfortunately for many, the understanding of these allusions must come from reading &quot;The Silmarillion,&quot; a task that many seem to find too daunting to attempt.  The one thing that Tolkien has understood better than any other writer I've encountered, and this shines through in LOTR, is that there are no happy stories as long as time continues to flow.  Even though LOTR ends in a victory for good over evil, time continues to pass and people continue to get old and old wounds continue to ache painfully.  This is especially apparent if you read the end of the saga of Aragorn and Arwen in Appendix A.  The sadness in this tale rends one's heart, even more so than does the final scene with Frodo and Samwise.  But as Gandalf says, &quot;Not all tears are bitter,&quot; and the sorrow is a sorrow that even in passing great things were accomplished and great evils were averted.  The rest of LOTR is however a story of the majesty of Aragorn and the wisdom and power of Gandalf and the sheer incorruptibility and stalwartness of Frodo and Samwise.  Tolkien reveals himself as an extremely wise and merciful man with his handling of Frodo Baggins and Smeagol.  It is here that Tolkien shows that although Gollum is a wretched creature, to execute him out of hand is an act of equal wretchedness.  Proponents of Samwise Gamgee would do well to look at Sam's treatment of Gollum in book two in comparison to Frodo at the same time.  Sam actually comes off very badly.  It is only in the third book, especially after Sam eventually shows himself to be merciful towards Gollum, that Sam becomes the heroic figure that readers look back at with such fondness (although his battle with Shelob in book two is one for the ages).  Anyway, this is a book that can be read over and over with new experiences every time.  In fact, it was only on my latest reading that I realised just how active a role is played by the Lords of the West throughout the War of the Ring.  Of course, without reading &quot;The Silmarillion,&quot; that nuance would have continued to escape me.  I highly recommend that readers read &quot;the Lord of the Rings&quot; and &quot;The Hobbit,&quot; and then read &quot;The Silmarillion,&quot; and then come back and read LOTR again.  I also think that once you've read &quot;The Silmarillion&quot; you will be hooked, and you'll be ready for &quot;Unfinished Tales&quot; and &quot;The Book of Lost Tales&quot; (both parts) and &quot;The Lays of Beleriand.&quot;  As beautiful as is LOTR, it pales besides the epic tragedies of the First Age.
5 Tolkien's trilogy, The Lord of the Rings (The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, The Return of the King) is, without a doubt, the greatest work of fantasy ever written.  With a sweepingly epic tale, grand prose, and beautifully fleshed-out characters, Tolkien has created the War and Peace for the fantasy genre. The characters...what can be said?  I have never had the joy of reading a novel filled with so many characters about whom so much is known.  Tolkien is masterful at introducing people (from hobbits to wizards), making us fall in love with them, their dreams and desires, their faults, and their fears.  Even a character as deplorable as Saruman can be enjoyed because of the instant journey you can see his character has taken (simply from references other characters in the novel make about him!). Tolkien has written a most theatrical work, a little bit of fantastic genius springing from a work of fun and adventure (the Hobbit, its predecessor).  It is said that almost all fantasy since Tolkien has drawn in one way or another from this work.  I only wish they could come as close to perfection. There is a movie trilogy being filmed (2000) of Tolkien's epic.  I know things will be pared down to allow for a movie timespan, but let us hope they preserve the beauty of one of the finest literary works of the 20th century.
5 Taken as a single work (which they should be) The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings Trilogy are the masterwork not only of J.R.R. Tolkien but of literature as a whole. Despite the recent glut of works in the fantasy genre, there is still only one master that all others are compared to, J.R.R. Tolkien. Nearly every reader of nd many readers of any genre will have wonderful memories of the first time they picked up a book purporting to tell the adventures of a round little hobbit who lived in a round little hole with a round little door in the side of a round little hill. This hobbit lived a quiet little life mostly concerned with his garden, his pipe, and the stock level in his pantries (just wouldn't do to run out of sweetcakes or ale) until he got a visit from a mysterious old man named Gandalf. After that, his life is never going to be the same.We follow poor old Bilbo through a raucous party with 13 dwarves, battles with trolls, battles with spiders, and finally a battle with old Smaug himself. But we then go on to the first book of the Trilogy and find that a somewhat out of place encounter with a strange little fellow that made a strange noise turns out to be the single most important event of the Third Age! Isn't that the way history seems to work.Now, in the Trilogy, we follow another Baggins as Frodo, and his faithful friend Samwise (a play on words here, in Anglo-Saxon &quot;Samwise&quot; means the same as &quot;half-wit&quot;, but we see that Mr. Gamgee is anything but a half-wit), take part in a doomed fellowship, travel through 2 towers, and wend their way to Mount Doom in Mordor for the final confrontation. But the story isn't over there.Written by a masterful craftsman of the English language, Tolkien draws us into this world of Middle-earth and makes these fantastic peoples and creatures as real as the chair you're sitting in. A very rewarding way to share this gift from Mr. Tolkien is to read it aloud to your children and watch the glow on their faces as they imagine the world for the first time, just as you did the first time you read it. Trust me, you will never have a better time. Worth reading again and again, because you will find new nuances and points that you have never seen before. There just aren't words to adequately describe the impact this work of one man can have on the imagination.
5 For a good adventure story, first you need a great villain.  Sauron is pure evil with no redeeming social value, and has magic power besides.  His goal, of course, is to conquer the world.  We never meet him.  We meet his  servants.  The villains we meet are interesting enough, particularly the  ringwraiths and the traitorous wizard Saruman.Secondly, you need some  wonderful people to root for.  This book has some great heroes you'll  remember all your life.  Wizards, elves, dwarves, hobbits, and men.  Don't  leave the women out either.What greater scope can you have than the  rescue of the world from evil?  With all of these ingredients, you can't  miss.  Particularly not in the hands of JRR Tolkein, master storyteller.
4 I am no great fan of fantasy, but I was moved to read the Ring series out of my affection for spiritual and religious literature. This is, of course, the archetypal &quot;quest&quot; story, and in that regard succeeds. Tolkien revisits ancient hero stories and spins them all into an original odyssey -- made all the more intriguing by the fact that his heroes start off as meek and uninterested in adventure. In this respect, the books inspire readers to seek greatness within themselves.However, where one word would do, Tolkien devotes entire chapters. I have read few books as needlessly verbose and rambling, and this took away from the experience. The Hobbit and Ring books are not for those with short attention spans. Indeed, some monastic hermits might even find them hard to bear.
5 I was floored by this book! For the longest time I was told to read this book, so I thought I'd give it a chance. I'm glad I did.This is a story of how a simple man becomes a hero.  Meet Bilbo Baggins, a simple hobit who enjoys a simple life.  He's never had an adventure, and never wanted to go on one.  His life was changed when he met Gandalf, a great wizzard. Gandalf and his  troops wisk Biblo off on a great adventure in order to find treasures....and a adventure he'll never forget.  On his adventure, Biblo will come up aganist creature that nightmares are made from. In the process of his quest, he gets a ring of invisiblty.  My favorite part of the book is when Bilbo was drawn into a contest of riddles.  I also like the songs that the different people sang. It added so much to the book.Tolkien is a genius, pure and simple. He has a very unique writing styly.  I look forward to reading The Lord of the Rings. I highly suggest you read this book. You won't be sorry.
5 Personal ReflectionsThis book review pertains to the kindle edition: this edition includes "The Fellowship of the Ring", "The Two Towers" and "The Return of the King" in one combined volume.Technically there are six books (two in each volume). Of course Peter Jackson followed each of the three books (listed above) for his film adaptation of this story.This was my second time reading this story. Actually the word "story" doesn't really do justice to it. It really deserves the title of "epic". It could be described as a modern day Homeric quest adventure story. I'm not sure I could say that it surpasses the Odyssey, but nevertheless, this work is a masterpiece of literature. It is not simply the writing style that is superb. It is also the fictional historical background of this work. Tolkien created a world from whole cloth. This is why it is such genius. While Tolkien may have used themes from other works of literature, he made this world from his imagination from scratch.What more can I really say about it? It is gritty, real, scary at times, full of hope at other times. The conclusion is exhilarating. The characters become real to us, the readers. They leap off the page in stark reality. From Frodo, Sam and Gollum to Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas, these characters reveal themselves to us as the story progresses. It is a delight to read about the insights of a particular character or the struggles they have. The decisions that they face require real courage. And of course they have real consequences. In their struggles, we see our own struggles, except on a much smaller scale. We are made to feel as if we ourselves would be brave enough to take the one ring and cast it into the fires of Mount Doom.The frailty of the characters makes us reflect of our own humanness. We too fail at times. We too are faced with daunting decisions that are life altering. Just as the world they live in is threatened by Sauron and Saruman, we too face our own threats. The one that most deeply affects us is our own sin. Our hearts deceive us. They make us believe that we are OK, when really we are not. Frodo knew his own frailty. Yet he also was driven by a higher sense of purpose, something transcendent. This is where the Christianity of Tolkien really shines through. God may not have a ring for us to destroy, but if we follow in the footsteps of Jesus, we will have evil that needs driving out. There will be enemies that need conquering (things like envy or greed).It is said that absolute power corrupts absolutely. It is true. Tolkien drives this point home with the metaphor of the one ring. The ring holds a great amount of power. The story is driven by the ring. It plays on our understanding of our own human nature. The ring in the story must be kept at a distance and eventually destroyed. It always corrupts the possessor.Ultimately it was not the determination of the hero's heart that accomplished the destruction of the ring, but the providential role of Gollum. It was his greed that bit the finger off of Frodo's hand. It was providence that made his foot slip and caused him to fall to his doom. His time had come. There was a reason that Gollum was spared until the very end. I believe this providence reflects the providence of God.ConclusionMy conclusion is of course for you to read it. If you have only seen the movies, and liked them, you really owe it to yourself to read these books (or the one volume version). At least listen to them via audio book. You will find the richness of Tolkien's writing to seriously enhance your appreciation of the movies. The extended edition of the movie follows right along with every scene in the books.I would also recommend to you the background material in the appendix to the book. This will help to fill in even further the historical background to the story. Tolkien's preparation for this book really shines through here. It is the story behind the story. Before he wrote the Lord of the rings, Tolkien had to create this fantasy world from scratch. The amount of detail and realistic history belies the genius of Tolkien. You want to read good fantasy literature? This one is the standard by which others are judged. I don't imagine that it will be surpassed any time soon.
5 When an individual first reads The Hobbitt and the Lord of the Rings Trilogy they are often drawn in and become immediate fans of the novels.  In these novels we see the classics of our time.  Much like the great mythological stories of Homer and his compatriots of the day, these stories take our imagination and mesh it so well with actual human life that we do not question teh written words.  The suspension of reality is so strong that the creatures used by Tolkien are reused through out the fantasy worlds of many authors.  One must look as far as Dungeons and Dragons and they will find similiar creatures, races and their descriptions.  This is a true testament to the amazing works Tolkien generated and how they will stand the test of time and may become the Illiad and the Odessey of future generations.
5 the lord of the rings has been one of my favorite books since very early childhood, even befor i could read my father read the hobbit to me as a bed time story, later when i've learned how to read, i started on it, i think that it, and the narnia saga was the first fantasy i've read and it's always amased me how easy it can be to visit another world so easly, just by turning pages.i think that since then i've read those books over a hundred times.not being from a english speaking country, i had the first heberw transelation, and the second one, and now after the movies came out, desided i should probebly try and read it in it's original language.the elen lee covers are so beautiful, it makes me very happy for not getting the movie shots covers but chose this vertion. the whole design and prints and the format of the book is really great and though i've just started to read it, i'm haveing the best time. it's so great how middle earth just get more real and more beautiful everytime you read this book. reading it now it's like visiting old freinds.
5 The links are helpful if you down read through it too fast. Chunks of the silmarillion are in it too, at the end, which covers some stuff from the centuries before the hobbit stuff too.
3 The first time I read Lord of the Rings as a child I liked it.  Nice poems, cool chase through Mordor and Saruman, Gollum and the Ents were pretty nifty.Look, all you writers out there: All fantasy books don't have to be set in some pseudo-medieval European setting where everyone is remarkably clean, healthy and odor-free despite a distinct lack of basic sanitation devices.I acknowledge that this book was revolutionary forty years ago, but the world has changed since then and our writing could stand to reflect that.Not that Lord of the Rings is a bad book-- it's not-- but not everything about it is so unquestionably wonderful.First off: The ending sucks.  I still haven't figured out what Haven is meant to be, (Heaven?) and why Frodo and the elves had to go there.  What? Is it that they were too good for our world.  If so then that is really lame.Second: The unquestioning faith Tolkien places in the superiority of high birth and the unfailing belief in a rigid class system, (something which I am surprised to see most modern readers simply don't notice) was old fashioned and retrograde even in his own time.  I mean why should Strider/Aragorn be automatically made king? How come no one questions this? The idea that without the true blue-blood king the land would falter is ridiculous.  Whatever happened to democracy?  This odd yearning for the old class system can be seen in Sam's servile obedience to Frodo and Frodo's servility to Aragorn, the Elves and other high born humans.4. How did Gandalf get out of the pit in the mines?  No explanation in either the books or the movies.5.  Pure good vs. Pure Evil: There are reasons why Saruman and Gollum are the best characters in the books.  They're the most like real people, with multiple facets and real motivations for their deeds.  I mean what's Sauron's deal?  He's a big flaming eye of pure evil.  Not much characterization there.  And the Orcs-- probably the worst scene in the book is when Gimli and Legolas brag to each other about how many Orcs they each have killed and this goes on without the disapproval of any character.  Yeah, lets see all our enemies at war as subhumans agents of pure evil, right. This is a complete cheat.  If ever we needed to hear the message that those we fight on the battlefield are people just like us, with families, desires and loved ones-- now is the time.  How convient that Orcs are created out of mud and have no little Orc children to mourn them when they fall to serve as another notch on Gimili's belt.5.  In the same line of thinking the character development is lacking-- characters like STrider, Legolas, Gimli, Boromir and others seem remote and unhuman.While I understand that Tolkien sought to copy the episodic style, characterization and epic tone common to such early Northern European myths as Beouwulf, for modern readers not to see the faults inherit in these forms is to be ignorant.
5 I've owned two editions of The Lord of the Rings before this, both were one-volume versions.These hardcovers are brilliantly impressively large, the paper quality is good, and they are bound in a red cloth/material under the glossy printed jackets.Most Lord of the Rings fans will be familiar with Alan Lee's illustrations already, and they serve this set well.I probably read the previous two versions I had of this book 40+ times over, and I imagine I'll read them more often with this set. The break-up into three, and the larger size, makes this book a somewhat more leisurely read, and I found myself giving more time to each chapter, reading it slower, absorbing more than I ever had earlier.The only drawback, as already mentioned, is that the paper used in the book as a whole is glossy, and therefore gives some glare if you read it with white light falling on it directly. Not that big an issue, though, since you're more likely to be lounging about when reading this book :)
5 Studying abroad in France, I was kind of yearning for some English reading material to keep me connected to my native-language roots. So when I saw &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; on the bookshelf in a local bookstore, I figured why not give it a try, a well-known book I'd not yet read. And I was completely surprised: Tolkein's epic exceeded my every expectation.The story of how Frodo Baggins, a young hobbit from the backwoods Shire, stumbles upon the One Ring, which harnesses the power of world domination, is truly gripping - and I know that word gets used a lot to describe books, but in this case it's quite appropriate. I spent an entire day reading it, and could not put it down; it lured me back every time I tried to go do something else, like eating.A whole slew of memorable characters intersect with Frodo as he ventures across Middle-Earth, some of whom were introduced in The Hobbit, some new: Gandalf, Smeagol, the Lady Galadriel, Sam Gamgee, et al. Each one has a distinct personality all his own, although I must confess I had trouble distinguishing between all the Kings and Lords and such. If the characters weren't sufficiently distinct, the plot line was quite complex and I found myself guessing time and again at what would happen next - wrongly.The book, in short, is a masterpiece. Tolkien disavowed the apparent symbolism relating to the social conditions of the Post-WWII world, so I leave it to the reader to decide what to make of the book. Whether you see it as an allegory or simply an epic tale, it's clear that this is a brilliant novel.
5 I love it.  All 3 in one edition; pretty sweet.  I just wish I had more time to read it all.  The movies are sooo good and reading parts of this really takes my imagination far out.
5 The quality of all is excellent, the drawings, the maps, the ink, the hardcover, the golden ages.If you are a fan I would definitely recommend it, looks like a Tolkien Bible to me hehe.The only thing I'll point is that between each book there is only a page with the title of the book, I kind of miss the elvish writing that other editions had... But still, a very wonderful item.
5 ROb Inglis does a great great job reading LOTR. HE manages a recongizable difference and identity for every character without overdoing it. This was my main concern with this edition, since some dramatizations (esp BBC's dramatization of The Hobbit) are a bit overdone, and this draws attention from the story.But this reading manages just right. I had read LOTR several times before, but I enjoyed this reading almost more than the original books.The only thing I missed was a list of the tracks. I listened to the book in a walkman that starts from the exact same point where it was left, but if you change players you will take some time to find the exact spot you left. But that is just a detail in a great product. Absolutely recommended
5 This is one excellent adventure story across beautiful and devestating terrain, where the main characters are mystical folk called Hobbits, a dwarf, an elf, a wizard and a couple of men. This book is brillinatly imaginative and well written. The cavalcade of different creatures and lands is fun and inticing. The old battle of good vs evil is full of fight and morality. The story never slows, despite its detail and it remains one of the most renound science fiction classics of all time. This book thoroughly deserves such acclaim.The only gripe I have is with this particular &quot;3 books in one&quot; paperback edition. Unfortunately the books first 700 odd pages came off the spine in bunches as I progressed through. I would suggest buying the 3 books seperately or if you want all in one, maybe the hardcover is the way to go.
3 I was really excited when I discovered this BBC audio dramatization of Tolkien's classic Lord of the Rings trilogy. It was highly recommended by a staff member at the Ventura County Library in Ventura, California. Even though sections from the original books had been cut and altered for the dramatization, she said that it was an experience that any Tolkien fan would enjoy.The box and the CDs are beautiful! They have images, maps, and other useful information about the trilogy and author on each case. On the back of the box it reads:This stunning dramatized BBC production of Tolkien's classic is presented in thirteen hours on thirteen compact discs. Starring Ian Holm and featuring a cast of 25 performers, specially composed music and sound effects, this beautifully packaged boxed set is a perfect gift for every Tolkien fan.This introduction and every colorful display on the CD cases kept my excitement high as I listened through the entire series with my husband during our long car rides. It didn't take long to breeze through the discs.One aspect that made the experience less enjoyable was the fact that the library copy contained badly scratched CDs. Often, the car player wouldn't recognize that there was a CD in it, and we would spend countless minutes cleaning them until they could be played. Ventura library should invest in a DVD doctor or a similar device. Since this collection is so popular, they need to maintain the quality of the discs.I enjoyed the dramatic presentation more than my husband, who kept comparing it to Peter Jackson's films. In all honesty, this audio book cannot compare to the films. Thus, it's really important not to expect a similar Hollywood/movie experience. Otherwise, you will not enjoy the dramatization. I kept thinking about radio dramas and radio shows. That constant reminder made it easier to get wrapped up in an auditory experience where my imagination roamed free.All the actors in the production were amazing! I especially liked Frodo, played by Ian Holm, and Sam, played by William Nighy. My least favorite actor was Peter Woodthorpe, who played Gollum. The problem wasn't the actor, per say, but the way that Gollum was presented to the listener. The character mumbles a lot, screams, and makes other random noises that make it difficult to determine what is happening in the audio drama. Too much sound can be a detriment, and that was the case with Gollum. We paused the production numerous times to ask each other questions about what was going on with Gollum. These moments happened at important points in the story too, which was unfortunate. For example, at the end of the book, the characters are on Mt. Doom. Gollum's actions during this section was very confusing! Luckily, we knew what was going to happen because of the films. Gollum's actions and speech were equally unclear. In order to understand what Gollum was saying, we had to go back to previous tracks and put the volume up really loud to understand his mumbling.The sound effects were spectacular! I really felt drawn into the story, as if I was on the journey with Frodo. The music, however, was hit or miss. Most of the songs weren't as good as we had hoped, especially compared to the epic score from Jackson's films. We both agreed that Sam's singing was the best; he also had the best lyrics for his songs. There was one song that was sung by a single young boy that was really moving. The music at the end was decent too. My favorite score was the one they played when introducing and ending each disc, which is probably why they reused it so often.As I haven't read the original books in a long time, I can't comment on how authentic the dramatization was in comparison nor indicate where the sections were altered and cut. My husband did complain that there wasn't enough narration and that there was too much character dialog. From what I know about radio dramas, this is often the case. The listener wants to hear the voices of the characters rather than being read a story. However, more narration would have made it easier to understand what the characters were doing. Unfortunately, they mainly used the narrative sections as an opportunity to transition segments of the story and to show the progression of time rather than as a tool for telling the story.The breakdown of the CDs compared to the original books is as follows:CDs 1-6: The Fellowship of the RingCDs 7-9: The Two TowersCDs 10-13: The Return of the KingThe division was perfect, and our favorite section was the fist book, CDs 1-6. The end felt drawn out, but this is also how I felt when I read the books. So, I wasn't as surprised as my husband.When it comes down to it, there are a lot of reasons to listen to this audio book. First, from what I have read, it is the best radio drama on Tolkien's infamous trilogy. The drama provides another way to experience the books; this one was produced in 1999. Peter Jackson's first film wouldn't be made until 2001. Second, the actors did a stupendous job! Ian Holm is the star, as he received top billing, but every voice actor provided a new, dynamic element to the dramatization. Third, the music. Even though it's hit or miss, some of the songs were moving (absolutely loved Sam's song about The Shire). Finally, how can you not want another production of Tolkien's trilogy, especially with one as artfully created as this was? The production received numerous awards, such as the Prometheus Hall of Fame Award (2009)and The Big Read, BBC (2003). These awards were not given to a sub-par production!Even with all this praise, there are still some cons to consider before you listen to the audio dramatization. First, make sure you have high quality CDs! Our low quality discs really soured our listening experience. Plus, it was just plain frustrating having to stop the CDs so often in order to clean them. Second, be forewarned that some of the actors might be difficult to understand. For us, it was Gollum. However, there are other characters that might be difficult to hear or understand with all the dramatic special effects and music. Third, it's not an unabridged version. If you are a stickler for unabridged reading experiences, you will not enjoy this rendition. Lastly, if you are not a fan of Tolkien or fantasy novels, I recommend viewing Jackson's films over listening to this audio book. There are places where the history of Middle Earth will cause the drama to lull. A lot of these moments are not included in Hollywood's rendition.Overall, I am happy that I took the time to listen to this book, and I would listen to it again if I owned a copy of it. In fact, I wonder how better my experience would be if I had an undamaged set (Perhaps some of the audio sections would be easier to understand too). I would love to own this as part of my literary collection. Unfortunately, I don't think my husband was as thrilled or that he would listen to it again with me. It's definitely not for everyone.
5 A thoroughly satisfying fantasy experience.  A rich world, noble characters, and detailed plot make for an engrossing, rewarding read.
5 I have re-read it for the third time, and every time it seems more beautiful to me. It might be the best bromance in the literature, but it hold so many universal truths and is simply beautifully written.
5 Does that mean Gandalf was more than wise? As he defended gollum "Not all those who are alive deserve to be alive, not all those who are dead deserve death, but can we give life to them? So do not be too quick to take it away - for not even the wise see all ends." But it is my reading of the story that the nobility of Frodo would never have achieved the mission (although he would get close), the innocence of Sam would be insufficient too (although he could get even closer), something else was needed and gollum was vital to that completion. I believe the film-makers missed this, so if you have only seen the films I recommend you read Tolkein's words too - it will take a while, but what a journey of the imagination it is.It took me a long while to read through these novels as a bedside reading for my older son (I skipped the chapter on Shelob as just too scary!). I had read the novels many years earlier, not once but twice. And once again, as I read that last chapter - which isn't directly about death - the tears were hard to suppress so that I could keep the words flowing.I guess endings are always like that - especially endings to really big things in our lives.Recommended other reading:The Hobbit  - JRR TolkienTitus Groan - Mervyn PeakeThe Place of the Lion - Charles WilliamsOut of the Silent Planet - CS Lewis
5 Good book! The Hobbit is fast-paced and very entertaining. The Lord Of The Ring trilogy is a landmark work in this genre (like Star Wars trilogy for sci-fi genre). Although a little bit slow in the first volume (Fellowship of The Ring), but it gets better and better in the second and third book.
5 I'm a 20 yr old college student and am very picky about what I read.  That said, this book has everything you would want in a fantasy book.  This was the first ever fantasy genre book I've read and the only other types of fantasy I knew about were King Arther, Merlin etc.  I decided to pick it up right after I saw the first &quot;Fellowship of the Ring&quot; movie and have not been disappointed.  At first I hesitated to even buy it fearing that it would ruin the rest of the 2 movies for me removing any surprise.  I was glad I did read it though since the movie leaves out a lot of details.  Go pick it up and don't be intimidated by the number of pages.  Also, the first chapter or two are a bit slow and but don't quit, you'll be rewarded afterwards.
5 I had to read the Hobbit for a school assignment and simply hated the thought. I finished the book a week before i was supposed to and started the LOTR. I am crazy for more books. I feel a connection with the characters and am dying to see the next 2 movies. I have 3 words to say: Buy the books! I just can't blabber on and on, so I'll stop now, but buy them! they are worth it!
5 I had always known about J.R.R. Tolkien's epic fantasy masterpiece, "The Lord Of The Rings"---I remember we had copies of the books in our library when I was only a little "Halfling" in grammar school---but, for reasons I do not know, I just never got around to reading them. Then I saw Peter Jackson's marvelous film adaptations of the first two books, "The Fellowship Of The Ring" & "The Two Towers" (with "The Return Of The King" coming this December), and I was so mesmerised by this wondrous, classic tale that I saw unfold on the screen, that I finally HAD to read the books, as I was so curious to see how Professor Tolkien had originally written it, in comparison to seeing how Peter Jackson visualised it. So, I bought this specially-priced box set, containing not only "The Lord Of The Rings" but also it's very-important prequel, "The Hobbit," and, without question, they are the very best books I have ever spent money on. It took me, personally, about five months to get through Tolkien's entire Middle-Earth saga (including "The Hobbit"), picking up the books whenever I had a spare moment to read them inbetween my weekly workshifts, and, from the first page of "The Hobbit" to the final page of "The Return Of The King," I was completely enraptured. I can't believe that I almost missed out on reading one of the world's greatest literary works.There are many reasons why "The Hobbit" & "The Lord Of The Rings" are such timeless classics, but certainly right at the top of the list is that Tolkien created such a phenomenally rich, detailed world in Middle-Earth, and populated it with some of the most magical fictional characters ever created. In fact, SO rich are the details of this legendary realm, that Tolkien not only had to devise a precise map of Middle-Earth (included with every book), but also many appendices that contain the various histories & backstories of the characters and the world they inhabit (included at the end of "The Return Of The King"). Admittedly, the plot may be the most familiar Fantasy plot of them all---the quest---but it is a quest that is so immeasurably rewarding, as you, the reader, are literally swept away with the characters and their various adventures. There is great action, drama, and humor all throughout the books, and although the great central mission for most of these characters is to destroy the evil Ring Of Power & save Middle-Earth, each character has his or her own personal destiny to fulfill all along the way. Reading this saga is also like taking the most wondrous guided tour of your life, as Tolkien knows every road, every hill, every mountain, river & stream of this land, and he describes it all to you in fascinating detail (he wasn't a Professor at Oxford for nothing!). His writing style is very poetic and almost like Shakespeare, and there were times when I'd have to re-read some of the paragraphs in order to fully get the meaning of Tolkien's words, but I was more than happy to do so. And, finally, you can't have a classic tale without having classic characters, and Tolkien's vast array of characters in these books are just so enchanting: the loveable hobbits Bilbo, Frodo, Sam, Merry & Pippin, the great wizard Gandalf, the evil wizard Saruman & the mysterious, omnipresent Lord Sauron, the mighty ranger Aragorn, the valiant Elf & Dwarf duo of Legolas & Gimli, the beautiful & fair Lady Galadriel, Queen Of The Elves, the wise Elf king Elrond, the ragged, tormented creature Gollum, and so many, many more. I must also say that if you're going to read "The Lord Of The Rings," then you absolutely *must* read "The Hobbit" first, as it sets up the entire "Rings" saga that follows, and introduces the reader to Bilbo, Gandalf, Gollum & Elrond. Of course, Tolkien wrote a prologue at the start of "Rings" that tells of the "Hobbit" backstory, but it's so much more enlightening to read the actual "Hobbit" tale itself, and see in detail just how Bilbo Baggins set the whole ball in motion with his adventure with Smaug the Dragon. Thankfully, this "Rings" box set includes "The Hobbit," so there's no excuse to not read it first. Consider it the appetizer before the main course, if you will.I know that some Tolkien purists have completely rejected the movie versions of the "Lord Of The Rings" books, despite all of their acclaim, popularity, and Academy Awards. But even they have to acknowledge at least ONE positive aspect of Peter Jackson's film adaptations that cannot be denied: the movies have gotten more people to read the original "Lord Of The Rings" books, myself included, and I think J.R.R. Tolkien himself would've greatly approved of that (and would he have liked the movies themselves? In my opinion, absolutely). So thank you, Peter Jackson, for leading me to these wonderful books, which I, very mistakenly, wouldn't have touched otherwise. And thank you, J.R.R. Tolkien, for getting the whole thing started by giving these great literary gifts to the world. And I can't wait to read more, as I know there's more Middle-Earth delights to be had in "The Silmarillion" & other Tolkien works. "The Hobbit" & "The Lord Of The Rings" are easily the greatest Fantasy books ever created, the blueprint for all Fantasy works that follow, and an absolute joy to read. Praise Professor Tolkien with great praise!
5 ...but luckily better late than never.I won't say more than that portions of this book moved me more than any have in a long while, and I wish it never ended.  The movies were great, but (as often true) they cannot do justice to the original.  If you haven't read them, no better time than now...
5 I have a copy of the full collection - three &#34;books&#34; wrapped up into one and it's a beast to tote around. Don't try and read it on your lap.But the Kindle version works very, very nicely.
3 It's way more depressing then the movie. It's way longer then the movie and the movie felt like it would never end, obviously! I enjoyed the Hobbit way more then this book. It just okay.
5 So,when I began reading this book I thought it`s just another fantasy book.But I was mistaken the book contains so many charachters speeches and amazing things.The book in short words kidnaps you for ever you just keep reading it on and on until you get crazy from it but its just a never ending story and you never get bored from it.So if you are looking for a really good deep and awesome book.I`ll recommend this one.
5 Tolkien never intended The Lord of the Rings to be a trilogy.  It was split into three parts because the publisher felt it could be promoted better and that it would sell better as three separate books.  This volume offers fans a chance to read it as the author originally intended, as one complete book.  I have had mine for over 20 years and it is holding up very well.  The paper is fine quality and it has a sewn binding.  It's not easy to carry, though, so I like to keep a paperback set around for portability.
5 When I was a teenager, I bought the Lord of the Rings boxed set -- which included The Hobbit -- and attempted to read the whole Tolkien saga over the summer.  My intentions were good, but both the scope of the quest and the tiny type on the standard sized paperback defeated me.  I did not so much "read" The Lord of the Rings as "skimmed" through it.  Even though I got the gist of Frodo's quest to destroy the One Ring and was astounded by the narrative of the War of the Ring, I could never say with a straight face that I had read The Lord of the Rings completely.That is, until I found this one-volume edition in a trade paperback format. Even though I still had to fight off the temptation to skip through the various poems, songs and other embellishments Tolkien added to the basic "Gandalf-enlists-the-reluctant-but-brave-Hobbit-to-go-on-a-great-Quest" plot, at least with a more eye-friendly page/typeface size I could read The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King in their entirety and in a single book (which, as I found out last year, was Tolkien's intent; it was his British publisher who, for business reasons, divided the gigantic novel in three).Considering the cost of books these days, this one-volume edition is quite a bargain!
5 It took almost 15 years to completed. If you love the movies but don't like to read please not buy it. If you like to read and love the movies you must read it.
5 This was better than any sci fi book or any other fantasy books I've read.This was also better then those stupid 1930's books that our 7th grade literature teacher says &quot;You need to read tese books by Monday.&quot;I didn't read those books.I got to the 2nd chapter before throwing them away.These books,however,made me want to read it until the end.What's great about it was the words used in those years which make the books great fantasy.It starts with Bilbo Baggins, who was fooled into going into an adventure with Gandalf,the wizard.On that adventure,he finds the One Ring,which Sauron,The Dark Lord,used for evil purposes.The Lord Of the rings contiues that story 60 years later, when Frodo Baggins,Bilbo's heir,recieves the ring.Then,when he finds out its dark secret,he has to destroy it in Sauron's lair,Mordor.This book is for everyone.This would've been better if it was The Simariliion,The Hobbit,and The Lord Of The Rings,but then I would've had a heart attack.Great for any read!
5 In my lifetime, I have worn out several sets of the paperback versions. I started reading these around age 16 when I read the hardcover edition in the library, and was delighted to discover this set in a used bookstore a number of years ago.What I like best about them is that they predate the movies, and the graphics are all from the pre-movie era.I must confess that I read through these about once a year. And every year I learn something new. A personal favorite.
5 I would recommend this book to anyone who likes fantasy adventures. It's just like The fellowship of the ring.  It's about 100 pages shorter then the first book. But still a good read. The only thing I didn't like about this book is the last 200 pages. It got confusing.
5 In this one set you have four of the best loved and most memorable books in history.  There is everything in them: action, drama, fantasy, kings, evil overlords, strange monsters, and even a little romance.  If you saw the movies first and are afraid that the books are going to be boring, well you're wrong.  The movies were great, but i was a little disappointed because of how they focused so much on the fights and left out or changed parts of the books.  Read these, I promise you you won't be sorry!
4 What can one say that hasn't already been said about the most epic battle of good vs. evil?Immortalized for the generations to come, Lord Of The Rings is amusing, amazing, fun, scary and suspenseful and surely the work of a master writer. The characters are alive, the events real and the landcape ever so uniquely convincing.Perhaps, for once, the legend lives up to its reputation.Never before has the choice of the best work in a given genre been such an easy and universal win.
4 A little hard to read online but it's a good book of course, and the son who read it adored having it with him and not packing a big book.
5 This trilogy is timeless, and hasn't lost any of its impact or appeal even when reading it on a modernized tablet computer. I can't wait to introduce The Lord of the Rings to my daughter when she is old enough, just as my father introduced it to me.
5 Remember reading books as a child? Some books had that magical, innocent quality. Well, Tolkien somehow captured that spirit in a book written for adults. As the book progresses, you realize that Tolkien understands the universal powers of Truth and Beauty.
5 The main story (i.e. the 3 books) is about 1000 pages long. The remainder of the book is a collection of appendices. It includes some maps, family trees, description of the language used, references to time and events of Middle Earth around the period The Lord of the Rings was written in. While I found most of them not very useful, there are some sections in the Appendices which are interesting. The most poignant part of the book I actually found in the appendix. It's the story between Aragorn and Erwyn. It talks about how they met and what their love for one another made them do. Don't miss that part.This is by far the best &quot;unabridged&quot; version of the books I've read. It also comes in one book, not a boxed set like most other versions of this book.I think the movie released by New Line Cinemas with the same title does the book justice. A little trivia about the movie: 1) The whole film was shot in a continuous 2 year period in New Zealand. 2) The Tolkien family does not support the cinematization of this book. 3) Vigo Mortenson does most of his own stunts in the film. Go watch it!
5 I bought this to replace my 40-year-old yellowing copies and re-read yet again.  Be aware this contains all of the &#34;trilogy&#34; or you'll end up buying, separately and unnecessarily, The Two Towers and Return of the King.
5 After having seen The Lord of the Rings film trilogy recently, I finally got the extra time to read the novel (50th anniversary). Let me just say, to anyone who is reluctant about reading The Lord of the Rings for whatever reason, I beg you to reconsider!! I do not want to bore everywhere with yet anther review of fantasy's most epic novel, nor do I want to spoil the novel for anyone, so in the most basic way possible I will tell you what the novel is about. The Lord of the Rings is a novel that tells the tale of Frodo Baggins, a hobbit from the Shire who volunteers to take the One Ring of power (which corrupts and destroys whomever comes to possess it), which was forged by the dark lord Sauron, to Mount Doom (where the One Ring was created) and destroy it. That is the basic premise of The Lord of the Rings, but once you begin reading the book, there is so much more to the story than you would ever imagine. The land of Middle Earth is the setting of this tale, and within a few chapters I was fully convinced that Middle Earth was a real place from the past (and I still am to some extent), and that speaks to the creative mind of the author J.R.R. Tolkien.I also highly recommend that if you choose to buy The Lord of the Rings, that you buy the 50th anniversary edition. Basically all of the errors from the various older editions of The Lord of the Rings have been corrected, there are almost 100 pages of amazing appendices at the back (which give you tons of bonus information, from ancient Middle Earth history, chronology, family trees, languages and more) as well as 7 maps (trust me, these are extremely helpful when you are following the various characters journeys).The Lord of the Rings is such a hard novel to review. Those who haven't read it may think it is just another fantasy novel not worth the effort (and time, it is a 1000 page novel) to read. While those who have read it know that once you get to the end, you wish there was more to read, and find it hard to explain the magic of The Lord of the Rings to others. I can only hope that something in my review sparks your interest, and that someday you journey to the Shire, Lothl&oacute;rien, Rivendell and even Mordor. You are at the entrance to the hobbit hole right now, open the door and go inside...
5 I loved the books on paper and now I love them even more on my Kindle. Nothing can be better than that.
4 was delivered quickly and was of good quality.  It was a Christmas present to my husband who is a fan of the movies but has never read the books and he is excited to get started.
5 Without the Lord of the Rings, we wouldn't have any great fantasy; not Star Wars, Thomas Covenant, or the Shanarra books. Reading the trilogy, you see how Tolkien has been borrowed from by so many of the great authors. The range of emotions encapsulated herein are far and wide. There is the warmth of the Hobbit's hominess, the nobility exhibited by most of the characters; Aragorn, even Boromir, and yes, the Hobbits. The power of evil is great, but in the face of such love and courage, it is rendered nothing, and all the sadness becomes untrue. Even if you have seen all the movies, you can't say there's no point in reading the books. While Peter Jackson's films are magnificent, they are not the books. The books have unusual turns of phrase and poetry, insights into the characters that film just cannot convey. See the movies and read the books both. While in most cases, the only way the movie can  equal or surpass the book is if the book merely adapts the movie, in this case, the two are equals, complementary to one another.
4 LOR needs no introduction or promotion. I found the ebook form quite usable to reread this grand old tale.  Only problem - trouble to get to the maps.
3 I don't want to write a long review on &quot;The Hobbit&quot; and &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; trilogy (I feel like I have wasted enough time on them already).I liked &quot;The Hobbit&quot; for the most part and the first book in &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; was not too bad, but from there it was all downhill, in my opinion.This was just a wordy, long series of books that I never thought I would end.  During the last two books of &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; I thought I was going to lose my sanity.This series should have been cut in half to two books, and even then it would probably be dull in parts.If you are thinking of reading these books, I would say go ahead and try it if you are known for endurance and perseverance.If you're not, go buy the Cliff Notes or just wait for the movies.
5 I am used to see this book on bookstores to finally  leave it -after all I am an adult (IT Manager) and this stuff is probably for kids (Ha!). But one day I dared to buy it.What can I say? The book is more that anyone can explain or describe. How could Anyone give you, even barely, an idea of what this book is, that is imposible to do that It would be necessary to copy the book itself.Just trust me... This is THE BOOK.
5 Great to have the entire trilogy in one book ... no disruption of continuity or flow ... a masterwork of storytelling.
5 ...and I now understand Tolkien's continuing the history and such long after he was done with this series. It has so much to it, that you need to expand. Definitely read this.
5 I have the whole book in hardback, but who wants to schlep a 10-pound book around town? Wish this was incorporated with the Lord of the Rings Companion, (like an annotated book) but I imagined that would end up adding another 1,000 pages. Oh well.
5 I love J.R.R. Tolkien's works.  He is the father of Fantasy and inspired all other works.  He is great at telling a story, painting a detailed and descriptive world, and putting so many layers of depth and complexity that it really makes the mind work to take it all in, understand it and visualize.  I love it!
5 I thought the movie was good, the book was GREAT! The best part was finding out what happened to Saruman!
5 Myth is what you need to take you up into the greatness of being human and the mystery of quest and friendship
5 Nothing I write will add to what's out there.  I am just thrilled that I have it on my Kindle, to pull up whenever I wish to do so.  I relish the opportunity to dive back into Middle Earth ... I am an unabashed fan.
5 Of course I have multiple copies of Tolkien. He's been a staple growing up. My dad shared Tolkien with me and we share these same stories with our kids. Love Tolkien!
5 Read the real version. The movies took a few liberties with the novels.This will help make sense of some things that didn't seem quite right in the movie. A classic!!
5 So far I am enjoying this read very much. Love the adventure and suspense. I feel almost like I am with them.
5 This classic remains enjoyable after many rereads. Tolkien's imagination and scholarship remain unmatched, and his mastery of language and languages is awe-inspiring.
5 This is a mastet piece that should be read by one and all. This story has something for everyone in it?, whether it be action, adventure, or romance any reader can't take something away from reading this book.
5 This is Tolkien' s greatest work. I absolutely love this book. It has been my favorite since I was in 3rd grade.
5 Tolkien&#8217;s Lord of the Rings is a single book, though most consider it a trilogy consisting of The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King. Though published separately, these works are intended to be read as a single book, and are therefore referred to in this blog post as a singular work. The book is quite hefty, and more than once I was glad I had it in ebook form. I&#8217;m fairly certain that if I had the volume in hardcover, I could successfully fight crime with it as a bludgeon.Both the story and characters are rich and full of life. The end of the book and parting of friends is quite sad, because after spending so much time with them, you truly don&#8217;t want to let go. It is epic in every sense of the word, and the scale of the great battles and journey itself is mind-boggling. You&#8217;re taken to dank, marshy bogs and lush, magical forests; you gallop across wind-blown grassy plains and climb craggy mountains; you delve into the depths of the earth and enter realms where light and hope are things of the imagination. It is awesome in its size, complexity, and storytelling.That being said, there are flaws in my eyes. Much of the lore was so dense and riddled with people, places, and things of fantastical nature that it was often wearying to read an entire page. The history of a sword could span many pages, and make you forget what you were even reading about. Huge chunks of dialogue with little action are also present, where opinions are often rehashed and the reader is given information over and over. Sam, Frodo, and Gollum&#8217;s journey toward Mordor is downright boring and flat. At that point, Frodo&#8217;s character is struggling under the weight of the Ring, Sam is brooding and suspicious of Gollum, and Gollum is, well, Gollum. I found none of that part to be compelling, and was quite relieved when it was through.There are parts that do lift your spirit and make you feel as though you&#8217;re reading enchanted words. However, there are also parts that are dull, lifeless, and could have easily been left out. Reading felt arduous at some parts, and fleetingly easy at others. Seldom does finishing a book feel like a true accomplishment, but this one was one that felt that way.I know many people may love the very things that I found fault with, so I don&#8217;t try to say that my opinion is much better. Often, readers of high fantasy relish descriptions of sword-history that span chapters and love the intricate descriptions of everything. I, for one, do not share that love in the same intensity.There also seemed to be a few loose ends in the story, such as the prediction of Legolas coming to trouble after hearing a gull. He most certainly hears a gull, but nothing bad ever comes of it. It didn&#8217;t really mar the story for me, but seemed a bit odd. It was weird that the Lady of Rohan, Eowyn, was portrayed as both a duty-bound shieldmaiden and flighty woman. I understand that people are complex, but I feel that the same woman that smites the King of the Ringwraiths would not pine wearily and attempt to abandon all duty in order to follow a hot guy.All that being said, I am happy to have read the books and I would recommend them to anyone wanting to appreciate the roots of fantasy and a great, if long, story. If you&#8217;re looking for epic high fantasy, than look no further; however, I feel that many could easily be overwhelmed by the magnitude of the books.For more book reviews, check out [...]
5 Tolkien's works are truly some of the best in Literature.I've grownup with these books, and there is always something new every time I read them.
5 Love the four books in this series.  They are timeless and so worth the read.  The adventure within the pages and the description of the land.  So good!!
5 This is the epic fantasy story that all fantasy writers wish they could come close to. Smart writers write something totally different and unique. All fantasies are compared to the greatness of this epic adventure. Don't deny it, if you do, you are being dishonest with yourself. Emotional, breathtaking, horrifying villains and lovable outcasts. This story has it all, it's rich and beautiful. I never read a book more than once. I've read this series 3 times! And I will read it again.
3 Tolkien created a nifty setting and an entire genre. But the novels themselves drag and read unevenly. The Peter Jackson movies were much better.
5 One of the best books written in modern times.  Why? Consider that out of this single series, a whole area of modern fiction has arisen.  His books are a series of stories tied together by the brave actions of the most unlikely of heroes, Hobbits, who are small in stature and big in heart.  Beyond all of the symbolism found in the "Ring" series, is a really good story that will grab and hold your interest until the very end.
5 This is a marvelous dramatization of the Lord of the Rings. Overall, a much, much better adaptation of the book than the visually gorgeous but otherwise very disappointing movie trilogy. The acting here is mostly superb, and dialogues are almost always straight from Tolkien's pages. The renditions of Frodo, Gandalf, and above all Sam are truly great. Aragorn would also be very convincing, if it weren't for the actor's voice, who has a funny way to pronounce the letter "s"! Anyway, this is a trifle, and the overall rendition is great. Here you will not find any of the silly and gratuitous adaptations that somehow spoiled the three movies. In particular, Merry and Pippin are not presented as two half-witted comical characters, but they are presented in all their complexity. And you won't have Liv Tyler playing the stupid and intolerably ethereal role created for her by Hollywood. And you won't have to endure the unbelievably stupid scene were Gollum convince Frodo to "abandon" Sam, or the (sadly) legendary sequence where Frodo, after losing the ring (and his finger inside it...) FIGHTS WITH GOLLUM ON THE BRINK OF THE PRECIPICE, AND OF COURSE IT LOOKS LIKE THEY BOTH FALL, AND OF COURSE ONLY GOLLUM FALLS, AND OF COURSE SAM RESCUES FRODO GRABBING FRODO'S HAND JUST ONE SECOND BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE. The BBC production does necessarily cuts much (no Bombadil, no Ghan-Buri-Ghan, for example), but what is left is 95% pure Tolkien, and 5% transition between narratives. Peter Jackson and his pals should have looked here for the book's adaptation.I have already listened to the full box twice, and I will surely do it again. If you enjoyed the book, and you would like to "hear it" come alive, especially if you have been disappointed by the gratuitous concessions to Hollywood misery imposed by Peter Jackson and his pals, you should definitely purchase this box. Especially because another alternative, the UNABRIDGED version of the book, is not so good, as the reader's voice is very ill-suited to the epic tone of the trilogy. I know there are also partial renditions of the book read by Tolkien himself, but I do not know those.
5 How does one add a meaningful opinion among a sea of so many others?  I don't know.  The book is fantastic, inspiring, sad, glorious, and absolutely worth the time it takes to patiently read it.  I had heard much talk of the book(s) over the years, but nothing prepared me for the intense, personal nature of so much of it.  It is an epic in the classic sense, and Tolkien's character development is quite incredible.  While the fantastic, dark, secretive, stealthy, and wondrous sweep of the tale rightly commands much praise, the subtle exploration on the nature of human corruption and it's proclivity to seek power is very arresting.  The painstaking character work of Tolkien is, perhaps, what makes this possible, but the draw and pull of the ring on each character, great or small, noble or commoner, is what I found most engaging.  It deserves serious, honest reflection from each reader.  It's a shame it had to end, and I had a lump in my throat for the last 50 pages, knowing that each word brought me closer to the unfortunate conclusion.  I found myself sad as characters passed on or parted ways - the characterization is that intense.  Curiously, the archenemy of the story never actually appears IN the story.  While he never speaks directly, never acts directly, and is never seen directly, his existence and presence looms dark and ominous over nearly every page - and that, is fantastic, brilliant storytelling.  Some folks may not appreciate the genre of fantasy literature, but one owes it to oneself to read this book, and ponder the deep, introspective journey within.  Read it - period.
5 This review is on the ebook format as there is no need to rate one of the greatest fantasy classics of all time. The LOTR is a wonderful story that I enjoy more every time I read it!This ebook version of the LOTR in one volume is a great buy at a reasonable price for anyone who likes ebooks.  I noted no flaws in the text and was pleased with the extent and quality of the maps in an ebook format.  It makes a great addition to any ebook library!I highly recommend it!
3 I read this book to my boys.  It took forever to read it.  I enjoyed the movies, but these books aren't quite for me.  They go into way too much detail with back-stories, and characters that have little relevance to the main plot.  Maybe if I read it on my own, I'd appreciate it more.  But my boys were exhausted from it.  The Hobbit, on the other hand was excellent.
4 Last time I read this book was 39 years ago - now reading it to my 10 year-old like my mom did with me. The kindle version is great. If you read it on a more advanced reader than the basic kindle (which we use and love), you can get other features, like using the dictionary by tapping on a word or getting different kinds of features such as glossary of characters in the book.I always prefer a real book but still love having the flexibility of taking the kindle on a trip so you can keep reading your weighty tome without the weight. This version seems fine - have not compared it to other electronic files.Still one of the best books, if not THE best, ever!
5 There are no sound effects.  Yes, Rob Inglis does alter his voice for different characters.  And he even sings the songs.  (I do wonder where he got the melodies.  &quot;The Road Goes Ever On&quot;? Strange that it isn't in print. . .)  But there are no sound effects.  Perhaps that review refers to the BBC or other dramatization?
5 Everyone else has said it all before me, except this:This is the ONE THING I remember my parents arguing over in their divorce -- who would get this volume?
4 If you have trouble reading small test stay away from this.  The text is very small, and the pages are a little thicker than bible paper.
5 The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings trilogy have been my "go to" books for longer than I can remember, certainly way, way longer than the current renewed popularity brought on by the films. When I haven't got anything else to read, or if I'm feeling down, I pick up one of these volumes and everything is forgotten. I find Tolkien's writing, and especially his descriptive passages, so evocative that he draws me into the story like no other author. My beloved boxed set has finally disintigrated, pages have fallen out and have been glued back in beyond salvage so I was quite pleased to find another boxed set of the same edition (Houghton Mifflin ISBN-10: 0618002251). The maps and illustrations are the same (Tolkien's original work) and the typeface looks the same as my old printing, so I am happy to have the familiar look and feel as my old worn-out books. Although paperback, the printing is good and the paper isn't too cheap. The updated cover art is very nice and an addition that does not detract.
5 This is a beautiful book! The whole thing is great quality.The forward was informative and more comprehensive than my other copies of The Lord of the Rings.
5 great price, fast shipping. love that this item is not just a reading of the book, but a whole production. brings the story to life. my 11 year old son recently discovered LOTR and loves to listen to the discs at night before bed. i haven't listened to much of it, so I can't comment on whether or not the discs contain the full complete story or if its abridged in parts. the purpose of the purchase was entertainment for my son, not to take the place of the written story.
5 My greatest enjoyment of this trilogy has come from the reading of the original books, which I did many times as a boy, and perhaps twice as a man.  I also liked the movie cycle, which I saw once in a theater and perhaps two other times on DVD.This radio play was, to me, considerably more engaging and imaginative than the movie cycle.  Its power derives from effective use of basic ingredients like spoken voice, sounds, music and silence. I do like the spectacular visuals in the movies, but I shall probably return more often to this radio play than to the movies.A great companion on the commuter bus and train, when perhaps at the end of the day I may not feel like reading.A sentimental element - the Frodo here is wonderfully played by Ian Holm, who appeared some 20 years later as Bilbo in the movies.I have not heard the later edition of this radio play, so my comments pertain only to this product in its own right.BTW this edition is in the collection of several public libraries in my region, which are not exceptional in other respects, so it is probably widely available for free listening.
5 Many have questioned its viability as literature, without having read it. Many critics have noted its use of the standard fantasy adventure formula, without realizing that it *invented* the formula, that without this book  writers such as Terry Brooks, David Eddings, Robert Jordan, Tad Williams,  and countless hordes of others would be pursuing alternative careers. Many  academics have cried anathema over its marginal acceptance into their  canon, without realizing that Professor Tolkien of Oxford was One of Them,  and worthy indeed of any praise he may have received for the scholarly  depth which characterizes his work. Many children have enjoyed it over and  over again, thus leading to the common misperception that it is a  children's book. Many have dismissed it as fantasy, or allegory, or satire,  or novelty, or social commentary, without realizing that it is *Myth*.It is as myth that the novel succeeds where so many of the clones have  failed. In it: a world more thoroughly crafted and more fully-realized than  any offered by various cultures of the past; events with world-shaking  consequences; characters with real lives playing as pieces in a grand game.  But what distinguishes this book from its many imitators is its mythic  grandeur, the epic caliber of *story*, and its underlying vision of story  as myth, and that myth is truth.All this, and still amongst the most  engrossing reads of the century.
5 there are not enough words to express what a wonderful book this is to my and many other generations.Enjoyed it all the way.
5 Don't stop with 5 stars.  10. 20.  100 stars!I love Peter Jackson's movies based on Tolkein's classics but what a tragedy it seems that there are people out there, especially kids, who may assume that Jackson's is final word on the wonderful world of Middle Earth.READ THE BOOK! The story in THE RETURN OF THE KING is tremendous, creative and truly profound. And don't make the mistake of thinking that this book or any of the others from Tolkein are children's books.  You will be amazed at the depth of story here.I recognize that everything in the book cannot be translated to film but there are spectacular things in this book that were left out of the movie.  Watch the extended version of the movie?  Yes, but READ THE BOOK first. Some of my favorite characters and characters essential to the total story were not included. And there are also some unnecessary twists, turns and interpretations taken and made by Jackson and his crew that are established in simplicity and beauty in the book.THE RETURN OF THE KING is an essential sequel to  THE TWO TOWERS and is the culmination of the adventures of the The Fellowship, Theoden, and the people of Middle Earth as they continue their quest to overcome the powers of the evil Sauron.But A WORD OF CAUTION: should you read THE RETURN OF THE KING first you won't be able to stop there.  The next thing you know you'll be picking up THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING and then wrapping up with THE TWO TOWERS.  You won't be able to start with this one and stop there.  You may even end up reading this one again in proper sequence.  And if you haven't read THE HOBBIT yet you will likely be adding that one to your library as well.The GOOD NEWS is that you will not regret a single moment!I could go on and on.  No shame to the movies.  Jackson did a terrific job with some of the most complex and beloved stories in history but, if you liked the movies, don't miss the epic stories that await you in reading the books.THE HORSEMAN
5 As it has been said a thousand times before...  This is simply the best Adventure/Fantasy story ever written.Superb.
5 From recent 1-2 star reviews, it appears that the backlash against LOTR is beginning. Readers are obviously sick and tired of all the hype. I can empathise with this sentiment - not everyone enjoys LOTR on their first reading, myself included.I first glimpsed this imposing tome when I was 12 years old. My violin teacher noticed that I was a &quot;prodigious&quot; reader, and gave me her copy of LOTR. All 3 novels, collected as one gigantic jumbo-sized paperback novel. I was overwhelmed and confused, to say the least.After that, I vowed never to read LOTR ever again. As far as I was concerned, Tolkien's fantasy was a foreign country. About 15 years later, with the LOTR hype reaching its zenith, I decided to pick up the books again. This time, I was not so intimidated.I found that the biggest problem with the book is it's flowery prose and ponderous passages. Reading Fellowship of the Ring for the first time can be a huge culture shock for the casual reader - there are long songs and poetry, references to historical incidents not directly chronicled in the novel. Tolkien DOES suceed in creating a world, but does so at the expense of alienating the casual reader.If you ever decide to buy this boxed set, I STRONGLY recommend reading &quot;The Hobbit&quot; first. The prose is much simpler and easier to read. There are fewer references to non-referenced historical incidents. If you can enjoy &quot;The Hobbit&quot;, then you might want to read the rest of the novels.In conclusion, despite all the hype, LOTR is not for everyone. Reading the Christian Bible would probably be an easier chore. But for those who can adjust to Tolkien's near-biblical prose, it really is a fulfilling literary experience. Just don't expect to &quot;dig it&quot; on the first try. This definitely isn't a Harry Potter book.
5 I call "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy a classic, not merely because of its popularity or staying power.  It is my *own* classic because it's one of the few books that I have read many times and plan to read many more.It also resonates.  Mythology touches deeply in our emotional and spiritual self.  Lord of the Rings has that power.  Having read it, I find myself enlightened to the ideas and conflicts of the modern world, and my *own* internal passions, conflicts, and ideas.Lord of the Rings is not only about good versus evil.  It's also about the desire for power and a caution *against* power.  It's about sadness, loss, the irreversible passage of time, and the nature of humanity.  In that way I think it will come to stand on a par with the great Greek and Norse myths that permeate our culture.I notice among other reviews that some have difficulty sticking with the book.  I found this too, at first.  It's worth sticking around.  Every time I read it, I start out slow and end up reading the last book straight through to the final page. So be patient!I too mourn the passing of time;  there once was an age when everything seemed to be Tolkienian.  The first job I had, all the servers were named after Tolkien characters!  Perhaps there is a new generation ready to discover Middle-Earth.
5 What can I say that hasn't already been said about LOTR? It is one of the greatest works of all time. I recently re-read the entire set from The Hobbit to The Return of the King. The world that Tolkien creates is so real that even when you're done reading the hundreds of pages you still don't want to leave. I found myself sucked into Middle-Earth. I wanted to know everything about it. But then I realized it's just a fantasy world. There are a lot of things I still don't know about the real world, so I pulled myself out of it. That should give you an idea of how powerful these books are.I have tried create fantasy worlds myself and it is no easy task. I can't even get close to the complexity of Tolkien's world. He must have been one eccentric guy to spend so much time developing this world, with its own languages and all.
5 The Lord of the Rings is the best book I have ever read.  The basic plot of it is the battle of good and evil.  Tolkien takes you on a journey through a land called Middle-Earth where evil is returning to the lands.  One ring holds the fate to their world and the only hope for their survival is it's destruction.  The only catch is the ring can only be destroyed in a volcanoe that lies in the heart of the evil land.  As the evil lord sends his servants forth to find the ring, wars brew.  I must say the most touching thing in the Lord of the Rings is the idea of frienship that Tolkien presents us with.  The book made me look at my friends and wonder if they would help me destroy the ring.  I thought that after I was done reading I would feel unfullfilled(as I do with the endings in most books), but Tolkien truly was great author he leaves you with a ending that gives you a feeling of satisfaction.  Anybody can write a book but only a great writer can end it.
5 I love this story and have read it more than once. I now have it in paperback as three books and on my kindle as one. This is much better. I recommend this book for everyone over the age of 12. It has some very long parts that can drag on a bit but is an amazing story.
5 Wonderful set!  Reading a hardcover by the original publisher is a must.  Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful
5 love Tolkien's books they take one on a magical journey every time they are read. i love them very much.
4 It is a very good book, but only understandable if read after the less serious book, The Hobbit.  For members of Generation X, I would like to recommend the book, even though it is not written in a contemporary style.The Lord of the Rings initially caught on for reasons I can  only guess.  My theory:  The fears of a generation living in the nuclear age (One ring  = Raw Power Used irresponsibly-- The Bomb etc) were defeated symbolically  in a mythically based story, written by a man who would, were he alive  today, most likely be a member of the Green Party.  I read the Hobbit and  LOTR while in high school in the mid-70's, a few years after the great  Tolkein craze had settled down.  I have reread them frequently since then.Here are the story's strengths:A world you can picture because it is  so thoroughly and lovingly described.A clean story.  No profanity.  No  sex.  Some romantic love a la Sir Walter Scott.  The battle and combat  scenes are full of energy, but not graphic/gory detail of spilled entrails  and vomiting blood.Good versus evil, corruption of the greedy, tragic  loss of life.Heroes you can identify with somewhat, i.e. the Hobbits.  Because they are the least powerful, through them the sense of danger is  vividly portrayed.Magic that is not really explained, but that adds a  sense of wonder to the tale.Here are weaknesses, when measuring LOTR  against contemporary fantasy:Does not dig deeply into very many  characters' minds.  One of the advantages of the current fantasy offerings  at the quality end are the depth of characterization.You only get to  know a few of the primary characters very well.Too dependent on  Appendices for detail that explains the &quot;political&quot;  situation.You never get enough detail on the Ring Wraiths or Sauron,  though they are certainly vivid in their personification of pure,  unadulterated evil.Not PC as it was way pre-PC, like many other good  books.(See Huckleberry Finn.)When all is said and done, many  contemporary fantasy writers have improved upon Tolkein's introduction of  heroic fantasy into fine novel form, or used the genre as a back drop for  what would otherwise be simple dramas, similar to what SF writers have  often done.The best thing about this series, all four books, is that  you can share them with children.  Far too many current fantasy books in  the swords and sorcery genre are simply too graphic, albeit well written,  for consumption by young audiences.For those who ascribe racist and  anti-woman complaints to JRR Tolkein, please remember that in the 1920's  through 1950's, when the work was going through various stages of  development, the cultural context that we currently accept was hardly the  normal outlook of a university educated Englishman.  And remember, _for  centuries_, Europeans had feared not Black/Negro invaders, but rather tan  Turk/Arab/Moorish moslem invaders who were a real &quot;threat&quot; to  Christendom--for centuries!!  This shared cultural perception made  portraying the Southrons and Orcs as swarthy/dark skinned made easy  identification of bad guys for a 1950's British audience, far better than  for our enlightened, and lately 'politically correct' _American_ cultural  world view.  And oh by the way, women had only had the vote for one  generation at the time of initial publication, and the feminist activism of  the 60's was yet to make deep changes to American, and lately European,  cultural norms.  Yet Prof Tolkein's Galadriel preceded Maggy Thatcher as a  strong female leader under pressure, in position of power if not in style,  and both Elrond and Aragorn descended from &quot;interracial&quot;  marriages.So put the PC histrionics on the shelf for a few days, enjoy  a well told story of high fantasy, and share its positive aspects with your  friends and/ or children.  You will enjoy it, even if it does not turn you  into a foaming-at-the-mouth advocate like some of the reviewers below.
5 I have read the book many years back and I have watched the movies several times. No need to mention that I'm a big fan of this work. Now I also bought and completed reading the kindle version.
2 Pages and pages of description of the landscape. Northwards this, downwards that, a tree here a hole there. I was basically losing my mind. I usually think the book is a better deal than the movie, but there is no point to spend so much time imagining so many different scenarios and nothing going on. I just didnt like it.Example:&quot; The Company now turned aside from the path and went into the shadow of the deeper woods, westwardalong the mountain stream away from Silverlode. Not far from the falls of Nimrodel they found a cluster of trees, somo of which overhung the stream&quot;&quot;The hills now began to shut them in. The Road behind held on its way to the River Bruinen, but both were now hidden from view. The travelers came into a long valley; narrow, deeply cloven dark and silent. Trees with old twisted roots hung over cliffs, and piled up behind into mounting slopes of pine-woods&quot;And the whole thing is like that.GO WATCH THE MOVIE
5 I picked up The Lord of the Rings in anticipation of the films and never had any expectation of being completely swept away by them. I've never read fantasy, I've never seen the cartoon versions of the story, and I've never given much attention to all the hooplah, but now I completely understand why this trilogy has earned the title &quot;best of the 20th century.&quot;Frodo Baggins is the most unlikely of heroes. He's content to relax among the flowers and trees of the Shire and live a quiet life among friends. Luckily, for the sake of Middle-Earth, he agrees to a perilous journey to destroy the One Ring, which if not destroyed, could shatter the lives of everyone in Middle-Earth forever.Adventure, danger, madness, war, redemption, and self-sacrifice are just a few of the stages that Frodo and his Fellowship will undergo throughout their epic journey. This is more than a story...it is representative of all our lives and all our struggles. There are endless lessons in this timeless tale, and it is worth every word on every page. Most important of all, The Lord of the Rings reminds us that &quot;even the smallest person can change the course of the future.&quot;
5 This Hardcover set is nice to have for a personal library. Good to sit down with a pour over, especially the wonderful fold out maps.
3 If you are getting this set to just read once, it is a great price for all 4 books. If you are wanting something that will hold up to numerous reads, you will probably want to purchase the hardback versions. The books look great and come in a very sturdy cover box. The books are the same as they have always been, but with updated covers to reflect the movies. The Hobbit was really good, but as I'm in the middle of LOR1, it is getting very hard to follow because of so much traveling, weird names of characters and places, but if you like classic fiction with lots of action, this would be a great choice.
4 I'm writing this of this particular product, not the LOTR series, which is obviously not small.  Books are great, unless you like female characters.  Sigh.  I git these for my daughter who didn't like the trade paperback size, but for the cost it's a good value.
4 I read this book after seeing the first movie.  It is extremely well written, thorough storytelling.  The adventures in this book are at least as exciting-if not more than-the first movie.  (I say movie because I did not read the first book yet, I only saw the movie.)  The characters become more interesting, more three dimensional in this second book.  And the settings are spectacular.  I was moved to draw several of the places mentioned in this book.  I found myself wishing to visit an Ent-hall, to explore beautiful hidden caverns, to look out upon an ancient city.  Absolutely worth the read.
5 I read this book (paperback version) when I was 6 years old and I fell utterly in love with the story and the characters (yes, especially the elves)Unfortunately, when I moved I had to leave my vast library behind, including my LoTR. So the kindle version has to do until I get my hands on my books again.
5 It does not get much better than the Lord of the Rings. If one wants to truly emerge themselves into the story than Middle Earth is the way to do it. I read these books before the movies cam out so I was able to see what they left out and changed.  While the movies were amazing they still did not equal the enormity of the story or most of its complexities. These books changed my life and certainly changed the way I look at reading and books. Also J.R.R Tolkien was an absolute genius who both taught and graduated at Oxford and he also knew 14 languages.If one likes the Lord of the Rings you should read some stuff at wikipedia.com about Tolkien. the whole world of Middle Earth including languages, history, cultures, species,geography etc. were all created by him.  Truly one of the best stories of the 20th Century and will live on until the end of time.
5 lord of the rings is a great book.It is amazing that someone can make such a good book.When you read it you will travel through the shire,bree,wethertop,rivindell,moria,lorian,raros,rohan,isengard,gondor,shelobs lair,cerith ungol and mordor.Its a great book.
3 Good story, interesting plot -- though it is hampered by a need to have read _The Hobbit_ if you are to understand all of the context.Book 1 moved along swiftly.Book 2 started to bog down.Book 3 got stuck in the mud.  So I concentrated, and worked really hard, and still got bogged down.  So I put the book down for a while, and tried again.  Still got bogged down.Eventually, I got to the point where I didn't really care what happened to the darn Hobbits, I just wanted the story to end.The movie is better than the book, or so I'm told.
5 Gandalf is gone.  Boromir is dying.  Frodo and Sam are gone, and the rest of the Fellowship has been disbanded.  Things couldn't be worse for the 9.  But things eventually begin to go up.  Frodo and Sam encounter Gollum, the creature that Bilbo took the Ring from, and he promises that he'll help them get to Mordor to destroy the Ring.  However, things and people aren't always what or who they seem to be.  Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli search for Merry and Pippin who were captured by Orcs.  Gandalf returns to help them in their search, and plans to take on Saruman in a duel to get at least one enemy out of the way.  Merry and Pippin meet up with the Ents, a species of talking trees, and they agree to help in the fight against Saruman because of Saruman's tendency to kill trees.  Meanwhile, Frodo, Sam, and Gollum meet Faramir, Boromir's brother, and then they are off to Mordor.  But when they get there, things go horribly wrong...  Once again, this is an amazing story, and if you liked Part 1, continue with this one.
1 This one star rating applies only to the cheap and tawdry presentation of this edition.Tolkein's novels are obviously towering classics of modern world literature. They should be read slowly, treasured, and read over and over again.This edition is not at all suitable for such reverential handling. It would be fine for throwaway pulp fiction - but not for a great masterpiece such as LOTR.The paper is cheap, rough, and unpleasant to the touch. Typography suffers as the characters bleed into its overly absorbent surface. This makes the already small font even more difficult to read.The layout is crowded, the cover art mundane (taken from the movies), and maps of Middle Earth, which every reader will want to consult along the way, are very shabbily rendered.I was embarrassed to have inadvertently purchased something so deficient as a gift. I apologized to the recipient when I saw it, and quickly replaced it.Don't make the same mistake.
4 Picking up where &quot;Fellowship of the Ring&quot; leaves off with the separation of fellowship, this book first details the adventures of Stridor, Gimli, and Legolas as they try to rescue Pippin and Merry and combat the evil that is growing in Isengard. In the second half of the book, we follow Frodo and Sam as they struggle to complete their quest to destroy the One Ring.Here we see the forces of good beginning to gather to combat the growing evil in the world. The underlying themes regarding this struggle become more clear as we begin to recognize that sometimes the only way to overcome evil is by standing up and fighting it. Tolkein's world remains a vividly portrayed as ever, and the tension builds as the heros struggle to conquer the awesome power of Sauron.
2 Hub of JRRT's &quot;Middle Earth&quot; books. A more serious sequel to &quot;The Hobbit&quot;, while still a single coherent narrative, unlike &quot;The Silmarillion&quot; and subsequent barrel-scrapings. The LOTR is not explicitly a kids' book like the Hobbit, but neither is it a fully adult piece of Modern Fantasy.If you try to read it too young, you will be scared off by the high-toned heroic writing style that develops after the first few chapters. If you leave it too late, the Gate to this Particular Otherworld will be locked for you. 'Too Late&quot; may be as young as 12 or somewhere in early adulthood. The story is a simple quest. The good guys (not many gals here!) are whiter-than-white, and the bad guys are horrid. Given the depressing result of JRRT's experiments with moral ambiguity in 'The Silmarillion', this may be as well. The major achievement of LOTR is the creation of a self-consistent world with a long and detailed history, linguistically plausible languages, and a believable mix of low-key magic with everyday physics. This was a major innovation in the first half of the 20th century when JRRT was evolving the framework for the Middle Earth books. However, it should be noted that other writers have achieved this since, with appreciably more realistic characters and storylines, and less explicit lifting from Norse and Anglo-Saxon mythology. Vastly overrated, but undeniably influential, this trilogy is a flawed masterpiece. I am amazed that I have weaned off it enough to become critical.  N.B - the most pernicious example of LOTR influence: the belief among certain publishers and writers that all good fantasy stories MUST be quests and MUST be &quot;trilogies&quot; (in however many parts..).
4 a must read for any fantasy addict.  A good book for everyone else(like myself)
5 Never get tired of the lord of the rings, best story I have ever read. Feel in love with everyone, reach my soul each time.
5 I've read the whole series many times before but have lost my copy so wanted to replace it. For any person who has yet to read it, there are many beauties and if it appeals to you, it's quite gripping.
5 Tolkien was a genius and almost everyone in our family loves him ! My favorite in it's genre.These are books which we have all read over and over again through the years. Highly recommend to anyone who likes fantasy and sci fi books.
4 Is there anything left to say about LOTR? Even if you've never read Tolkien before, and even if you don't like him: like it or not, LOTR has already defined how you view the world. You can reject him, but he still wrote the terms of the debate.Tolkien dealt in archetypes, and it's now too boring, too unimaginative to accuse him of unrealistic or insufficiently developed characters. He wouldn't have cared, anyway -- he was developing a vast world. And he could be brilliantly atmospheric. Two things make LOTR endlessly seductive, to the point where generations of readers continue to feel closer to Middle-earth than to reality. First, Tolkien evokes the dizzying feeling of uncovering unknowable, terrifying ancient mysteries. My favourite part was always the passage through Moria in the first volume. This is, of course, the ghost city of the Dwarves, abandoned and looted centuries ago, a pitch-dark maze of ruined corridors, stairwells, and bridges. Yet somewhere underground, there are legendary architectural works of limitless beauty and elegance (reverently described by Gimli the dwarf), and the ruins retain an air of ancient majesty and grandeur. One ruined chamber holds a lonely tomb and a book containing the sorrowful account of an earlier attempt to reconquer the city. The book itself is ruined and stained everywhere with blood, such that only ominous incoherent fragments remain. Confronting one's ancient, unrecognizable, violent past is the ultimate out-of-body experience.Second, and related to the first, Tolkien flawlessly creates and maintains a sorrowful, elegiac tone. The past was always great and stately, but even those parts that don't lie in ruins are inevitably slipping from our grasp. The Elves are fantastically powerful warriors and sorcerers, also incomparably elegant and wise, but their culture is irreversibly declining. There's no real explanation for this (they all seem invincible), but they feel it every day, and they're doomed to eventually depart from the world, leaving no trace of their great culture. Of course this has a strong element of wish-fulfillment -- what literate young person wouldn't want to be beautiful and tragic? that desire has given The Cure a career! -- but this device wouldn't be effective if it wasn't deeply resonant. Everything is going well and there's no clear reason why you can't go on living the way you always have...and yet, you feel it slipping from your fingers.Supporting all of this is Tolkien's minutely detailed mythos. His invented names and languages are based in his studies of ancient European languages and culture. LOTR induces unconscious associations with medieval history and knights in armour even when it's not trying. Tolkien became our gateway to the Dark Ages. His magical fantasy was so successful because these echoes of reality made it seem more real. His imitators never understood that.Yet, deep down, the worldview of LOTR radically departs from the ancient epics, in a singularly modern way. Those old stories were told in terms of conflict between heroic individuals, whose valour was more important than their cause. The Greeks sackTroy, but Homer praises Hector and Priam just as much as Achilles or Odysseus. By the same token, he shows Agamemnon's weaknesses, although that's not really the right word -- they're more like inevitable facets of a larger-than-life persona. InDas Nibelungenlied, the great hero Ruediger is actually working for Attila the Hun, which does nothing to diminish his honour in the poet's eyes (on the contrary, he is praised for his loyalty). InVolsungsaga, that same Attila is almost sympathetic, while Gunnar is tragically flawed, but capable of self-reflection and penance. If anyone is evil, it reflects a conscious, individual choice on their part.But in Tolkien, good and evil is defined strictly along racial lines. All Elves and hobbits are good by definition. The mighty Europeans of Rohan and Gondor may err, but in a grandiosely tragic way, out of hubris (Isildur) or nihilism (Denethor). Dwarves are greedy, but brave and honest. But orcs and trolls are not only always evil, they're always debased and contemptible, deserving scorn as much as hatred. If they win a battle, that's not a sign of bravery or heroism on their part, it only means that they got lucky, or they had superior numbers, or they fought dirty. The Elves in Lorien won't open fire on Gollum, because he hasn't attacked them, but that rule doesn't apply to the evil races. Nor are orcs allowed to feel any camaraderie for each other or any loyalty to their cause and leaders. There is only one example in the entire book in which orcs express fatigue and a desire to escape the war (Shagrat and Gorbag), but Tolkien makes sure to follow up with them slaughtering each other on a whim. Gimli and Legolas engage in a competition to see who can kill more orcs in a battle, and pedantically tally up their scores (42-41). This is supposed to be comic relief. Even the most bloodthirsty ancient poets weren't quite that forthright.Some critics have interpreted this to mean some kind of crypto-racism on Tolkien's part. Maybe you could argue that -- for example, evil men ("Easterlings") are "dark" and "slant-eyed" -- but it's too simplistic, too easy to blame everything on one poor, neurotic British scholar. Europe saw in him only what it wanted: a self-contained way to remythologize itself, cast off all doubt, and never feel any accountability for anything again. LOTR reaches into contemporary discourse. Political and international conflict, no matter how insignificant, is always Gondor vs. Mordor, not just good vs. evil, but good vs. the orcs, the latter being irreparably debased, soulless, cursed, inherently incapable of compassion or negotiation and therefore automatically deserving none. Tolkien's opus absorbed and began supplanting actual history. Its influence is wondrous, but disquieting.
5 I first read the Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings trilogy when I was 11.  Even after many years (I won't be exact) I can still recall the feeling of exhiliration that was with me as I first read the words that are still with me to this day.I'm a librarian...and I can honestly say that Tolkein's books changed my life.  The vivid description, action, and characters (who will become your best friends) are the ultimate in fantastic fiction.Highly recommended in the past...present...and future.  Tolkein wrote these books in the 50's with the child in mind and every time I read them I am not only taken back in time but also consumed with the need to recommend them to all my friends.
5 This final piece of Tolkien's Lord of the Rings finishes the phenomenal trilogy with even more force than it was begun. Picking up just before the climactic battle of Gondor, it keeps up the suspense through to Frodo's internal battle with darkness. I won't give away anything that happens (in case someone has not read it yet) but let it suffice that Tolkien is one of the best writers I've ever read, and his world of Middle Earth is imaginative and the inspiration for almost the entire genre of sci-fi and fantasy. I've re-read the last few chapters of The Return of the King uncountable times, it is so moving. All the characters are realistic and have depth; the settings are gorgeously detailed; Tolkien was a master storyteller beyond compare. If you've never read this trilogy (and The Hobbit as well) then what are you waiting for? Even if it takes a while, it is worth it a hundred times over.
4 This book was purchased for a grandchild for required reading for his high school class. He is required to make annotations in the book which the instructor reviews. This was all in one volume making it convenient to use. It wasn't too large, too heavy or cumbersome. It arrived quickly, as scheduled,  in time for his class, and in excellent condition.
5 I'm not exaggerating, you should read these books multiple times.  Not only is the language beautifully orchestrated to give five-sense impressions in the nature of each character and place described, this thrilling, action-packed adventure grips the imagination and inspires the soul to new heights.  Tolkien thoroughly immerses readers in cultures and places so believable and yet so unreal that you can't help traveling there again and again.  These books aren't just stories, they're the surface of a world full of languages, histories, beliefs, cultures, friends, dangerous, and natures all their own.  Appropriate for ages 12+, both boys and girls, and adutls at every age.  Because of intense battle scenes and descriptive gore I would avoid for children younger than 12.
5 What a wonderful adaptation of the Professor's translation of the Red Book! I did not care for Arwen's voice, but otherwise the entire cast is wonderful, just as they were in the films, but I think this is even better than those magnificent productions, truer to life. Ian Holm is superior as Frodo, going from innocent, carefree lad excited about seeing Gandalf's fireworks to one completely broken and in despair. You get the feeling this is what it was really like for him, the pain, the suffering, the fears and the tears, the horrific cost to his heart and soul to be Ring-bearer and carry his cross to Mount Doom. Reading that the Nazgul were pressuring him to put on the Ring is one thing. To actually hear them saying "Put on the Ring, put on the Ring," and hear Frodo struggle against it and not always win is quite another. To read that he lashed out at Sam in the tower while under the influence of the Ring is nothing compared to hearing that meltdown and his retelling in tears of how the orcs had abused him and how he wished the Ring had never come to him. That he suffered during his anniversary illnesses is brought out heartbreakingly well.  He's got an incredible voice and range of feelings in this broadcast. Aragorn/Strider has a very calm, soothing voice that is needed for four frightened hobbits to hear and it's clear he cares deeply for them. Smeagol/Gollum is one completely cracked hobbit and that is played very well.  The music, though limited, is very good, especially the lovely "Bilbo's Last Song" at the end. I could go on and on. I've listened to it repeatedly. So should you!
5 This has all of the Lord of the Rings books in one volume.  The illustrations are great and the book is easy to hold (in spite of its size) and read.
5 My daughter asked for this, she wanted a prety copy of the book. I was surprised that she asked, not for the book,but for the collectable version as well as one she would read...It is a lovely edition. When she first asked me for this copy, I was not going to purchae it at the full price the bookstore had it listed for. When I found on Amazon.com, I ordered it right away. It is worth so far more that the price I paid. She is also learning responsibility, taking care of somehting that you care about...
5 This was purchased for my child as a gift.  She loves the book series.  Makes for a nice gift - is a boxed set.  Reasonable cost, fast shipment.
5 I owned the paperbacks, but I mostly read from my Kindle now, and I like having the entire &#34;trilogy&#34; in one book instead of three separate ones (even though The Lord of the Rings was intended to be one book). This was also cheaper than buying all 3 books separately.
5 ... that this is one of the great reads ever. Ever!  If you haven't read it yet, I envy you.
5 The Lord of the Rings trilogy is so iconic, so wide in its scope, so vivid in its imagery, so unprecedented that writing a review of it is a colossal undertaking. As C.S. Lewis said, "here are beauties which pierce like swords or burn like cold iron. Here is a book which will break your heart."Just the thought of it is enough to scare anyone off the job. Yet, reading over the other customer reviews, I felt I needed to step up to the challenge and write a long review, one that contained an honest opinion and a factual analysis.This review is long, but is logical, informational, and spoiler-free, I encourage you to read it all, thoroughly.This is that review:LOTR [abbreviation: Lord of the Rings] is the magnum opus of John Ronald Reuel Tolkien: an Oxford professor and author. It is actually a trilogy of three books:--The Fellowship of the Ring--The Two Towers--and The Return of the KingJRRT spent over 12 yrs writing the LOTR trilogy, which was released in 1954. It has since gone on to become one of the most loved, respected, and greatest novels ever written.After a wildly successful and brilliant film adaptation from New Zealander Peter Jackson, the LOTR now has an immense fan base, a slew of parodies, paintings, and music left in its wake, and a legacy greater than any single work of fantasy in the history of writing....The first thing I must write about is the land LOTR takes place in: Arda, also known as Middle Earth.Middle Earth is the greatest fictional world ever created. Period.I DEFY anyone to prove otherwise. Take it up with me in the comments.The main works of Tolkien, from the Silmarillion to the Lord of the Rings take place in Middle Earth, and cover everything from its creation at the hands of Illuvatar, to the beginning of the Fourth Age.Tolkien meticulously planned, invented, and imagined EVERY detail of Middle Earth. Middle Earth is so full, so rich and detailed, that many say that Tolkien was more interested in the land his characters were in than the characters themselves.I beg to differ!--Tolkien was certainly interested in his maps and landscapes but his characters are the real stars....There are not enough adjectives in my vocabulary to describe how mind-bogglingly detailed Middle Earth is.Tolkien named and placed over a thousand mountains, rivers, towns, cities, fortresses, islands, and forests, so many, in fact, that encyclopedias and dictionaries have been filled with them.In addition, Tolkien invented over a dozen languages, the most complete of them is Quenya--the Elven language. Tolkien wrote over 1,000 names, words, and phrases for the Elven languages. Tolkien is not the only author to make up a fantasy language, but he is the best. Young Christopher Paolini's attempts at constructing a language are downright laughable.If you have time, check out the following link, which includes an Elvish Dictionary:[...]...I am in no way detracting from other great fantasy worlds such as Westeros, Narnia, Randland, and Gormenghast, but here Middle Earth far surpasses all other fantasy worlds.The detail adds to the LOTR by adding a sense of realism and a distinct Middle Earth-type feel. For the most part, the more detailed your world is, the more your audiences will relate to the characters.Enough about the real world, I'll turn to the book.--Lord of the Rings is long, over 1,000 pages. But this is not long at all compared to Eragon, Game of Thrones, Eye of the World, and the Way of Kings.-- Plot: Thanks, to Peter Jackson, you probably already know the plot. But the movies are not the book, and here is the plot again.It is the third age of the world, and darkness is looming over Middle Earth.The Dark Lord Sauron has gathered to him the 20 Rings of Power, the means by which he will enslave Elves, Dwarves, and Men. Only one thing is missing - the One Ring, which has fallen into the hands of...a hobbit.Deep in the peaceful Shire, young Frodo Baggins is entrusted with an immense task - to take the Ring and destroy it in the fires of Mount Doom, deep within the Enemy's territory. So, with a Fellowship of 9 valiant members - 4 hobbits, 1 wizard, 2 men, and elf, and a dwarf, Frodo must embark on an impossible journey. One from which he may not return...--The Fellowship: These are the members of the Fellowship of the Ring, and their races:Frodo Baggins: Hobbit.Frodo Baggins was the Ringbearer. He was fifty when he set out from Hobbiton. Notably he never killed anything on the quest, the most he did was stab the foot of a Cave Troll. He has been likened to a Christ figure.He wore a coat of mithril and carried Bilbo's sword Sting. Galadriel gave him the light of Earendil.Samwise Gamgee: Hobbit.Samwise was Frodo's gardener, servant, and closest companion. He bore the ring in Mordor for a time. Galadriel gave him a box of earth from Lothlorien, and elven rope.Gandalf the Grey: Wizard.One of the five Istari sent to Middle Earth. Gandalf, a.k.a. Olorin, Mithrandir, Greyhame, was instrumental in forming the Fellowship, and played a large role in the downfall of Sauron. He also appeared in The Hobbit.He carried a sword called Glamdring. He wore grey robes, and later white.Aragorn son of Arathorn: Man.Aragorn was descended from the Kings of Numenor, and was a member of the Dunedain. He was blessed with long life. He went by the name Strider in Bree. He carried the sword that was broken - Anduril.Boromir son of Denethor: Man.Boromir was the son of Denethor, Steward of Gondor. He was the older brother of Faramir. He carried a great horn.He saved the Fellowship's lives at Carvahall, where he instructed each of them to carry a bundle of firewood. He was tempted by the Ring.Legolas son of Thranduril: Elf.Legolas was the only Elf in the company. He was light on his feet, quiet, and was good with horses. He carried a bow, which he used prodigiously.He did NOT shoot an oliphaunt.Gimli son of Gloin: Dwarf.Gimli was a dwarf. He conflicted with Legolas at the beginning, but became friends. He wielded an axe.Meriadoc Brandybuck: Hobbit.Meriadoc, also called Merry, was a hobbit from Hobbiton. His knowledge of the Old Forest was crucial to the hobbits.Peregrin Took: Hobbit.The youngest of the group, Peregrin, known as Pippin, was Merry's best friend, and a good singer....My favorite member of the Fellowship is Samwise. Yeah, laugh all you want and post your little comments about "Fat old Sam". But until you've read The Choices of Master Samwise, or the Tower of Cirith Ungol, or Mount Doom...you haven't seen ANYTHING yet.Samwise Gamgee is easily the greatest, most courageous character in the Fellowship.Next would be Gandalf.Read this passage from The White Rider, and tell me..."And this also I say: you are our captain and our banner. The Dark Lord has Nine. But we have One, mightier than they: the White Rider. He has passed through fire and the abyss, and they shall fear him. We will go where he leads."...that doesn't give you shivers!...Many people like to say Tolkien's characters are "black-and-white". This means that all his characters are easily divided into Good and Evil. That's not true.Today, fantasy authors like to paint their characters Grey. Look at G.R.R.M.'s writings:Characters like Tyrion, Jaime, Theon, the Hound, and Daenerys. Are they good or evil...Whose side are they on...What are their true intentions...?Whereas in Tolkien's writings:Aragorn - Good, Sauron - Bad, Gandalf - Good, Saruman - Bad, Elves - Good, Orcs - Bad. It's simple, Right?Wrong.Look at Boromir - he's fought against Sauron, yet he tried to take the Ring from Frodo. He wanted to defeat Sauron, but he opposed destroying the Ring.And Sm&eacute;agol - he was Frodo and Sam's guide, yet he wanted the Ring for himself. He led them into Mordor, yet he ------------------- (Spoiler).Those are grey characters....The legacy of Tolkien's works, especially LOTR, CANNOT be overstated.LOTR has been voted "The Greatest Book of the Millennium", by Amazon.com and appears on almost EVERY list of greatest books ever written.It is the 3rd bestselling book of all time, selling over 150,000,000 copies.The Peter Jackson Trilogy alone has grossed over $2,947,978,376, and has been voted the greatest Motion Picture Trilogy of all time by Empire Magazine.The three films are some of the most famous, iconic, and greatest adaptations of a fantasy novels ever made, appearing on Wikipedia's List of Highest Grossing Films, Empire Magazine's 500 Greatest Movies List, AFI's 100 Greatest Films List, IMDb's 250 Best Films list, and Metacritc's Best Movies of This Decade.LOTR's impact on high, epic, heroic, and quest fantasy, is enormous. It revitalized the genre. No, it REWROTE the genre.LOTR is the father of modern fantasy. Believe it or not, even today's fantasy (A Song of Ice and Fire, The Inheritance Cycle, etc) is influenced by Tolkien.Tolkien's character's Frodo, Gandalf, Gollum and others have entered popular culture.While Tolkien may not have invented Elves, Dragons, Dwarves, or Orcs, his vision of those creatures shaped the characters into what we recognize them as today.Science Fiction authors such as Arthur C. Clarke (2001: A Space Odyssey) and Frank Herbert (Dune) and George Lucas (Star Wars) have been influenced by Tolkien.It is easy to see how fantasy authors are influenced by Tolkien. Terry Brooks, Stephen R. Donaldson, David Eddings, and, yes, Christopher Paolini all ripped LOTR off.George R.R. Martin has been called "The American Tolkien", and claims JRRT as a huge influence.J. R. R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, is truly, a Masterpiece!...Conclusion:As the Sunday Times famously said:"The English speaking world is divided into those who have read The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings and those who are going to read them."Which camp are you? If you have not read the Lord of the Rings - The Greatest Book of the Millennium, The Most Influential Work of Fantasy - do so immediately.I'm not joking. If I haven't given you enough incentive already, how about some more:Do you like fantasy? Do you like good, no, great books? Are you a fan of books that contain Action, Adventure, High, Epic, Heroic Fantasy, Horror, Mystery, Romance, Large, Epic, Thrilling Battles, Journeys, Strong, Heroic, Likeable Characters, Evil, Hate-able, Scary, and Disgusting Villains, Thrills, Chills, Laughs, and Cheers?Then you'll love the Lord of the Rings.Do you like Hobbits, Elves, Men, Dwarves, Orcs, Barrow-wights, Dragons, Giant Spiders, and Wizards?Then The Lord of the Rings is for you.Read it!...And until then, I hope you've enjoyed this review. Give it a like and post a comment. Read my other fantasy reviews.M&aacute;ra mesta, I Melain berio le.Goodbye, May the Valar Keep You!Also Recommended:The Hobbit- The Enchanting PrequelThe Silmarillion- The Glorious BeginningThe Children of H&uacute;rin- The Moving TragedyThe Lord of the Rings: The Motion Picture Trilogy (The Fellowship of the Ring / The Two Towers / The Return of the King Extended Editions) [Blu-ray] - The Brilliant AdaptationJ.R.R. Tolkien: A Biography- The Best Biography
5 This is the first edition of Lord of the Rings to contain many features that Tolkien had hoped for from the beginning:  specifically it not only has the fold-out maps that were always part of the three volume hardcover editions, but the "fire letters" on the ring are printed in red ink and the color facsimiles of the leaves from the Book of Marzabul are included in the book, both for the first time.  Numerous "deluxe" editions of the book have been printed over the last 30 years or so, with a variety of bells and whistles (I own five or six in that category), but none of them have fulfilled this simple and well-documented wish of the author.As for the quality control question: no the physical book isn't perfect; the craft of book making is not what it was 50 years ago.  But though the list price may be $100, I haven't seen it for sale anywhere for much more than $50, which is about what you would probably pay for the three volume hardcover.  I am delighted with it.
5 I could not disagree more with the reviewer Ao Me Akuma from Canada - who have a lot of reviews of things that he hates!! Why?? - The magnific Lord Of The Rings IS very well written and the characters are alive. The pace doesn't slow down - believe me it leaves you breathless!I have had read The Lord Of The Rings before the movies and by that time there were any kind of fuss! So, I really loved the books and they made me laugh and they made me cry! That is only achieved by characters who HAVE SOUL and alive! I truly believe that they are all real!The fabulous The Fellowship Of The Ring is majestatic like an opera and with the battles in The Two Towers and The Return Of The King the pace reallly blows away!The professor Tolkien must be proud for such an opulent book...And we have the eternity for living and travelling in Middle Earth.
5 There are some things in life that each of us considers as part of him/herself.  You know what I mean: a favorite place, some favorite piece of music, a book, that transports us to a new place.  Whatever it is, it  can make us cry, laugh, and feel.  And feel in the deepest recesses of our  souls.  I am a music freak.  But it is a rara avis indeed that can touch me  forever: that one album that I pick up to change my moods that can  thoroughly permeate and lift my spirits.  When it comes to books, the power  and intensity of Tolkien's masterwerk is unique.  Compared to the  (sometimes talented) contemporary writers who unsuccessfully try to fill  his shoes, Tolkien's sense of character and pacing is first rate.  Throughout the book, there is such a feeling of longing.  By the end,  despite Frodo's success, the world has changed forever; the magical elves  will be gone forever.  Gandalf's role is complete.  There are no winners  and losers.  In that war, men may have won the day, but at the price of  losing most of the world's magical past.  Every time I read Sam's last  words &quot;Well, I'm back&quot; as he returns home to Rosie and their  children after saying goodbye to his friends at the Grey Havens, a shiver  goes down my spine.  So ends a truly magical book that can be read on so  many levels.  For the superb story, for its parallels to historical events,  or to analyze the complex characters.  If there is only one book for me in  the afterlife, I really hope it is the Lord Of The Rings, I could read it  until the end of time.
5 I read the book every couple of years for the last 16 years. This are the books that started all. Without this, there would not have been all those other pseudostories. The setting, the plot, the characters, everything was fantastic then, and it is still wonderful nowadays.He did a fantastic job and nobody will ever surpass it. Is like saying that some sci-fi moovie will be better than Star Wars. They may try, but it won't happen. When somebody does the FIRST, ORIGINAL THING, everything else is just trying to be as good, but can not pass it. Let face it, the originals are always based on original thoughts and ideas. No references, no past works... after that, everybody else can use that work as a reference.Regarding the story is simple. The eternal clash between good and evil in a fantastic universe.This is a MUST READ for everyone. I have only read one more fantastic book after this one and it wasn't even close.
5 On LOTR itself: This is about the 5th time I've read LOTR, and there isn't much that I can add to what others have said before me. The first time I read it, I got very bogged down in The Two Towers battle scenes, and that's still the hardest part of the book for me to slog through. And I wish that Tolkien had gone back and forth between Frodo's journey and the rest of the Fellowship rather than an entire &#34;book&#34; following one and then the other. It's a different kid of read than the &#34;the pages turn themselves&#34; kind of book, meant to be mulled over and read slowly rather than pushing straight through. On the upside, when you reach the end, you feel well-satisfied, unlike those books which leave you wishing for more. (And when you do want more, there are all the other books and stories around the Tolkien universe.)On the kindle edition: Compared to other kindle editions of large volumes/sets of books, this one is much better done. It doesn't crash or lag terribly, it is easy to navigate between the endnotes and the text, and the table of contents is well-linked & brings you to your spot quickly. Downsides are a) it's hard to get to the maps (I finally bookmarked them ... not ideal, but better than losing your spot every time), b) I like to switch back and forth between the Fellowship's journey and Frodo's journey (books 5 & 6, aka Return of the King). That isn't really possible in the kindle edition without a lot of trouble, c) the chapter titles are positioned just right so that occasionally I hit the title instead of advancing a page & end up thrown back into the ToC. A minor annoyance but a pain when it happens. I wouldn't trade the hard copies I have, but it's nice to have the kindle version when I'm travelling.
3 What? Only three stars? How dare you!J.R.R Tolkien's "The Lord of the Rings" is one of those things that one is simply not allowed to dislike. Oh sure, you can voice your criticism, but to do so is to be labelled an ignorant, illiterate fool who would be better suited to reading children's stories than high fantasy. One can see this phenomenon right here at Amazon; simply look at all the negative reviews for Tolkien's work. No matter how well the reviewer articulated his or her thoughts, every negative review has a heaping of "Not Helpful" votes from people who cannot seem to grasp the idea that some people just don't like Lord of the Rings.Knowing the kind of geeky following these books have and the sheer amount of snobbery surrounding them, I was instantly inclined to hate it, as I do with everything geeks worship to an obsessive degree. But instead I fought my preconceived notions and slogged my way through the entire Lord of the Rings with an open mind. After finishing it, however, I was left feeling distinctively unmoved. For the longest time, I could not think of what it was, exactly, about LOTR that I disliked. Clearly, it's easy to admire Tolkien for what he did. In creating Middle Earth, Tolkien not only created an entire world, he also created millenia of history to go along with it. He created different races, with different languages and customs. Looking at a map of Middle Earth, one can only imagine how much time and thought Tolkien put into this. The sheer amount of detail is mind-boggling.But why did I dislike it so? I'm not going to criticize Lord of the Rings because of its supposed racist undertones, or because the women have only minor roles, both of which are examples of projecting modern values onto a medieval fantasy world. No, the reason I found LOTR such a chore to read is Tolkien's writing style. To be honest, Tolkien's style of writing is dull, dry, humorless, pedantic, and needlessly ponderous. I had to fight through page after page of purple prose as Tolkien endlessly detailed every environmental detail and every geographical and historical facet of Middle Earth. As someone once put, Tolkien stresses the unimportant and trivializes the momentous. Take, for example, the Battle of Helm's Deep, or the Battle of Isengard. Tolkien presents these epic battles with all the grandeur and importance of grocery shopping.As a result, the pacing of LOTR is agonizingly slow. "Fellowship of the Ring" is frontloaded to the extreme, dumping a huge quantity of information in the reader's lap right off the bat, and devoting page after page to exposition until something finally happens. The turgid pace eventually picks up slightly, but even then it remains dreadfully slow. The result is reading that is dry, disjointed, and downright confusing in places. Historical details of Middle Earth and strewn about with no regards to context, characters and events are elaborated on that bear no relation to the plot; it's all an exercise in wretched excess. LOTR reads like a dry historical account, although even historical accounts are free of the pointless tangents Tolkien insists on following.Characters, too, are likewise uninteresting. We never really get to know the innermost thoughts and drives of the people of LOTR; Tolkien keeps them at arms length and the result is detrimental. None of the dialogue sounds natural. Characters speak in a purely declarative manner, as if they were all about to pontificate on some matter of great importance. As I forced my way through, I came dangerously close to uttering the eight words that are the kiss of death for any novel: "I don't care what happens to these people". Having no particular interest in the characters, and finding Tolkien's exposition utterly boring, "Lord of the Rings" was a battle to finish."Lord of the Rings" is a story that's easy to admire, yet very difficult to actually enjoy. It's the kind of thing that I would read simply to say I've read it, and then never read it again. I'm sure a Tolkien scholar could expound at great length about the sheer depth and content of these books, but many a reader will finding them tough going indeed. Be forewarned.
5 This is a simply amazing book that holds on to you and the deeper you get into it, the harder it gets to put it down. Tolkien is awesome in depicting a plethora of characters in such a vivid way.I had to read this book because I missed on so many characters in the movie. Its so hard to show such a grand piece of work in a couple of movies. Now, after I have got such an insight into this amazing world of middle earth, I can't stop myself from watching the movie again!Go dip yourself in this pleasure trip and ride along with these amazing characters.
5 We recently built very nice maple bookshelves for our living-room and I just couldn't bring myself to put my 20+ year old paper-back copies of The Lord of Rings on the new shelves, so I purchsed this handsom edition along with a copy of the Hobbit, both in artificial leather.  After receiving them, I decided I couldn't just put them on the self like some show trinkets and started to read them (for the ninth time).  Overall, this is a great edition.  The paper feels good and it's great having all six books in one volume.  There were some inking errors but they were minor.  I also found that the size of the volume definitely makes it a book to be enjoyed at home (in a living-room with new book shelves and a warm fire is perfect);  I have to admit, whenever I wanted to read outside of the house, I took my old paerbacks with the torn covers - they're simply more portable.  For all Tolkien fans (and there are now more than ever) who want an edition worth keeping for years, this is it.
4 After watching the movie I was really excited to start on the books. I have to say that the book is far better than the movie, although it wasn't as well written as I had hoped. It's written similar to a C.S. Lewis book (if you are familiar with his literature) perhaps because they had a great influence on each other. To be more specific it is written as though it is being told by a story teller and less like a novel.Either way I'd recommend this to those who like fantasy or Tolkien's and Lewis' literature.Personally, I think that there were some references to the real world that almost killed the feel of the fantasy.
5 Tolkein's books were a turning point for me when I first read the four in 1966.  I was disappointed not to find The Lord of the Rings in the Best Fiction section of the Amazon lists.
5 I have really enjoyed reading this.  The movies follow the book pretty well---but the book is always better!  So glad I finally sat down and read it!
4 Published by Houghton Mifflin Company, original publishers of the American edition,  this beautiful collector's edition of "The Lord of the Rings" is bound in red leatherette with blue, gold and green, folio decorations on front and back---(whether purposely chosen because the book Frodo leaves Sam of his memoirs is also red, or mere coincidence, I do not know.  A great detail, just the same.)  The pages are good quality with black ink for text and red ink for page numbers and chapter title headers.  Also, there is a fold out map of middle-earth glued to the inside back flap of the book.  A beautiful addition to your home library.That said, I have to address some of the problems I found in my particular copy which is why this became a four star rating rather than a five.  I noticed that the printing was faulty---errors like dark and light ink on the same page, some letters half printed and some not at all, as well as small ink globs.  For the price I paid, I found this disappointing and do not know if others have had this problem.Another observation:  Though all three books appear as one in this edition as Tolkien originally intended, the page numbers start at "1" with the beginning of each book.  I found that a little baffling, but not in a negative way.  Overall it is a beautiful book and reasonably priced for a collector's edition.I will not bother with a synopsis as most looking at this book may already be familiar with the plot and/or movies, but I will say that it is a must read for all who appreciate English literature.
5 There are SO many different LOTR editions out there. It's difficult to know which one to choose. If you want one that is going to hold up over time & through many readings, I say the Red Collector's edition it the best, by far. Forget all the paper backs. They may be cheaper, but by no means as durable. I was torn between the Illustrated edition & the Red Collector's edition. After looking at both of them, it was a no-brainer....the Red Leatherette wins by a Landslide!!!! The book is a nice size....not too big, yet not too little. The beautiful gold, blue & green foil embossing that embellishes the front cover, back cover, & spine add to the book's elegance. It looks like something that fell directly out of Middle-Earth and right onto your lap! The entire Trilogy along with the appendices and a fold out map are contained within the single volume. A sturdy protective slipcover is also included. A wonderful fold-out map of Middle Earth is secured inside the back cover. I have read reviews that complained about the type-set. I think that it is fine. There might be a couple places where a letter, like the top of an "a" or "e" might be a little light. But this is few & far between & does not affect one's ability to read this treasured tome. The pages are a soft white...almost like an ecru...not quite yellow, but very easy on the eyes. There are no illustrations, but they are not at all necessary. The Illustrated Edition has illustrations, but just cannot measure up to the Red Book. It's pages are a bright glossy white...harder on the eyes to read.... and although Alan Lee did some wonderful artwork, it really doesn't add too much to the tale. I am happy I purchased the Red Leatherette Collector's Edition. In addition, I also purchased the Green Leatherette Collector's of the Hobbit.It is also simply beautiful! (Read the Hobbit first. The background in it will help make LOTR make a bit more sense to first time readers.) The two collector's editions make a great set that can be treasured & enjoyed for many years to come! You won't be sorry!!!!
5 This is the greatest epic fantasy in the world. I've always loved the underground fight in the mines of Moria. I loved the dwarves and that the author invented such a detailed world. The hundreds of knock-offs shows the power of LOTR. That it took the author many years to write shows in the detail. If you want to read about the ultimate Dark Lord, this is the trilogy to read.
4 The story is the same , it is true, but this set is quite nice.It was put together prior (1987)to the release of the current hit movies and has some enchanting dust cover art work.  There aren't any illustrations in the book, other than those painted on the canvas of your mind.  The binding is good and it comes in a solid cardboard box with &quot;middle earth&quot; depictions.This is a nice set and a great gift due to its box and artwork that predates the hollywood images or scenes.
5 I am not a dedicated "fantasy literature" fan, but I've been a "Lord of the Rings" fan since I was in college (er...back in the late 1970s - OK, I've dated myself). Anyway, I still remember getting to the end of "The Fellowship of the Ring" (a book assigned in a Reading Lit class), and being left hanging as the fellowship was broken.  I finished that book one evening, and I couldn't wait to get to the bookstore the next day to pick up a copy of "The Two Towers"...which I then proceeded to devour.I've read this entire series several times since those heady college days, and the Lord of the Rings (trilogy) remains one of my favorite stories.What should you know about "The Two Towers" if you are thinking about picking up a copy?1) Make sure that you buy not only this book, but the other two books in the Lord of the Rings trilogy (The Fellowship of the Ring: Being the First Part of The Lord of the RingsThe Return of the King: Being the Third Part of The Lord of the Rings)2) Each of the books in the trilogy do not stand alone.  You need to not only read all three, but you need to read them in order.  Tolkien wrote the "Lord of the Rings" as one cohesive story, but because of the length of the story it was published in three volumes.  The first two books end abruptly, and the story picks right up in each of the following volumes...so you'll want to have all three handy when you start reading.3) The writing and imagery is crisp and vivid.  The world Tolkien created and the people and other creatures that live there will draw you in.4) I prefer to read this book in a quiet, somewhat dimly lit room...it adds to the atmosphere.5) There is no foul language in these books.  They are a pleasure to read.6) These books work well for readers of many ages - I actually read all of these books to my children when they were still in their elementary school years (years before the movies were produced).  They remain favorites of some of my children and got them started on their own adventures in reading.This series is certainly in my top-10 list of books, and depending on the day, almost always falls out near the top of that list.This is not a book to be missed.5 stars, no doubt and no mistake!
5 I started reading &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; last year, and I stopped a couple of times. I did not think much of the first book (there are six books, or chapters, on the Trilogy), but once I got around page 200... Gosh! I could not stop.Tolkien's characters are rich, and they experience growth along the book (they also grow on you). There is a great complexity in the book, and the history that is narrated on the book (not just the story) seems real.What impressed me most about the book was the pains Tolkien went through to create such a detailed and life rich world, including its past. I do not think I have read a book like this before.Something that got me started on the book again was the upcoming movie Internet site. If you go to the download section, you can see the shadows of Hobbits, Dwarves, Elves and Men, and to me it was really helpful.
3 The first time I read LOTR I was fifteen and I discovered that Tolkien's style of writing is not easy to read.  I found pages of minute description and background history that was fascinating yet lent very little to the pace and purpose of the story.  Some parts of the books were amazingly slow while other parts led up to action sequences that never happened or were disposed with in one paragraph.  For those who have just watched the movie it should be noted that the fight with the Balrog was much better on screen than in the book.However, years later I went back to LOTR's and read them again thinking that maybe I was just young and the books were meant for a more mature audience.  I found many of the same nagging questions I had the first tiime around.  For instance, the true nature of the magic rings are never really described in detail.  We know the One Ring controls all of the rings but what does that mean?  We know that Gandalf has one of the elven rings along with Elrond and the Elf Queen but how do they ever benefit from them?  More importantly we know Gandalf is a wizard but when does he cast a useful spell?  On top of this I realized the books lack vivid and accurate characters.  I never really identified with any of the characters because they all seemed so inhuman and predictable.So many things in the books just didn't make sense to me.  For instance, if the Nazguls are so powerful (and immortal) why don't they just land in the middle of an army and decimate the warriors?  Why are the elves leaving to the west?  What do the orcs eat if the eastlands are all desolate waste?  What the hell is Tom Bombadil dancing around for all the time?  Why are there no female characters?In short, the books do have literary merit and Tolkien was one the first people to write such a compelling fantasy story.  However, he did not invent the fantasy genre as so many claim, and his books are not without flaws.  But if imitation is the measure of genius than Tolkien deserves the utmost respect.
5 Nothing that I can think of. So I'll simply quote part of Edward Wagenknecht's review of The Two Towers (the second part of the novel) for the Chicago Tribune:&quot;To sum it all up, here is a wonderful story, set in a world which paralyzes the imagination, and told in magnificent prose. What more can an author give?&quot;What indeed?
4 Easily my favorite of all Tolkein's books.  He really expands Middle Earth as he follows the stories of each group of the fragmented Fellowship.As to this audio edition, Rob Inglis's narration is quite good---I enjoyed listening to his characterizations and performances of the songs and so forth.
3 This is a review of the novel, not this particular edition. Before the LOTR fans eat me alive, Orc style, let me say that I'm not an expert on Tolkien or LOTR, and only read the epic once, in a non-approved Swedish translation. Still, I offer my comments, for all they may be worth.Here in Sweden, almost everyone reads LOTR. And I really mean, everyone! I met assembly-line workers and dispatch riders who read LOTR. Already in elementary school, all kids read LOTR, and one of our teachers read it aloud during class. It took at least two semesters. Every year in February, Swedish bookstores have a traditional clearence sale. LOTR always sold out the very first day. Imagine growing up in a nation where reading "Lord of the Rings" is considered conventional, almost common knowledge!As a kind of protest against all this, I decided already as a kid *not* to read LOTR, and I never did, until after I saw Peter Jackson's first movie, and by then I was obviously an adult. I can't say the novel thrilled me. The first part, "The Fellowship of the Ring" smacks of being written for children, and I found it quite silly. By contrast, "The Two Towers" and "The Return of the King" are more for adults. Here, Tolkien presumably wanted to write a quasi-historical epic, and inadvertently founded an entirely new literary genre, fantasy. I didn't really like the two concluding books either, however. To me, "The Two Towers" and "The Return of the King" are essentially the same story, repeated twice. First, the dark lord Sauron attacks Rohan, and somewhat later he attacks Gondor. The Ents were just plain silly, a kind of throwback to the childishness of "The Fellowship of the Ring".I readily admit that these impressions of mine are purely subjective. Perhaps I'm just not a fantasy guy. Incidentally, I think Peter Jackson experienced the same problems as I did with the contradiction between children's story and adult epic. He seems to have solved it by turning his movie version of the "Fellowship" into a dark monster movie (adieu, Tom Bombadil).Why is LOTR so popular, then? Perhaps one of the reasons is that the story can be read on many different levels. The similarities with Norse and Anglo-Saxon mythology (Beowulf) are obvious. Indeed, Tolkien apparently wanted to create a new mythology for our age, and what better place to start than simply re-write the old one? The popularity of LOTR here in Sweden can at least in part be explained by this Norse angle of the work, which the un-authorized Swedish translation apparently strengthened even further.On another level, LOTR is a political allegory of World War Two and the Cold War, although Tolkien himself denied this. Still, the similarities are pretty obvious: Saruman is Hitler, Sauron is Stalin, the Shire is England. The main part of the story could be read as a Third World War allegory, with the Soviet Union (Mordor) in alliance with the Third World (the pirates from the south) attacking the free nations of the West. While this may appeal to people with bad experiences of Communism, it unfortunately leads to racism at times. The crooks are often black-skinned, have almond eyes and wield scimitars, while many of the heroes are white and fair. Still, it seems few people interpret the story as racist, thank Iluvatar, and many actually see it as anti-racist, since the Fellowship of the Ring consists of both humans, elves, dwarfs and hobbits.Yet another reason for LOTR's popularity is that the work can be read as environmentalist. A romantic love of nature and hatred for modern industrialized society is a recurring theme in the novel. For some reason, Saruman seems to be the chief culprit in this regard, both in Isengard and later in the Shire. Indeed, it was a great pity that Peter Jackson left out the scourging of the Shire from his movie version of "The Return of the King", since this is obviously an important part of the story.Here in Sweden, most people have only read LOTR in ke Ohlmark's translation from 1959-61. Tolkien himself hated this translation, and never authorized it. This lead to a later fall-out between Ohlmarks and Tolkien's son Christopher, who prohibited Ohlmarks from translating "The Silmarillion". Ohlmarks denounced Christopher as a "sociopath" and the Silmarillion as "crap" at a fantasy convention, which didn't exactly endear him to the Tolkien fans. Later, Ohlmarks claimed to have been attacked by a dark-side faction of the Tolkien Society, and wrote a scurrilous book accusing fantasy fans of being Satanists, going so far as to state that he regretted ever having translated LOTR. He even claimed that the real author of LOTR wasn't Tolkien, but C.S. Lewis (!). This entire episode was something of a tragedy, since Ohlmarks, despite being a very well-educated man, was a fantasy freak himself. I believe he was over 70 years old when he agreed to play "Bombur the Fat Dwarf" at a fantasy party organized by the Tolkien Society in Sweden!It's ironic that generations of Swedes have grown up reading a version of LOTR Tolkien himself discarded. Indeed, the only Swedes who don't read Ohlmark's translation are presumably the members of the Swedish Tolkien Society, who prefer the English original. Yet, it might have been Ohlmark's idiosyncratic translation that made LOTR so popular in Sweden, since he consciously attempted to make the names of places and persons in the epic as "Swedish" as possible.I have no idea how to rate this work, so I give it three stars out of five. One thing is certain: badly translated or not, LOTR will sure find new readers and new converts in many generations still to come.
5 I was a young teenager when the local public radio station began to play J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings.  Since we could not afford a TV listening to audio adaptations of classic books on the radio had to do.I  recall being spellbound as I listened eagerly every week for the next  installment of this masterpiece.  The BBC did an outstanding job in  casting the voices of the various characters.  The sound effects added are  well done and while this is an abridged version of the novels, they stay  true to the Tolkien story.  Characters say exactly the same things as they  do in the novels!I highly recomend this collection to anyone who loves  Tolkien or for anyone who buys audio books for those long road trips!
5 THE RETURN OF THE KINGBY; J.R.R. TOLKIEN*****This book jumps into two sections.  In the first section the main characters are Merry, and Pippin two Hobbits, Gimli the Dwarf, Legolas the Elf, Gandalf the Wizard, Aragorn the Ranger, Th&eacute;oden the King of Rohan, Eomer, Eowyn, and Faramir.  In the second section it is Frodo, and Sam also Hobbits.  The first part of the story with the first characters they are fighting to save the city of Gondor.  They fight against man, orcs, and other horrible creatures of the Dark Lord Sauron.  In the second half it is about Sam finding his master Frodo deep inside the land of Mordor.  Frodo and Sam must make there way past Sauron's army and make it to the fires of Mt. Doom.  With each step the burden of the Ring of power on Frodo grows.  It feels much heavier.  It's taking control of him.  Will Frodo make it to Mt. Doom?  Will he be able to cast the ring into the fires or will its hold on him be his downfall?  There is a third part and the Hobbits that are living return home and find out they have to save that as well.This story has good strengths.  It all played out.  I would suggest reading the other books first.  There weren't many weaknesses in the story.  I couldn't find any.  But if you don't like the jumping around then I wouldn't suggest it to you.I would recommend this book to you if you like the myths of the world along with humans mixed together in the fight to survive.
5 I was introduced to the world of Tolkien b a friend, after we were talking about our favorite books by the time. He did mention of Tolkien, and how his Triology had changed his life. (in a sense) I decided to give it a try.I was done with &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring&quot; in four days, finished &quot;The Two Towers&quot; in two and completed &quot;The Return of the King&quot; in five. No wonder I did terrible in school back then, and gave a radical twist to my already intense medievalist ramblings.This is the Holy Book of modern fantasy, from Robert Jordan and Star Wars, to even Squaresoft's Final Fantasy Series, it is all based upon this.Please, read it, you really won't regret doing so.On a side note: I really hate it when some people make fun, either of the book or the people that read it. Now don't take me wrong, I have nothing against the people who have read the story and didn't like it, (you can't please everybody) after all, each head is a universe, and we all have different points of view. Who I don't like, are the ones who go making fun, and have not even read the books, either because they are childish or stupid, or both.Don't fall into that abyss, read them, and make your own unbiased opinion.
5 Loved it! Once again it was great to see how the movie was formed from the book. Wonderfully and Descriptively written, Tolkien paints the picture very well. There is no other author like him!
4 First off, I am not about to attempt to review the content of Tolkien's Lord of the Rings Trilogy - this has been done hundreds of times by professional book reviewers and thousands of times over by readers and fans.Instead, I will report what makes THIS PARTICULAR edition different than the several dozen other editions available.In truth, not much.  It has a nice leather-ish (NOT leather, mind you, just leather-ish) cover, and a nice leather-ish slipcase.  It has some graphics from the story badly misplaced (the runes from the enterance to Moria badly mangled to look like cover hinges) on the cover in silver leaf.  It's red (those familiar with the Hobbit stories would know that any IMPORTANT book is bound in red).  The paper is higher quality than a paperback but is far from top grade rag paper.  In has a map glued in the back which is bigger and nicer than any of the maps in any of the paperback editions I've seen.It contains the exact same text, including all appendices as the low cost paperbacks, no more, no less.  If you want a nice red leather-ish book for the bookcase, this is as good as any.
5 Time will tell if Harry Potter can claim to be a literary classic and a fantasy masterwork, but Bilbo Baggins has that stature, though he be but a small hobbit. He begins this fantastic look at Middle Earth.As small as hobbits may be, "The Lord of the Rings" ranks supremely as being some of the finest, well-written fiction to be produced in the English language. In "The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings," you'll get it all (and save a few bucks in the process!).Tolkien's delicious use of written diction and depth of storyline is why his famous hobbit enjoys the lengthy stay in libraries that he has. Compare it to other great trilogies and tales, from "Alice in Wonderland" to CS Lewis' "Narnia" trilogy.A lot of poorly written novels litter our library shelves, but shining is "The Lord of the Rings." Tolkien used his vast understanding of archetypes, ancient storytelling, and the body of fiction. He took years to write these tales, laboring over ever tiny phrase... as opposed to cranking them out within months. He didn't write for the marketplace, but the marketplace loves him.I fully recommend "The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings." A great deal for some great books by a great writer.Thinking about Bilbo now... some eggs and bacon would taste good just about now (read "The Hobbit" and you'll know the reference).Anthony Trendl
5 first time listening to books on cd very good but sometimes difficult to keep myself focused.
3 I first listened to BBC's dramatized version, which was fantastic, too bad it has only the dialogue but without the narratives, which prompted me to find an unabridged version.I was surprised to find this was the only unabridged version of TLOTR, given its fame. I have to say I am kind of disappointed by it, Rob Inglis did a so so job, he read the book more like telling a tale to small kids, which he did well, but it did not do the right to the book. TLOTR is far beyond a kid's tale, it is a literature marvel. In the book there are many narratives describing the middle earth, the language used by Tolkien is beautify, Rob Inglis did a poor job for these parts, he sounded monotonous. I tried to listen to this version many times because I love the book, but I could not finish it because soon I got bored by his tone, this is a long book and with many dramatic language in it, it should be much more vivid than what was done by Rob Inglis.
4 A master-piece. Boring at times, but a good read over-all. Just be patient and read it out to the end. The will of one hapless hobbit is what the world depends on. I don't understand why there isn't a final battle between the king and the enemy, oh well.
5 First off this review is about this edition only. The three volume box set 2002 illustrated by Alan Lee.If you are reading this, I am sure your questions are is this worth the money given that I probably have a set or an edition of LOTR already. For me the answer was yes.I highly recommend this. The quality is top-notch. I was concerned because some of the reviewers seem to say that it is hard to read and or blotchy ink. It has neither of these problems.It is on very nice, very clean, very white paper with a large font. The books are substantial even bordering on heavy. They have beautiful red cloth covers with the J.R.R.T. symbol in gold. The dust jackets are beautiful with a different Alan Lee print on the cover, back, and spine.The box is very nice with Bilbo's trolls and an elven ship leaving the Grey Heavens on the front and back.The prints are all watercolors and they take up a whole page. Love them. I have always been partial to Alan Lee's work. Is it worth the $50 roughly you can find the box set for? Depends. If you do not have a nice hardback version of LOTR I would say for sure get this. The prints are delightful, the printing is great and very readable and it looks awesome on the table between the no admittance bookends. I love it and say it is worth it for sure.There is a one volume book with the same illustrations by Alan Lee. I think this is vastly superior as the books here are easier to handle, the three dust jackets are each suberb, and the box is very nice. Alan Lee is a great with watercolors and they are produced very well with these books. I think the high contrast of the print makes it easier to read. Think of this as a great work of art. First Tolkien's art. Second Lee's art. Third the art of printing a good crips text. All 3 come together here for a neat package that you will treasure for years or decades.
4 The book is slightly different than the movies, but still very entertaining. The only difficulty is &#34;learning&#34; a somewhat new language. The characters are all the same and the story is remarkably like the moves. A definite &#34;recommend.&#34;
5 CS Lewis once said, &quot;Here are beauties that will pierce like a sword or burn like cold iron.  Here is a story that will break your heart.&quot;What else can be said on the matter?  Not much.  The Lord of the Rings is a truly beautiful book; the epitome of fantasy, and perhaps of all literature.  It has everything:  adventure, romance, suspence, horror, and any other genre one could possibly imagine.  If our century is remembered for nothing else wonderful and good, we still have The Lord of the Rings to our credit.And reading it in a beautiful red-leather edition doesn't hurt.
5 Read the Hobbit first then jump right in! I find new and wonderous things every time I read it again!
5 I enjoyed the similarities to Peter Jackson's trilogy. It's like visiting an old friend, and hearing a story in a slightly different and yet very familiar way. I love it!
5 This part is the worst for me. Especially with Many Partings and The Grey Havens. Many causes this serious emotional breakdown.1. They are Parting. Years they faced the great obstacles together then they part. Isn't that sad?2. I'm Parting with the Book. Very difficult it is to part when tou're with them for two weeks. Day and night.
3 The Lord of the Rings books are great, but the publisher of these books really did a poor job of printing these. There is extra ink on some of the pages and the maps are poorly put in place.
4 I love fantasy books but this is my first time finally reading this great. The movies definitely did not do the story line justice, but the book's battle scenes were left wanting in my opinion (& in that singular way we're outmatched by the movies). I am still thoroughly pleased with the book & would absolutely recommend it to fantasy lovers, though not so much so to action-fantasy enthusiasts.
5 Consider, if you will, an imposing book so flawed that it is filled with uber-heroes, beatific heroines, irredeemable villains, archaic diction, puffed up prose, overwrought melodrama, entire races consigned to evil, and motivations that are told rather than shown. I am thinking, of course, of... "War and Peace", or perhaps it is "Les Miserables". Then again, it may be "The Odyssey", or "The Merchant of Venice". Come to think of it, this is a pretty accurate description of the Bible.As its detractors so tediously note, "The Lord of the Rings" has flaws. However, these critics get so absorbed in picking their nits they fail to notice that, like its fellow classics, this work's pre-eminence renders its flaws inconsequential. If one is intent on fault-finding, faults one will find. But one is thereby blinded to the greater glory."The Lord of the Rings" is indeed one of the most glorious of literary classics. It attains a majestic tone matched only by a handful of its peers: "Le Morte d'Arthur" perhaps, or "Paradise Lost", where the dimension is epic, and the settings, characters and themes pass into the collective consciousness as archetypes. Such archetypes are not formed by chance; they occur only when a creation taps into universal truths and the most essential elements of human nature.Middle Earth, the One Ring, Hobbits and Wraiths, the quest not imposed but willingly undertaken, strength not of body but of will, courage not of battle but of endurance, the smallest in stature carrying the heaviest of burdens and doing the greatest of deeds: these images and themes have passed into the common culture. How we respond to these archetypes depends on the person we are."The Lord of the Rings" offends by turns: effete intellectuals because it is unashamedly mainstream, the attention challenged because it is lengthy, and jaded cynics because it wears its heart on its sleeve. If you hold membership in any of these clubs, then this book is not for you. Like the best classical literature, this work demands qualities in the reader that are sadly now out of fashion: things like tolerance for detail, a sense of history, a linguistic ear, a love of epic grandeur and an appreciation for literary convention. Most of all, it requires an innocence and an exuberance that runs counter to the existential nihilism of the day. There are no angst-ridden antiheroes in Tolkien, no moral malaise, no self-absorbed ghouls paralysed by the futility of existence. If you must have these things, then look to Michael Moorcock and his Elric sagas. What you find in "The Lord of the Rings" is Tolkien's rejection of such thinking.Ultimately, Tolkien's creation is for the life affirming. It comes from a perspective where life has meaning--where even suffering and death have meaning--and the act of living is not an end in itself but is dedicated to a higher purpose. For those willing to embrace such virtues, "The Lord of the Rings" makes a sublime connection to our hearts through its grace, its compassion and its incomparable genius.
5 Who has not seen Lord of the Rings?  Have you read the books? They are much more detailed and had more deminision than in the Lord of the Rings movies.  Can you imagine more and deeper deminision, how delicious, for these stories are a gift to the world. Stories  so rich, so deep.  The whole history of Tolkien leading up to this Lord of the Rings is mind numbing. If you have read and watched The Lord of the Rings to the point you are craving more go for"The Slimarillion" It gives the history since the beginning of time. Fantasitc. The quality of this particular set of Lord of the Rings is quit acceptable, nice slip cover. Nothing fancy here but good readible,sturdy copies that I feel you cannot beat for the money.  I would have liked to have better quality copies of this triology but the price and availabity of quality copies is high and hard to find. Maybe someday, for now at least I have the books to enjly the stories.
1 Where can I start with this? First off, the book is an extremely dry read. It takes around 20 pages just to start, and when it finally does, it drones on and on, irrelevantly about Bilbo. I honestly thought I was being punked. Turns out, around page 66 is when Gandalf finally does his infamous scene telling Frodo to take The Ring.Tolkien writes very different from what I'm used to, and extremely dryly. I highly recommend getting this as an audio book, or just flat out watching the movies.
5 some of the superficial readings of this book which produced the negative reviews.  (I can't speak to the defects of the edition, as I haven't seen this edition.)W.H. Auden said of LOTR "if anyone says that he does not like it, I will never trust his literary judgement again."  When one of the greatest English-language poets of the 20th C. says something like this, he should be paid attention to.  Now, I'm not saying that anyone should say that he likes it if he does not; far from it.  But consider: do you consider your literary judgement superior to Audens?  What have you written lately?  Do you not think that, when your evaluation of a work is so different from that of someone like him that perhaps, just perhaps, you may have missed something?  Just because someone who is tone-deaf can't appreciate a Beethoven symphony, or someone who is color-blind can't appreciate a painting by Matisse doesn't mean that there is something wrong with either the symphony or the painting, but rather with the ears and eyes of the beholder.The charge that JRRT is a racist falls flat as soon as it is seriously examined.  The whole point of LOTR is the members of the different races--dwarf, elf, human, hobbit--uniting and overcoming their mutual distrust and dislike for one another in the face of something that will destroy them all if they do not unite.  The one character who is arrogantly sure of his race's superiority, and who never thinks that he could be wrong, is Denethor, and look what happens to him!As for the charge of the glorification of war, that, too falls flat.  JRRT had been a junior officer in the British Army's infantry during WW I; he was at THE SOMME.  He was one of seven good friends to enlist together; only two survived the War.  How could a man like that glorify war?  Read his descriptions of the Dead Marshes and the Morannon in LOTR, and of Sam's reaction to the skirmish in Ithilien; read the description of the Battle of the V Armies and the aftermath in THE HOBBIT.  These are not the writings of a warmonger.In short, for those who did not like the book, finding it 'boring, trivial or contemptable', JRRT himself said that he didn't mind, as he had similar opinions of their writings, or of the sort of writing they appear to prefer.  For those of you who think he had a sinister political or social agenda, read it again, a little more carefully, and you will see that you are mistaken.
5 I  bought it, and fell in love with the quality so much that I ended up buying two more for my sons as gifts when they get older.  Hopefully they will love the book as much as I do!
5 This book is filled with excitement and adventure. Although the book gets a little dull at times,it is still an amazing book.
5 I lost count of the number of times I've read the &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; trilogy many, many years ago. &quot;The Hobbit&quot; is an enjoyable children's adventure book, and a serviceable lead-in to the  series, but hardly prepares you for the richness and wonder that follows.  Bilbo and Gandalf disappear pretty quickly, and things get much scarier,  more exciting, and more interesting. Like most fanatical Tolkein devotees,  I suspect, I've read the first volume in the trilogy more than the second,  and both far more than &quot;Return of the King,&quot; which I've only read  a couple of times. It's not that the last volume is bad, but it can't  compare to the excitement of the journey to Mordor, and then, too, there is  so much sadness once you reach the end. This is one of those rare literary  odysseys you never want to end. Once you've been chased through the Mines  of Moria by a horde of Orcs, and then by something far, far worse, you will  never forget Tolkein's Middle Earth, nor will you want to. I don't  especially recommend reading the &quot;Silmarilion&quot; after the trilogy.  It's interesting to see the backstory for Tolkein's little world, but it's  such heavy going, and has none of the depth and fun of the &quot;Lord of  the Rings&quot;--it's so much more flat. If you're a fanatic like me you'll  read it anyway, but be forewarned. If you are getting ready to buy this and  read it for the first time, how I envy you. Set aside some time, you'll  need it.
4 If you're considering buying this volume, presumably you already know that Tolkein's Lord of the Rings is justly lauded as a classic of English literature and a mainstay -- very arguably THE mainstay -- of fantasy fiction. So, taking all that as read, here is a quick review of the Collector's Edition.Handsomely bound in red leather -- or a very good fake -- the book consolidates all three parts of the Lord of the Rings between two covers, along with the copious appendices at the end, and a map bound in to the back cover. The gold filigrees and designs on the book are intended to make the collection resemble the Red Book of Westmarch, at which it admirably succeeds: This FEELS like an interesting old book from a fantasy classic.The volume has the heft and weight you'd expect, and opens easily: Even mid-way through The Two Towers, with hundreds of pages on either side, the book can lie flat for easy reading.By necessity, the paper this volume is printed on is much thinner than that used for the Collector's Edition of the Hobbit, although I did not have any pages tear, despite sometimes unexpectedly hard use. Likewise, the spine did not hold up as well as that of The Hobbit, although since this book is far larger and heavier, some of that is to be expected.The map at the back is bound in a little too well for my tastes, and it is difficult to read without running the risk of damaging it. Reprinting the map elsewhere in the book in addition to simply binding it in would have been preferable.The slipcase is bound in the same red leather. While not likely to stop a bullet, it is well-built and should last for the lifetime of the book.In short, an excellent book that will be an heirloom you will be proud to pass on to future generations of readers. A must own for any serious collector of fantasy fiction.
5 Lord of the Rings is the follow-up epic adventure to the Hobbit.  The movies follow the book fairly well but there is so much more to it in the book.  A must read for those who want to know more about the story with Appendixes that give details into the history of each of the races of Middle Earth.  My all time favorite book and I highly recommend it.
5 This is the one book every nerd should read.  If you enjoy fantasy anything.  History anything.  If you enjoy reading things that are not textbooks, then read this.  This is the foundation for all fantasy today and I can not praise it enough.
5 Ah, it's hard to write a review on the third book without spoiling some of the fun. I will say, though, that everything wraps up nicely (although not to most readers' &quot;good triumphs evil completely&quot; expectations) in this third installment of Lord Of The Rings.Don't read this book before reading the other two. That might go without saying, but don't even think about it. You will be lost.Again, the book is rich with Tolkien's gorgeous prose. You'll probably never read prose so beautifully wrought by any modern writer out there. I think I will tackle the series a second time when I am older so I can read it aloud to my children.I would say also that there are some nice spiritual undercurrents to this book that makes it fabulous from a moral perspective. You are not just reading a fairy tale, you are learning a bit about courage, duty, honesty and virtue. It's a big book to wrap your mind around, but congratulations to everyone who has journeyed through the first two books to Return Of The King. You won't be disappointed.
5 J.R.R. Tolkien's work is not simply a series of books.  It is not merely a story.  It is a mythology.  Tolkien created a world all his own.  Not like some other authors have a &quot;world&quot; for their stories to take place  in, but a full and total world, complete with history and languages.  His  work is not so much a story as it is a glimpse, as through a window, into a  different universe.Tolkien begins, in The Silmarillion, with the  creation of the world itself.  He tells the tale of the original powers of  the Earth, and how evil entered the world.  He covers the history of the  Elves, the Dwarves, and yes, even the Humans, from their first awakenings.  He continues this history through three ages of the world and the epic of  The Lord of the Rings.In all, over four thousand years of history are  covered in amazing detail.  Not simply mentioned.  Not simply outlined on a  few pages of notes.  No, Tolkien is far better then that.  His is a  complete history, not simply a background to a story.  He starts with the  creation of the world, and ends, in effect, with the start of real-life  recorded history.  Tolkien's work expands to fill the sum-total span of  human comprehension.With that in mind, you can begin to appreciate why  you cannot read Tolkien's work just once and expect to enjoy it.  Like our  own world, you need to study it, to examine it, to live in it for awhile,  before you truly start to feel just how rich and textured it is.  After two  or three reads, you will begin to see the pieces fit together into one,  large, complex *thing* that can only be called a world.You need to  realize that fact to enjoy these books.  Tolkien does not let you off easy.  You have to work to take it all in, just as you have to study history to  understand the human race.  If you are unwilling to make that commitment,  do not bother reading it.  You will be bored to tears.  If you make the  effort, however, the reward is that of dreams themselves.Too many people  miss the point of Tolkien's work.  It is not about character development,  or suspense and plots, or even telling a good story.  I feel it has all of  those, but it is not about them.  It is about world-building -- and Tolkien  is the master.
5 Allow to keep this review short.Simply masterful.  A must read by any fantasy and adventure lover.  One cannot help but love the characters although some may feel Tolkien throws in tedious details, I love the depth and feeling.  Great work.
5 This book, with it's leather-bound cover and gold-plated pages is a must have for anyone who enjoys reading Lord of the Rings.  It compliments any collection.  Without having to worry about bending the covers to an irreparable position, I was actually able to enjoy the book, instead of trying to keep the cover in pristine condition.  These things mattered to me and without having to worry about them, I was happy.  The ribbon bookmark was a nice touch, adding class while keeping my place at the same time.I would recommend this for anyone interested in the Lord of the Rings.
5 I thought this book so good that I could read it over and over again!!  I reacomend this book for 10 year olds and up.  It's verrrry intense but I still love it.
5 Well, people that are really into all aspects of The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings have a point. Yet for a casual reader and the first exposed this box set will do just find. Personally, I cannot stand any of the contemporary pictures as they distract from the verbal descriptions and the pictures that they produce in ones mind. My favorite media is the unabridged tapes, yet you cannot see the spelling that way.There is no sense in repeating the 500+ reviews. Except that, there is a definite style change between The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings. I found that due to the more simplistic form of the Hobbit and the fact that the stories are not as fleshed out, that it worked out better for me to read The Lord of the Rings first. Then when the mysterious creatures came to tea I could better understand who they were and why they were there.The only real drawback to this set is that there is not more. Where do you go from here?
5 Hugely imaginative, extremely detailed, poetic, funny, sad, moving, and one of the greatest (if not the greatest) trilogy ever written!!!
5 Although I had already read the LOTR trilogy several years ago, I was thrilled to receive this one volume paperback as a gift, and I thoroughly enjoyed re-reading this epic story.  Tokien has taken the classic tale of good versus evil and has turned it into a completely captivating adventure involving humility and greed, love and hate, corruption and redemption.  Although you know that the good will succeed in the end (as it always does), you can't help to feel both awed and amazed as the humble Frodo overcomes incredible odds to save the beautifully wrought realm of Middle-Earth, a world that seems to actually exist beyond the pages of these books.This single volume helpfully combines not only the books themselves but also the many complex supporting resources that make up Tolkien's world--ie, maps, appendices, etc.  I found it extremely useful to have all of these materials contained in one book; I enjoyed my second reading of this series more than the first party due to having access to all three books at once.  This classic work has stood the test of time, and it is likely to continue entralling new readers for generations to come.
5 Where do you start?  This book is an epic journey where good must continuously battle evil.  If you like the movie, there is enough that is different in the book to enjoy it.  This version is the most accurate version of what Tolkien wrote.  Read the section at the beginning to get the whole story.
5 Excellent books best read with tea and wintry evenings by the fire. Leads you into a world filled with all the components that every book should have including the language rich in texture and imagination. Once read you view your own world with different eyes-enjoy=:)
5 The first time I read this classic long ago, it was a triad of paperback books, but I had always wanted a good hardback edition as part of my permanent collection.There is already enough written about the story in praise of it, but what draws my praise is to be able to find such a beautiful book at such a bargain price and with such beautiful illustrations, that were also found in the latest "Lord of the Rings" movies, as the artist that did those illustrations also worked on the designs for the movies.
5 Well, what's left to say that hasn't been said far better than I ever could for decades. The Lord of the Rings, often and erroneously refered to as a trilogy, ( the three volumes published seperately over a period of years)remains a literary masterpiece.Those of you that have not read it, or have only been exposed to the LOTR through Peter Jackson's films, need to do yourself a favor and read Tolkien's works. I think you'll agree, that it is the finest example of fantasy ever written and quite possiby the finest work of literary fiction period!
5 My copy is published by the British firm Harper Collins - bought long ago and not available here. So I cannot comment on the printing quality, etc. of this particular edition. Other reviewers of various American editions have complaints about the spelling errors (more like spelling "horrors" when it comes to a book written by a linguist where every letter counts), missing pages, etc.Overall, the books are simply fantastic. Tolkien's brilliant scholarly mind is married to a wonderfully creative side, and the product is unbelievable. The beauty of it all is in the details - about places, names, people, monsters, languages, etc., and it's almost hard to conceive that all these are figments of the imagination.  And Tolkien invented a name for each and every one of them!  I can name another work which can compare - the Chinese classic Journey to the West. But this book was written by more than one person. Tolkien did it all by himself.Nevertheless, one wonders to what extent was Tolkien completely original. Is it possible that he was not influenced in any way by the mythologies and folklore of the British Isles, Germany, and Scandinavia? No, it's not. For instance, the Elvish language which he created for his imaginary world was colored by his study of the Finnish language.  But I'm not in a position to elaborate on that, not being an expert of the subjects in question.My biggest disappointment of The Lord of the Rings is the total lack of dragons (although there IS a dragon called Smaug in The Hobbit).  These are alluded or referred to a couple of times, as when Gandalf tells Frodo that not even the fires breathed by dragons can destroy the One Ring.  Otherwise, these creatures, which always play the most exciting roles in Northern European mythologies, are not present in Tolkien's LoTR.  But this is only a minor complaint of mine.Another one would be the lack of illustrations by Tolkien himself.  There actually is another book about Tolkien's works of art.  Having seen them, I'm amazed - he really knew how to draw.  To incorporate some of these into his novels would be fantastic.Tolkien's own complaint was that the book, i.e., the LoTR, is too short.  (JK Rowling's four Harry Potter books are together almost as long, and her writing career has only just begun!)  I'd have to agree with him.  I guess his excuse could be that he had a real full-time job as an Oxford don. If only The Silmarillion - the "prequel" - could have been expanded to another full-length book!There is an interesting little anecdote about Tolkien's books: it was an Oxford undergraduate student who gave Tolkien, the Merton Professor of English Language and Literature, the necessary passing grade to publish the LoTR.  It had also been the same boy who gave him the go-ahead to publish The Hobbit, and who later infuriated Professor Tolkien by withholding a passing grade to publish The Silmarillion. (Of course, it helped that Rayner Unwin was the son whose judgment his father, Stanley Unwin, the publisher, trusted.)Tolkien will have more lasting fame and more enduring academic influence than many a Nobel prizewinner of literature in any language. These two books alone, apart from his other works, deserve a high place on anybody's reading list.
5 I had read LOTR as a child and had not reread it over the intervening decades. As children, we bring a different way of appreciating the written word because we have fewer prejudices and experiences with which to overanalyse. However, in rereading this book, I found that I was suddenly thrust back over time to my own childhood, appreciating the story as I once did, yet adding now an understanding and love of the way it is written, thrilling to the beauty of the story, and wealth of imagination and effort it took for Tolkien to write this incredible book.If you have not read the story, read it because it is such a wonderful and engrossing tale of bravery. If you have not read the book for a long time, read it again. Or better yet, read it to someone else and enjoy together the story of the brave, honourable and heroic Frodo, and the fellowship of the disparate group of heroes who battle evil with a thrilling heroism that defies the test of time.
5 When it comes to Fanatsy it doesn't get any better than this. Tolkien weaves a tale of such marvelous depth and richness that it is a classic. If envy you if you have not read this book. You get to read it for the first time. I'll never experience that joy again.You have got to read this book even if you have a passing interest in fantasy.
5 Words fail to describe the brilliant images portrayed by J.R.R. Tolkien.  The moving story.  The plight and shared experiences of these comrades.  The perilous gamble taken to send the Ring into the fire.  The subtle movement of the Valar to cause timely actions to aid the Ringbearer in his quest.All too human.  And wonderful.  Through decades of reading.  The One Story that all must return to.
3 I got this massive thing for christmas and I must say I was a bit daunted.  I've read a lot of books in the 600 to 700 page realm but very few this long.  So I figure it can't be to difficult, so I dove right in and what did I find?What I found was a great concept delivered in a pretty dull fashion.  The Lord of the Rings is a 1000 page epic adventure, which if you narrowed it down could have probably been a lot shorter, a lot more concise and a lot easier to read.  I don't know about anyone else, but I found the endless pages of descriptions of then walking around and where the hills were in comparison to their location a bit tiresome.  After a while I began to just skim over those parts and hope for some action to come.And when the action came, it was horribly underwhelming.  It was hard to realize when it should be exciting.For example, in the climatic scene with Gollum, Frodo, and Sam in Mordor, when the climax finally happened(I don't want to go into the details and spoil it for anyone wanting to read it) I didn't really feel anything about it.  Nothing at all.  It sort of just went through me.  Was I susposed to feel excited or something?Anyway, I still think this book was worth reading, if not for the fact that it's one of those cultural standards that everyone has read.  I give it three stars because the story is well thoughtout and Mr. Tolkien was definatly not lazy, hell he created a whole language and all those family trees.  It was just more than a little dull for my liking.By the way, i'm reading The Hobbit as we speak and finding it a much better read.  Theirs no endless stream of names that I have no idea about, or endless descriptions of things I don't care about, and (gasp), I actually feel suspense in certain parts, eh gad.
5 Here's a British edition LOTR which I bought over at Amazon.UK :)ISBN: 0261103687, Harper Collins published, soft genuine leather & cloth binding - black in color, fine India parchment pages gold edged and very thin (lightweight). Printing very high quality. Cloth slipcase. This HC edition from England is more costly, nicer in appearance, but less bullet proof than the red American (Houghton Miflin) published, leatherette collectors edition ISBN: 0395193958Also at Amazon.uk you can find a matching Harper Collins luxury edition _Simarlian_ (soft black leather/cloth, gold edged India pages, etc.) ISBN: 0007136609....Or for something easy on the eyes when reading, instead of when admiring: basic cloth bound editions in huge *Largeprint* from Thorndike Press:The Hobbit ISBN: 0786251778The Fellowship of the Ring ISBN: 0786251786The Two Towers ISBN: 0786251751The Return of the King
5 The second book of The Lord of The Rings, The Two Towers is superior, in my opinion, to The Fellowship of The Ring - a fine book in its own right. This picks up right where that book left off (on a semi-cliffhanger.) The book is broken up into two parts (arguably not the best way to tell the story): the first part concerns the exploits of Aragorn, Legolas and the rest of the Party (sans Frodo and Sam.) This is a fast-moving and exciting part of the book that sets up some important events that come to fruition in The Return of The King. There are several important plot point (and surprises) in this section that would alter the course of the series. The second part concerns Frodo and Sam, and their journey to Mordor with Gollum (!) as their guide. This is a very exciting and dramatic section of the book, and it moves very fast and is a joy to read. I think it's overall better than The Fellowship of The Ring, as it is a great joy to read and very fast-paced - much tighter than The Fellowship, which could move slowly at times. But, of course, the entire series is a masterpiece, and should be read. This book ends on an extreme cliffhanger, so you will want to pick up The Return of The King right after finishing this. The Lord of The Rings is one of the true masterpieces of recent literature, and deserves to be read by everybody. No matter what kind of books you like to read, it is a masterpiece that everyone should be able to say that they've read. And this is perhaps the best overall installment in the series, though they are all essential. Read this masterpiece; it will enrich your life.
3 The bridge novel in J. R. R. Tolkien's famous fantasy trilogy ups the sense of wonder and exotic locale you get in &#34;Fellowship Of The Ring.&#34; Yet &#34;The Two Towers&#34; too often crosses the line from scene-setting to padding, and combined with an all-too-apt title from a structural standpoint, you get a novel that seems almost consciously designed to separate the hard-core Middle Earth fans from those who just like a good story.When we left Frodo Baggins and his party of adventurers, they were in a desperate state, having lost their leader Gandalf and about to get overtaken by orcs. Sensing danger from within the party as well as from outside, Frodo and his faithful companion Samwise leave the others to fulfill their original assignment: Destroy the Ring that Frodo wears around his neck, which has the power to bring evil dominion over Middle Earth.Meanwhile, two other hobbits, Merry and Pippin, are captured by orcs. The three remaining members of the Fellowship pursue them at an ever-growing distance. Worse news follows; the evil Sauron has amassed an army against the aging and befuddled king of a land of goodly horse-riders to order to further his wicked designs. All seems lost, but fortunes have a way of turning suddenly on Middle Earth.Actually, those two above paragraphs are in the wrong order, as the part with Merry, Pippin, and the horse warriors comes before a second book that features Frodo and Sam. Tolkien apparently meant for &#34;Lord Of The Rings&#34; to come out as a single volume, and failing that, as six separate books. Joining the two middle books of this cycle (a. k. a. Book III and IV) as &#34;The Two Towers&#34; makes for a disjointed, unsatisfying compromise, as the story arcs (Frodo and Merry/Pippin) exist quite apart from one another, united only by Tolkien's disquisitions about Middle Earth lore which grow more recondite and tedious with each return.Looking back at &#34;The Two Towers,&#34; I'm amazed at how much story there actually was. While I was reading it, especially the Frodo section, I really noticed the padding. There is a lot of trudging around the outskirts of Mordor here, with minute descriptions of plant growth and cliff angles. Much of this story concerns the character Gollum, who meets up with Frodo and Sam and with whom there is much pointless banter. When I read the line, near the beginning of the final chapter: &#34;Frodo and Sam were plodding along with heavy hearts, no longer able to care greatly about their peril,&#34; it was the first time I could really relate.Yet Book IV ends strongly, with a marvelously nasty encounter in the deeps of Mordor, and Sam finally emerges into something other than a dim-witted loyal boob. This doesn't make up for the drudgery of getting there, but I was surprised how much it whetted my once-drooping appetite for the next book, &#34;Return Of The King.&#34;Book III, the Merry/Pippin story, suffers from a bit too much lazy fantasy in the form of some walking, talking trees, but it does offer serious action and off-battlefield strategy to lend some visceral excitement. Again, it does drag in the first few chapters, if not as much as Book IV.I wasn&#8217;t as wild about &#8220;The Two Towers&#8221; as I hoped or expected to be, but I still found much to enjoy, especially in the wrap-ups of each of the two books within. The only problem remaining is you have to read another book before anything that happened in &#8220;Two Towers&#8221; makes sense.
5 I have to admit that I hadn't read the books before the films were released.  Even after seeing the first film, I wasn't a fan.  However, my former roommate's enthusiasm for the series (he bought the DVD the day of its released) and a second viewing of The Fellowship of the Ring made me a convert.  The books themselves astounded me with their depth, moral quality and sheer imagination.  A book that I had previously associated with geeks who rolled die with more than 6 sides made me think about questions like the nature of good and evil and whatnot, all within the confines of a thrilling narrative.  If you are wary about the book, check it out for yourself.  Its a great read and adds even more depth to your viewing of the excellent films.
5 I guess the physical condition of the book gets a 3, but the subject matter of the book gets a hard FIVE. Who cares about the condition of the book? Its a paperback! If you want a book that you can pass down to your grand kids, buy a hard copy.
