3 Indeed very moving story. it was almost unbelievable the way the POWs were being treated by the enemies and made to suffer needlessly. however I have some reservation on the portrayal of the whole story line. It seems almost too obvious that the enemies were mostly evil and the POWs(the American soldiers) were humane and forgiving. I find it smacks of partiality and sensationaling the story. Take for example the attitudes of the freed POWs immediately upon Japan's surrender,I find it hard to believe that except for 1 minor incident that no POWs took revenge on the Japanese guards and soldiers who tortured them so hideously just shortly before. If not for the obvious bias stand the writer has adopted this definitely will be a five star rating for me.
5 I cannot wait until December 2014 for the movie. It is well written about a great American hero who struggled with a life of war even after the war was over, it was really just beginning.
4 I enjoyed this book.  It was amazing to see what this man lived through during WW-II.  That, alone, earns my respect.  To then learn how he eventually overcame some problems resulting from his POW experience was inspirational.  These men were truly the greatest generation.Early in the book all I could think was how I'd hate to have him as my kid.  It was beyond mischievous... but even that taught a lesson in love because it reminds you that as a parent you love unconditionally.  To then read about him maturing into a fine young man, excelling at a sport to the point of becoming an Olympian, was uplifting.  Then the horrors of being adrift at sea and a POW was harrowing...  You simply can't believe he lived through it all.  Truly amazing and, well, sad that other humans would treat others so terribly.  After the war, his life is mixed with highs and lows for a while, but you are rooting for him all the way.  Towards the end, when you learn what he is still accomplishing in later years is both inspirational and frightening... inspirational in that, even middle aged, I want to grow up and be just like him (trying new things, be able to forgive to the point he does, etc.) yet frightening in that there is NO WAY I'd want someone my parents age (his age) doing some of the things he does (example - SPOILER ALERT - he starts riding a skateboard at 80!)... again, an inspiration to me personally and frightening in that I'd probably break my neck, even at my current age!The man, and many others, in this book is/are truly amazing.  You can't help but feel like you've done so little (and need to do more) after reading this book.
5 This is one of the most riveting books I've ever read.  What is truly remarkable is the story is true.  To not be inspired by the many people of tremendous honor and courage whose lives intertwine in this snapshot into WWII would be impossible.  The lessons are many and the telling of this moment in the world's history is absolutely inspiring.  I started telling others about this wonderful book before I had even finished it!
4 This book turned out to be a page turner, although for me I had to muddle through the first 11 chapters before it got very interesting. It definitely makes you feel for our POWs.
5 What can I say?  This book is everything one looks for in a good book!  The writing is superb.  The topic is fascinating, interesting and thought-provoking.  After I read this book, I bought another for my dad.  He is loving it too!
5 This book is unbelievable.  It is hard to imagine how one man could endure the trials that this man did and live to tell about it.  I whole-hearted recommend this book for anyone who believes in the bravery of our finest generation.  The author does a good job of making you "feel" this mans story.  For those who love history this book is for you.  For others who love a great action thriller you must pick this book up and read it.  You will come away amazed and thankful for our men in uniform.  Great book!!
5 The story hooks the reader from the start.  Well written, descriptive and connects at a deep level.  It is hard to imagine anyone living and surviving these life experiences.
5 Amazing life story and amazing story of survival.  A true American hero that fought and endured so many hardships.  Highly recommend this book for just about anyone.
5 This book will keep you going with different emotions throughout.  Just to think of how many people lived through these trials is mind boggling.  To see the power of mind games and the way people deal with them is frightning sometimes but the will of survival and knowing that you're not alone is sometimes stronger than any ordeal.  Good read.
4 The author made the story come to life for me with the way it was written and the fact that my late brother, who was in New Guinea during world War II had many tales to tell about the jungle and the natives at that time.
5 I read a tremendous amount of books and quite frankly, am probably too critical in my reviews.  That being said, this is probably one of the most incredible stories I have ever experienced.  The title says it all.  Thank you Ms. Hillenbrand for telling this remarkable story.
5 I bought this for my husband, a Veteran. He could not put it down until he finished it! He borrowed this from a guy at work so I gave him his own so he could return it. He said the best story he ever read.
5 A well put together truly inspiring story, but a difficult read at times just because of the inhumanity and realities of war.  I would definitely recommend this book to history buffs.
5 I found this book to be a beautifully written account of the suffering of servicemen in Japanese camps during WWII. It also demonstrates the suffering the POW's endured after they returned home. The writing style of the author brings you into the camp with these men. You feel the their pain and their suffering. You also feel their strength and cheer for them, even in their minor victories. For those who never understood why so many WWII soldiers turned their backs on the Japanese after the war, this book will give you the answer. It also demonstrates the wonderful ability to forgive those that harm you both physically and mentally. Through forgiveness, some were able to find peace. I would recommend this book to everyone!
5 I did not think I would like this book. Considering the subject material--the war, POW camps, and torture--I thought it would be an ideal book for men. I only read it because a good friend (female) recommended it. I am glad she did--I couldn't put it down. Louis Zamperini is the unbroken protagonist who survives a childhood of juvenile delinquency, going on to become a track star, a participant in the Olympic Games, and a member of the U.S. Air Force in WWII.It is Louie's service in the air force during WWII that comprises the bulk of the book. Hildebrand avoids the trap of constant historical detailing and instead focuses on the thoughts and relationships of the men, resulting in a book that reads better than most fiction. Since other reviewers have described much of the content, I will not review that again. Suffice it to say that Hillenbrand does an exemplary job of illustrating the depths of human depravity that were displayed in POW camps all over Japan. The Japanese completely disregarded the rules of the Geneva Convention because their own code of honor superseded international law. (Allowing oneself to be captured was so dishonorable as to deserve torture.) The survival of Louie Zamperini and others shows that the human body is an incredible piece of machinery, able to withstand the most cruel tortures the human mind can devise. What the Japanese did to our POWs makes you wonder if hell could be any worse. Hillenbrand exposes the reality that even the strictest externally imposed code of honor does nothing to improve the moral depravity of the human soul.Louie Zamperini should have died any number of times. His survival is a story of miracles, and I found myself wondering why God would continue to save this guy who wanted nothing to do with Him. The answer comes in the last chapter. If you do not believe in God or in the sovereignty of God over the details of a man's life, you may change your mind after reading this book. Every detail of Louie's early life plays a part in the tapestry of the man Louie becomes. After the war, Louie is so filled with rage and hatred for his tormentor (nick-named the Bird) that his one goal in life is to find and kill him. He takes to drinking and nearly destroys his marriage. He suffers flashbacks and debilitating nightmares. His body has healed, but there is cancer in his soul. It is the sickness of his soul that leads to the most incredible miracle of the whole book, the details of which can make a grown man cry. I will leave it at that. Read the book. It will make you a better person for having read it.
5 This was one of the best books that I've read.  It certainly taught me things about World War II that I hadn't known.  I bought a second one for my cousin to read; he's currently battling a health challenge and told me that this book inspired him greatly.
5 One of the best books I ever read......and all TRUE, with pictures to prove it! Don't miss this amazing book.
5 I didn't realize this book had large print but that makes it even easier to read.  A great book and will be a great movie.  The item came quickly and was well wrapped.
5 If you can read about horror, this is a book you should read. The ability of humans to endure psychological, physical, and social torture is truly amazing. How any of them survived to live even relatively normal lives after the war is almost unfathomable. The quality of writing is balanced, detailed, and not overly emotional. What a story- that is true. Her comments about the importance of dignity for survival is something we should all think about in our daily lives.
5 I guess most of what i would say has already been said by others on this site. "Unbroken" is a long book, but flies by as you are engaged in the story of Louis Zamperini, an American Olympic athlete who serves during WWII where he is captured by the Japanese and becomes a POW. Louie's will to survive is unbelieveable! Yet Laura Hillenbrand has not sugar-coated Louie's character by making him a HERO without his faults. He struggles through many parts of his life, yet he endures and overcomes many difficult times. All I can say is that it is a must-read book by all who are interested in American history during WWII era.
5 Wow.Wow.Wow.  what an incredible story.  I loved it.  God is definitely present throughout this man's life.  When will the movie come out?
5 Extremely well-written, and an amazing story that very much needed to be told. The subtitle perfectly brackets the pivotal life events of a remarkable man that few of his fellow Americans know. I highly recommend this book.
5 This gentleman has just passed away yesterday. We lost a true American hero. The book is emotional to read. But he remained Unbroken throughout his life. The movie is coming out in December but I recommend the book first.
5 She's a great writer. Characters and  descriptions are wonderfully real. Inspiring and so revealing about the early 20th century hard times.  Another &#34;True Grit!&#34;
5 This book was so insightful as to the horrors of the war. What the POWs endured and witnessed was unbelievable.  I couldn't stop reading to see how these soldiers survived (or not) and how they faired when/if they returned.  Loved it!
5 An incredible true story of an Olympic champion runner and how his undaunting human spirit, mind, body and soul survived unrelenting curelty at the hands of the Japanese as a prisioner of war.  A fantastic, nerve racking story of courage and determination in the face of impossible odds.  Man's inhumanity to man in it's ultimate depiction.  The end of the war and the dynamics of soldiers trying to return to the life they once had is nearly as brutal for them as their captivity had been.  Unbroken is a story worth reading in order to appreciate the ultimate price that was paid by so many for the freedom we enjoy as citizens of this wonderful country.  The price paid is beyond your most exaggerated imagination.
5 I love true stories and this was one of the best.  Not just an amazing story about the man, but also some never-read-before stories about WWII.
5 I first read an excerpt from this book in Vanity Fair and found it fascinating. Then I heard Laura Hillenbrand interviewed on NPR, and knew I had to read this book.Wow, what a book and what a story of survival. I did have some second thoughts when reading about the POWs, which was truly horrifying. However, there is redemption, and I highly recommend this book.
4 The string of events in Mr. Zamperini's life are unbelievable and harrowing from stealing a Nazi flag at the Olympics, to surviving shark attacks adrift on the Pacific, to brutal Japanese POW camps and finally to meeting Billy Grahm. His unrelenting courage is inspirational and unforgettable.While the backstory at the beginning was important it dragged. The strength of the writing is impeccable in its research, especially in its portrayal of the Japanese prisoner of war camps. What I learned horrified me leaving images that remained long after putting the book down. Every bit as atrocious as Nazi death camps.Slow start. Mr. zamperini's life is a page turner.
5 It's a story gripped you till the end. The author narrates the story of Louis Zamperini in such an intriguing way that you keep wanting more. The epic journey Zamperini had gone through was dramatic and full of twists and turns. It's of timeless value for Laura bring it alive on pages in commemoration of the war heroes and many others who sacrificed their lives for the world peace yet didn't even leave a name in history.
5 I liked this book very much. It's amazing story of World War II with fantastic and well developed characters and story lines. Beautifully written, wonderful use of language. I can't say enough good things about it. Don't miss this one.
5 Amazing historical fiction. A powerful, well-written biography of a resillient, courageous man. It had a bit of a slow start, but I was soon addicted to the story and could not put the book down. The story is inspirational and it reminds us of how strong the human spirit can be. Reading this book has been a great experience and has left me with some very important messages about life.
5 I have been listening to this on audio book when I had a spare moment or was driving etc.. It was an amazing and inspirational book that I don't think I will ever forget! It was an amazing story about an amazing man. It was hard to read sometimes because parts actually made me sick to my stomach but this book made me cry, laugh, angry and every emotion in between!This does not even feel like you are reading a non fiction book so I would highly recommend this book to anyone! Easily one of the best books I have ever had the pleasure of reading.
5 WWII is full of stories of heroism, sacrifce, savagery, suffering, loss and pain on a scale that's impossible to relate to today. This book has all that and is a valuable contribution to understanding that war.Louis Zamperini and Allen Philips, two survivors of a B-24 bomber crash in the Pacific Ocean together and individually suffered at the hands of a brutal Japanese POW system. Hillenbrand's story personalizes the men's experience particularly in the hands of Mitsuhiro Watanabe and through following these men we get some small taste of the suffering of hundreds of thousands if not millions of innocent civilians or POW prisoners enslaved by the Japanese in the war and the physical and psychological wounds (if they survived) that carried on for the rest of their lives.  This story is so hard to read but impossible to ignore.Laura Hillenbrand's book is full of both detail and anecdotes.  She is a great narrator and storyteller long on both empathy for her subjects and enough objectivity to write a story that could otherwise dissolve into a dark compendium of war crimes.  I could not put it down.How proud we should be at how these soldiers and our Armed Forces acted once the war was won. How quick to forgive and help despite their own harrowing tales of suffering and years and years of effort to come to grips torture and slavery they were subjected to. How frightening would the world be if we had lost?37% of the POW's died compared to 1% in Europe. Probably higher when trying to account for all the slave labor used during the war by the Japanese. Even 70 years later; 91 POW camps in Japan and not one memorial, not one token effort to recognize in a lasting way as a reminder of abuse and deprivation heaped without remorse, reflection or the slightest empathy.To all those Allied soldiers: You are still heros. Thank you.I highly highly recommend this book.
5 "Unbroken" is, quite simply, the best nonfiction book I've read in years. I don't generally read "war books," but this is about so much more than combat. It's about the human spirit and an indomitable will to live.Author Laura Hillenbrand kept running across Louis Zamperini's story when she was researching her first book, "Seabiscuit." So eventually, she contacted Zamperini and decided to write his story.And what a story it is: Zamperini, a young bombadier during WWII, survives a plane crash in the Pacific and drifts half-starved for weeks on a rubber raft with two other survivors. When he finally reaches land, it's an island occupied by the Japanese. He is sent to a concentration camp, run by a brutal commander.Warning to the faint of heart: Some of the scenes in the camp are hard to read. The cruelty is difficult to comprehend, and you wonder how anyone survived. But Zamperini does, and returns to the States a hero after the war. He meets the love of his life and marries. But the darkness of his ordeal reaches out to him in nightmares and drinking binges. He is in danger of losing what he holds most dear. Still, he perseveres. In the end, his life is a victory. As of this writing, he is still alive in his 90s.Zamperini and Seabiscuit have a lot in common -- both went through some tough times but never gave up. Both are an inspiration. I highly recommend this book -- and "Seabiscuit" as well, for that matter.
5 This was one of the most fascinating books I've ever purchased from Amzon.com.  I couldn't put it down.  I especially enjoyed it because I was a child during WWll and my father was stationed on the kwajalein Atoll in the Marshall Islands. I was intensely interested in that part of the book.
5 I thoroughly was enthralled by this book.  It is difficult to imagine what our POW's went through and how much the human body and mind can withstand.  Louis' story was one that inspired and gave hope.My only disappointment was that the author really just glossed over his spiritual transformation which is the only hope we have.
4 it is one of those stories that make you feel small to know someone like that was in it. they call them the greatest generation for a reason. book was well written and informative. I just can't believe hadn't heard it before now. if have any interest in WW 2 or human nature this is a must read.
5 This was one of THE best books I read when it came out.  It's been a while, but I do remember ordering it for a family member and she, too, could not put it down.  I will not truly review it because it has been a while, but you will not go wrong with this book.
5 I'm halfway through this stunning book and must tell you about it.  I have no doubt readers will propel this book to the top of the New York Times Bestseller List.  As an military aviator with thirty-two years experience, including combat, I'm caught in the grip of this narrative.  "Zamp" personifies the aviator and human being we'd all strive to be if thrown into the most dire, tortuous survival situations imaginable.  Including situations we can't imagine.Refresh your spirit!  Read about "Zamp", whose spirit and will to survival inspire us all.  Laura Hillenbrand apparently spent several years researching and writing to get this book right.  Time well spent.Socrates last words before being executed, according to Plato, were "The hour of departure has arrived, and we go our ways--I to die, and you to live. Which is better God only knows."  That hour of departure neared for "Zamp" many times.  He survived and lived.  We and "Zamp", God knows, are better for it.UPDATE 14 October 2010:  I've finished this book and I'm deeply moved.  I now see it is more than the amazing survival story of "Zamp" Zamperini, as if that weren't enough.  It is for and about all the Pacific POWs, those who survived and those who did not, and their families.  It is their story told in the most readable way...factual, honest, compassionate.  Considering the depth of research, high number of contributors, and huge amount of information Laura Hillenbrand must have accumulated as she prepared this book, it is a tribute to her skills (and her editors) that it all comes together so remarkably well.  I simply could not put it down.Highly recommended!
5 This is an incredibly great book.  The author does a great job describing all of the terrible ordeals he suffers but who in the end remains "unbroken".  Truly one of the best books I have  ever read.
5 It's easy for us to forget how cruelly American and other Allied POWs were treated in WW2. Our culture of &#34;feel good&#34; and &#34;don't judge&#34; would do well to see what happens when we don't judge and allow ourselves to be ignorant about how evil men can be, if given the opportunity.
5 All I can say about this book is that I finished it a week ago and I can't get the story out of my head. This book will be in my top 50 all time favourites.
5 Men of that era truly were the &#34;Great American generation&#34;. Thank you Laura for reminding us of that fact. Meticulously researched and written.
3 This is a story of horror way to well described for my taste.  A lot of good and valuable information about war and Japanese prison camps.  A extraordinary discussion of how we managed to kill more of our own flyers than the war did, makes it even sadder to read.  Don't read this for entertainment.  If you are a war junky it will suit you to a tee.
5 I couldn't put down this book, and I can't wait for the movie. The entire story, from start to finish, is gripping and emotionally wrenching. I won't give away the plot, but overall it's the story of a kid who was headed down the wrong path until he found that he could run. His perseverance and self-discipline carried him through WWII and his horrible experiences. They also brought him back from the brink when he returned home and fell into despair from PTSD. The fact that it's a true story... and that the protagonist is still alive... makes it even better.
5 without a doubt, one of the best books I have ever read. It is so well written I was there. I cried several times throughout the book, something I rarely do while reading. I do a lot of WW2 reading but always about the holocaust. my first book involving Japan and the war in the Pacific. This writer is phenomenal.
5 Louie is a remarkable man. Growing up as a problem child, always in trouble, never learning anything in school, he channeled his energy into long distance running and even made the 1936 Olympic Team's visit to pre-WWII Berlin to run in front of the Fuerher. His trials really started when he joined the Army Air Force and the outset of the war and his plane, a B-24 Liberator, was lost in the Pacific with three survivors. His ability to survive the punishment of both the environment on board his raft and once captured by the Japanese, is, to me, the heart of this book. He and his one remaining survivor were shipped to several detention camps mostly on the home island of Japan. His survivability at those camps is where the "unbroken" in the title came from. He was beaten, mentally and physically, by his captors. This is a fantastic tale of strength and perseverance. Once Louie got home he realized that he did not survive by himself and realized that God had much to do with his living. He gave much of the rest of his life in spreading his story to children and adults. If there is a picture of Superman in the dictionary it should be a picture of Louie. His story will lift you up, especially at the end.
3 At the beginning, the author gives many anecdotes about Louie.  Louie basically had a lot of fun in an era where kids got away with more than they do now.  My dad and Louie are about the same age, and I have heard similar type stories from my dad - about stealing a boat from a rental place and hiding it so he could go fishing every day.  It was during the depression, and times were tough.  There were no jobs, no money, and little food.  I knew this from my dad's descriptions - but this was lacking in this book.  I never felt transported into that place and time.I admire Louie Zamperini's athletic ability.  His speed and versatility on the track field are amazing to read about.  On and on, Louie's skills on the airplane, his fun in Hawaii, his first big mission over Wake, all good.  The crash, the ability to survive in the face of horrible adversity - all this is admirable, even amazing.  The "rescue", internment, and treatment as a POW was horrifying.Being saved and cured of disease only to fall into depression and alcoholism was horrible.  Finding religion thanks to Billy Graham was satisfying.  I'm glad the author included what happened to Louie's friends, especially "Phil" and Harris (who seemed more well rounded a character than any of the others).But did I "cheer", "cry", stay up all night reading, turning pages?  No!  I wonder if I read the same book the other reviewers read.  It was a story, told well enough, I suppose.  I never felt truly engaged with "Unbroken" and I was certainly not transported to that place and time.  Maybe that's a good thing - it was pretty scary there.
5 Not only is this book well researched, it is engaging on such a level that I could not put it down.  My father flies the B-24, B-25 and one of the last flying B-29s.  Seeing the faces and hearing the stories of the vets that approach the aircraft only offers a small glimpse into a world that most of us could not imagine nor could we survive. I now understand why my Great Uncle, a mechanic on these aircraft during WWII, had no interest in seeing them again. "I rinsed my friends out of them with a water hose" - now I have a framework for the only thing he ever said about these aircraft.
5 Unbroken is a superbly written, inspirational story which is both spell binding and deeply revealing of the best and worst impulses and actions of people.It is the historically accurate telling, based on first person accounts and well researched records, of the harrowing WWII story of a former Olympian turned Air Corps bombardier, who survived not only what may be the longest documented time adrift in a life raft on the open ocean, but also incarceration and torture in several Japanese POW camps.However, the story is so much more than this.  It is a beautifully crafted tale of the life of one man who managed to not only survive this ordeal but to achieve redemption because of it.  It is told in the same superb way that the author relates the story of Seabiscuit, a compelling story narrative with insightful and engaging portraits of virtual every major character in the story.  In telling the story of the main subject of this book, the author begins with his troubled youth, gives a detailed account of his partial redemption through becoming a world class runner, tells an unvarnished but not sensationalistic recounting of the unfathomable trials of his WW II experience, is insightful about his post war difficulty in letting go of the hatred of his persecutors, and ends briefly with his ultimate redemption.This story can't be put down, and is truly inspirational and thought provoking.  It is one of the better books I have read in some time, and is the equal in every way to Seabiscuit, the superb last book by the author.
5 Very well written, engrossing. I had no concept what POW's went through. His strength of character was amazing. I found it very scary.
5 There aren't words to describe this book. It's an unbelievable, fascinating, thought-provoking, infuriating, inspiring read. The book revolves around Louis Zamperini, a previous olympic runner who was drafted in WWII, and was a prisoner-of-war.  I won't spoil the book, but what this man went through is truly unbelievable! It truly, truly put my life in perspective. If you think your life has been hard, you MUST read this book for some perspective. It should be required reading for everyone that can't see outside of their own lives.What Louis went through in his life is unimaginable. How someone survived the torture and degradation he went through is unbelievable. If you think your life has been hard, I PROMISE you, this book will put things in perspective. You absolutely, 100% MUST READ THIS BOOK!
5 I bought this book for my dad and gave it to him Christmas afternoon....by that evening, he was over halfway thru the book and was telling me how great it was and how I had found the perfect present for him.
5 I couldn't get over the fact that brutality could be done so easlily to a human being.  His survival me me so proud of him.
5 Got the book because my daughter recommended it.  Wasn't sure I would want to read a war story.  Once I started reading it, I couldn't put it down.  I'm 79 years old so I have known many WWII vets. Have always known that war is hell and that so many of our military suffered a lot.  I was horrified when I learned what so many of them went thru.  An eye opener. Live and learn!
4 This is a book that is almost overwhelming to read.  I had to put it down periodically to just calm myself.  Even knowing the title, that the man we are reading about was going to survive, did not always give me hope.  In many ways it is a story I would just as soon not know about - except it is important to know it.  It brings the horror of war into each reader's reality.  War is not just someone else's problem. It is real.  It is primarily about men, but in reality, it is about all of us.  The torture that we consider 'okay' to do to the enemy is sobering.
5 Ring of truth throughout this heartbreaking story of cruelty, bravery and forgiveness in the face of hopeless situation. Olympic qualities of the author show through in his unbelievable set of challenges for many years.  A lesser man would have, and did give in to the horrible dehumanizing prison camp life.  A great glimpse into the terrible prison camps in WW2 and the bravery it took to survive.
5 Hillenbrand wrote an engaging bio of Louis Zamperini, whoa) started life as a wild kid who turned out good,b) was born with great athletic genes and trained hard to become a world-class track star,c) survived unbelievably harrowing experiences during WWII, andd) managed a difficult transition into post-war society by letting go of his understandable obsession with retribution.Lots of life lessons in this book; can't stop thinking about it. Great read.
3 Too bad a well-told story about a great American hero is ruined with a tribute to Christianity, and more specifically, to the anti-Semitic Billy Graham.  What a letdown!
5 Laura Hillenbrand has become my favorite author. She is able to write a well crafted engrossing story wrapped around detailed research. She brings to life stories of people that will provide her readers inspiration and future conversation. Both "Unbroken" and "Seabiscuit will remain among my favorite books and I look forward to her next offering.
5 This book is one of the best survival stories I've ever read, and I've read quite a few based on experiences in WWII, Korea, and Vietnam.
5 Excellent reading and education.  WWII spawned many stories of courage and endurance.  This is one, and a good one.Good.
5 I could not put this book down.I truly cannot understand how one man could endure so much and still survive.We read so much about the war in Europe, but the Japanese war effort was truly horrible.I recommend the book to anyone who loves history and a study of human character.
5 Lauren Hillenbrand follows the journey of Louis Zamperini from what it took to become an Olympian at a young age to learning how to skateboard at the age of 81. What came between theses two sports was more than a lifetime of experience, heartache, trial, and resilience.&#8216;Zamp&#8216; was drafted into the war as an airman which put him on the path of near death for many, many years. Reading about how he survived a plane crash in the Pacific which meant 46 days floating on a raft and fighting off sharks, starvation, and dehydration, his time being tortured in Japanese POW camps, and the ramifications of the inevitable PTSD that followed was both hard to read and put down.Throughout the book, I was appalled both by the atrocities he endured and how he chose to keep going &#8211; so many would and did give up.This is not a book that you can sit down and read cover to cover without a break. It requires some time and space to live through the heartache, sorrow, pain, hope, and redemption; but it is a book worth reading.
4 Even though at times this read like a documentary, it is full of adventure, love, laughter, family, and faith; the story of a man who could have given up time and time again, but just refused to let the circumstances beat him. I am looking forward to the movie coming out soon being produced by Angelina Jolie. I saw Louis Zamperini on the Today show just this week. What a man!
5 This is by far the most wonderful book i've ever read.  Hillenbrand is a wonderful writer that is able to express thoughts and feelings so well that you don't want to put the book down.  what a truly wonderful man Louis is.  A must read.  I can put this book back on the shelf.  it is out to remind me that I can do anything i set my mind to.  very inspiring man and book.
5 i hope this gentleman lives to be 200 years old if that is possible. what he survived and what he learned along the way are not what a man is today. he was a hellion, thief,hero,husband,father, against all odds and a life sometimes lived in nightmares about a japanese guard when he was a war prisoner brought me down, then i came right back up to see how he--still alive when i read this, could be honorable, personable and heavens, i wish i could meet him/ also the author is absolutely the best-she names the book aptly, i think it took years for her to finish, was worth it to me. i will read it again.
4 This was a well written book with excellent detail both about the runner, Louis Zamperini and the horrors of a Japanese POW camp during World War II. Laura Hillenbrand has really done her homework and takes the reader into the world of the fighter pilot during World War II. She also details Zamperini's childhood and the course of his life. She takes her information from excellent sources such as interviews and letters. I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a good biography or just a good read.
4 Very thorough book but some slight exaggeration for parts of the book leading one to really question some things such as being so severely beaten without actually dying.  I'm quite sure it was horrible none the less.  My uncle was also a POW in the mines in Hokkaido I believe.  He never talked about his experiences until a good 60 years after the war.  He never was very specific about the rigors of daily life so I really appreciated the scale of description in this book!  Very well written and easy to follow.
5 absolutely loved this book.  Once I started, could not take my eyes away, until I got so tired had to put it down.  Looking forward to the movie being made.
5 Good follow up to Sea Biscuit.  Knowing about Seabiscuit before reading about this prisoner of war made the story much more real and much more heart-breaking, yet heart-warming, too.  One will never again question what a prisoner of war endures after reading Laura hillenbrand's Unbroken.  The horse Sea biscuit and this prisoner of war were one of a kind!
5 Review by Donn G. Ziebell, Ph.D., Never kicked by a horse nor a mule, and author of the non-fiction Amazon book, "My Letters to a Prisoner --I had not met." Become an insider to the humor and private life of the writer's encounters and adventures home and abroad; a selection from over 100 letters written in six years.The mischievous boy at the beginning of the book signals multiple risk taking characteristics that seem bad, but instead he developed self determination and endurance. Endurance to run in the Olympic races, to outlast all odds when lost at sea, and survive unimaginable World War II prisoner deprivations and torture by the Japanese.Though enduring the status as prisoner No 1 for abuse and beatings, Louis' his boyhood practices helped him help many fellow prisoners to cling to life until the US finally wins the war against Japan. Liberation and freedom finally arrive, but many American POWs retained memories easily triggered by a word, dreams, a sudden sound or something as simple as seeing a bowl of white rice.Airman Louis was lost in a rubber life raft for more than a month in the Pacific Ocean. Sharks wanting him as their next meal is a riveting story. After being captured, then unbelievable torture and lack of food, he was threatened in his ability for continuing to live. It left many POWs with emotional scars. His subsequent alcoholism created terrible times for Lewis Zamperini and his marriage. But a life raft resolution he had long forgotten was remembered and it led to an unbelievable life decision, after which he spent the rest of his life immersing young troubled boys in camping and counseling experiences to help them.The author did a marvelous job of researching, interviewing and writing this book. This is one book that is extremely difficult to put down. It is a terrific true story. A seriously great Amazon book.
5 My daughter who is in the Army told be about the book. I purchased it and it was an absolutely excellent work.  Laura Hillendrand made the book read like she was The next door neighbor or in the raft or the camp.  Anyone needing a lift in their attitude or life would do well to read this book.  Any of the three logical stages of the book could be a book by themselves.  The redemption at the end is one incredibly powerful story.  Anyone that reads this story will be glad for the time it will take to read it.  WOW WHAT A GREAT READ!
5 Laura has meticulously researched and exquistly revealed the story of Louis Zamperini in all of it's ugly, and inspiring details. She has given us, the readers, much to consider as we join Louis and his fellow companions during thier days of the Pacific war. We learn about the cruelty of man, the resiliency of the human spirit and the grace of God. I stand in awe of this man and all that he, and so many others, endured during WWII. I also stand amazed at Laura's courage for writing such a magnificent account while she suffered through her own debilitating illness. Extremely well done!
5 Since I grew up in the era  of this book It was a reminder of a war that was fought to save the world as we knew it. Of all the sacrifices our young men made without a lot of fanfair. They went to war, and those who came home picked up their lives and went on. I could say more but won't.
5 An awesome account of a young rascal becoming a great and noble man and the influences that shaped him.  Inspirational!
5 Awesome.  Period.  She is such a gifted author, and what many people don't know is that she is quite disabled from Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, so this journey is especially gruesome for her to endure physically, yet she did.  Sharing Louie's journey with us the way she writes is just gripping, and I agree that if I could have read the book in one sitting, I would have done so.  I wasn't all that attentive to history when I was younger.  If I could have learned history by reading works like this, I would be a much smarter person, with a better appreciation for the sacrifices so many people made for our country.Dorothy Charidak
5 "Unbroken" is a living history time with which we are lucky enough to be able to read from the person that had to live it. Thank you Louis we will never forget.
5 A former insolent, hyperactive child becomes a WWII hero and then a tool in God's hands. It makes me question the wisdom of the current trend of medicating hard-to-handle children. This book is not easy to read due to the graphic description of warfare and the treatment of prisoners of war during WWII, but it made me appreciate what our men suffered to protect our freedom.
5 Today's generations those of post Viet Nam for the most part would not believe or understand this story. Those who do will have either suffered in captivity or are very close to someone who has. It was a difficult read for me, but I could not put it down. The story stays with you and for some it will bring memories to the surface. This is a story of hope, and a lesson to all that hope should never be lost. Thank you from an old soldier.
5 Roller coaster read, from the depths of prison camp and being targeted for the worst punishment to the heights of carrying the torch in the Olympics held near he was imprisoned and what he did with the rest of his life was truly inspirational.He is the best example of the Trojan slogan of "Fight On".
5 A wonderful book that I could hardly put down. Being of the age that I was alive during WW II, I was amazed at what went on in prison camps in Japan and the survival of this man.
5 Louis Zamperini has to have one of the most astonishing biographies in history. You will not believe the highs and lows one person can experience within a lifetime. Experiencing both incredible luck and misfortune, it is insane to think someone could survive the tale that is his life.I could not put this book down and have recommended it to almost everyone i know. I am yet to come across someone who has not liked it. It contains vast and detailed insights into the pacific front of WW2, life raft survival, japanese POW camps and resettling in civilian life. It is especially a must for someone who enjoys non-fiction survival novels.A fantastic book, one i will always keep in my best collection.
4 Suffice it to say this is a very fine book on an exceptional subject.  While the story touches on the earlier childhood and adulthood of Louis Zamperini, first as juvenile misfit, and then Olympian athlete; the story's main focus is his experience in World War II.  First, having to survive 47 days at sea after his bomber crashed and presumed lost by the Army; and then surviving the subsequent two years of brutal captivity under a sadistic Japanese antagonist.  Returning from the dead to his family after the war, Louie had to fight his demons from that harrowing, life altering experience.  Zamperini is a living inspiration to us, and reminds us what heroism is, and how common it was for that generation of Americans who served during World War II, and who are quickly succumbing in their old age.  Thanks to Laura Hillenbrand for telling us this story as a reminder of that generation.  After this, I will have to read Zamerini's auto-biography to get his personal perspective of this experience.
5 Unbroken by Laura Hillenbrand has a master piece! Once you begin reading the saga of Louis Zamperini, you will not want to put it down. Hillenbrand tells Zamperini's story in bold truths. How one man could have taken the punishment during WWII in a Japanese prison camp is amazing. If you want to discover more about Zamperini's life before you purchase this book, then go to google and search for Louis Zamperini. As of this date, he is still living and is in his nineties. Just an amazing story of brutality, love, devotion. From being a petty thief in his young years to running in the Berlin Olympics to his later years. JUST AMAZING!! If you love history and a biography full and heart ache and drama, this is a book you will not forget for a long, long time. There is so much to tell here, but if I did, well, just by this great biography and enjoy.DP
4 This is not just another war story.  Having read many of those, this book discusses the individuals who came home from the war, and the challenges they face because of their experiences.  As another reviewer has pointed out, there seems to be more focus on the European theater of the war than on the Pacific.  I had never read a POW story about Americans held by the Japanese, I never knew how different or difficult their situation was.
5 I have been an avid reader for 50 years and I can truthfully say that "Unbroken" is definitely on my Top Ten list!  Words cannot express what I felt while reading this chronicle of  the survival and resilience shown by Louie Zamperini during life's greatest challenges. No movie's depiction of these events could possibly come close to Ms. Hillenbrand's telling of this story on the printed page! It was impossible to put this book down.  I was gasping for breath when reading about Mr. Zamperini's many harrowing events during WWII.  When I read the first page, I was hooked... not wanting it to ever end.  I recommend this book to everyone... just be prepared for your life to be changed after reading it.  I hope Ms. Hillenbrand writes many more books of this type; she is superb at her craft!
5 Didn't think Laura Hillenbrand could hold you spell bound as she did in Seabiscuit but she's done it again in &#34;Unbroken&#34;! I had to go out to the net and make sure this was a real person and yes he is still alive--read it and go see the movie when it comes out, just amazing!
5 Read this at the recommendation of a friend.  It was a slow start.  In fact, I put the book down for a month and then picked it back up.  But wow!  The more I read the more I couldn't put it down.  It reads like fiction but then you remember that this is real-life accounts from a real man's life.  So glad I read this feel-good book that restores your belief in humanity's ability to overcome the most difficult of circumstances!!!
5 UNBROKEN is an appropriate title for the story of Louis Zamperini's life; although LUCKY AND UNBROKEN would be equally appropriate, for at critical points in his life he was indeed saved by events well beyond his personal control. This is not to denigrate Louis's own strength of character, but to name just one fortunate instance, if the war with Japan had not ended how it did and when it did, Louis would doubtlessly have been killed.The last mentioned major piece of luck was Louis's attendances at a California Billy Graham crusade where he was able to shed his inner demons and find the inner peace to rededicate his life as a Christian.UNBROKEN at its best, though, is far from a standard Christian tract with its standard vision of salvation.  Louis's history is raw, exciting, and gripping. He, Mac, and Phil's story of survival on a raft floating on the ocean is better than an action movie.  His experiences as a POW were horrific.  The hatred many (particularly in China) still feel towards the Japanese of WWII - a hatred I heard repeatedly expressed during a trip to that country - well earned. The lack of effective treatment for former POWs (and Holocaust survivors) was unfortunate. Post Traumatic Stress Disorder can indeed be debilitating and perhaps even, as in Louis's case, amplified by fame.A very worthwhile book on all counts.
5 At times the suffering almost seems tedious and one cannot believe that a single human being can endure suffering and maintain a sense of optimism. There are times when I was ready to give up and somehow Louie carried on.
5 As a European citizen the Pacific part of Word War 2 was not very familiar to me before I read this book. The main person's, Louis Zamperini's, accomplishment is almost unbelievable- as a runner, as an Olympian- but foremost: as human being. The main message of the book is his forgiveness in regard to his former Japanese guards- an act which sets life in general in perspective and has an ethernal message to mankind. One of the best books I have ever read!
5 Unbroken is the most fascinating book I have ever read about the Pacific front of World War II. Louis Zamperini and his fellow American and Allie soldiers displayed bravery, patriotism and heroism in ways that are unthinkable to most. This story could never be made up in the mind of a fiction writer because it is too incredible to imagine. It is true that facts can be stranger than fiction and in this case, Laura Hillenbrand does a phenomenal job of research and compelling writing to tell the story of one former olympian's story admist his fellow soldiers. I can't recommend this book enough. It should be mandatory reading for all American history students.
5 What a book and what a story! This rates as one of the greatest books I have ever read dealing with WWII. I couldn't put it down and finished it in three days. A movie has to be next! If you haven't read it, do so now. You will not regret it.
5 Everyone should read this book.I could not put this book down.  It is such a compelling story.  From the details about what it was like to serve in WWI to the horrible day to day life as a POW, to postwar life, the story is written in such detail that you get a true picture of what it was like, not just for Louis Zamperini, but for others affected by this iconic time in history.  Having a glimpse into this world gave me so much more respect for the people who serve our country then and now. They really do give all and then some.I do not understand how some people have given a 1 star rating.  To me, any 1 star rating is pretty harsh.  And with this book it's completely disrespectful, not just to the people this story is about, but the author, who clearly put her heart and soul into this venture.  To be negative about her attention to detail is a travesty at best. I have read a couple of 1 star books.  This is not one. Laura Hillenbrand deserves 5 star for her research alone. Her writing is excellent,despite what the 1 star raters say.  Louis Zamperini's account deserves a 5 star rating just for living this story.  And his story is one that needs to be heard.This is not the type of book I typically read, but after seeing it always on the top Kindle list for quite some time, I thought I'd try it. I am so glad I did.  It really is a top book and it will stick me for a very long time.
5 This is a book everyone should read.  If it had been a novel I would have thought the author went overboard describing life in POW camps...NO human being could POSSIBLY survive.  But they did!  I don't think I'll ever complain about anything again. I am in awe!
5 I am well aware that at his moment (5/1/14) there is no need for another review on this exceptional book, but the book itself has inspired me to do so nonetheless. The Bible being the exception, there has been no other piece of non-fiction that has so affected me!As a baby-boomer (born 1958), I have lived a pampered, comfortable life. So, I found myself pausing while reading, to remind myself that &#34;this book is NOT a novel!&#34;, it is TRUE!!!!  Incredible story with a superb writing style that is equal to the subject material.My questions are: 1) How have I missed Louie's story for all of my adult life? 2) My constitution is just not what his is...I would have died many times. 3) His suffering seems almost &#34;Christ-like&#34;, beyond belief and/or the realm of reality! 4)  Why was Louie not mentioned in Tom Brokaw's book, &#34;the Greatest Generation&#34;. 5) Not only did Louie survive starvation,torture, etc., but is amazingly still alive today at age 97.....one of the countries last WWII veterans!I am proud to be an American, and even more so after reading this book. Thanks to Louie and all of the WWII veterans for saving us and the US, and the World. It is no hyperbola to say that, &#34;All Americans should read this book.&#34;Dr. Stanley E. Toompas, Optometrist& Author of, &#34;I'm the One the Other Isn't&#34;
5 As a girl, I read biographies about all kinds of people because children's biographers seem to understand that a child who reads a lot needs heroes who overcome obstacles.  As an adult, biographies aren't always uplifting.  Sometimes subjects disappoint, or even bore.  This biography of Louis Zamparini, however, gets the biography just right.  Delicately weaving together moments in time, she demonstrates the power of faith.  Loved it.
5 Louie Zamperini has been many things in his remarkable life - troubled youth, member of the 1936 U.S. Olympic team in Hitler's Germany, Army Air Corps bombardier, WWII Japanese prison camp survivor, and more. The key words with Zamperini are survivor and perseverance, and his amazing story is told in Unbroken with masterful grace by Laura Hillenbrand. Zamperini's story is more compelling than fiction. It is true.Louie Zamperini overcame a troubled youth through sports. He became one of the elite track and field athletes in the United States with the help of his brother and represented the U.S. at the 1936 Berlin Olympic Games (alongside Jesse Owens) in Adolph Hitler's Germany. Upon his return home he continued training with an eye towards the 1940 games scheduled for London. Louie never made it.After WWII breaks out, Louie finds himself in the Army Air Corps as a bombardier in the notoriously unstable B-24 bombers in the Pacific theater. Several successful bombing runs later Louie's plane goes down over the Pacific and he and 2 of his crew are the only survivors. Ingenuity and sheer will to survive enable them to exist on a tiny rubber raft for 40+ days (then a record) while the Army gives them up for dead. Eventually they do find land - and the Japanese. Louie spends the rest of the war in a series of increasingly brutal Japanese prison camps.Because of his "celebrity" status before the war, Louie becomes the main target of "The Bird," widely regarded as one of the most brutal camp officials of WWII. Being in a prison camp of an enemy losing a war is perhaps most cruel of all - the Japanese themselves are faced with ever dwindling food supplies, and their prisoners get even less. Compounding the prisoners' problems is the fact that only the dregs of the Japanese military are assigned as camp personnel, and most take out their frustrations on their captives. Japanese culture at the time taught that surrender was a disgrace, so the captured American prisoners were treated as the lowest of the low. Through it all Louie and his fellow prisoners do what they must to stay alive.Unbroken truly is an amazing story that does not end with the war. What makes Hillenbrand's account really stand out is what comes after. Louie's return home is not the happy fade into the sunset as seen in so many other tales. Zamperini and his family have to deal with severe post-traumatic stress (largely unrecognized and misunderstood at the time), personal problems, alcoholism, and many other issues still being faced by military families today.Unbroken is an outstanding true story of hope, redemption, inner strength, faith and forgiveness that the reader will never forget. Louie Zamperini, now in his 90's, continues to be an inspiration to all his life touches. Rediscover a true American hero and read Unbroken. Highly recommended.
5 The pace of this book starts off slow and labors over the main character's early upbringing, but if you stick with it, that pays off.  The pace and the complexity pick up soon after the first chapter and it builds to the end.  It was really hard to put this down and get to bed at night.  I wanted to keep reading and see what happened next.  An amazing story.
5 Laura Hillenbrand writes beautifully; the book is a joy to read.  I do not know what is more difficult to comprehend - how these men could withstand imprisonment for such a prolonged period of time, or, how the Japanese could inflict such cruelty on other human beings!  The horror of relating his experiences to Hillenbrand must have been reliving nightmares; however, it may have been a relief to just speak about his tormentors.And then, after finally being rescued, he had more continued hell to experience - How to live with his nightmares and the constant reminders of his pain and captivity. I thoroughly enjoyed the entire book; however, the ending was truly the best part.  I wanted to stand up a cheer, &#34;Alright, already, enough!&#34;I read the book on my Kindle and very much appreciate the ability to highlight meaningful paragraphs, and to read the highlights of others.  I return to the book occasionally just to read highlights and relive the experience of reading this wonderful book.
5 The author of 'Seabiscuit" does not disappoint in her second book so savour the saga and words that bring so alive the wonderful generation of WW2 men that fought and often gave their lives for our freedom.Simply the best time I've spent on a book in ages.
5 I am not one to read war stories.  However, my stepfather always told me about the war over and over.  He passed away and I miss his stories.  So, a singer I love recommended this book on Twitter.  I picked it up and found it one of the most inspiring books I have ever read.
5 I read alot of World War II Books. Laura has a wonderful way to tell a story. Even something as horrible as war is. I felt almost as if I was there with Louie.I also read Seabiscut.It was also so gripping .I was so absorbed in the feel of horse racing.I will read anything she writes.
5 At first I thought I was reading a novel, instead this actually happened.I was stunned by the resilience shown by this real hero of World War II.  If you enjoyed &#34;Band of Brothers&#34;, this book will rock your socks.Thanks to Laura Hillenbrand for writing this.  It is a stunning accomplishment.
4 Words cannot describe the hells that Louis Zamperini and other Pacific POWs journeyed through. It's nearly impossible to believe that mere men, mortal and flawed like the rest of us, could survive such atrocities as were enacted against them by the Japanese during World War II. And not only that, but the obsession of one particularly irrational and sadistic guard made the atrocities Louis faced some of the worst. Zamperini's story will further open your eyes to the horrors of war, allow you new perspective and factoids on the conditions in the Pacific, and make you cringe with disgust along the way. Beware readers, if your emotional state is in disarray, 95% of this story is not a happy one. But of course, no survival story would be complete without an uplifting and inspiring ending, an ending that makes you appreciate the comparatively comfortable life that you and I have lived. For that, Zamperini's story deserves an unlimited amount of stars. Truly one of the toughest men you'll ever hear of, physically, spiritually, and mentally. And throughout it all, Louis managed to maintain his charisma, his sense of humor, his charm, making him one of the most enthralling characters, fictional or non-fictional, that you will ever know.On the other hand, I was not an enormous fan of Laura Hillenbrand's writing style. Sure, she put her work in. Lots of it. Her research was meticulous, her ability to piece together a story fantastic. My biggest problem with her writing was that she did not offer enough of her own opinion or insight. Perhaps the story told itself and she did not want to interfere, but I thought she could have done much more. As Louis himself once said, Hillenbrand knew more about his life than he did. If she was such an expert, why not inject her thoughts every now and again? (It's worth it to note that she did, a couple of times, but I wanted more!). Instead, she opted for terse, objective sentences, telling the story as if a play-by-play announcer, but never offering the flourish of a color commentator. Also, her halfhearted inclusion of the story of Russell Allen Phillips did not do much for me. I understand the necessity of offering other points of view, but the breaks of Zamperini's story in which she told them seemed like just that: breaks in the action! Not to mention, they were always awkwardly placed. Hillenbrand wrote in the book that Russell Allen Phillips always felt a bit of frustration and anger for being a sidebar, an afterthought of Zamperini's story. But Hillenbrand herself is guilty of committing this very same crime! Also, Hillenbrand at times seemed to censor this into a PG-13 story, instead of the R one which it should have been (and trust me, if this makes it to theaters, it will be rated R). She often opted for less grotesque language, which I do not believe captured the full, jarring effect of what these guys truly went through.Despite these complaints, this book is certainly worth a read overall. Go for it.
4 This story was so engrossing.  I had forgotten many of the aspects of World War II in the Pacific, particularly those related to prisoners of war.  This was such a courageous story of survival and faith to overcome obstacles.  Laura Hillenbrand weaves an engaging story that is well documented and obviously fact based but reads like the best fiction.
5 Riviting-not for the faint of heart as it's a tough read for what the main character went through during his life.  This book is so enspiring and a testiment to the human spirit.  I would highly recommend this book as it's one of the best books I have ever read.  I don't like to go into detail of books I review as it spoils it for the prospective reader.  When I ordered this book, I had no idea of what it was about.  I could not put it down.
4 The story of Louie Zamperini is an amazing one. I cannot believe that he survived all that he did. This book was so well put together, beautifully written & really engaged me. Cheers to Louie & Laura.
5 Sometimes books, movies, or restaurants get a lot of hype and buzz but really are not what they are cracked up to be.  Unbroken is everywhere nowadays - bookstores, my local grocery store is selling it. I just saw online that there is a movie deal.Is it the real deal?Yes, Unbroken is an amazing biography, and it is most definitely the real deal. I plowed right through 450 pages of text in near-record time, devouring chunks of a story that continued to take new twists and turns and lead me to follow Louis Zamperini from the heights of athletic glory in the 1936 Berlin Olympics to the literal pits of despair in a digging out prison camp latrine with his bare hands in order to earn enough grains of rice to barely fuel his ravaged, starved body.Louis Zamperini grew up as a juvenile deliquent in Torrance, California - a restless kid who, at the urging of his big brother, finally channelled his impressive running skills into something more acceptable than running away from the law. Louis used those skills to earn a spot on the 1936 U.S. Olympic team. He competed well, but expected to do better at the 1940 and 1944 games, which of course were later cancelled due to World War II.Instead of running in the Olympics, Louis found himself training to be a bombardier on a B-24 and heading off to fight in the Pacific Theater.  On a search and rescue mission in 1943, his plane went down and only Louis and two crewmates survived. After floating at sea for 47 days (and losing a raftmate), Louis and his pilot Russell Phillips were picked up by Japanese soldiers and eventually transferred through a series of POW camps, each new one more horrific than the last until the end of the war, including one horrible guard nickamed The Bird.Hillenbrand 's descriptions of the terrible torture of floating at sea, the humiliations he suffered in the POW camps, the incredible kindness showed by a precious few guards are exquisite. Her descriptions of his post-traumatic stress disorder and his difficulties in adjusting to civilian life after the war are painful but it is a joy to see him turn his life around, discard the justifiable and understandable anger and move on to make his life count in the best ways he knows how.
5 Laura Hillenbrand hit another one out of the park with this book! Well researched, well documented, and well written. Louie Zamperini's story for most people today will be both inspiring and hard to fathom. Reading this book will give you a new appreciation for the sacrifice, devotion and honor our World War II veterans not only exhibited but lived. It will also give you an idea of the capacity of a human being to forgive. Highly recommend this book!
5 Hillenbrand is a great writer.  You take on the characters that you are reading about.  I was on the raft with Louie in the middle of the Pacific and then I was with him in the squalor of a prison camp in Japan.  I love this kind of writing and how it captures you.  Christians will love the ending, but she does not over do it.
5 I love WWII stories,and this was a great story.  Louie was an amazing person.  Too bad he didn't get to the Olympics like he wanted.
5 Laura Hillenbrand's book UNBROKEN is a biography of the life of Louie Zamperini, an Olympic gold medal runner, but more importantly an American Soldier during WWII.  The book starts at his birth and takes you through his entire life.  At first I didn't really care for the story as I did not know who this person was and thought he was a really rotten child and troubled person overall.  I was wondering why this part of the book was even necessary and couldn't wait to get through to the WWII portion of the story.  Once I got to the part where he is drafted and trained as a bombardier, it still seemed to me to be taking quite a while to get to what the book was supposed to actually be about - a person whose plane crashed into the Pacific, and how they survived being lost at sea; but this book is so much more than that.  The story is amazing.I had never read about what the soldiers went through or even though about it, it was something that fortunately had never touched my life, but this story gave me a totally different perspective and appreciation of what these men went through in protecting our country.  I was not expecting what I read.  I found myself staying up until ridiculous hours reading because I did not want to put the book down; even though what I was reading was making me very sad.  There was one point where I had to stop reading because it actually was so creepy, I wanted to wait and continue reading in the daylight - this was just before the chapter entitled "Monster", and I was glad I waited.  It was shocking to me what people will do to one another and disheartening.  Each time I thought the Japanese could not possibly do anything worse to the men, they did.  And the thing that made me most sad was that this was all true and had actually happened.The best part, for me was toward the end when Louie finally pulls it all together and uses all the bad things that had happened in his life, for good.  He finds the place he needs to be, and helps others in ways he never could have, had he not lived the life he did.  Even his wrong doings in his youth were a driving force in later helping others.  I don't want to give away too many specifics and ruin the read for you.  If nothing else, it will give you a better appreciation of what many soldiers had to deal with, and why we should be praying for them each and every day.  If you decide to pick this book up - I promise you will be happy you read it, and you will have a hard time putting it down until you get to the end.I received this book free from Water Brook Multnomah Publishing Group for this review.
5 This story would be unbelievable if it weren't true.  Louie Zamperini had legendary good luck and lived to tell the story.  A great perspective on America's war in the Pacific.
5 Summary - a great book.What makes this book stand out from many other biographies, is that the author has taken significant time to not only address the biography, but then take time out at opportune points to explain the history and context surrounding Zamperini's life. For example, when talking about his time in training to be a bomber, she takes time to talk about the process, the experience of many and the risks and dangers that were involved simply in training. Or when talking about the time spent in a raft at sea, she also mentions others who had similar experiences.This extra work provides a more complete story than a single persons perspective. Whilst it is that life and perspective you are reading for, the eztra detail just makes the book shine so much more than others.Highly recommended.
5 The book is well written and presents the story well.  Easy to recommend to others.  It ius a good read and well worth it.
2 I quit reading this half-way through the book. I've been layed up with foot surgery the last 8 days so I should have sailed through this, but I just can't go it any longer. Frankly, if it wasn't what we are reading for my book club I would't have read it this far. It's supposed to be inspirational, but I only find it teadious. &#34;Unbroken&#34; is well written and has some very interesting moments. Instead of focusing on Louis Zamperini's thoughts and emotions during his ordeals, the focus is on the blow-by-blow ordeals and abuses. Not for me. I'm done.(less)
5 If this wasn't non-fiction you would say it couldn't happen. From the preface the reader is hooked. The rebellious childhood, track star at the Olympics, WWII flyboy crashing in the pacific, isn't that enough? Then comes the Japanese prison camps which should be unsurvivable, but  that would be for anyone else.
5 This story of Louie Zamperini begins with his life as young boy in California, a rambunctious, daring, restless boy driven by some inner fire he did not understand. He would steal and then give away what he had stolen, and once ran away to wander around San Diego for days before finally going back home. Constantly into fights with the neighborhood boys, the fights escalated and became so serious, the neighbors forbade their kids from even going near him.  Then he began to run and he ran his way into the Berlin Olympics where he shook hands with Hitler and was nearly shot for stealing a Nazi souvenir. Later he joined the army-air corp and when Pearl Harbor was bombed, drawing America into war, he was assigned as part of a flight crew to fly missions in the Pacific Theatre. In May of 1943, his plane went into the ocean.Louie and two other men were able to get into a life raft and then began long, arduous days at sea, fighting hunger, sharks, and the relentless sun. One man died and the other two finally come ashore on a Japanese held island. Soon captured, they lived, in those prison camps, a depravation that seems humanly impossible to endure. The book also tells of the personal battles Louie fought to survive after the war.  I loved this book. The author is to be commended for her skill and insight into the life of this ordinary, yet extraordinary man.Eunice Boeve, author of Crossed Trails
5 "Unbroken," by Lauren Hillenbrand, is the inspirational story of a courageous and resilient man, Louis Silvie Zamperini who, after flying a series of dangerous missions during World War II, spent over forty days stranded in the Pacific Ocean on a life raft with two of his buddies.  They were scorched by the sun, buffeted by storms, and subsisted on a minuscule amount of food and water.  Subsequently, Zamperini was captured and interned in a series of brutal Japanese POW camps where he was treated mercilessly by his sadistic captors.  Miraculously, he emerged, battered and emaciated, but still alive.  Little did he know that some of his biggest battles still lay ahead.This work of non-fiction, told in five parts, is more than a biography.  It is a depiction of an era when fighting took precedence over family, vocation, and education.  The sacrifices made by "the greatest generation" were incalculable.  Louie Zamperini, an enormously talented track star, had dreams of winning an Olympic medal.  However, this son of Italian immigrants had to give up his promising future of athletic glory.  Louis was drafted and became a bombardier in the air corps.  He and his fellow airmen flew the B-24, known as the Flying Coffin because of its excessive weight, mechanical defects, and lack of maneuverability.  The author provides shocking statistics about the number of fliers who died during training accidents because of faulty aircraft.  "In 1943 in the Pacific Ocean Areas Theater...for every plane lost in combat, some six planes were lost in accidents."  A staggering "35,946 personnel died in non-battle situations."Hillenbrand covers a great deal of territory.  She places us in airplanes alongside the fighter pilots who are being attacked by the enemy; on the ocean with three marooned men who are starving, dehydrated, hallucinating, and on the verge of being devoured by hungry sharks; and in the prisoner of war camps, where a psychotic Japanese corporal, known as Bird, repeatedly unleashes his insane aggression on Louie.  Bird, and others like him, beat, humiliate, and starve their American captives who are, according to international law, supposed to be treated humanely.This book is a marvel of research.  The author conducted countless interviews and consulted reams of documents, all of which she cites in her extensive endnotes.  Some will find that the most harrowing part of the book is how close Louie came to self-destruction after the war was over.  His experiences left him prone to nightmares, feelings of deep-seated rage, and alcoholism.  Louie had to find a way to rebuild his shattered life."Unbroken" is not for everyone.  Hillenbrand spends a great deal of time depicting grisly details about excruciating subjects.  In addition, the book is a bit too long, and could have been edited with no loss of coherence.  Still, anyone who is unfamiliar with the travails of those who left family and friends behind to serve in the Second World War will find this book both enlightening and wrenching.  "Unbroken" is not just a disheartening depiction of man's inhumanity to man.  It is also a testament to the indomitable power of the human spirit to overcome even the most daunting challenges.
5 This was such an intense and emotional book.  What a journey.  It's a wonder he and the others were able to survive under such extreme conditions.  It put a whole new prospective for the military.
5 Wow! What a story! I am singing the praises of this book to everyone I know. The story is harrowing, emotional, and inspirational.  The writing as good as it gets.I can now say that Ms. Hillenbrand has written two of my favorite books.Please, do yourself a favor and read the wonderful story about a truly amazing American Hero.
5 Recommend to everyone who has survived a war, fought in a war, or especially someone who has never experienced anything close to war. We all need to KNOW how that touches humanity and what price others have paid to let us have such independence we treasure. I just sent a Veterans Day shout-out to friends about this book. I thank Laura Hillenbrand for her excellent prose in telling this story.
5 I couldn't put this book down, so it was a fast read despite its length. Worthwhile for anyone,especially if you had or have a pacific vet in the family.
5 I won't give a synopsis but this book is a great testament to an entire generation of men and women who were incredibly strong and resilient. Laura Hillenbrand gives a highly detailed story of not only one man's life story but of how the armed forces handled a difficult arena.  The battles are incredibly detailed and fact checked over and over again. I didn't know this story before reading the book but was mesmerized for the entire book. I highly recommend this story if you have an interest in WW II or just a great human interest story
3 Louis Zamperini the American runner, who was an Olympic medal winner in 1936,  led a great life and I judge that Laura Hillenbrand has omitted very little of it in her book.  That's the problem.  There's a piling on of what seems like "same old, same old thing."  How many times do we have to be told how the shark was bopped on the nose with an oar?  How many times that Lou was beaten to a pulp by The Bird, his incessant tormentor?  A severe editing would have helped this book a lot.  Nevertheless this is a very good story of life's ambition cut short by war; survival at sea; Japanese prisoner abuse; readjusting to civilian life; overcoming alcoholism and living a life to help others.
5 A story of real courage, resilience, redemption. I never met Louie, but his brother Pete was my high school coach at Torrance High School in 1947. The brutality of the Japanese killed many. This is the story of one Unbroken G.I. who overcame his emotional scars with his spiritual faith. Beautifully researched and written by Laura Hillenbrand.
5 Bought it for my Kindle, but picked up the hard cover for my kid's reading assignment for school. It was what I expected and wanted, but really enjoyed all of the  world events of the 30's leading into the war.
5 It is hard to imagine that this is a true story. The ability of a person to be able to withstand continous and startling conflict is revealed in the numerous events of this story. One comes away with a sense of both sadness and horrow for the atrocities committed.
5 Amazing story of a person and time history aught not to forget. Really enjoyable reading experience. Everyone needs to read the book.
5 Regrettably, I had never read a book on war (Female, Gen X). I purchased this Kindle book based purely on its reviews - THANK YOU to those reviewers who gave people like myself the willingness to dive into an unknown genre. The story of Louis Zamperini was powerful, heart wrenching and captivating. After finishing the book I still wanted to know more and set about Googling Louis, thankful to find he is still with us and at the age of 94, is still full of life and challenging himself. As for this genre, now when I hear or see anything regarding WWII, I stop and take note.
5 There are plenty of summaries of the storyline already posted, so I'll just say that this is easily one of the best written books and most compelling stories I've ever read. The story of Zamperini's survival on a life raft in the Pacific is worth the price of the book.  And the rest of the story has enough plot twists to make mystery and thriller readers happy.  The eventual message of forgiveness and redemption is handled eloquently.  Zamperini was truly a hero, along with so many of the other American soldiers whose stories are interwoven with his.Bottom line: this is the only book I've read in the last few years I would give 5 stars.  And I've read 35 on my Kindle since December!
5 Laura Hillenbrand thrilled us with "Seabiscuit." In doing that research, she heard someone contend that the only one who could beat a local LA runner was Seabiscuit himself. That runner was Louie Zamperini.Louie grew up a troubled youth in Torrance, California. Hillenbrand takes us through Louie's youthful adventures in petty crime and contrasts his behavior with that of his brother, Pete. Pete got a hold of Louie and insisted he learn to run before the petty crimes turned into something serious. Pete mentored Louie to a scholarship at USC and a place in the 1936 Olympics. Just as Louie was preparing to graduate and to make a bid for the next Olympics, war broke out.Like the thousands of other men in his generation, Louie joined the service. He didn't intend to become part of the Air Corps, but that was where he was sent. After dangerous training missions in which hundreds of novice pilots and their crews died learning their work, Louie was assigned to duty in Hawaii.On a day of misfortune, he and a crew went out on the "Green Hornet," searching for a lost plane. The "Green Hornet" never returned. All aboard were declared dead after a search could find no trace of them. However, Louie and two others drifted on a raft for weeks, only to fall into enemy hands and become prisoners of war.Hillenbrand takes us through the POW camps, the captors ranging from kind and respectful to absolute psychopaths. Louie becomes the target of one of the worst of the guards, enduring beatings, humiliation, and starvation. These are difficult chapters to read because Hillenbrand uses all means of research to convey the complete debasement, outside the Geneva Conventions, that the prisoners were subjected to.They lived in constant fear of mass executions, even as the war was turning in America's favor.The book details life after the war, the search for meaning and the horror of PTSD that almost killed Louie when the tormentors themselves did not.This is a well-researched chilling account of man's inhumanity to man. The air men, depicted in Hillenbrand's words and archived photographs from the era, show us the heroism of the individual and the unity of the corps.
4 I read the book, but parts of that reality were very painful.  The incredible survival ability of the main character and the f,act it was a true story was unbelievably moving.  A .painful, but must read.  The writing scope o,f the author is astonishing.  She went from Seabisquit to Unbroken.  Wonderful.
5 COULD NOT PUT IT DOWN.  RECOMMEND TO EVERYONE .  UNBELIEVABLE COURAGE.  INCREDIBLE TO BELIEVE THERE CAN BE SO MUCH RESILIENCE IN ONE HUMAN BEING.
4 Like a lot of readers, I was drawn to this book by the exceptional professional reviews. However, I have to admit that when I started the book I was completely disappointed. The beginning of the story was sloooooooow and repetitive, and not particularly well-written. However, after getting through the early chapters, the book picked up steam in a hurry. Even still, it wasn't quite the book I expected. This was a war story, which does not by any stretch take away from the book. Though it wasn't what I had expected, it was fantastic after the early chapters.As others have summarized, the book follows the story of Louie Zamperini, an Olympic runner from Los Angeles. The first chapters of the book cover his somewhat troubled youth and his rise to brilliance as a track star. This background is essential to understanding how Mr. Zamperini survived his POW ordeal, but got a bit repetitive after awhile.The bulk of the book is the story of Mr. Zamperini's time with the Army Air Corps and in Japanese POW camps, and this is where the book really took flight. Building on her extensive research, Hillenbrand paints a very vivid and disturbingly realistic picture of the Pacific Theater in WWII. The travails of the POWs in the Japanese camps are very painful to read about, and left me with an even greater admiration for anyone who managed to survive there for even a single day. Thanks to the Nazis, the atrocities committed by the Japanese tend to be a footnote in the history of WWII, but this book brings them to the forefront. As the story unfolds, it becomes clear how Mr. Zamperini's early life experiences may have actually prepared him to survive these camps.Overall, I definitely recommend this book with the caution that it's not a lighthearted story of overcoming the odds. It's actually more of a detailed historical work of Pacific POW camps that may very well affect you for the rest of your life. Stick with it.
4 This is an amazing story of a U.S. Olympian who ends up in a Japanese POW camp and survives against all odds. War and aviation buffs will particularly enjoy this book for the plentiful relevant details but the book is very interesting for any audience. It takes a while to get into as we learn about Zamperini's childhood and how he became an Olympics-grade runner. His life then takes a turn with the start of World War 2 and puts him along with two comrades on a raft in the middle of the Pacific for over 40 days after their fighter plane is shut down. Much of the rest of the book describes his suffering and courage in the POW camp (much more emphasis on the courage). Upon liberation, he fights another fight, this time against the post-war demons of anger, alcoholism, and general trauma, and wins it admirably.Some have mentioned the story is hard to believe. There may be embellished parts of it, I am not certain, but the author definitely has done her research and provides numerous references. Louis Zamperini is still alive as of when this is being written and we are fortunate he was able to retell his story to the author. It is not an easy book to read but I highly recommend it.
5 What a story! Couldn't put it down. Just had to see what happened to Louie. What a tale of survival this was.
5 I was riveted to this book; there was never a dull part. The story of Louie  Zamperini is truly amazing, he was an incredible individual with a rock hard will to survive.
5 Incredible story.  The Kindle edition was fine.  Enjoyed the pictures which don't always seem to make it in the Kindle version.
5 I am not a war history buff by any means, but having read Hillenbrand's Seabiscuit I couldn't resist buying Unbroken.  Started reading it Thursday night and finished Sunday night.  It was simply stunning.  She is such a fabulous storyteller that you are drawn in immediately.  Praise the Lord for the men and women who fought in World War II and all other wars with courage and stamina beyond human capability.  As Americans we can live free.  We are forever in our military's debt.  Thank you Louie & Phil.
3 I understand that it is important to know the agonies suffered by POWs. But in Hillenbrand's book, we suffer through each incident along with Zamperini. I agree with other reviewers who note that these endless details don't really add to a compelling read.I admire Zamperini for struggling through all he did and living such a rich, long life.  But there are some deeper questions I have that are not answered. I'm left with an overall negative impression of the Japanese as painted by this book, rather than a people who have had a lot to reconcile for themselves since World War II.By drawing some deeper metaphors and lessons rather than rattling off the litany of ails that befell Zamperini, we would have been treated to a much more fascinating book.
5 It was recommended to me by a man I sat next to on an airplane. The first one I ordered was out of stock by the time they received my order. So I waited awhile and ordered it from a different vender. When I got it, it came on time and was in the condition promised, I sat down and started to read it. I couldn't put it down. I would recommend it to any mature individual. There are a lot of situations that would be difficult for a younger reader to handle.
4 Remarkable story of courage in spite of nearly insurmountable odds.  I would recommend it to anyone interested in WWII Pacific Theatre stories as well as any combat veteran. The author brought a human face to pain, suffering and hope.Editorially, some of the torture scenes became 'redundant'... it made me reconsider how many times you can beat a dead horse.This may sound callus since he did have to endure them all; however, the reader quickly gets the sense of the inevitability and sense of helplessness.
5 Inspiring and horrific at the same time, this is a masterful book about an astonishing person.  I will read this book again.
1 It was recommended to me by someone, who, like me and the protagonist, grew up in Torrance, California.  I didn't recognize the Torrance in this book at all.  Writing was pedestrian -- evidently no one ever told Laura Hillenbrand: &#34;Show, don't tell, the reader.&#34;  Couldn't get past page 10/
5 A profoundly moving story about the transcendent capacity of the human spirit to endure the unspeakable. The biographer of Louis Zamperini describes his delinquent childhood, the successful redirection of his errant energies into running, and his history as an award-winning Olympian before his entry into the Army Air Force during WW2.The crash of his plane over the shark-infested Pacific Ocean began a whole new chapter in Louis' life. Imagine 46 days with no food or water and hungry sharks rubbing the bottom of the lifeboat in eager anticipation?Author Laura Hillenbrand analyzes Louis' capacity to survive:"Though all three men (in the life raft) faced the same hardship, their differing perspectives of it appeared to be shaping their fates. Louis' and Phil's hope displaced their fear and inspired them to work towards their survival and each success renewed their physical and emotional vigor...Louis and Phil's optimism were becoming self-fulfilling."Their fateful landing was not at all the joy they'd hoped for: they were held POW in Japanese camps and there treated to the most inhumane of cruelty by Japanese guards, the worst being `The Monster' Watanabe who, through incessant beatings, tried to deprive Louis and his friends of their most important possession - human dignity.Author Hillenbrand comments: "This self-respect and sense of self-worth, the innermost armament of the soul, lies at the heart of humanness; to be deprived of it is to be de-humanized, ...In its absence, men are defined not by themselves, but by their captors... In captivity in Kwajalein, Louis and Philip learned a dark truth known to the doomed in Hitler's death camps, the slaves of the American South, and a hundred other generations of betrayed people."This powerful history cum biography describes amazing American and Australian POW survival tactics that kept them alive and as well, outlines the worst consequences of survival, namely post-war trauma, wherein the victim of abuse can actually destroy his own rescued life.We learn how Louie's post-war trauma was healed and with every page are astonished at this brave story of human resilience.Congratulations to author Laura Hillenbrand for her excellent accomplishment of 400 pages of inspiration.Eleanor Cowan, author of :A History of a Pedophile's Wife: Memoir of a Canadian Teacher and Writer
5 Amazing what one man went through and still survived.  The prisoners that lived still had to come home and live with their memories
4 This is an actual account of a man who survived inhuman treatment during WWII.  His endurance is paramount to human none other than I have heard or read about.  It was a page turner from the very beginning.  I was just enthralled by his ability to survive the things that took place and were subjected against him.  It gave me pause to think of all that he went through and yet was still &#34;unbroken&#34; by everything put against him.  It will be one of the most unforgettable reads that you will ever encounter.
3 This book is much loved according to the ratings here.  It is certainly understandable.  In addition, author has received numerous accolades and awards.Hillenbrand has taken an amazing story and made its central figure a remarkable survivor who is a great inspiration.  Along with that, she's highlighted other survivors who with great life force endured a horrendous capture by the Japanese.  Kudos.However, despite the epic saga (and I do mean that), the writing is often stiff and confusing and does not flow well.  Words frequently are stilted, choppy, awkward.My suggestion: read it anyway.  My women friends raved.  And you'll like the pictures...
5 I could not put this book down!  What's great about this book is that it reads just like a fictional story in that the action is non-stop!  But of course, it's about a real man and his real life...From beginning to end, I was absolutely riveted by this amazing story, by his amazing life, and by his unbelievable journey.  I cried, and I laughed.  Thanks to Laura for bringing Zamp's story to life.
5 This is a wonderful book -- very exciting and keeps you eagerly reading to find out what will happen next!  The most amazing thing about it, is that it is a true story about a real hero who survived horrendous conditions and the brutality of other men.Laura Hillenbrand has a wonderful ability to understand her subject and bring it out for us.
5 This book was a hard read for me as I am always  amazed at man's inhumanity to man. I am also amazed at man's ability to survive the horrific things life can throw at us. I also loved the history lesson this story told us as well. I would recommend this book and I am glad I finished it just after Memorial Day!
5 I wondered how the story would unfold, since it started with the story of a young boy and his family.  It developed into a true picture of life during the horrors of World War II, as experienced by the men and women who served in the military, as well as those on the home front, helping the war effort and waiting for loved ones to return home. We are all indebted to the brave men and women, especially those who were in the POW camps, suffering at the hands of their cruel captors. A book well worth reading  Elizabeth C.D.
5 Well written tale of an amazing man and his unbelievable strength in overcoming  horrifying experiences. Truly an American Hero in so many aspects!
5 Apart from being a master of literary nonfiction, the authorhas rendered a precious national service. I have no betterwords to say but a deeply grateful: "Thank You". America andher people, exemplified here by Mr. Zamperini, Mr. Phillips,Mr. Harris, and the other brave hearts, are a special breed.For all of our faults as a nation, the drive for goodnessand for freedom reaches down into the human heart. We knowfreedom is not just freedom of speech, freedom to criticiseour government, but the most precious freedom of all:freedom from hatred, from victimhood, from fear, and this isa war that we all wage in great and small ways. Americansknow how to rise up into spiritiual grace better and deeperthan any other people I know, and Zamperini and Phillipsand Hillenbrand herself and the other beautiful Americansbrought to life by this book, carry this torch for us.I bow in gratitude for their beauty of spirit and theircourage. I thank Ms. Hillenbrand for this masterpiece ofhistory; let the story be enshrined in our hearts and passedon with all its incredible meaning to those who will follow.And a Million Thanks to Billy Graham for saving this onesoul, and undoubtedly, thousands of others. We are a rich andever prosperous nation with such people as these, and theirkind, among us.And [do not read if you haven't read the book yet] I believethat when Mr. Zamperini walked among his former oppresserswith a big American smile and handshake, free of all hatredand a drive for revenge, he showed those Japanese thatthey not only lost the air, land and sea war, they lost thewar of the human spirit. Neither the Bird, the Quack andthe other Japanese animals who reigned supreme in the POWcamps, will EVER know the happiness, the joy, the lovein living that Mr. Zamperini knows. He is truly free, asis his beautiful country.
4 This was a strange read in that the story was great but the writing was awful. To suffer through a highly repetitive plot that often seemed to be staggering on just for the sake of a great story made for an odd reading odyssey. I would recommend it for Louie's amazing life, but not if the reader wants great prose, as well.
5 Another well written true story told by Laura Hillenbrand. I couldn't stop reading . Surprised to see what turned him back around . Read it!! Love it!! Share it!!
5 This was an excellent book.  It is well written to the extent I read every word.  The story is gripping, the research for the book very well done, and I loved that there were so many illustrations.  I would recommend the book to young adults on up.  Having lived through those years, I can say it is a crucial piece of history of this country and the American people.
5 This was a book requested by husband who read and liked it very much. It is not the kind of book I would read so I have not read it.
5 This was a book that grips one by the brain and holds and folds the reader into the story. Charlie is the American and Franz is the German, yet one pilot sees the other pilot in a heap of trouble as he struggles to keep his plane in the air over Europe. Does the German shoot him down? Well, I will leave the story for other readers to be pulled into the story.
5 This book is a must read.  It shows the determination and strength of an individual in wartime.  It is inspirational and at the same time realistic.
5 Well written TRUE story of strong men who overcame all odds to survive.People have no idea what suffering the POWs endured!
5 I can't add anything new to the chorus of praise. Louis Zamperini's story is astonishing, and Laura Hillenbrand's telling of it is great. Thanks, both of you.
5 I don't read nonfiction. Like, ever. Reading is my release and escape and often guilty pleasure; I don't generally read for solely educational purposes, and I find that most nonfiction bores the pants off me. So with that disclaimer, here is my review.I finished this book in three days. I could not put it down. It was that good.There were things I didn't like about it: I almost stopped reading after the first 20 pages because I hated the protagonist so much (he was a complete punk when he was a kid). The descriptions of atrocities committed in wartime and POW camps were vivid, and the author's words were so evocative and painted such a real picture in my mind that there were times I seriously almost threw up. Her treatment of the subject matter is very tasteful, but I found that some of the parts that disturbed me the most were those that she left mostly to the imagination. It was not a light read by any means--really, much of it was unbelievably horrific--but the story and the characters were real and transcendent.As I read, I marveled again and again that this was a real story, that people really lived it, that they made it through these crucibles and went on to have lives and families. The way it played out was like a movie to me; the level of detail involved is enormous, and the events that play out are incredible.In Unbroken, real life rivals fiction and surpasses imagination. It made me more grateful, more humble, more trusting in redemption. You should read this book.
5 Hillenbrand has written a story that is not only gripping in the details of one man's amazing life, but manages at the same time to be about all humanity.  Survival really is just the beginning; you have to learn to live again.  Beautifully written, Unbroken is in the end a testimony to God's unfailing grace.  A must read...
5 Whenever anyone complains about something mundane, I suggest they read this book.  I know there are many prisoners of war who also received terrible treatment, and all of them should be respected for what they went through.  This book brings it home.
5 It was very good.  I have since read about Louis Zamperini and liked Unbroken even more.  Would recommend it to anyone.
5 At Christmas time my daughter called and recommended I get "Unbroken" for my husband.  After he read and totally raved about it, I placed the book on my nightstand but kept putting off starting it.  Finally, last week I decided it was time to find out why all the hype.  Now I can only lament "why did I take so long?".I am an avid reader, but I must honestly say that this is one of the most inspiring books I have ever had the pleasure of reading.  It is beautifully written - the author brings the characters alive to the point that I almost felt that I was going though the experience personally.  I found myself going through so many different emotions - anger, fear, joy - depending on what was happening on the pages I was reading.  Even though I pretty well knew how how it would end, I still found myself loathe to put it down as I was so pulled so into the story and wanted to see what would happen from page to page.Having been born the same year as the bombing of Pearl Harbor and being the daughter of a career Naval Officer who served in the Pacific, I had heard stories about what POWs had gone through at the hands of their Japanese guards.  However, I still wasn't fully prepared for the brutality that was shown in the camps.  Years ago it was explained to me why President Truman bombed Hiroshima and Nagasaki, but until I read this book I didn't totally understand how necessary that decision was.  It would have been far worse to allow the war to continue as many more lives - both American and Japanese - would have been lost.  The Japanese way of life was very different back then and honor was so important to their leaders that they weren't even considering defeat, no matter what.As a former Army wife whose ex-husband served two tours in Vietnam and having lived twice in the Middle East, I would love to see this book become required reading in many of the colleges so that the students (and even their professors)could understand more fully the nasty realities that go on during times of war.  Many other cultures in the world think very differently than we do and that sometimes harsh steps have to be taken in the short term in order to make the world a safer place in the long run.
5 Honestly, I have nothing new to add here but to second the opinions of all those who say it's an inspiring, thoroughly interesting book. It's not just good because it's a story about a remarkable man and the remarkable people in his life; it's also good because Laura Hillenbrand writes so well. It is written in a way in which you're not conscious of the writing. Words are used only as a means to present the life of Louis Zamperini, not as a neon sign to advertise the writer's bravado with language.There are times when reading a book is about marveling at the poignant writing (a Toni Morrison novel, for example), then there are times when only the writer knows to get out of the way, to use language to plant the seeds of a story in a mind and to cultivate it until it's a tree rooted so deeply it feels like a real experience. That is a balancing act to be sure, and few can do it. Hillenbrand does it. What you're left with is to marvel at the strength of soul in Louis Zamperini.I was especially encouraged by Zamperini's faith in God through Christ, but I won't explain more as to not give away what happens. A colleague of mine, on the other hand, who is not a Christian was not as pleased with that part of the book yet she said she still loved the book tremendously.This is one of those reads that I think everyone should experience.
4 I've read only 17% of the story about the life and experiences of Louis Zamperinibut I would heartily recommend it for anyone interested in the 1936 Olympics and WorldWar II.  It is extremely well written, informative and captivating. I could possiblyrate it 5 stars after finishing.
2 I don't often review books (or anything else, for that matter), but I was so disappointed with this book that I just felt I  had to post a review.  Although the early part of this book were somewhat entertaining, the author thereafter embarks upon a repetitous and boring drone, the object of which is to elevate Louis Zamperini to a person about whom a biography must be written.  The book is a complete waste of time and I literally had to force myself to finish it.  The writing is akin to that of a high schooler.  Please save your money and give this one a pass.
5 Although this focuses mainly on Louis Zamperini, the graphic description of the horrors of WWII POW's should be a reminder to everyone of the resilience of the human spirit on the one hand and man's capacity to inflict pain on others.  Only faith in a gracious and true God can sustain us all.
5 This is book of resilience, one about the spirit of never giving in.  I was more than moved by this book. Laura is a woman to never be forgotten.
5 A heartbreaking account of atrocities suffered by servicemen and women - without breaking their spirit or resolve to stay true to their country.
5 A remarkable and inspirational story of survival, strength and fortitude.While the life of Louis Zamperini is extraordinary, Laura Hillenbrand captures youAnd take yoh into his world from the first sentence.An absolute must read!
4 It took me a while to get through this one. It's heavy. I think Hillenbrand did a great job telling us about his life, though. I don't personally like WWII books, but even though it took me forever, I liked his story.
5 Totally inspiring and intense as you imagine what he went through. What a lesson in humanity, strength, resilience and forgiveness. Well written as you would expect from this author. A keeper and a great gift for those that haven't read it. Easy reading but hard to imagine that someone could go through so much and come out better in the end! Cant say enough about it! Get this book!!!
4 What an incredible story of endurance, survival, torture and heroism. Such a compelling story but dragged out by the level of detail the author brings in. At times in the book I feel like I am living Zamperini's hell in real-time.The well-researched details made it a bit hard to get through but at the same time I learned so much about the US WWII efforts in the Pacific theater. I even impressed my husband with my new knowledge on B-24s! :)So the book loses stars because it gets bogged down but it gains stars because of the story. It's a good read for those of us whose strongest subject is not history but we are still interested. In short, Louis Zamperini's life before the war, during the war and after the war is worth reading about.
5 For those of us who had Greatest Generation parents, this is such a moving tribute, not to just one man, but to all of them. The spirit and bravery of the remarkable Louie speaks for so many of them.After reading this, I gave it to my teenage grandson to broaden his knowledge of his great grandparents, and a world gone by.
5 The story of Louis Zamperini is an amazing one. Having that story told in excellent prose makes for a book that I could not put down. I read in just a few sittings and I even when I wasn't reading I could not stop thinking about it. How people can be so evil? How some can be so brave and strong despite all adversity?!! How stupid war is!!Basically the book follow Louis Zamperini's trouble youth, his evolution to a top athlete, his military carreer during WWII, his grueling and terrifying days in a raft surrounded by sharks after this plane crashed in the pacific, the torture and humiliation he faced in a japanese POW camp, and the aftermath of all those events.
5 What a story!! It is nearly unbelievable and a testament to the strength of the human spirit. If you haven't read this yet, you should!
5 This was my first WWII book and it was a page turner. The emotions felt throughout this book ranged from fear to great sadness to hope and happiness. It felt strange to read about someone who was alive during my time (carrying the 1984 Olympic torch in LA)  The torture seemed never ending and that was in a book. Imagine for those that endured it and then lived. How do you get pass it? Some did and others couldn't. It was also sad to read how when our soldiers come home, they are truly alone to heal themselves. PTSD was seen then and our government still seems to fall short in helping and/or recognizing vector it's too late. Sad.  Thank you for this story of life. I'm glad to have the knowledge of it and thank you Mr. Zamparini for your service.
5 this book was bought for a book club read. my mom said that because of the storyline it was very detailed. not a quick read. mom stated that every book club should read this book
5 After I had read what the story was about I decided to purchased this book for my husband. He usually doesn't like to read books but I convinced him that I just knew that he would like it even though I had not read it.  He read it every evening and took it to bed with him too until he finished it.  He shared with me what the story was about in great detail and said that I should pass this one on to other friends that he mentioned.  Great read... according to him.
5 Awesome, this is one of the top three books I've ever read.  I'm a runner and love WWII history so this was tailor made for me.  Enjoy.
5 Even if you aren't into war stories... This is so much more! It's the story of a man with an incredible ability to overcome life's worst adversities.  If you are remotely considering this book... Just do it. One of the best books I've read in years and I work in a library!
1 I am sorry to say that I am one of the few people who didn't like this book.  Louis and all of the members of the "Greatest Generation" who fought in WWII are heroes who deserve our respect, admiration and assistance, my own father being one of them, however, this book was just too tedious to finish.  It is a flat,  journalists retelling of the story of a hero that included entirely too much detail and obvious exaggeration.  As another reviewer said, this book was written in the style of a grade school term paper with choppy, short sentences that irritated me endlessly.  I finally gave up and put it down.
5 Despite the fact, or perhaps because I knew, that "Unbroken" was a huge bestseller (I am still not sure about the astuteness of the crowds), I was constantly postponing the reading of this war memoir. Eventually, I couldn't postpone it any longer, especially because this book was given to me by my grandmother along with an enthusiastic recommendation.In "Unbroken", Hillenbrand covers the life of Louis Zamperini from his days as a uncontrollable child, through his short Olympic career up to the terrible days as a prisoner in Japan. The story of Zamperini is an important one that ought to be told and widely read for mainly two reasons. The first, it brilliantly illustrates the power of the human spirit in spite of unimaginable hardship. The second, it sheds light on the atrocities the Japanese committed during WWII, and even before that in China; atrocities which are a lot less known, perhaps because they were always hiding in the long shadow of the Nazi atrocities.Reading "Unbroken" is truly like riding a roll coaster of emotions. One sentence made me laugh, and then the one after made my mouth open in shock. The third made me twitch my face in disgust. The best description of this book I could think of is an "action book," which captures a good portion of the nature of this book. There was barely any attempt to better understand, other than the obvious physical difficulties, the psychological aspects of Zamperini's remarkable story. Perhaps this is because too many exciting things occurred: hilarious pranks, the Olympics, shark attacks, capturing birds with his bare hands, Japanese, shark attacks again (this time from much bigger sharks), typhoons. While reading it I could already imagine how it would also make a great action film.Although I think deeper physiological aspects were missing, this was a thrilling and exciting read. I can imagine how my grandmother couldn't resist reading the ending of the book. She has a habit, at least in the case of very thrilling books, of reading the first 50 pages and then immediately skipping to the last 50 to find out how the story ended.
5 Incredible story.  I couldn't put it down.  Louis Zaperini has lead a life that sounds too amazing to be true, but it is.  I have never been much for reading "WWII" books but so happy I read this one.  It just shows how someone can "grap their bootstraps" and rise to any occasion with the desire and motivation to do so.  It also becomes obvious that Jesus had His hand on this man's soul. I would love to sit down with Mr. Zaperini and share a good talk.  Amazing man, amazing story, and make no mistake Ms. Laura Hillenrand is a fabulous writer.  If "Seabiscuit" didn't convince you of this, then this book will.  What a treasure we have in her writing. Thank you Laura for writing this story.
5 I love this book! Such a wonderful true story of adversity and triumph.The writing is simple and clear. The characters and events speak for themselves.It stirred my emotions. Sometimes I was both excited and terrified to read the next page. Often I was horrified by some of things I read. It's an informative read for people that want to reflect on World War II as well as a cherished American hero.
5 In order to understand the Civil War, you must read a Grant Biography.  This is the only one I've read.  I'll now have to go read his autobiography, which is supposed to be excellent.
5 Hillenbrand does it again. Like her other books she goes in depth and tells a story as few can. One of the best stories of an incredible journey i have ever read.
5 I don't read a lot, but have been absolutely enthralled with this book.  The writing is so well done that you will be able to visualize the scenes as they play out.I would give this six stars if I could.
5 Laura Hillenbrand is such a talented writer she could have taken this story and written a good book in three months.  Instead, she has created a true masterpiece. Years of productive research are compressed into one highly readable narrative.  She recognized an exceptional human story of accomplishment, hardship and redemption and used skill and passion to share it with us. I feel almost embarrassed to have spent just a few dollars to enjoy such an exquisite accomplishment in art and scholarship.
5 After completing NCO School in Okinawa, I was rated on various qualities valued by the Marine Corps.  All of my stats were average across the board, with one exception: endurance.  "If your platoon got ambushed and you were the sole survivor, you'd make it back to friendly lines," said my evaluator.  With that in mind I figured I'd check out "Unbroken" to get an idea of what such a journey might entail, and this outstanding book showed me that I was lucky never to have been tested in that regard.Louie Zamperini grew up as the poster boy for "hellion."  He was a constant source of irritation to his entire neighborhood - until the day he discovered running.  Track became his passion, culminating in an action-packed 1936 Olympic run, after which he was praised to his face by none other than Adolph Hitler.  WWII interrupted further training and he ended up in the Army Air Corps as a bombardier.  After a couple of missions his plane went down in the Pacific and he was cast adrift on a flimsy raft with little in the way of provisions.Eventually Lt. Zamperini was captured by the Japanese, and it was at that point his troubles really began.  He spent time in various POW camps where he and his comrades were brutally mistreated.  Each day brought starvation, slave labor, physical torture, disease, and psychological torment.  He managed to persevere until the atomic bombs fell on Japan and ended the war in 1945.  But that was only the beginning of Mr. Zamperini's ordeal, for he struggled mightily with PTSD while trying to rebuild his life back in America.Laura Hilllenbrand has crafted one of the best wartime biographies that I've ever read.  It was truly hard to put this book down, especially after Mr. Zamperini ends up bobbing around in the Pacific with two mates.  He had to have gonads of steel simply riding these dangerous planes into combat, not to mention fighting off swarms of ravenous sharks while starving and then go right into enduring unremitting suffering as the captive of a bitter enemy.  And to cap it off, he was little-served by a health care system woefully unprepared to deal with the psychological scars of combat vets and POWs.I don't envy Mr. Zamperini's experiences, and I'm glad that brave men like him endured so that I never had to find out firsthand if my NCO School eval was correct. Despite many awful situations and heartbreaking outcomes, "Unbroken" concludes on a high note so you won't feel like taking a Xanax after finishing the book.  If you're into biographies, particularly of military figures, then this book *must* find its way into your library.  Just read the multitude of other glowing reviews if you don't believe me.
4 I got this for my wife (who is reading it now) and she said it's great. Looking forward to the movie!
5 Hard to add much to what's already been said so I'll just say that this was an amazing story that really inspired me and made me remember how much some Americans have sacrificed to give us the opportunities that we have today.  The author does an amazing job of telling a great story that never drags.  I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who doesn't know much about the Pacific theater of WWII as it gives a great history lesson while telling a compelling tale, enjoy.
5 Louis Zamperini is an incredible man with an incredible story: one of the world's best mile runners in the 1930s, he competed in the 1936 Berlin Olympics while still a teenager. When World War II began, he went to the Pacific as a bombardier. In May 1943, his plane crashed. He floated on a life raft for 47 days until he was taken to Japan as a POW, where he lived in brutal conditions until the end of the war. Following the war, he became a Christian at Billy Graham's 1949 Los Angeles crusade, and worked for many years as an inspirational speaker.Laura Hillenbrand, author of Seabiscuit: An American Legend, has taken this narrative and told it beautifully. She has used archival research and hours of interviews to take her readers back in time to places like Torrance, CA, Hawaii, and Naoetsu, Japan. Even readers who know the broad outlines of the story will be pulled along by her skillful storytelling and attention to detail. The pace of the book never slackens, even when Zamperini is floating on the ocean or waiting out the war in a series of POW camps.This is an important book, especially as the generation that fought World War II continues to fade from the scene. Their stories are so often inspiring, educational, and edifying. I wish all their living memories were captured in such a vibrantly written way as Zamperini's has been.Note: Thanks to the publisher for a review copy. I was not asked to give a positive review.
5 This a well written and well researched book. Laura does a wonderful job of factually telling Louis' life story. I highly recommend this book.
5 This is a truly incredible story of a member of the Greatest Generation. I had heard parts of the story, but reading the whole book was truly eye-opening.
4 Fantastic and easy to read, but I give it 4 stars because it has some details that have to be made up. There is no way some of the little things could be true. Still loved it
1 The major issue I have with this book is the way the author jumped from story to anecdote to story, then came back to the main point, then disappeared into another story, before coming back to the main point, which is the life of Louie Zamperini.Louie sounds as though he was a great man imbued with natural leadership instincts. Unfortunately, the author's unabashed, biased, praise of him wears down the story. Everyone else in the story takes a backseat to the glowing figure of Louie. It's the only consistency in the entire book, the idea that Louie had an aura about him, a halo even if you will.From a historical perspective, the author didn't spend much time on historical fact, but rather came to her own conclusions. "It appears..." "It seems..." "Probably...." were all sentences that should never be used when stating fact. The author had her own ideas as to why things happened. For instance, the chapter, "The Stinking 6," six Japanese bombers fly over Funafuti and drop their sticks of bombs. Japan did not possess a heavy bomber, so these planes were more than likely the medium 'Betty' bomber. It did not have a high capacity payload. But the story makes it sound as if these six planes dropped tons and tons of bombs over the entire island, making the place just a giant bomber crater. 6 Japanese bombers would not have this capacity.And it's something of an irony that the author brings up at the end of the book that Phil, aka Russell Allen Phillips, struggled with the attention Louie received and he was just the 'trivial footnote.' Yet, in the story, the author practically gives Phil the title of trivial footnote as almost every mention of Phil is overshadowed by what Louie did with him or for him. A perfect example is the whole ordeal in the raft. The author makes it seem that Phil would have died had Louie not been there to save him and keep him going. At no time was there ever any mention of Phil helping Louie. Yet, three men (and later just the two) cannot be sustained in a stressful situation for days lost at sea, on the sustenance and willpower of one man no matter how great he is. It takes teamwork, and I believe that even with mention in the story, the author still gives Phil the offhand role of victim, while Louie gets the role of hero.The other problem I had with the story is the lack of flow. Two examples spring to mind. First, there is the instance leading up to Liberation. Louie is about to give up, he doesn't know how much more he can take. He can hardly stand. He can hardly work. He's exhausted. He's near death. He's got dysentary and beriberi. People are stealing food for him just to keep him alive. And then B-29's fly overhead and begin to drop food to the prisoners. Suddenly, no mention of Louie's poor health is noted. Instead, he's now at the forefront of directing and clearing dropzones for the B-29's to drop their carepackages.And then there is the story of the Japanese having Louie broadcast his POW status on the radio, which is picked up in the U.S. The War department is made aware of it. People are excited, allegedly. A track meet in New York in honor of Louis is changed from "Memorial" to "Invitational" because of his change in status. But then when Louie is brought back to U.S. Airbases upon release and subsequent return to the U.S., we are told of Colonels falling out of their chairs, and other stories of shock at the sight of Louie because they thought he was dead. But elsewhere in the story upon his discovery in the POW camp we are told this was headline news. If it was such the sensational news story, as it was claimed, how did people not know of his discovery?Also of note is the omission from the story of two equally, if not more famous characters of war that were in the same POW camps as Louie, Medal of Honor recipient Gregory "Pappy" Boyington, who gets a short mention in the story, and Medal of Honor recipient Richard O'Kane. The story references many times that Louie was kept off all Red Cross records of POW's, as if he was the only prisoner to be accorded such treatment. Boyington was kept off the record as well, and held in much higher esteem by his captives for being such a successful and flamboyant fighter pilot against them. Louie flew only one combat mission, according to the account, during the war. According to the story, this was highly publicized during the initial phase of the war. However, Boyington had 26 kills to his record and was famous for leading the equally famous Black Sheep Squadron. Louie was an Olympic runner. Boyington was a flamboyant war personality, famous both during and after the conflict. Obviously, this book was about Louie so the omission is forgivable, but the idea that Louie was held in much higher esteem by his captors and punished more than the other captives leaves me questioning the entire story.Based on the other 1 star reviews, I know that by giving this story 1 star leads to the possibility of nasty comments and open disagreement. But as a disclaimer, if you liked the book, you are entitled to your five star review. This isn't a five star review, because in my opinion it wasn't a five star book. It had too many issues with it that left me scratching my head or in a state of disbelief.Regardless of the book, Louie Zamperini has lived an amazing life and is a role model to everyone and his story should be shared... just not in such an embellished, off hand, scripted sort of way.
5 This is one of the best books I've ever read.  Well written, and the research is phenomenol.  This author is the best and the storyline is fascinating.
5 &#34; War is Hell&#34; as they say and I can see why they say that. This story is so inspiring as to the faithfulness of Godand to the determination of men to live. After all Louis, had been through He knew when looking back that God had not abandoned him. Man is so very evil and it shows the extent that one will go to hurt and punish another human being just because he thinkshe has the POWER and RIGHT to do so.Is there a moving coming out about this man's life? What a lesson peoplecould learn by watching it. Hope it happens.
5 Wonderfully written, historically accurate tale of tenacity and survival.The reader gets involved so with the characters, that we hate to say goodbye at the end of the book.
5 Believe the hype! This is a soaring book covering one man's refusal to be broken by the horrors in his life. From fending off sharks while stranded in the ocean to remaining strong in the worst conditions of POW camps, Louie proved that will of mind can help you survive.
5 as  a disabled vet l was overwhelmed by this book. What Louis went their I do not believe I could have endured that hell
5 Written in a style that is highly cinematic, whereby you can acutally &#34;see&#34; what is happing in your mind's eye, this book is positively riveting. I lost a couple of night's sleep; not able to force myself to stop reading. It can be a challenge to read at some points, as the cruelty and sadism of some of the guards was very difficult to stomach and absorb, but this fact only serves to magnify  the incredible, healing power of the forgiveness that Louis Zamperini was ultimately able to embrace and offer to his former tormentors. What a powerful lesson for us all:  Hatred torments the hater, not the hated. Forgiveness offers true release and healing.
4 I never knew the hardship of the American soldiers in Japan during WW2. The ir strength of character was amazing
5 Incredible story, the kind I appreciate reading! How a person was able to survive the terror of WW2 surviving not only nearly a month at sea in a raft and the inhuman treatment in a Japanese prison!
5 I only learned of Laura Hillenbrand and "Unbroken" after reading the excerpt in December's Vanity Fair. Ordered the book immediately (great price on Amazon, by the way), and was not disappointed. Now knowing of her own struggles and certainly her telling of an incredible person under extraordinary circumstances...I have become a fan. As she tells Louis Zamperini's incredible story she weaves in the historical context of WWII. This is a history book that reads like an adventure novel.
5 Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption by Laura Hillenbrand is one of the best stories I have ever read.  This book is about Louis Zamperini, an Olympian and WWII bombardier who survived a plane crash in the Pacific and imprisonment by the Japanese.  Louis' story is amazing and is told by one of the best storytellers.  Laura provides the reader with an amazing amount of historical detail and you won't want to put this book down.  Hillenbrand is also the author of Seabiscuit: An American Legend.  Unbroken is an excellent book and you won't be disappointed.
5 Laura Hillenbrand did such a great job of research and then finding a way to incorporate it into the story line of the book.  The basic chronicle of Louis Zamperini's life would be strong enough, but when you add the additional characters to the story and the history facts to the book, it just puts it over the top.  Most books are good or bad, but this one is life changing if you allow it to do so.
5 What a smashing story!  Such courage and determination.  Louie never gives up.  But above and beyond this fantastic story is the revelation of the true losses of the World War II.  I grew up during this period and remember only being given the good new.  How well everything was going for the troops.  Laura Hillenbrand gives us the other side of the story.  The enormous losses suffered by the then Army Air Corps.  The glamor of war disappears.  We need to hear more about this.  What a revelation.
5 Excellent research done by Hillenbrand into the life of Louie Zamperini as well as the lives of those around him. I must admit, I had difficulty getting through the chapters on the Japanese POW camps. The reading is not for the faint of heart. But in spite of the depressing material, accounts like these must be published lest no one ever forget the abomination of war and the sacrifices made by those defending their countries.
5 Wow its a great book! I am a amazed what he lived through.  I usually read fictional mysteries or romance.  I am so glad I followed my lark and bought this book and read it.  I highly recommend it to all!
5 I was looking for a true WWII story and it was during the Olympics this summer. This was a wonderful story about both!  My father-in-law was a B-24 Liberator pilot in the war.  I wish he was still alive so I could say THANK YOU.  This book kept me gasping in amazement!  When my husband came home each day I read passages to him.  I have directed all our children to read this.  I seek out other B24 crew members and tell them they are amazing and I am grateful. It is perfectly written and a fabulous read.  I will read everything this author writes!
5 I loved this book.  It was well researched and written from the perspective of the guy who lived through it, his experience.  Before he went into the service he was a star athelete runner quite famous.  In the Air Force he was a bombadier.  A good one.  Then his plane got shot down.  The pilot and 2 other guys, one of them the star runner and bombadier made it unto a raft.  They were on the raft for 43 days longer than anyone had ever servived on a raft.  Their experiences on the raft were quite awesome.  Finally they drifted to land.  Unfortunately it was a Island occupied by the Japanese so they were made pow's.  The treatment by the Japanese was just awful, the Japnese cared nothing about upholding the Geneva Convention.  Their survival there ws amazing.  I always wondered if Truman was right to do the atom bomb thing but I don't wonder anymore.  He was right to do it.  He saved many American and Japanese lives.
5 Author Laura Hillenbrand does an exceptional job of recreating the harrowing experiences of Louis Zamperini - first as an Olympic calibre athlete, then as a victim of unbelievable torture and suffering pain as an American pilot interned in a Japanese POW camp during WWII. Zamperini's life must be read to be believed. A great motivational read for anyone who has a roof over their head and regularly gets three meals a day, yet, still manages to feel sorry for themselves. After you read the book, then be sure to see first-time director Angelina Jolie's film adaptation due out next year.
5 This book is more than a WWII story. I was not aware of what Louis Zamperini accomplished before and after the war. Truly, an American Hero on many levels.I hope the movie does not skimp on details. This man lead an amazing life!
5 For those who love WWII history, you'll love this book.  For those who want to read a true story of survival, you'll love this book.  For those who want a story of redemption, forgiveness, you'll love this book.  This is an inspirational true story of survival and triumph.  Now I know why the men of WWII were the greatest generation.
5 Incredible book. The author is excellent in that she painstakingly researches and uses what most of us would allow to overwhelm, (her physical limitations) to her advantage. Thank you Ms Hillenbrand for writing. I have loved both of your books. I hope you will write more.
5 The story is captivating and Hillenbrand's voice one of my very favorites. Her personal health struggles make me feel as though every word is a gift.
5 I could not keep it down for a minute!I cant believe this is such a hidden secret seeing that the man carried the olympic torch. It was such an exciting ending too.
3 I was interested in thie story because I flew 51 heavy bomber missions over Europe in 1944. I longed, however, for some attention by the author to the greatest concern among those flying over the Pacific to their targets and back to their bases: accurate navigation. She paid no attention to that subject, as if it happened automatically. The chapters about prison camp life in Japan began to wear a bit because of repetition. Over-all, it was worth reading.
5 This is one of my all time favorite books. A true story about a man of incredibly strong will, but the greater story is one of forgiveness and one we all need to take to heart. A story about a truly great American and one I will never forget.
5 This book will take your breath away and consume you. Everyone should read this heart wrenching story, especially baby boomers.
5 Unbroken is well written.  Kept me on the edge of my seat.  What an amazing story of survival!!  I knew very little about the war in the Pacific which I now know was unbelievably horrific.
5 Could hardly put this book down.  An excellent read.  Highly recommended.  Every American should read this book.
5 The big numbers speak for themselves. When you see over 3,000 4 or 5-star reviews (over 90% of the total reviews), then this book has to be good - and it is! The author managed to package the unique and very interesting life-story of Louie Zamperini in an attractive and highly readable format that will make you lose some sleep over the two days reading it. It is such an engaging read that it is difficult to put down, a real page-turner.The reader is presented with Mr. Zamperini's story, from his early childhood until his life after retirement well into the new century. Most of all, it's a story about his POW experience during WW II in the Pacific as a prisoner in Japan. Now, just the description of his long and tortuous years surviving the savage Japanese POW camps would have been interesting enough, but the author's real contribution in my opinion lies in all the explanations we find throughout the book for the various behaviors, and how he manages to cope with the brutal treatment in an almost elegant but definitely entertaining way. Writing about the worst human emotions and behavior is certainly not easy, and do it in such a way as to finish with an entertaining book even more.It has to be said that there is a long time between Mr. Zamperini's war years and the writing of this book, which casts some doubts about some details and descriptions included, but this does not really distract at all from the story and from the value of the book. If the author took some literary liberties during the writing process, it was done discretely so as to fit in the overall narrative style.Overall, this is a very interesting story told in an engaging style that without a doubt deserves the title Bestseller - highly recommended.
5 This is the story of Louie Zamperini: Pre-WW II Olympic runner and WW II bombardier who survived a crash landing into the Pacific Ocean and endured years of mental and physical brutality at the hands of the Japanese as a POW.  His ability to survive those experiences and, ultimately, to get past the haunting memories of those experiences, is what makes his story so remarkable.The book was very well written as Louie&#8217;s story seemed to just flow from the pages.  Although the book is essentially a history of one man, there is none of the dryness sometimes associated with history books.Note: Only the first 75% of the Kindle edition covers Louie Zamperini&#8217;s story.  The last 25% of the Kindle edition is just an extensive set of references.
5 A sad story with a bitter sweet ending about the limits to which the human body can survive and the cruelty of which humans are capable, especially in war.
5 Our book club read this book and enjoyed it greatly.  Hillenbrand once again captures the tiny details that make history come alive.
5 A fascinating read. Well written and based on what really happened. I could feel the suffering that these people, this man, went through.The "happy" ending made it a completely uplifing read. Cannot recommend this book highly enough.
5 I could not put my Kindle down because it is such an engaging book to read.  I would love to see this book made into a movie.  Highly recommend!
5 What a brave man. Talk about going through one hardship after the other and surviving. Very interesting and very rewarding. Good read.
5 Incredible detail and research combined with a very emotional story about the savagry of WWII. The book supports the incredible plight of surviving service men trying to reconnect with the life they left behind.
5 I've read some great books the last 2 years, but this made it's way to #1 with me. Couldn't put it down.
5 This book is like one long electric shock to the mind.  You simply cannot believe what you are reading, telling yourself, how the heck did this guy and those others.....how did they survive?  Where did they get the will to live? People just can't survive that much torment and hardship, right?  In the case of Louis Zamperini, it took the iron strong personality that set him against all manifestations of authority and power when he was a youngster.  That same defiant chip on his shoulder came to rescue his life.  How else can one explain his stubborn refusal to be broken in spirit?  He was often very broken in body and only the most super human self control held him back from defending the bone smashing abuse he underwent, knowing as he did throughout, that any attempts to fight back would mean instant death.Not only is this one of the most astounding books you will ever read, it is, at the end, also very uplifting.  While the opportunities were abundant for Zamp to sink into hateful loathing and rage, he was able to transcend this as much as he was able to cling to life itself.  He first did have to sink into the baleful and sickly passage of hell on earth and I am referring to his mental and emotional decline when he was rescued.  His path was straight into his own Hades, lingering with death, and rivers of hate.  Almost succumbing to this self justified and very understandable mental and emotional state in which his post-war life was framed, at some point that same superhuman being that sits in his soul reached through to his understanding and in the most unanticipated way, he saved himself from complete self-destruction.....and with the aid of a young firebrand named Billy Graham.I must admit that I loved this book deeply, admired Zamperini's will to live and thrive. I also had a great deal of trouble feeling compassionate and understanding to the Japanese people on the whole and to the prison guards I only had the darkest throughts. I know that this is a reaction and my views will soften over time. It is hard to read this book and not feel disgusted with what humans can do to each other.  The Japanese treatment of P.O.W.'s and of captured Allied soldiers is horrific to read of but not unique to chapters of history.  There are still many things that disturb me about the Japanese and in particular is their current inability to completely face their behavior during WW2 and deal with it directly.  Germany as a nation has gone over board with their constant acceptance of evidence of their dark roles in the European war.  Japan is no where near that level of repentance.  This is a phenomenally moving book that I most highly recommend. You won't come across another like this one anytime too soon.  The author is a hugely talented story teller that makes this story a human one, an urgent one, a tragic but triumphant one.  Richly deserving the praise it has garnered.
5 This is based on the true story of a World War Two pilot, shot down in the Pacific and his survival on the sea for 47 days without food, water or shelter and then if that was not enough, enduring the horrible conditions as a Japanese prisoner of war.I could not put this book down!!
5 It is an interesting account staged in World War II. The story was encouraging in that God hears those who call upon Him. I was brought to admire the goodness in some of the characters, as well as abhor the evil in some of the war participants.
5 Excellent book!  Lots of details about life in the Pacific war area, particularly about the aviation.  Also a great narrative about the 26 days on a raft in the Pacific and many bad days in the POW camps of the Japanese.  Interesting review after the war of soldiers dealing with the after effects of the war. Sounded just as bad as our recent military dealing with Iraq and Afgan wars.  May appeal more to a male than female!
4 An interesting story about real American hero. I had no idea American prisoners of war were treated so harshly in Japan. The book made history come alive.
5 I had read the excerpt of this book in Vanity Fair, which describes Louis Zamperini's surviving his plane being shot down in enemy seas and spending weeks adrift in the Pacific on a rubber raft. Little did I know, that was NOTHING compared to the rest of what he went through. While I found the early chapters on his childhood and young adult years somewhat boring, the WWII section more than made up for this. I was spellbound and couldn't put the book down as Zamperini survives more and more hardships. Especially interesting, as Japan is now our ally we in the U.S. don't learn much about their role in WWII. What went on was truly shocking and horrifying--and a fascinating history lesson. As a member of a younger generation, I feel this book truly exemplifies why the vets of WWII were known as the "greatest generation." Read this book and think about it the next time you feel like giving up, whining or complaining...I'm betting you'll shut up and soldier through.
5 I thououghly enjoyed the story and the writing.  Hillenbrand made some rather lenghty events quite interesting and a fast read.  The story of Zamp[erini's life is almost unbelievable for what he accomplished and what he went through.  He could have given up and died many times.  It really made me thankful for what I have and dismiss my small probl;ems as immatgerial.
5 I've lost track on how many people I've encouraged to read this book.  It is a true spellbinder.  I can't wait to see the movie in December 2014.
5 Unbroken started off a little slow with basically Louie's antics as a young man and his running career, but I stuck with the book knowing that Laura Hillenbrand has a way of writing that draws one into the story. Was I right! Once the plane crash occurs the book really takes off. Just when you think things can't get any worse for Louie, they do but he never loses hope and never gives up.I'm also happy with the way things turned out for him in the end. He's a true survivor
5 Great story and well written. Once I finished my ebook version, I bought several hard cover editions to make sure my family reads it too - it's that meaningful.
5 One of the best books I've read in the past few years. So sad he recently passed, an amazing hero. He lived quite a life, so brilliantly told in &#34;Unbroken&#34;. I look forward to seeing his incredible life shown on film in the not too distant future.
5 This is a book starts out with a description of an unusual boy and then takes off like a rocket ship. It would be a masterwork on courage if it was fiction but the fact that it is a true story is almost beyond comprehension. It is both horrible and wonderful, exasperating and touching at the same time. I didn't want to put it down after I started reading it but I had to---some of the descriptions were gut wrenchingly painful I needed to stop, get away from it and breathe, do something else. etc. But I was quickly brought back to it because it was so compelling.
5 There are a handful of books that everyone should read with Unbroken topping the list. Hillenbrand seduces the reader with her storytelling abilities but Louis Zamperini steals the show, not just with Hillenbrand's recounting of his trials and tribulations but, more importantly, with the exposure of his "unbroken" spirit. It can be difficult to learn of the torture and misfortune but by the end of the last chapter, the reader has a luminous and unobstructed understanding of a legendary man who just also happens to be an American hero. Read it and weep, laugh and cry for Louis and all who are members of our Greatest Generation.
5 This account would not be believable fiction.  The resilience and strength shown by the main characters should end all complaints about life By Americans today.  The end of the story made mecrealuxe that , as a country, we need to pay our debt of gratitude to those who preserve freedom, and not let them be forgotten soldiers.
5 I could not stop reading this book.  the character (who i believe is a true story) was truly an amazing survivor
5 A touching story of a man who would not be defeated.  He endured terrible hardship and triumphed over all!  Truly unbroken!
5 Wow, what a story!  Unbelievable, but true. Some of it hard to read, as much suffering occurred in WWII.  Lots of research surely went into this.  Great job Ms. Hillenbrand!
5 Here is a story that has the suspense of good drama, but  that ultimately transcends good escape literature and uplifts the human spirit. Best of all, it is all true.  The author says she interviewed Louis 79 times, and I believe her.  Those interviews, backed by those of other participants in this drama, diaries, war records, and media accounts weave a tale that someone is sure to make into a movie. One more point: Laura Hillenbrand is a gifted storyteller--she knows how to take all those facts and morsels of information and weave a story with them.  She makes history come alive while telling you about one man's survival story that is too fantastic to be believed--until you see the photos and read how she deftly includes all the evidence without bogging down the storytelling. That Louis overcame his inner demons is what ultimately makes this a book you'll want to give to any teenager or seeker of truth and the meaning of life. I did.
5 Based on a true story, moving and wonderful. Also very informative on the War in the Pacific against the Japanese and the terrible prison camps our GIs endured under them. Good read, really good read
5 This book truly tells a great truth about suffering. There can be redemption from, in and through suffering. The human spirit can go further than the body, even when we are living.There is a mystery to suffering, for which I have no clue. The only thing I can say is that God can and does bring redemption out of great suffering.
5 Just plain, fun reading.  What a story & life!  This is a beautifully written biography - one of my favorite books of the year!
5 I think the first 47 pages would make a block buster movie and the rest of the book would have to be put into a mini series in order to cover the whole story. The surrival of these men would make the climbers in the book touching the void seem like they were on a church picnic. I truly believe that Louie Zamperini would have beaten Roger Bannister thru the 4 minute mile barrier. I was also blown over by Louie's complete and sudden redemption, which shows the real power of faith in God. I thank Ms. Laura Hillenbrand for bringing this story to us. As soon as I finished the book I got on Amazon and discovered that there was a autobiography, named Devil at My Heels. I had to have it.
4 This was a good book but got a little slow in the middle.  Regardless, if you are on the fence of reading this you should.  It's an amazing story.
4 Louis Zamperini is one of those rare individuals that seems to rise from obscurity to well-deserved fame every century or so - those remarkable human beings that seem to be made from stuff different than the rest of this.  If you haven't heard yet, Zamperini was an Olympic runner - a patriot who like most young men of the day dropped comfortable careers and went off to war, Louis signing on as a bombardier in the fledgling US Army Air Corps.  And what a war it was for Zamperini.  Shot down in the Pacific in May of 1943, one of three survivors of his B-24 crew of eleven.  He and his fellow airmen drift for an amazing (and record) forty-seven days under a relentless sun, menacing sharks, and severely limited food and water, only to be finally "rescued" in the Marshall Islands - but by the Japanese.  Taken to a series of POW camps, he endures inhumane conditions, notably at the hands of one especially sadistic Japanese guard know by the GI's as "The Bird."  Officially declared dead by the US government, it is only after he appears in an attempted radio propaganda piece more than a year after the crash that his distraught family realizes he is alive.  Zamperini's spirit and will - along with plain luck - to live make for a fascinating and inspirational tale.My problem is not with this explosive story, but with author Laura Hillenbrand's, the best selling author of "Seabiscuit," telling of it.  Some may argue that Zamperini's story is so powerful - so unique - that it requires no embellishment; no writer's skill.  I disagree.  While the pace does start even once the war, Hillenbrand's delivery is wooden, almost sterile, with little insight into the remarkable Louis Zamperini's character.  Despite Louis' Herculean efforts, his narrow escapes from death, torture, battles with sharks, and a whole host of more tribulations, Hillenbrand's account reads with about as much passion as the business news section of a local newspaper.  Too much time is spent on Louis' childhood - events than run the gamut from trivial and tedious to dubious - while some of the more significant instances, particularly in the POW camps, get barely a glossing.  Why, for example, is "The Bird" so hard on Zamperini, and how does Louis withstand his brutality?Hillenbrand brings nothing new to a story that has been told at least twice - once in Zamperini's own book published in the 50s.  Which is unfortunate, as I can't help feeling that with the success and broad reach of this book that an opportunity to truly get inside the 90+ year-old Louis Zamperini's head was missed.  It's unlikely there'll be another one.
5 Got the book a couple of days after we ordered it. Received the book and couldn't put it down. Stayed up every night reading it.Was great book.
5 A heart warming story that brings to life just how much our young boys gave for this country......A very well written account of the events that took place in the Pacific. Towards  the end of the book i felt such a since of pride in what our country was able to accomplish in three and a half years. We had Beaten Hitler and literally wiped out Japan. We had thousands of POWs in camps in Japan literally starving to death and being beaten daily for any infraction, living daily knowing that a &#34; Kill all order &#34; could come at any time. Can you imagine how they felt when one morning looking to the sky's they saw almost 200 B-29s flying over Japan, four engines strong with vapor trails, glimmering silver in the sky. No one, not the Japanese, nor our boys had seen a plane that large ........90 feet long and 30 feet tall from the ground to the top of the tail.......but they all knew The USA was here.
5 Loved this book. A complete story. Not just about a man, but about life around us in ways that affect us all. As in Seabiscuit, this book made me feel as if I was in the middle of all the events.
4 UnbrokenI had just visited the south pacific, and reading Laura Hillenbrand's book "Unbroken" made the experience even more riveting. The book chronicles an athlete who entered WWII as a bombardier which was shot down over the pacific.It chronicles his survival in the ocean fighting sharks, no food, no water...which was nothing compared to the savage brutality and cruelty of being a guest of the Japanese in POW camps. The story is mesmerizing and hard to put down.Gary Perman
5 I loved it.  A great story of perseverance and hardship.  A book of historical fact with a very personal touch.  Heart wrenching at times.
5 First off I just want to state I believe charging OVER $10 buck for an ebook is near criminal... if certainly not immoral price gouging...but having said that I started reading this book thru the free sample selection on Amazon for Kindle Users and for some reason I could NOT stop reading about Louie Zamperini. I realized Hillenbrand had something very special going on in this book...extremely well researched, (as you will realize as you continue reading this book).I do not want to spoil anybodys future reading experience of this book, so I will just say this is a 5 star story...that is TRUE and REMARKABLEY RESERCHED about the greatest generation of men who fought in WW2...including his amazing family, his amazing feats he HAD to overcome to live....and a truely amazing life!As a side note...you may want to google Laura Hillenbrand. She happens to be a special person also!
5 I would never have read this book if I had known what it was about......However, the more I read the more I became captivated by the saga and events..  The highs and lows of this book were mesmerizing! Actually I could barely wait to keep turning the pages!  I say BRAVO to this wonderful authoress!
5 A wonderful book about a man who lived defying the odds to become an American legend.  It has great personal historical insight gained by the author spending many hours with the hero, Lou Zamperini before he died.The story follows an American hero through boyhood, youth, WW II and life after the war.  His war story is amazing.It is almost too impossible to believe, except it is verified by other sources.  Zamperini fills in the details and thedetails are awesomely scary.When you finish reading the story, you are limp with emotion.  You have this feeling that you watched things as they happened.  People who want to know about American heros need to read this book
5 This book was a gift for my boyfriend of 15 years, and he loved it.  I had heard a lot about it, so I purchased it for him.  I will read it myself when I finish the book I am reading.
4 This is a well researched "as told to" biography of forgotten Olympic runner Louis Zamperini.It's more about the Pacific theater than a sports story, hardly fulfilling expectations after the author's 'Seabiscuit'. Z had a deprived childhood as the youngest son in an immigrant Italian family. He exhibited some semi criminal juvenile behavior as the family eventually settled in Torrance, California. He was a good enough miler to set youth records and compete with his model, Glenn Cunningham. Twenty years before Bannister's run Z had the ambition of breaking the 4 minute mile. Not qualifying as a miler for the 1936 Olympics, he settled for 8th place in the 5,000 meter run, with his fast finish earning him a handshake with Adolph Hitler.After Pearl Harbor he joined the air force, becoming a B-25 bombardier in the Pacific Theater,crash landed in the Pacific, surviving on an open raft for a record time before being captured by the Japanese and interred. He courageously declined an invitation for good treatment in exchange for propaganda broadcasting. The book describes his treatment and how he was moved from camp to camp. There are good statistics on Japanese mistreatment of POWs. It's a good readable introduction to the war in the Pacific although the war story would be greatly improved by incorporation of a theater map and one of the POW camp locations. There's a poignant depiction of his family in a long wait, not knowing whether Z was dead or alive.After the war, Z surprisingly, attempted a comeback for the 1948 Olympics, running a very credible 4:18 in a qualifying mile event. It's not clear why he gave up the attempt, although it was against all odds after the long hiatus and hardships of the war. The book goes on to describe Zs marriage, episodes of drunkenness, and how he became an inspirational speaker at the behest of Billy Graham. He's still active at age 95.It's good to get a reminder of what our predecessors of the prior generation have sacrificed in our defense. I suppose Hillenbrand is qualified to deliver the lecture. She doesn't pull punches in depicting the mistreatment of POWs by our current good friends and allies, the Japanese. That extends to civilians as well as to camp commanders and  guards. She does well in describing the Japanese state of mind with devotion to emperor and aversion to surrender.The sociological analysis doesn't explain to how camp commanders came under the influence of sadistic guards. Her suggestion that sadism was accompanied by stupidity is not born out in the main examples and not very credible in her anecdotes.
4 This is a great page turner.  What a story.  I think it goes a little off the rails at the end - when the war is over, I think the story is essentially over too though the author goes on for another fifty pages.  Brutal and to add to it all, the main character, just before world war two was a good bet on being the first man to run the four minute mile (he ran at the 1936 Olympics in Berlin - even shook hands with Hitler, though he hardly knew who he was at the time).  Then the war broke out and those running dreams were shattered.  His bomber crashed in the Pacific and he spent 47 days in a raft drifting aimlessly before being taken prisoner by Japanese soldiers.  Truly, an astonishing story of survival and inner strength.
5 This is one of my favorite books of all times. It made me laugh - it made me cry - it made me mad at those who declare WAR. It humbled me - Louis Zamperini could find it in his heart to forgive his tormentors - that made me realize that I should be more understanding. HIs faith was remarkable!!!Laura Hillenbrand is a wonderful writer. This book is so much more than another 'war story' - it's a love story, a history lesson - an inspiring tale of an extraordinary man.I'm sure that many veterans can relate to his experiences and I am thankful that his/their story was told in such a compassionate way.I wish I could give this ten stars!!!
3 I loved SEABISCUIT, and as a history buff deeply interested in WWII history, was eager to read UNBROKEN.  You can't fault the subject, and the bare facts of Zamperini's story, and those of so many POW's, leave you gaping, yet on a deep level the story didn't connect.  It's too bad, because we need to convey what war is, what it does to people--especially those unbalanced to begin with--and make the very waging of war a war crime.
5 This book was excellent and read by our book club last month.  Six out of seven members really liked the book.  The research was very well done and my son who is a counselor with the VA also thought it portrayed PTSD very well.  I would highly recommend this book. It was a difficult read about POW camps and yet these were real so it behooves us to never forget the reality of war.
5 &#34;Unbroken&#34; came quickly and in good condition. It was a present for my grandson, a World War Two buff, who enjoyed it.
5 We humans are tougher than we sometimes give ourselves credit for.  Unfortunately we are also sometimes crueler than we want to believe. This journey through life with a remarkable human being demonstrates both the good and the bad about all of us but also the spirit that we all seem to have- somewhere.  Who would you cast in the lead movie role?
5 A friend recommended this book and I was pleased that it came quickly. I enjoyed it very much and appreciate the quick service.
5 This true story of Louis Zamperini's incredible life will keep readers involved until the end. Among other things, the story tells how Zamperini survived a plane crash, forty days drifting in the Pacific Ocean, internment by the Japanese in prisoner of war camps, brutality from the camp commander, and disease, severe weight loss and malnutrition during World War II.Later he tried to find and forgive his brutal torturer. Zamperini has since devoted his life to serving others, knowing he survived for a purpose.Hillenbrand has again proven her outstanding writing skills in this book.
3 Interesting story, but the author seems to assume too much in her dialogues. The ending is truncated and simply not believable. Clearly there is PTSD involved with all of its awful ramifications. Yet, after a few brief sessions with Billy Graham, he is cured and moves on with his life. Would that it were so.
5 The fact that this was true makes it a page turner that I could not put down. Lesson to be learned here is to never quit. Great example of what it took to survive and how our society really drops the ball on holding those monsters who perpetrate crimes against humanity accountable.
5 I could not put this book down!!  It was such an incredible story.  Moving and thought provoking.  It will stay with me for a very long time.  I have not words to express my gratitude and admiration for Laura for the work it took to tell this story and for all the men she wrote about!  Thank you.
5 Sometimes I'm a fan of narrative non-fiction, sometimes I'm not.  Books like Unbroken make me very happy.  From the very first page, Hillenbrand weaves an elaborate and catching story line that rivals any novel around.She quenches the thirst for character and story.  She pulls the reader in and gently guides them through history.  There are vibrant descriptions, telling dialog and a knack for story telling that endears the reader to her and the story.Do yourself a favor and get this book.  For me it is a keeper.
5 As a writer, I can tell you without any fear of contradiction that the most difficult thing to do is to write a non-fiction book that reads like fiction. Just as difficult: to bat 1000 as a writer.Laura has done both. (This is her second book--I just ordered SEABISCUIT, and it took is astonishing in its details.)UNBROKEN is, at heart, the story of a man whose iron will, pitted against nature and a sadistic and pathological Japanese prison guard, prevailed: He remained, as the title states, unbroken under conditions that would break most others who didn't have his constitution.The level of detail, its specificity, astonished me. But when I found out that the author had conducted approx. 700 interviews with the subject, I can understand how she was able to fill in all the blanks.What resulted is a compelling portrait, a WW2 story that sheds light on the harrowing experiences a wartime survivor endured, and easily the best non-fiction book of the year.Good books will make you think and re-examine life, but a great book will drive a permanent wedge in your thinking and how you see the world.This is a great book and, out of the many hundreds of books that came out of WW2, this one will stand the test of time: Too little has been written about the war with Japan--as opposed to the war with Germany--and this personal, heartfelt story will resonate with you for a lifetime: I will not forget this story about a single man, an Olympic runner named Louis Zamperini, who stood up against all odds--and survived.Put this on your reading list and, afterward, on your permanent bookshelf: It's one for the ages.
5 This book shows how a man, famous for having beaten world records has the patience and energy to live through the most horrifying and traumatizing situations possible in a war. A great GREAT book.
4 This book was recommended by a friend as I had never heard about it. I knew Japaneses prisoners were treated badly, but did not realize the extend of the brutality. While the comments on the mindset which caused this treatment were revealing, they did not justify it. With time much has been forgiven, but it should never be forgotten. it was not a pleasant book to read, but a good one on several levels.
4 The prose shed new light for me of the plight of POWs in the Pacific. While I knew of the suffering of POWs in Europe, and I've read about the atrocities in Burma, I was totally ignorant about the unbelievable misery and inhumanity heaped on the Allied POWs in Japan.
5 I had heard the story of Louie Zamperini; but it was not until I read the whole story that I came to appreciate the story of this man.
5 Read this book. Great story. Huge macro observation that could change your life.Read it.gm
5 If Louie Zamperini didn't exist, Hollywood would have to invent him.The son of Italian immigrants, Louie grew up in Torrance, California, coming of age during the Great Depression. His youth was misspent until his older brother, Pete--trying to keep him out of trouble--convinced him to take up running. Louie was fast.In high school, Louie won all sorts of awards for running, setting record times at his school, in his state, and in the nation. He qualified to run the 5000 meter race at the 1936 Berlin Olympics. Although he finished eighth--the top American in the race--his final lap was so fast (56 seconds) that Adolf Hitler asked to shake his hand.He continued to set records during his time at the University of Southern California. Friends believed that--had the war not come--he might have been the first person to run a four-minute mile.But the war came.Louie enlisted in the Army Air Force as a second lieutenant and became a B-24 bombardier in the Pacific theater. On May 27, 1943, his plane went down in the Pacific, with only three crew members surviving.  They floated in a life raft for 47 days until they were captured by the Japanese. (One crew member died before capture.) The Japanese held them as prisoners of war until the end of the war in a variety of prison camps, where they suffered deprivation and torture.At the Omori prison camp, where Louie was held the longest, he was singled out for vicious and repeated abuse by a guard named Mutsuhiro Watanabe. When the Allies defeated Japan, Watanabe was seventh on a list of war criminals wanted for prosecution because of his abuse of Louie and other prisoners. (Admiral Tojo was first.)Louie's re-entry into America went smoothly at first. America considered him a hero, and he was often asked to address public gatherings. He met and married his wife, Cynthia. They had children together. But Watanabe haunted his dreams. Louie turned to alcohol to help him survive his nightmares of abuse.In late 1949, Billy Graham began his famed evangelistic crusade in Los Angeles. Their marriage nearly in ruins, Cynthia dragged a resistant Louie to the meetings. She gave her heart to Jesus. One night, Louie did too. And the nightmares ceased.After that, Louie began to speak of forgiveness. He traveled to Japan and forgave the Omori guards for what they did to him. He wrote a letter to Watanabe too, but Watanabe refused to meet him.In his post-war life, Louie dedicated himself to helping at-risk boys find productive, fulfilling lives, and volunteering with seniors at his church.I've sketched the outline of Louie's life in this review, but make sure to read Laura Hillenbrand's biography, Unbroken. She's the author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning Seabiscuit. Unbroken is a riveting tribute to a man whose spirit could not be broken. The book is being turned into a movie starring Nicolas Cage.
5 I sent the following message to my email address list:Dear Friends,I just finished reading one of those books about which people say, "I couldn't put it down," which was almost literally true.  This book is entitled UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand (author of SEABISCUIT), and was a Christmas gift from Judy and Andy, with whom we spent Christmas in Lansdale, PA.  I was captivated by this account of an American track star, who, as the bombardier of a B-24, crashed in the Pacific and spent 47 days adrift in a tiny raft with his pilot, only to be captured by the Japanese, sent to a POW camp in Japan and subjected to the harshest treatment as a prisoner of war.I will reveal no more of this remarkable tale except to say that I found it captivating and inspiring.  It is exceptionally researched and written.  You can get it for under $20 through Amazon, and I urge you to do so.George
5 This is a splendid book. It describes the terrible hardships endured by Louis Zamperini, former Olympian athlete, during World War Two bombing missions in the Pacific. In World War Two, I flew bombing missions over Germany, so the author's description of the tension, fear (even terror), and shock at the death of one friend after another rings painfully true. But for Zamperini, the worst was yet to come. On a flight to find a missing bomber in the vast expanse of the Central Pacific, his B-24 bomber developed mechanical trouble and plunged into the ocean. Zamperini and several of the crew managed to escape the sinking bomber and get onto a small life raft. There was precious little food and water on the raft, so they had nothing but occasional rainwater. For food, they ate raw fish, if they could catch one before the sharks did. Under a blazing sun, they drifted for an amazing 47 days before they landed on an island. But they were captured immediately by Japanese soldiers. Shipped to a prison camp in Japan, they suffered month after month of beatings, torture, and the threat of instant execution. When the war ended, the prisoners were liberated and sent home. But the war was not over for them. Although it was not discussed much back then, many suffered from post-traumatic disorder, a horror that can go on for years. Laura Hillenbrand has done a magnificent piece of writing here. It may leave you breathless, but it is well worth reading.
5 A wonderful true story of Louie Zamerini. Story of courage, survival, during such trying times. A true Olympian and a story that should be read by all for inpiration and it is beautifully told and superbly written.I will go back and read it again and again. Thank you Laura Hillenbrand. Highly Recommended.
5 Laura Hillenbrand has written an important story about an extraordinary American whose survival was nothing short of astonishing. It is a story about the depravity and horror of war, of man's ability and willingness to cause suffering and injury to his fellow man. It is also a story of resilience and forgiveness, and the ability of the body and soul to repair and overcome. Highly recommended. Author Gerald Gillis [...].
5 When I first started reading this book, I was getting bored with it.  My grandson who had to read it for school told me to stick with it.  I am very glad that I did.  Although at times it was hard to read, I had to keep going.  It was hard to imagine that someone can go through all he did and not wind up in a hospital for the rest of his life.I recommend this book not only for adults but for young adults also.
5 This is a wonderful, heartbreaking story of a World War II veteran who does survive a plane crash and being a prisoner of war of the Japanese.  What our Veterans do for us to defend our country and then fight to survive their own life is beyond words.  When I finished the book, I gave it to my brother who was a Marine stationed on the islands in the Pacific but came home to us without a scratch or being a prisoner.
5 Amazing account of a man who led a remarkably tragic while at the same time accomplished and heroic life. Reinforces the notion of faith and hope when confronted with unfathomable pain and suffering.
5 Unbroken is an amazing story about the true story of Louis Zamperini.  Mostly it is about when he was a prisoner of war.  The stuff he went through is unbelievable and that he had the will to survive is remarkable.  He turned his life around at a Billy Graham crusade and now he works with young boys.  I enjoyed her first book,Seabiscuit: An American Legendbetter, but this is very good too.  I give it 7 stars!
5 Louis Zamperini is hardly a household name; but it might have been had he become the first athlete to run a four-minute mile.  Louie was on target to achieve that goal, when his life was interrupted by World War II.  For all practical purposes, this book divides Louie's life into three phases: (1) Pre-war; (2) World War II; and (3) Post-war.  The pre-war phase focuses on Zamperini's youth, particularly his development as a track athlete.  Blessed with natural foot speed, he qualified for the 5,000-meters in the 1936 Olympics.The bulk of the book relates Zamperini's experiences during World War II.  He was the bombardier on a B-24 Liberator, a large four-engine aircraft with a long range and a record of many accidents.  Louie was assigned to the Pacific theater of operations.  It was a combat assignment.  During the early part of one flight, two engines failed and the plane crashed at sea.  Louie and two other crew members survived the crash and took refuge in two small rubber life rafts.  For forty-six days, they drifted approximately 2,000 miles westward on the Pacific, stalked by sharks and surviving on rainwater and raw fish and albatross.  When they finally reached land, they were taken prisoner by the Japanese forces and held in a prison camp.  Eventually, they were transferred to a series of prison camps near Tokyo.  The brutality and cruel treatment at each new camp was worse than before.The post-war phase of the story traces Zamperini's return to California, his marriage and his bouts with alcoholism and post traumatic stress disorder.  With the help of his Christian faith, Louie finally conquers his demons and makes peace with the past.The book is well written.  The reader can feel the pain of the war prisoners and know the inhumanity of their treatment.  A scattering of footnotes informs the reader of historical and statistical data relating to the subjects of the narrative.  The 2,000-mile drift of the lifeboats is described, interspersed with memory flashbacks, and with comments relating Zamperini's experience to the psychological effects shown in studies of persons experiencing starvation and extreme weather and thirst.  The book maintains your interest throughout.Finally, there is an interesting description of the prosecution of Japanese war criminals, including some of the sadistic guards and camp commanders.  Although there were many convictions and many death sentences, the national priorities changed quickly, and by about 1953, amnesty and reduced sentences were granted to all of those criminals who were still alive.
4 Was very please with the quality of the book.  It is a great read if you like history. Great value
5 This is such an amazing tale of survival.  I could not imagine what he had to go through and still live to tell about it.  He is still alive today.  We hear so much about WWII but this is from another view point.  So interesting.
5 Well I read the first eleven pages and wasn't sure I wanted to continue.  I love historical fiction, but this was not fiction.  It was the real-life account of Olympic runner Louis Zamperini and his WWII service, being adrift and lost at sea, and days as a POW in various Japanese camps.  I wasn't deterred by the story but by the fact that it was 400 pages of narrative.  Friends who had read it urged me on and I picked it up again.  Within the span of a few more chapters I was very glad I had given it another chance.  It was a compelling read and gives new meaning to what some people can survive...with a fortitude and courage, and maybe stubbornness to succumb, that allows them to deal with horrendous conditions.Louie flew on a B-24 and the novel had the added benefit of helping me realize much of what my father went through in WWII.  My dad flew on B-25's in the Philippines and was shot down twice.  The book gave me a perspective on what it was like on missions and also inside the planes themselves.  There are many pictures of the planes, the men and families, even the Japanese guard, nicknamed The Bird, who was hunted for war crimes against the POW's when the war ended.  The photos, well-placed within the body of the book, made the story truly come alive.Louie and many of the men around him were survivors and their story is well worth reading.  It is unlike anything else unless you've experienced it yourself.  Thanks to these men and all other men and women in uniform, then and now.
5 A well written story of survival in WWII which is so incredible that it is hard to believe it is a true story rather than a novel.  I enjoyed it thoroughly.
5 Laura Hillenbrand has written an easy conversation between friends in which the reader never feels talked down to, or feels excluded.  It is a warm story the envelopes readers in the world of Louie Zamperini, and how that gentleman turned from an out of control punk kid to an inspiration for other troubled youth.  And oh, by the way, he survived a plane crash at sea, being adrift for weeks in shark infested waters, capture by the Japanese during World War Two, and the physiological effects that all the preceding left him.Ultimately, this is a book of faith.  Not necessarily religious faith, but the belief that life has purpose and maintaining belief in one's abilities and personal tenants.  Too, is the reliance on role models, not the sports or Hollywood faux models we have so many of today, but those who guided and shaped Louie to become the man he did.  His older brother, college and track mentors, a wife who did not quit on her vows, and Billy Graham.A powerful book about a man who endured an awful ordeal.
5 I have been inspired and amazed by the persistent resilience of this man. The story of his life is written excellently:  is interesting and captivating all the way through. Remarkable he is still living and making a difference with his life today.
5 There are not enough accolades for this incredible historical account.  As a former history teacher of 25 years, I cannot think of another book that has had as great an impact on me as this personal account of Louis Zamperini's trials and triumphs as a Pacific POW.As I read this book, I was immediately reminded of the sacrifices our U.S. war veterans have had to make while unselfishly serving this country.  I was also reminded that all of the little "bumps" and complaints in my life are so incredibly minor compared to the everyday trials of our war veterans.  In addition, I became acutely aware that we have failed as teachers to educate generations of Americans as to what transpired in the Pacific POW camps.  While I would never diminish the emphasis given to the Nazi war camps and the European Theater, I would strongly encourage all history teachers to include what transpired in the Pacific POW camps also.I also hugely admire Laura Hillenbrand for her immense research and her ability to weave an intensely compelling story while suffering with a debilitating disease.  (I have now resolved to stop whining about any minor infirmities I may experience.)  I cannot think of another author, living or deceased, who writes/wrote as beautifully, clearly, and as spell-binding as Hillenbrand.
5 I was given this book just before Christmas and read it over the period of two days.You don't put this book down.Have had the experience of being a POW in the Viet Nam era I thought upon hearing of its content, that I might feel just a small amount of uneasy reflection due to my own experiences.To the contrary, this book left me with a  feeling of increased humanity and peace.The story of this man and the events of his life ; his challenges and  how he dealt with them, has stayed with me long after the last page was turned.A highly recommend read.
4 Unbroken was a life changing story about a WWII vetran who spent 46 days in a life raft and then close to 4 years as a Japanese POW.  It was heart breaking but encouraging as well.  the first 100 pages moves a little slowly but then it takes off holding yiour attention raptly.  If you know any vetrans and especially a former POW of any war it will change your attitude forever.  Great reading!
5 From the first page I was entranced. The authors use of vivid language coupled with deep historical facts makes this a must read for anyone whether they are interested in war history or not. As a a writer, I am using this as a study on how to get the reader involved and keep them on the edge of their seats  throughout such a motivational story. I loved it! Kudos to the author and the men and women who continue to fight for our freedoms! An incredible read!
5 A true story of sport, war, family and perseverance.  What more do you need?  This was my first book by Laura Hillenbrand and I was sad when it was over.
5 This is the stunning and inspirational biography of Louis Zamperini - olympic runner, military bombardier, survivor of 47-day stint on an adrift life raft in the Pacific Ocean, and World War II prisoner of war.  This nonfiction book was meticulously researched and carefully footnoted, but still reads likes an incredible novel.  Each terrifying account of his POW experiences was more shocking than the one before.  I could not put it down and still can't stop thinking about it over a year after reading the last page.In addition to being a terrific read, it enhanced my understanding of World War II and left me feeling proud of my country and the patriots that have served to protect it.I highly recommend this wonderful true-life tale!
5 What a Triumph!  This book was riveting.  The fact that it is based a true story makes it even more poignant.Please read this book.  It will make your blood boil, your spirit soar and so grateful for the privilege of being an American.Louie Zamperini is an Olympian and Lauren Hillenbrand is a treasure.
5 I loved it. It is very uplifting and well written., I learned a lot about the war. I would highly recommend it.
5 A wonderful story of courage and determination to survive. Also tells us there are two sides to us all and we simply don't know how we would survive conditions such as these. Very well written.  I have recommended this book to several people.
5 Louie was a wild spirit in his youth attempting to do whatever he set his mind to.  Pete helped him find his niche in the sports world prior to World War II.  His physical condition and competitive spirit from his sport contributed to his survival.
5 This was ordered for my husband to read.  It was suggested to him by a friend.  What a story!  He couldn't put it down, carried it around with him just in case he had time to read.  Wouldn't shut up about it when he finished to the point I did not need to read.
5 Quite possibly the best book I have ever read.  This is what a true hero and a true American is.  This book should be standard reading for everybody.You will think it is a novel because you will not believe that any man could live through this.
5 Epic stories of hardships, courage, and love.Of all the WWII books and storeis I've read this tugged at my heart strings the most.
5 Outstanding portrayal of a true America n hero  author keeps your interest throughout
4 This book is well written and the author writes Louis Zamperini's story of endurance, determination and survival with great sympathy. The story is certainly an example of mans capability to triumph over adversity.
4 Well written and documented true story.  A bit of a slow start, but truly interesting story.  Thought I knew a lot about the war in the pacific, but learned a lot more with this read.
4 In our mostly protected world where we can get upset over a minor injury that we think will scar our bodies for life this book reminds us of how much the human body and spirit can endure and still recover to lead a healthy and full life.
5 Truth is in fact, stranger than fiction.But the best part is recovery and forgiveness from the terror and pain of war.
4 This is an amazing true story which is nearly unbelievable to learn that a person can endure such hardship.  I thought the first 100 pages or so were pretty slow and not well written... but then it took off. Some of the statistics are staggering.  A story of endurance and a testimony to God's intervention.  Definitely worth reading.5 Stars for Louis Zamperini3 Stars for Laura Hillenbrand
5 A fantastic book about WWII and the Japanese Prisoner of War Camps, but more importantly, a great book about life and how to live triumphantly.
5 This amazing story makes this one of the best books I have ever read. I am  a slow reader and read this book in a few days. It is hard to even imagine that his could have happen to one person, and that this person was able to forgive those who wronged him.
5 A story of bravery,integrity, torture and redemption.  Excellent!  I couldnt p ut this book down and I don't like history or old war stories - this was really good
5 I was 8 yrs. old when WW2 started so I remember some of the things that happened to our prisoners but reading this about a real person was so interesting , his courage and struggles after. I would recommend this to everyone, even tho I dont imagine the real young people would enjoy it .
5 I was in second grade during World War 2 and my dad was in the South Pacific at the time of this moving story of flying, fighting, floating at sea, capture, torture, survival and the tortures of war after coming home.  Louie Zamperini was a force to be reckoned with in his lifetime.  Laura Hillenbrand has done an outstanding  job of putting us totally in Louie' s life.WHY YOU WOULD NOT READ THIS BOOK IS BEYOND ME!!!!!!!
5 Hillenbrand has researched this POW account during WWII so thoroughly the reader feels every emotion of the victims, the captors and the families left behind.  The will to survive is obvious and every soldier who experienced POW life is to be commended. Once you start reading, you can't put it down.
5 Maybe the most inspirational book I have read.  Louie's story is so remarkable that it is unbelievable.  God had a plan for this man's life and no on was going to take it before that plan was put into action.  No matter what is happening in your life, It can't be as difficult as what Louie went through.
5 This is the incredible story about  Louis Zamperini - teenage hooligan. Olympic distance runner, WW2 airman crashed in the middle of the Pacific, a record 47 days at sea in a raft, captured by the Japanese, tortured in an undocumented prison camp, becomes an alcoholic at home, rescued by Bill Graham, spends the rest of his life doing good things for humanity.  WHEW!Meticulously researched by Laura, which was necessary because the story is so unbelievable, and expertly written, this is the best non-fiction book in a long while.
5 This is an excellent e-book. The Author Laura Hillenbrand did an excellent job transferring a grueling epic story to the pages that you read. The story takes you to many different places around the world. It really gives you a feel for what Louis Zamperini the main characters life was really like. How hard it was for every day survival and how many other men where swallowed up by the evils of war. The main characters struggle for survival continued long after the war ended. I have and would recommend this e-book to a friend.
5 Laura Hillenbrand is a singularity! No other explanation can account for the fact that, as many non-fiction books as I have read in my long lifetime, the two best "by a mile" are both written by this author. *Seabiscuit* thrilled me, and now so has *Unbroken*.Ms. Hillenbrand does give credit to her subjects, both among the very greatest examples of their species, but no matter: A lesser author likely would not have presented the two so superbly. Run, don't walk, to get this book!
5 A reminder of how cruel war is and what our troops endured for our freedom. This should be a mandatory read in our schools so people don't forget our troops sacrifice for us and the free world.
5 I listened to the unabridged audio version of this book. Simply outstanding writing. A great story of war and survival. Edward Herrmann does an oustanding job with the reading. In case you haven't heard his narration before, he does the reading on a number of David McCullough audio books as well. Louis Zamperini's story is stranger than fiction and will keep you on the edge of your seat.
5 Let me just admit this: I began this novel slowly and got slightly discouraged. But once I got through the beginning I was hooked; I was constantly thinking about what would happen next and I couldn't help but to be overwhelmed with emotion at the end. This was a book I did not want to end and once I was done with it I wanted it to begin again.The writing is very detailed but not so detailed where it gets confusing. The author (writer of Seabiscuit) did a phenomenal job with research and getting all of the pieces put together. You feel so bad for the characters of the novel and you feel like you owe them something without even meeting them. I can't say now that I don't know them because I think when all is said and done with this novel you know these men very well.I recommend this novel to anyone. Fans of WW2 will enjoy this book as well as people looking for a story to strengthen their lives. It's good for all! This is one of my most prized novels on my shelf now. Thank you Laura Hillenbrand for your work!
5 Loved learning this history.  I never knew of the Japanese POW camps as so brutal ... attention always goes to the Nazi's.  This author and her story also amaze me.
4 I am a little younger than the author, so I could identify with him as he struggled to stay alive.
5 I find it difficult to know where to begin discussing Laura Hillenbrand's wonderful new book, Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience and Redemption..Since good writing never "buries the lead," I suppose I should begin by saying this is yet another book that should absolutely be required reading for all of us, especially the young among us.  This is yet another story reminding us of the way things actually are in the world.  Reading this book is an important, patriotic part of our national education.  It is a gripping slice of history we must read and understand.  Any chance any of us have to learn from those who experienced these things personally must be seized before the opportunity to do so is lost forever.And completely aside from the educational and historical value of the book, it is also an utterly riveting story.  This is a story that, were it not so demonstrably and obviously true, would be almost impossible to believe. Louie Zamperelli has led a fascinating life.This is both an important book and a fascinating story.But I also find it a personally troubling book.  Even as I know and claim to embrace the great Christian truths of forgiveness and redemption in this story, this book still makes me powerfully angry.  I have to be honest.  The most horrible of these events took place twenty years before I was born, and yet reading these things leaves me truly furious.  I quite literally fantasize about climbing  into the pages of this book and beating some of the bad guys to a bloody pulp, especially the horrible Japanese prison guards.  I don't honestly care about the damaged, deprived norms of brutality into which these soldiers were trained; I simply want them stopped.  I'm not interested in contexts and complexities; I want consequences!  Nations must not be soon forgiven for the atrocities we all witnessed in World War II.  While our own nation has had its share of shameful moments for which we still pay justifiably high prices, I find it difficult to forgive these prison guard monsters.  Even though I know how important it is to forgive as we have been and hope to be forgiven, I find it difficult to forgive and make nice.  Even as Hillebrand takes great pains to remind us all of the good things we know to be true in the deep, healing lessons of Zamperelli's long life, I find it difficult to embrace the lovely forgiveness truths Zamperelli so beautifully embraces.  I know I should forgive.  I know I must for my own sake, but I find it very hard.  The more I learn in books like these about the true horrors of WWII, what our parents endured in both the European and especially the Pacific theaters, the more critically important I believe it is to never, ever forget, even as we struggle to forgive and redeem these awful historical moments.But perhaps there is some redeeming value in people like me being at least a little angry.  Perhaps if people like me stay a bit enraged and wary, we'll all have a better chance to avoid awful stories like this in the future.  In a political atmosphere where many do not seem to understand or properly cherish the positive, protective values of strength, power and national discipline, perhaps it is more important than ever that some of us more intensely do.  While people like me must not ever allow bitterness and unforgiveness to consume us, we must also not entirely devalue vigilance, strength, duty and national security.  While we must never place our "trust in kings and chariots," nobody ever said it was an entirely bad idea to keep a few good chariots ready to go.May God help us as we struggle with the utterly gory ugliness of our sin!  May God help us be the first to joyously forgive, yet also the first into the fight when He rings the bell!But whatever you might think of my babbling thoughts and prayers, may all of you make time this month to read this book!
5 It's clear why this book has been praised. It's really the perfect memoir - memorable story, historical facts, suspense, joy, pain, tragedy, resilience and so much more.
4 A riveting story of man's inhumanity to man, followed by man's ability to forgive.  Hillenbrand smoothly tells the amazing story of runner, soldier, POW, role model, Louie Zamperini.  Against all odds, Zamperini survives a plane crash, 47 days on the open ocean, Japanese POW camps and alcohol.  The story is unbelievable, but the outcome is inspirational.  When you see what Zamperini went through and what he made of the experience, you can't help but look at your own circumstances differently.  A great read.
4 or at least some of what he told me. While he never had to undergo what Louie endured, he saw his share of horrible things as a combat veteran in Europe. He returned to the USA with punctured eardrums and infections on his feet and other maladies.I am happy that the author did not harp on Louie's finding Christ. That subject has been done to death. Maybe I say that as an atheist, but it really is a boring subject. Ultimately it was Louie who saved Louie and that is something way more enduring and worthy of praise than his hearing Billy Graham and suddenly his life was turned around.
5 This is one of the most well written books that i have read in a very long time. It was well researched and told in such a way that you almost feel like your reading a story about a long lost friend. Wonderful!
5 Laura Hillenbrand is an excellent writer.  It is obvious that many years of research went into the writing of this book.  What this man had to endure is beyond belief.  Parts of the book were hard to read because of the events, but impossible to put down.
5 I could not put this book down and finished it in a few days.  I certainly wasn't expecting this story but it is encouraging to me who has things relatively easy.  The spirit of survival permeates through this book and it inspires to make the most out of your life.I recommend this book to all of my book reading friends.
5 Seabiscuit: An American Legendwas written in 2001. At the tim I considered it the best book I had read in ten years. Over ten years later, Ms. Hildebrand delivers Unbroken. Like Seabiscuit is is meticulously researched, and a tale of athletic achievement in the face of adversity. Ms. Hildebrand who suffers from Chronic Fatigue Syndrome knows a bit about adversity. Nothing in her life experience prepares her for the recounting of the tale of Louis Zamperini, a California kid who by learning to run escaped a lifetime of petty crime. The running took him to the 1936 Olympics, and to the University of Southern California. But like many of his generation the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor produced a career change. Zamperini ended up as a B-24 bombardier in the Pacific Theatre.Shot down during a search and rescue mission, Zamperini and two survivors (one died on the raft)  drifted into Japanese held territory for 47 days. Following that ordeal came another, life in brutal Japanese POW camps where he was tormented incessantly by a crazed sergeant nicknamed "The Bird".It is, however,  after the war that Zamperini's real test begins. Spiraling out of control into alcoholism and depression an encounter with Billy Graham changed his life as profoundly as anything that had come before it.This is not Seabiscuit. There are aspects of this book which are truly horrifying. Sections on survival at sea and in POW camps are difficult. At the end however the book like Zamperini is redeemed. While it ia not the best book I have read in the past ten years, it teaches important lessons about duty, sacrifice, endurance and of course redemption.
5 An excellent book.  A great story tolld by a great story teller. It holds your interest from the beginning to the end.
5 This is a hard book to put down for important things like sleep or work. Worth the time to read it.
4 This was a very good book, but maybe because it's not the kind I usually read, I didn't enjoy it as much as most of the other reviewers. If you are a history buff, you definitely want to read this book.
5 This book is full of a completely different war account that I was never taught in my American schooling.The atrocities committed by the Japanese - and their logic of cleansing the Asian race - mirrors the tragedy of Hitler's annihilation of 6 million Jews in Europe.  But I have never heard this side of the &#34;war that was fought on two fronts.&#34;Wonderful book and wonderful story of redemption and perseverance!
5 I've recommended it to many friends.  In fact, just bought this copy for another one.  Wonderful story.  Wonderfully told.  You won't be sorry you bought it.  You will probably read it again.
5 Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and RedemptionI read a couple of reviews about this book, actually they related to a period when Louie and Phil were in the raft at sea.  My imagination was piqued and ordered the book. I wondered, at first, why the author was telling me so much about him as a child and his growth period, then it became crystal clear. One had to know him as a child to appreciate his actions as an adult. I have to admit there were several times when I had to put the book aside because of the impact of actions taking place,I wept because I had failed to remember or even know about the POW camps per se.  I felt the pain of Cynthia and her disappointment but her steadfast loyalty is a character study. Without giving anything away for future readers I must say that my heart burst with pride for Louie and happiness for Cynthia.  Revelations of his life are inspirational.  I particularly appreciate the author giving us information relating to his friends and family in later stages of life.  The author mentioned her own illness but never gave a clue to the diagnosis.  It is my hope that she is well and a selfish wish that we will not lose her talent and hope for future writing.  This book is not recreational (as so many are these days), it is a journey through the life of a man who was quite remarkable.  Read it, learn from it, love it.
4 Ms. Hillenbrand is quite successful in writing about the life and perils of anincredible person (Louie Samperini) and am looking forward to reading more books written by this author.Happy Sokol
4 Superbly done ! Truly a great athlete and even a greater patriot and hero !OK here are five more words !
5 Highly recommend this book. Though at times it was difficult to read because of what the Japanese did to the prisoners in the camps, it was an excellent and well written story. I recommend highly.
5 I was just a youngster during World War II but lived in south Seattle near the Boeing Aircraft Company.  I saw all kinds of signs of the war - the camoflage on the Boeing Plant, military installations everywhere, the big balloons designed to stop straffing planes, and nightly Black-Outs.  This book brought all those memories back to me even as it shared the story of a very heroic man's experience who struggled to stay alive.  It is hard to believe that he went through everything that he did.  Good read about pastor history.
3 An amazing story and very well written. It is however hard to beive in its entirety. I am not questioning the unbelievably heroic episodes depicted, however it is hard to belive that any human being could withstand the punishment, brutality and physical abuse described in this book. The accompanying photographs seem to show men that look to be in much better shape than what you would expect from reading the story.
5 I have not finished reading the book, but have been completely enthralled with the details (gory as they are) regarding the treatment of American prisoners of war during WWII by the Japanese.  This true story of a very interesting gentleman, is good reading for everyone who would like to know more about the &#34;Greatest Generation&#34;, and the high price paid for the freedoms that we enjoy today, and so easily take for granted.
5 When I first started reading this book I did not think I would like it, but after the first few chapters I could not put the book down. I would say to myself when I finish one chapter i would stop for the night, but I would start reading a few lines in the next chapter and keep reading.  Great book with a peaceful ending.
5 Writing was excellent. A member of our book club recommended this book. WWII buffs would love it, but also anyone with a sense of history would find it captivating. Hard to put down.
5 Great story!  Opens some old wounds but needs to be told.  Great American.  Kindle should recommend &#34;Devil at My Heals&#34; for those of you that have read &#34;Unbroken&#34;.
4 1.  I was very excited to read this book, as I heard Zamp being interviewed on the Hugh Hewitt show and especially since I'm interested in WWII history.2.  The bottomline is that the story is nothing short of miraculous;  a story that deserves to be told.  However, the story telling is... lackluster.  I still can't put my finger on it, but the bottomline is that it was kind of... boring or tedious.  I'm in the process of reading Zamp's own book and see that stacks up.  Either way, this is must reading for all Americans.
5 This book was very well researched and very well written.  I could hardly put it down!  The author did a great job bringing the story to life, and portraying the intense suffering of the POW.Very inspiring!haryly
5 This is a well-written book, an interesting view into the war experiences of a WWII survivor of Japanese prison camps. But- the torture scenes of the various soldiers and even a duck, while under Japanese custody were so intense and disturbing, that it was extremely difficult to finish the book. I finally had to skip quite a few pages of unbridled sadism by various Japanese guards. The story is very interesting, but this is certainly not a read for the young.  In the end, I enjoyed the beginning of the book and the ending, but could not stomach the torture and deprivation sections which encompass a large part of the book.If you are tempted to buy this book because you enjoyed "Seabiscuit", don't. This is something far more surreal and intense. Still, it is well-written.
5 So when's the movie? I almost hope never, because you know they won't get it right!This book is another wonderful historical account written by an amazing author (if you haven't read Seabiscuit, it is worth your time). The story of Louis Zamperini is absolutely amazing. Ms. Hillenbrand weaves his story with the stories off those around him and in the world at the time together and pulls you right in!I also recommend reading the account of Louis Zamperini written in his own words: Devil at my Heels. The two books together form such an amazing picture of WWII and a life of unbelievable circumstances it's no wonder he was called Lucky.
5 [For a more detailed review, visit: anafichesdelectures(dot)wordpress(dot)com]I don&#8217;t know where to begin but I can tell you with certainty that this is the best memoir I have read this year. It was hilarious, epic, wretching, haunting, powerful, profound, unbelievable, informative account. This has been the first account I have read on Japan&#8217;s concentration camp. I have always read WWII related novels focused on Europe and on the Holocaust. I had forgotten that United States was fighting a second war against Japan. Also, it daunted me to realize how long it would take for the prisoners of these concentration camps to be liberated. Despite WWII ending in Europe on May 1945, Japan refused to stop war. Japan was just adamant to do so. The author mentioned her position about the atomic bombs and after reading this account, I must agree. I am not convinced either that without the incidents at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the war would have ended. It is very sad to say so and we all hope it never repeats.Reading this book, I learned how insane, brutal Japanese officers could be. It was just horrendous.The author really did a terrific job explaining everything on that end and even the different airplanes used at that time. In addition, very detailed statistic of the common medical conditions and postwar lifestyle challenges of &#8220;pacific POWs&#8221; [loc # 5564] were well presented. Finally, it makes you appreciate your life and makes you wonder why Louie Zamperini went through what he went through.&#8220;For these men, nothing was ever going to be the same.&#8221;Hillenbrand, Laura (20101116). Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption (Kindle Location 5560). Random House Publishing Group. Kindle Edition.This novel was a gifted story after struggling to find a good book to read. I really recommend it. You won&#8217;t regret it.
5 Everybody should read this book. It is about courage, truth, integrity, and a man who has to find himself after the horrendous experiences in a prisoner-of-war camp during the Second World War. It just might be the best book I've ever read.
5 After I got past the obligatory section on Louis Zamperini's childhood, I was absolutely fascinated by the account of his years pursuing the Olympics, his experience as an Army Air Forces bomber of drifting on the open ocean for days after crashing, and his experiences as a POW in a Japanese camp.  The story is very powerfully written.  The author does a wonderful job with characterization and conveying emotion, as well as with providing relevant background and historical/cultural information.  Though many of Zamperini's experiences were quite difficult and harsh, I personally felt the author did a good job in relating what happened without dwelling on the specifics of the violence in a gruesome way.  I would most definitely recommend this book.
5 Great World War II book. Definitely recommend for somebody that likes that style. Hard to believe the man went through all of that.
5 Before he was drafted into the army during World War II, Louis Zamporini was an Olympic runner. His successful running career was surprising to many. His survival of WWII was miraculous to all. Unbroken  is the inspiring true story of Louie's life.Laura Hillenbrand, author of Seabiscuit, has dug deep to research Zamporini's life. She opens with a brief overview of Louie's youth, giving the reader a feel for his character and determination. She then settles into WWII where the bulk of the story takes place. Mixed into this compelling story is a plethora of information on WWII POW camps housed in Japan.When the bomber he was aboard crashed into the ocean, Louie managed to survive weeks on a small raft surrounded by sharks with minimal provisions. Against all odds he reaches land only to be met by Japanese forces who quickly sweep him off as a POW.  Soon it becomes clear that Louie's fight for his life has only just begun.This is an engrossing story read with clamped hands and an accelerated heart-rate yet told in a compassionate manner. The material is many times disturbing but written with balance of detail to portray the horror while not overly done for pure for shock value. Unbroken is a swiftly moving story that is quickly consumed but will not be forgotten.
5 Great book.  Gives you an idea of the hardship our military went through to keep our freedom.  Keeps you interested from beginning to the end.
5 I am not really a war story buff. But this story is just to incredible and really worthwhile. At times, I could not put it down. And at other times, I had to put it down because some of it was just heartbreaking. What a generation!  It really should be read by younger people to appreciate the difference of wars then and now... Loved it.
2 This story would have been better with some serious editing.  I skipped though the book and only read what I did because my book club had chosen it for discussion.  I admire Lauren Hillenbrand's good, thorough research but she is not a great writer.
5 A must read for everyone lest we forget.I alternated between getting angry and  getting sad.I so well remember WW11,since I had a brother at Hickham Field on Dec.7th.The earthquack,tsumni,and devastation could not have happened at a worse time for me.I know these are possibily not the same people .but I am having a hard time feeling sorry for them Yet the USA is the first one there to help.Maybe we can send them  more scrap metal.They found a good use for it in 1941 If I sound bitter don't judge me until you have walked in my shoes.A well written book and one  i WILL keep for future generations to read.Thank God we had a lot of Louis Zamperinis back then.
5 What an unbelievable story.  I didn't think I would be interested in reading about WWII, but this story was awesome.  I really enjoyed how Louie's entire ordeal was written.  Passed the book on several times.
5 Since I was born in Europe and came to the US later I had no idea what the American's went through in the Pacific during WWII. I'm also the mother of 2 long distance runners and a &#34;miler&#34;, therefore I was even more intrigued by the story.
5 We have come to appreciate the Japanese culture as rigorous, intellectual, calm, and peaceful, but during WWII there was a different aspect to it. I know what my parents thought of the Japanese, but I really had no idea that the POW camps in Japan were so much more brutal than those of the Nazis.  One must read this excellent book to comprehend what a climate and mindset of war can do to the human psyche. At the same time I was reading this story, by chance I was also reading the diary my uncle kept when he was first drafted during WWII.  In comparison to the dreadful experiences that make up this book, my uncle's experiences were banal...doing tax returns for officers, taking university classes, and eating lots of government ice cream, which he pronounced excellent--a pint each evening after dinner. These were the real-life stories I heard while growing up, so I found the contrasts in this book to be stunning. Other reviewers have called this book "a page-turner," and I agree.  It's not easy to contemplate what happened, but the knowledge increases one's understanding of humankind.
5 This a book and story everyone should read. The author presents everything in a manner so that you can't put it down.!!
5 Date: April 2, 2014 at 7:25:35 PM EDTTo: Undisclosed-recipients:;Subject: Fwd: LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL!!____________________________________________________________Fast-Growing IndustryA New Player In The Booming Bottled Water Market.AlkameWater.comFrom: genphoto@aol.comTo: Uintahfire@aol.com, Teschgone@aol.com, thereimers2006@sbcglobal.net, Vicki.Johnson@siinet.ngc.com, dannyltesch@yahoo.comSent: 3/31/2014 9:37:28 P.M. Mountain Daylight TimeSubj: Fwd: LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL!I could not put the book down. Ms. Hillenbrand did a masterful job of bringing this part of history to life. I would wholeheartedly recommend this to anyone who loves history and wants to understand it better.
5 this is an excellent book.i happened to read the obituaries in the atlantic city press  newspaper ,and that's how i came to read this book .i ran track in my younger days and so this book sounded interesting to me.i have not finished reading it,but so far is one of the best books i have read.this LOUIE is a true hero,find it hard to believe the life he lead .a must read book.
4 I have not completed the book, but so far there have been parts that seemed to drag on and on and on.  But the basic story is interesting and reports on an amazing human event unlike any other.
4 The book tells the story of Louie Zamperini, an olympic runner, who goes to War as a bombardier in World War 2. It's the story of his airplane crash and imprisonment in a Japanese POW camp and how he endured the difficult experience. Not one page of it was less than extremely well written and the story flows beautifully.
4 This is an amazing story of courage, grace and forgiveness. Louie Zamperini's story is an example of the best of men surviving the worst conditions.
5 This book is simply amazing.  It's extremely well researched and written by awesome talent.  I listened to the audiobook and I simply felt guilty hitting stop.  It was close to 14 hours of audio and I hated to ever push the pause button.  To date, this is the only book that has made me cry and feel so American I want to jump out of my skin!  I wish I had two hours to write this review, I will likely re-write it to properly do it justice, but I had to get this out there.  Absolutely the best told story I have ever heard by one of the bravest soles I have ever read about.  Unbroken, is surely a title to be remembered and surely fitting!  God Bless you Louie and may God Bless you Laura for portraying his story so perfectly and lovingly!Cheers!  Jeff, Wisconsin
5 This book was excellent. It was very informative, disturbing and inspiring all at the same time. I would highly recommend it.
5 Wow what a story, and so well written by Laura Hillenbrand.  This was the first World War II book I've read from a POW's perspective, and it was a true eye opener as well as incredibly inspiring.  I gave the book 5 stars because in every respect it is deserving...with many good lessons to learn about perseverance through very difficult times.  Not G-rated reading though...like other reviewers I had to skim through some sections as they were too hard to read.
5 I bought this book because of all the hype and this one loved up to its elevated status. I was riveted from page one to the end. I was just so amazed that this one ordinary man from Southern California has had such an Extra-ordinary life, and lives to tell his story today. I'm going to have my high school seniors read this book, because they NEED to know that there are people  out there, who've not only dealt with extreme adversity in their life, but have clawed their way through kicking and screaming and overcome against all odds.
5 After 700 reviews there is little to add other than for me to take the opportunity to thank the author for this splendid, inspiring book that proved to be even more inspiring than her epic "Seabiscuit."  It's an extraordinary story and the subtitle tells it all.  What a remarkable journey this heroic man has taken.  If you like books that defy believability but are scrupulously researched, this is a perfect read.  It's been years since I simply took a day off to finish a book where I just had to know the ending.  Whatever the price, it was worth it and so much more.  This goes on my Facebook list of favorite books that right now has only "War and Peace,"  "Pillars of the Earth," "1984," out of the thousands I have read.
5 The true story of an incredibly arduous journey. I salute you Louie! You endured hardships that would have broken most men.
4 We all need heroes, even in this postmodern era that seems sometimes to have forgotten that...or worse, has mistakenly substituted celebrity for heroism. In choosing to spend seven years of her life researching a man whose name had dropped off the headlines long ago, Laura Hillenbrand is something of a hero herself, but it is Louie Zamperini who is the hero justly memorialized in Unbroken. The facts of Zamperini's life are the stuff of fiction--indeed, many of the one and two star reviews here on Amazon express their disbelief that things could have been as bad as they come off in the telling of the tale--but 51 pages of research notes support every part of the story.Olympic athlete lost at sea, surviving for a record breaking time at sea and then held captive for long excruciating months in one despicable prison camp after another--truly an important saga to be remembered. What adds to the telling is the honest account of Zamperini's not so exemplary years before and after the war, including battles with alcoholism. But then we are privileged to share the change in his life that resulted in forgiveness toward even of those most involved with some of his suffering.The book admittedly starts a little too slowly, especially for those of us not very interested in track and field and Olympics history, but the details that seem to detract at the beginning just add depth as the accounts of Zamperini's harrowing experiences unfold. Once the story begins to gain traction, you will find it hard to put down until the final pages.As this review is written, Zamperini, well past 90, is still making an occasional public appearance. I am glad Hillenbrand has brought his story to light for those of us who had never heard his name, while he is still alive to know how much his fortitude and forgiveness inspire so many of us.
3 This was an interesting read but many times I wondered if the event being described was true. The way they were written made me feel they were the author's exaggerations. The author seems to have taken frequent unnecessary literary license which affected the credibility of the book. I am sure that atrocities and brutalities she writes about actually took place. I cannot understand how Louie lived through the ones that were heaped upon him. As I read, I asked myself repeatedly whether I was reading fiction or a true story. And the description of the way that Louie suddenly became a believer seemed to come out of a Hollywood fairy tale.
5 I had to force myself to slow down as I was reading the book too fast. I have to admit to being a buff on great WWII stories and this is one of the better ones. The author did a ton of research and the end product is beyond expectations for a biography. I never heard of Louis Zamperini before I read this book, now I'm doing web searches to learn more about him. That, to me, is the mark of a great book. I would highly recommend this book to everyone.
5 The context was completely new to me as an east coaster that heard mostly about European stories. The story was engaging and I completely came to know the characters and couldn't wait to find out the full story through the end of the book. This book reminded me of another historical read, Beast by jade Gurss that also told an amazing story of another historical event (albeit completely different subject matter!) that was also a five star read.
4 With over 2300 posted reviews, I can't add much other than to say all Americans should read this book at some point in their lives.  My father is a WWII vet, serving in France and wounded there, so my perspective of the war really revolves around what was going on in Europe.  I didn't really have a very good understanding of the war going on in the Pacific.This book focuses on one man's life --- from juvenile delinquent and trouble-maker all the way through his Olympic career, military career and aftermath.  He lead an incredible life and the story of his years as a POW seem too horrific to be true, but they obviously are.A story of one man's unbelievable life, the story of all the military personnel serving in an important war, the sacrifices made by that generation, a story of putting your life back together when it's all over.Not an easy read but a very necessary one.
5 I love this book. I love Louis!!! Who wouldn't. I would like to shower him and the other countless heroes that appear in this book with absolute buckets of "Thank you's." It is not just that Mr. Zamperini charms my very soul; it is that he was willing to give everything away -- and his youth went quickly -- in order that I enjoy my life of freedom. Mr. Zamperini, if you read this, I hope you realize the depth of my appreciation.
5 I have read many books about WW2. I thought his one has it's spot among the best. From beginning to end, it is amazing in scope. Highly recommended .
5 You'll be riveted from the first pages describing a Zeppelin flying over young Louie's house in the middle of the night until you reach the end. Marvelous storytelling by Hillenbrand. I LOL'd, I cried, I got goosebumps. Definitely added to my list of favorites.
5 This inspiring tale of Louis Zamperini should be required reading material for every American.  Understanding the courage and fortitude shown by Zamperini and all the other people who served our country so gallantly during World War II can only make one so very grateful there were such Americans in our time of greatest need.  The ending will also demonstrate that the ability to forgive one's most vicious oppressors is the only road to true peace.  It is a marvelous read, in all aspects.
4 This is a fantastic book if you are interested in the World War II era!Louie Zamperini's life is depicted in this novel written by the author of "Seabiscuit".Laura Hillenbrand studied all kind of notes, documents, pictures, personal accounts, ect. to put together this fabulous novel of a brave young man as he is thrown into the depths of hell of WWII.Louie's life wasn't so easy growing up, but only got harder as he grew into a young man.  He was a bombardier whose plane went down over the ocean.  He and only 2 other men survived the crash.  This novels leads you thru the hardships he endured while on a small raft for many, many days on the ocean and also takes you into the depths of brutality as he is held as a POW in Japan.I would have given this book 5 stars, but at times throughout the book it was a bit slow moving for my liking.  The ending was really great as Hillenbrand finalized her novel by explaining what happened with every person talked about in the book.  Do not miss the epilogue!P.S.  My son has been called to serve a mission in Kobe, Japan.  It was fun to read a book that had a bit of Kobe in it!
5 Gripping tale. Forgiveness for the most horrendous torture is unbelievable.
5 An amazing story of survival.  I loved this book though the content is hard to read for the soft hearted.  Learned much more than I ever knew about the violent treatment of our captured Gis under Japan.  It makes me understand why our fathers and grandfathers did not feel so great about Japanese cars and products post war.
5 This was an incredible book by Laura Hillenbrand. I purchased the Kindle version just before Christmas knowing that I needed something to occupy my time while at the in-laws (boring!). I finished it over the long Holiday weekend as I could not put it down. The courageous story of Louie Zamperini read like a novel. This truly was the greatest generation which was exemplified by Mr. Zamperini and his comrades. Their will and determination to keep going in the face of overwhelming hardship was amazing. The book is a real page turner and you won't be disappointed with the purchase. I can hardly wait for the movie!
5 This was an absolutely amazing story that I found very difficult to read.  The horrors were just so immense that it is hard to absorb how evil man can be.My father, who was a WWII Vet could and would never give the time of day to the Japanese or any product emanating from Japan.  As a teenager I would give him a hard time but he would never waver.  I remember buying my first car, a Honda Accord which he wouldn't even recognize.  After reading this book I can understand the perspective of why so many Vets felt this way.This is an incredible story of a great athlete whose will and determination to survive the horrors of all aspects of the war ultimately led him to his greatest enemy, what was left of his mind which may have been the toughest hurdle he had to clear.In today's PC world while we focus on America's internment of Japanese Americans in WWII (no excuse for it of course), the appropriateness of dropping the A-Bomb, unfortunately, the story of these incredibly abused POW's of the Japanese is rarely told.  The extermination of not just Koreans or Chinese but of Allied POWs is as great a crime as any that any country, regime, or man has ever committed.  That these crimes against humanity were committed against our soldiers should never be forgotten by any American, EVER!A must read.
5 Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption- I was skeptical when I first saw this book had been published: No way can it be as good as Seabiscuit, I thought. But I'll give the author of such a great book as Seabiscuit the benefit of the doubt; so I purchased the book via the Kindle Store and was reading it within a few seconds. And then, within a few minutes, I was swept away. I am now convinced that author Laura Hilldebrand has the magic touch. This book proves once more -- perhaps even moreso -- that she's a masterful storyteller, meticulous researcher and journalist, who has, at least with Seabiscuit and Unbroken, the ability to identify subjects whose stories capture the essence of key facets of an entire era. These books inform and inspire the reader, without being schmaltzy or preachy. Without any spoilers, I'll merely say that like the horse Seabiscuit, Louis Zamperini, the subject of this book, may be little known by those of us born after around 1930. But Zamperini's story, like Seabiscuit's, is one that desperately needed to be captured and preserved in a popularized "best-selling" way, so that it can be shared with the ages. And one last thing, take note of the three words in the subtitle of this book: A Story of Survival, Resilience and Redemption. I can assure you that Unbroken is a story that must be read to its end to truly appreciate the depth to which the promise of that subtitle is so richly fulfilled.
5 The horrors recounted in this compelling true story are overcome by the unbelievable resilience of the men, who endured them.If this isn't  the next big film project for Hanks/Spielberg it should be!
5 This book is simply beyond words! A true story in World War II, the author did an excellent job in portraying the Pacific War POW Louie Zamperini, by telling his story in the most stunning way that will just blow you away. A modern world Odyssey, Louie's life will make you cry and laugh at the same time, rejoice with his athletic accomplishment in his early adulthood but later on just heartbroken after his capture as war slave. And yet in the end you will admire from the bottom of the heart his courage and strong will in survival and preserving human dignity. At some part of the book I simply couldn't bring myself to continue as what Louis encountered at the POW camp was just too cruel and unbearable, yet again and again I was amazed by his unbelievable survival skill and determination to live as a human being under the unimaginable miserable situation. Time after time he striven to live on, even during the darkest hour and the direst moment. I was in awe of what he has endured as a war slave and an human being, and therefore giving out all my respect for Louie who never gave up in himself and others. In the end he even confronted his worst enemy of life and through which he was able to be redeemed and relived in the grace of God. It's such an incredible journey that one has lived through it all. Thumbs up for this masterpiece and if you haven't picked up this book please do so as it'll make you reexamine your life with a totally new perspective.
5 This was, as many others here have said, a riveting story from first page to last. I simply couldn't put my Kindle down. To have suffered as Louie did and survived it all is beyond belief. I don't think I could have. I don't think many could. So much has been said before about UNBROKEN that my adding 2 cents worth of opinion isn't worth, well, 2 cents. I highly recommend it. 10 Stars, at least.
2 THIS WAS A GOOD STORY BUT POORLY WRITTEN AND HARD TO GET THROUGH.  IT ALMOST SEEMED LIKE IT WAS WRITTEN BY TWO DIFFERENT PEOPLE.  SOME OF THE WRITING WAS QUITE GOOD AND SOME OF IT SEEMED TO BE WRITTEN BY AN EIGHTH GRADER.  SHE SPENT AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF TIME GOING THROUGH HIS TRAINING TO RUN IN THE OLYMPICS WHICH WAS REALLY BORING.  UNLESS YOU'RE A RUNNER, I DIDN'T HAVE A LOT OF APPRECIATION READING HIS DAILY RUNNING ROUTINE AND HOW MANY SECONDS HE WAS SHAVING OFF HIS RUNNING TIME.  THE DAILY BEATINGS HE SUPPOSEDLY SUSTAINED AS A POW IS BARELY BELIEVABLE BECAUSE ANY HUMAN BEING WOULD BE LONG DEAD IF IT WERE TRUE.  BOTTOM LINE - THIS STORY COULD HAVE BEEN TOLD IN HALF THE PAGES AND A LITTLE LESS EXAGGERATED.
4 This is an excellent book about the power of a man's positive thinking and attitude. You just won't believe what he (and others) were able to withstand in order to survive.
5 The books is perfect. Easy to read. Easy to follow. Very addictive. It was not too long nor too short. It was just right. I highly recommend it.
5 Am 95% in to "Unbroken" and will finish it tonight. This is a book that held my attention from the first page.Very well written, very well researched. I love(d)it.I first heard of it (ok much later than most the world)from running friends and then realised it is much huger than any runners biography but a testament to the indomitable spirit  that leaves in great people like Louis.Buy, read, share this book.  You will be a rare person not to be glad you did.
5 What always seems to be a single note story keeps unfolding with new dimensions and depth.  Very recommended.And it read well from my iPhone kindle app on an exercise bike at the gym.
5 I have read many books that have inspired and touched me, but none as deeply as this - my heart was broken and I cried many times over while reading this amazing book. Louis and so many young men who suffered beyond human imaginings, and those who lived to return home had nightmares that continued through out their lifetimes - haunted by the inhumanity they endured.- One&#8217;s dignity may be assaulted, vandalized, cruelly mocked, but it can never be taken away unless it is surrendered.- MLK jr....HAPPY BIRTHDAY - Louis Zamperini he just turned 96, god bless you sweet man!
5 Let me just start off by saying that I would give this book 10 stars if I could!  It is breathtaking.  This is a must-read for anyone who loves amazing and gripping stories.  If you are a history buff, you will love the personal stories and accounts of such a brave young man who experienced unimaginable circumstances during World War II.  But whether you love history or not, you will marvel at this story and find this book hard to put down.  Laura Hillenbrand did an amazing job of describing the story in a brilliant way.  I was sad when I finished the book but look forward to reading it again and highly recommend it!
3 An excellent story that needed some editing; I like long books but this one got bogged down in details at times.
5 Loved this book. Zamperini's story will stay with me for a very long time. Highly recommend reading this book, especially as the generation who remembers these events vanishes.
4 The only fault of the novel is the author's apathy on separating fact from legend.  Otherwise it's a terrific read.  The core story is undoubtedly there and accurate.  Records and first person testimony all support it.  So that's the good news.The hyperbole between the story is what really got me.  Some of it got ridiculous.  The author describes two rafts that are "six feet long and a little more than two feet wide" strafed by a Japanese bomber.  One raft carried a man nicknamed Mac.  The other carried Louie and Phillips.  Louie dived under the water to escape the bullets.  But the other two were so emaciated that they couldn't move.  The strafing was on target and did tons of damage.  One raft sank from the damage.  The other raft took FORTY EIGHT bullet holes.  Miraculously, the two men inside the rafts were untouched.  Meanwhile, Louie, who dived beneath the water to escape the bullets, was busy fighting off sharks by punching them in the nose.  Dunno if it's true or how you would verify such a thing.  But there it is.Did Louie really have his virtually severed toe sewed back together by a neighbor?  I'm guessing that's the legend.  Fact is more likely that he had a bad cut and got some good first aid.Some of the thickness really stole from the story rather than added.  Quite a bit of the story is dedicated to POW internment.  Hillenbrand paints a rhythmic pattern of starvation, decay, brutality, and death.  Three or four chapters follow the same pattern saying the same thing.  Soldiers starved, were beaten, were forced into labor, and fed a rice ball a day or a bowl of seaweed.  She describes the camp slicing a candybar into 700 pieces to share.  A handful of POWs were punched 200 times each and collapsed in a bloody mess.  Yet all of them survived.  Many POWs weakened until they slowly slid into death.  On the flip side of all of this, Hillenbrand paints an unbelievable portrait of celebration as the camp finds out the war is over (via American aircraft flying overhead).  The POWs ripped apart the camp, created a bonfire, and danced all night with sake taken from nearby civilians.The fact is, Japanese war crimes stand on their own.  The POW treatment, Sino-Japanese invasions, the rape of Nanking, the Bataan Death March, Unit 731, Pearl Harbor, etc do not need cheerleading wardrums.The anti-Japanese sentiment is thick throughout.  And it's deserved.  In a fashion only the Japanese can understand, Japan is remorseful they lost yet insist it was justified.  I'm writing this near the Hiroshima anniversary.  Japanese nuclear protests are plastered in American newspapers.  What's missing from the Japanese are protests on military states, eugenics, war crimes, murder, colonialism, rape, brutality, forced labor, and so forth.  The fact that Japan still is reluctant to really apologize fascinates me.  The Bird is a fine example of Japan's disconnect.  I think Hillenbrand provided a terrific counterbalance for the decision to use atomic bombs.  This novel should be mandatory reading for hippies.Good book.  Historical.  Highly recommended.  Just recognize that it is also entertainment.
5 Absolutely excellent book, writer, and subject!Louis Zamperini is a true marvel of American culture and human dignity.His amazing journey through the worst that WWII could throw at him stands as a testament to what man can experience, endure, and overcome.The author delved so deeply into her subject's story, even Zamperini didn't know some of what had transpired around him during his captivity as a POW in Japan.Author and subject became fast friends as a result of their time together during the book's evolution.Hillenbrand's remarkable ability as a writer shines through in "Unbroken," bringing Louis Zamperini's life into vivid focus for those of us lucky enough to take a ringside seat into his amazing exploits.
5 As I was reading this book, I could not stop talking about it to my friends and family. This is one of the most inspirational stories I have read. Anyone who thinks they have insurmountable problems, should read this now. Very entertaining as well.
5 This excellent book revealed a great deal about the war in the Pacific -- much that I had not known about before.  It was good to have the focus on Japan and the Islands for a change.  Now I understand what my uncle went through when he was a doctor on a destroyer in the Pacific.
5 Such a great book, and well-written. I often find myself thinking of this man's story, and relating the crazy odds of his survival. Highly recommended, especially as a World War II history piece, and for a powerful redemptive story.
5 I am awestruck and heartbroken at what Zamperini endured and Hillenbrands brilliant delivery of the accounts of this story.  A must read!
5 The book is a wonderfully written  withering, harrowing yet ultimately inspiring story of human spiririt and physicalsrenght and endurance. It also tell a story of brave men who served in the Pacific during WWll.
5 My book club choose this book and I am glad they did. It didn't sound to interesting but frankly the book is memorizing. The story seems unbelievable but apparently is based on fact.  I am still reading and just finished the POW section which was horrific but the tone of the story carried you through and you had to keep reading to see what happened next. It is a page turner. Would definitely recommend the book..
5 They say it takes a village to raise a child. Based on the eight pages of acknowledgments by the author, it can take a village to tell a story. And what a powerful, amazing, awesome story it is...Born in 1917, Louie Zamperini was a precocious child, a prankster, and later a runner. He smashed California track records as a student at USC and raced at the 1936 Berlin Olympics.During World War II, as a bombardier in the Army Air Corps, he flew combat missions in the Pacific Theater. On May 27, 1943, his B-24 crashed into the ocean. Louie and pilot Alan Phillips survived 47 days at sea, only to be captured by the Japanese.Unbroken is the unbelievable story of Louie. The detail is amazing yet not overwhelming. Hillenbrand (author ofSeabiscuit: An American Legend) has a wonderful storytelling ability that makes 400 pages fly by. And her story is fascinating in its own right. For over half her life, she has suffered from chronic fatigue syndrome.
5 I am not much on writing long reviews, but I always like to at least rate the many books I read.  This was a book that I could not wait to pick back up, which is all you can ask for.  It is very painful in parts and touching in others.  I am not sure why post note/acknowledgements are literally 25% of the total book length (I stopped reading after a few pages of it)
5 This is a gripping story about courageous Americans.  It speaks to us today about the trauma and horrors of war.  It made this reader ask, once again, why we can't find a better way to deal with our differences.
5 This is a well organized, very well written historical account of one man's extraordinary life journey. Any WW II buff, in particular, will thoroughly enjoy this story. Not for the faint of heart, as the brutality described, though accurate and necessary, is unfathomable. A truely inspiring book. In addition, this is a witness of the powerful healing that can occur to those who seek it.
5 First, let me say, I am not one to pick up a non fiction history book.  I usually like mystery, thriller, and other types of fiction.  To be honest, I am not really sure why I picked it up, but, let me just say, it is probably one of the best books I have ever read!  This book made me regret all the times I zoned out in school growing up bored to tears with all the things that happened to and in our nation.  Unbroken has not only inspired a desire to learn more about World War II but has made me realize the importance of our military and all the people who serve.  Growing up in the 80's and 90's, I think my generation lost the zest for what it means to be American.  While events have taken place (911 among others), we have never truly seen war in it's horrific true form.  Thanks to people like Zamperini, we are able to catch a glimpse of what men and women went through in order for us to be living like we are today.  This story is truly inspirational, and I agree with one review that said reading this book makes you feel like a better person.  I now realize what it truly means to support our troops.  How thankful I am for the men and women who fight for our freedom every day while many of us don't even realize it is happening.
2 I'm sure Louie is an amazing man, and I commend him for his accomplishments.  I found this book immature and almost like watching one of those tv shows that give you narrated little snippets with &#34;amusing&#34; tag lines and over the top music and laugh tracks.
5 There are so many WWII biographies and histories that another one could get lost in the shuffle.  However, "Unbroken" stands out in both its subject and in its writing.  The book tells the story of Olympic runner and WWII Army Air Corps officer Louie Zamperini.  Zamperini's running career was pre-empted by WWII when he joined the Army Air Corps as a B-24 flight officer.  He was shot down over the Pacific and survived on a rubber raft longer than anyone had ever survived, only to be captured by the Japanese.  His ordeal on the raft was brutal, but was nothing compared to what he experienced as a POW of the Japanese.  The story is inspiring and moving and told in a compelling way.  The writing is superb and you will come away inspired by a true American hero.  Excellent read!
4 It was interesting ,informative and entertainigly wrritten.I enjoyed reading it specially when I saw it was a true story.Sincerely yours Isabel
5 This is not the type of book I would generally take up. However; I am so happy I decided to read this. It it so well written and researched; the story is nothing short of AMAZING....The book was finished in 2 days, and will stay with me for a long time!
4 This is a solid story.  It is eye opening about what was actually happening to POWs in Japan in WW 2.  The one thing I will say though it that the story is not as unique as many people seem to think.  I have read various other books along the same lines about different people.  In many ways this was very similar to John McCain's life story.  The book is entertaining and worth the read.
3 I cannot imagine how this man survived.  That he did is a testament to his tenacity in the face of incredible inhumanity.  I found myself heavily invested in Louie and was looking forward to more of his story ... more about his return to his family after so horrible an experience; his coping mechanisms, etc.  I am related to several Vietnam Vets and one of them is still suffering, and another is dead ... thank you Agent Orange.  This book will tell you all you ever wanted (or not) to know about the senseless cruelty of war; but it will also tell you a little about the indomitable spirit of one man.
5 People hate when I buy them books as gifts. I know it. They've told me. But I am getting this book for so many people because A: It's a GREAT book B:It is so inspiring.I'm going to give this to all my whiny friends who think there problems are just so horrible.This is a book that you will not be able to put down. This is a book that will leave you feeling like you can overcome an obstacle in your life. This is a book that is NonFIction but reads like a novel. A great novel.Buy It. Gift It.
5 This book is well-written and stirs many emotions yet manages to educate readers about the realities of the Pacific theater in WWII. I've recommended Unbroken to all my friends.
3 I say everyone is entitled to their own opinion. I noticed so many five star reviews but for me, no way. Sure it is a little interesting, sad, and heroic. The story is really a long history of one mans life before and after WWII. It just didn't do it for me. I felt it was just this long winded narration, and I am sorry, but I just didn't feel the intense need to read this book because I wanted to know what will happen next. It just didn't connect for me, like something was missing that would make me feel more part of the story. I won't go into the plot as it is well covered in other reviews. Perhaps it is just me, but it didn't hold my interest, and even after finishing the book, all I kept thinking is, good, now that this is over I can start reading something else. Read it, don't read it, I am sort of neutral, just not my cup of tea.
5 Never boring for a moment.Good writing. The book pulls you along and is exciting as its cruel. He must have had seven lives to survive such a journey.Japan was a missing link for mi (in WW 2) and this book fulfilled it. Absolutely recommended book!
5 After reading "Unbroken" I wish I knew Louie Zamperini personally.  He definitely is a "cat" with 9 lives or more.  His life story and that of his fellow military buddies is amazing; astounding and shocking.  The fact that people endured as much as they did is simply shocking and to think that they endured this for America, England, Australia, France and other countries so that we can be free is an extremely selfless act.  This book documents the human spirit and will to live in amazing clarity.  I wish our country had the American spirit that the country had during WWII and the years following.  Reading what these men endured to secure my freedom makes me want to scream from the rooftops that I'M PROUD TO BE AN AMERICAN!There is so much information available what the Germans did during WWII that the human destruction and violence of the Japanese is very often overlooked.  This book brings it to the forefront through Louie's life story and that of the other POWs.This book was so well written and the story so amazing that I couldn't put it down.  I've recommended it to a lot of people and I plan on recommending it to even more.Thank you Louie and all of the WWII veterans for all of your many, many sacrifices.
5 Wow. I don't know if I am more impressed by Louie Zamperini's life and his will to survive, or the brilliant telling of Louie's life by Laura Hillenbrand. Once I got into it, I couldn't put this book down. At one point, I read 200 pages late into the night because I couldn't stop until I found out whether Louie's friend Phil (Russell Allen Phillips) lived or died. Amazing, AMAZING, account of the amount of suffering and degradation human beings (in this case POWs in WW2 Pacific Arena) can endure and still survive. Amazing account of revenge and the power of forgiveness.
5 I won't go over the details because others who have reviewed this book have done so very eloquently.But this book covers the emotions from joy to despair, love and hate, pity and praise. God bless and thank you Louis, and ALL the brave young men who sacrificed so much so that I could grow up in a free country.
5 I'm sure you don't need a review to tell you to buy this book, but it is the most vivid, honest, and shocking account of WWII in the Pacific in the eyes of Louis Zamperini. Simply remarkable.
5 This was a great historic story. Needed to keep history alive and remembered.Mankind (all) can be extremely vicious and cruel.The Billy Graham aspect was an excellent surprise.
4 Growing up as a challenge to family and friends, but becoming a man of great deeds.  Freind suggested this book to me and I suggest to you.
5 I absolutely loved reading this true story of survival!  I am so thankful for the sacrifices made on our behalf by the military.
4 An awesome story of the strength that one can possess when pushed to the limit.  Definitely worth reading!  An inspiration!
5 Louis Zamperini is a truly remarkable man.  His story is awe inspiring, but even more so is the greatness of our God.  Only He could restore and heal a man so mentally tortured.
5 This story will haunt you long after you finish it! It takes you on an emotional and psychological rollercoaster ride, into situations you can scarcely imagine enduring. The fact that the author herself suffers from the debilitating effects of chronic fatigue syndrome makes this book doubly remarkable: that Laura Hillenbrand could research and expertly craft such a riveting work, and that the extraordinary Louis Zamperini(still alive at 94!)could simply survive to tell his incredible tale. The book also sheds needed light on the appalling and startling cruelty that many of the Japanese forced on our POW's who were captured during World War Two. This outstanding book was one of the best that I read this year...
5 The book "Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption" was well-researched by the author Laura Hillenbrand, and well-written.  She managed to take a long list of details from historical documents and spin them into a gripping narrative of barbaric cruelty and forgiveness, glory and degradation, and redemption. I highly recommend it.
5 This book renewed my soul and reminded me that survival is at the core of the human experience.  This story, all true, reminded me that when things appear to be at the very worst, something kicks in, the will to survive takes hold and sometimes we are able to do anything to survive.  This is the story of the strength of the soul of a single man, one of many who survived that which most of us can not even imagine.  I could not put this book down!
5 Awesome book. Hard to put down. Made me want to find out all I could about Louis. A great person.
5 Excellent story of survival and overcoming the odds.  Very well written with good development of the characters and the trials they suffered.  It gave incite into the psychological issues that people experience under oppressive environments and how true surviver's cope with these issues.
5 Well written - well researched.  Truly an inspirational story.  Unbelievable how much a person can endure.  I also love the dedication to country.  We should never forget our nation's history and the sacrifice of those who came before us!
5 Wow, what a book! I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book. I learned a lot about the Japanese theater of world war 2
4 When I picked up this book, I had high hopes, as I fell in love with author Laura Hillenbrand after reading Seabiscuit, and I am a bit of a history buff, with World War II being a particular interest.Unbroken tells the story of Louis Zamperini, and World War II Army bombadier who served in the Army, in the Pacific. In May of 1943, Zamparini's bomber crashed into the Pacific. After floating in the ocean for 47 days and nearly dying, Zamperini and his fellow soldiers were captured by the Japanese.A good portion of the book is spent describing this ordeal as Zamperini struggles to survive physical and psychological torture through several POW camps.  Particularly disturbing are the acts of a single jailer, called "The Bird".  As such, this book is not for the faint of heart.Some of my favorite parts of the book were the early chapters describing Zamperini's childhood, at which time he was apparently the terror of the neighborhood.  These early chapters set up the spirit and determination that Zamperini displayed in order to survive his ordeal.This was a good book, if at times difficult to read.  It is a must buy for the history buff on your list.  It is a substantial hardback, and would make a wonderful Christmas present.I received this book for free from WaterBrook Multnomah Publishing Group for this review.
5 I chose this story by chance while on summer break from my second degree. I thought since the author had penned the NY Times Best Seller "Seabiscuit," that this story would be well-written and entertaining. Honestly, I was lured in by the description of surviving while lost at sea for so long and because I have a dear friend, John H. Ross (please look him up sometime in a coming documentary titled "American Hero"), who has shared stories of his experiences as a spy in WWII. What I found in these pages, however, is a life-changing account of a man who should have (after all if the harrowing events he endured) been broken, but who instead overcame these tragedies to depict the finale of his own life, wrought with happiness and a jovial depth of character. Phenomenal biography.
5 This book comes as a welcome addition to the good stuff on the literary horizon. Beautifully written, thoroughly researched and well edited it tells the story of Louis Zamperini, (b. January 1917), Olympic track star (1936), WW II aviator, POW of the Japanese (1943-45), recovering serviceman (1945-49) and Christian activist and motivational speaker (1950-present.)Actually the book should be titled "Incredible" because the Zamperini story is - incredible.  A first generation Italian boy in Torrance California from a very middle class family discovers the joy of running, has a real talent, becomes a track star at USC, goes to the Olympics in 1936, continues with his athletic program and joins the Air Force in 1942 as a bombardier on B24s, participates on at least two big raids in the Pacific (Nauru and the Marshalls) and in 1943 while on a hunt for a lost plane off Palmyra Reef 800 miles south of Hawaii survives the crash of his own B24 at sea and then survives for 47 days on a small  raft with his pilot Russell Allen as they drift westward to Kwajalin in the Gilberts, a thousand miles plus from their crash site. From this point on I urge you to read the book to get the true "feel" of the subsequent imprisonment, torture and cruelty endured by Louis and every other Allied POW at the hands of the Japanese, first as prisoners on Kwajalein ("Execution Island" as it was called - appropriately, too) and then in a series of prison camps in Japan . And here is where the title "Unbroken"  is earned - for Louis and for the book itself; Louis never breaks, no matter the treatment. But, heroic as that is and was, it is not the heart of the story for this writer.For me the heart of the story is the transformation of the man as the result of his conversion to a thoroughly believing Christianity under the aegis of Billy Graham. Taking as his text the Gospel story of the woman caught in adultery and sentenced to death by stoning ("He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her".) Louis forgives the brutal guards in the camps and goes to Japan (1950) to find them and deliver his forgiveness in person. From this point on in the Zamperini story Louis is a follower of and example of the teachings of Billy Graham and of the Gospels in general. And I believe that from this point on most of us probably have a new "take" on this book and our experience in reading it.There is, however, another  "Unbroken" experience connected with the book, an experience almost as touching as the Zamperini story - and that is the story of the author's struggle with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, an incurable viral disease of unknown etiology which virtually imprisons its victims in misery. Stricken suddenly in her late teens she has survived the next two plus decades unable to exist for long outside the close surroundings of her home, unable at times to be out of bed - yet all the while  maintaining a professional and personal life of distinction by whatever means she had or which have become available to her. Her research for this book is an example to every other writer who wants to tell a good story. Her writing style is beyond criticism; and the book she has written demonstrates the word "Unbroken" in every sense of its meaning.
5 Laura Hillenbrand is a master of research and interviews. I realize she, herself, is housebound, but she writes an incredible story. She did so with Seabisquit, and again with Louis Zamperini's story of survival and redemption.
4 Laura Hillenbrand's "Unbroken" is the story of WWII navigator Louis Zamperini, who along with pilot and close friend "Phil," survived their B-24 Liberator crash while on a rescue mission in the Pacific Ocean.Surviving on a tiny raft for 47 days with rainwater, an occasional fish or snatched bird, they were captured and shipped to Japan as POWs where they endured for the balance of the War.In the 1930's, Zamperini had become an Olympic athlete and represented the U.S. in track in the 1936 Games.  While the call from Adolf Hitler to meet him personally seems wildly improbable, Zamperini was a go-getter and if he says it happened, it probably did."Unbroken" centers on Zamperini's survival through his bombing missions, his time at sea on the raft and especially, his two years as a POW.  Conditions at Japanese POW camps were appalling.  Hillenbrand does a good job of explaining how in the Japanese mindset, becoming a POW was seen as shameful and a personal disgrace.  Better to have died gloriously (or ingloriously) in battle.  Many Japanese soldiers and civilians committed suicide rather than allow themselves to be captured.  This mindset is completely contrary to American and Western ideals and philosophy.The very worst sorts of Japanese civilians and soldiers were selected as prison camp officials and guards. For Zamperini, most notorious among these was the "Bird," a man named Wantanabe, a mere Corporal in rank but a pathologically-damaged, vicious creep, a psychopath.  If even half of the abusive incidents recounted by Hillenbrand in "Unbroken" are true, then it is indeed a miracle that Zamperini survived his many months as a POW.  This is the one part of the story that honestly stretches the imagination.The truth about Japanese prison camps in WWII is devastating enough.  Never enough food, slave labor, random beatings, torture, psychological intimidation and abuse, withholding Red Cross packages.  There was no adherence to the Geneva Accords which had been a consequence of WWI.  Although Japan had signed the Accords, the Japanese DIET never ratified them.  These facts are well documented.Later in "Unbroken," Hillenbrand cites statistics that compare  survival rates in German POW camps with survival rates in Japanese POW camps. By way of comparison, out of every 100 American prisoners in a German POW camp, 1 would die.  Out of every 100 American prisoners in a in a Japanese POW camp, 37 would die.  Amazingly, there were some American POWs who survived their time in a German POW camp only to be sent to the Pacific Theatre after the European war ended and were unlucky enough to become a POW in a Japanese POW camp.  Among them who survived the War, to a man they would say there was no comparing a German POW camp to a Japanese POW camp."Unbroken" is a fine work, well-written and sustaining.  My one criticsm is there may have been an over-reliance on the memories of Louis Zamperini himself.  The truth alone is devastating enough.  There is no need to stretch it.
5 I cannot supply any new superlatives for this astonishing true account of survival so I will only add that the rave reviews are well deserved. I always prefer a good read but faced with a lengthy road-trip, I decided to download Audible's version of UNBROKEN read by Edward Herrman. The latter is a well-known voice to PBS viewers and a damn fine actor generally cast in supporting roles as historical figures or authority types. Herrman's reading of Laura Hillenbrand's well-written and deeply dramatic account is measured and thoughtful--never veering into the turgid or melodramatic. In fact, the material is so perfectly matched with this narrator that I felt transported into the life and times of the heroes in this remarkable story. Being immersed in the audio experience of UNBROKEN, for hours, made the journey seem much shorter, even though I emerged from the car emotionally drained. This harrowing tale of human endurance was such a rewarding, satisfying experience that I will probably purchase the printed version to enjoy again.
2 I understand why so many people liked this book and rate it so highly. It's an engaging story, and Louie's journey truly was one of resilience. So why should I rate it two stars? SPOILER ALERT: Spoilers follow, mainly in the second point.The prison camp section was about 2/3 of the book and it was really very depressing and hard to read. I believe it's important to know what happened in such places, and a book like this is good for that. But I've already done that, several times over, and I really didn't need to vicariously experience all that again. If you haven't been to the Holocaust museum or talked to any real war vets, this story might do you some good. Otherwise, skip it, unless you're a glutton for punishment.The 'redemption' part of this book comes with Louie's experience with Rev. Billy Graham and his subsequent conversion to some sort of born again. ...Billy Graham? Seriously? I'm glad Louie found peace and all, but this part left a pretty sour taste in my mouth. Those showy, celebrity preachers are probably more vile then the Bird himself, and the book does nothing to acknowledge that. (yes, I know that's just Louie's story but it really lowered my view of him and his whole story)
5 A story of the power faith and determination play in surviving prolonged deprivation and uncertainty. I found myself amazed at the will these characters portrayed in face of so many obstacles to survival. Also, the history of World War II and all the various complications to staying alive are truly interesting and inspiring.
5 This is one of the best books I've ever read.  Laura Hillenbrand is excellent.  The story is spell bounding.  If it's made into a movie, I hope they'll show the truth about Japanese POW camps.  Louie Zamperini is a true American hero.  I have recommended this bookand loaned it to a friend.  I'd like to meet Louie and Laura in person.
4 An excellent telling of Louie Zamperini's life from trouble kid to Olympic runner to his harrowing WWII tale of survival floating in the Pacific for weeks and his extended time in the worst of Japanese POW camps. His return home which spiraled towards complete loss ends with redemption and will encourage any reader to press on. The depths at which the human spirit can both abuse and endure are on full display.
5 Great story -- author made you feel like you were there - could not put it down!!!A story of personal survival and than complete redemption !!
5 Laura has penned a superb novel, one that every American should read.  It is one of the most vivid and inspiring books I've ever encountered.  On top of that, Tony Duva, my boot camp company commander of 62 years back, shows up on four separate pages.
4 "Unbroken" is the almost incredible story of Louis Zamperini, Olympian, Air Force Veteran, prisoner of war and inspirational speaker.  Normally I tell a lot of the facts of a history or biography, but this book reads so much like a novel that I want you to have the thrill of suspense that I did.To give you a few details, Zamperini grew up in California, became an Olympic runner who was expected to medal at the 1940 Tokyo Summer Olympics that were cancelled due to World War II.  Joining the Army Air Force, Zamperini was shot down over the Pacific, floated in a raft for 47 days after which they were captured by Japanese.  Author Laura Hillenbrand tells of the unspeakable cruelties inflicted on the prisoners until their liberation by Allied Forces.  Upon return to the States Zamperini struggled from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder until, well I better stop here.Suffice it to say, "Unbroken" is a well written tale of courage that truly could not be broken.  It tells a of a tragedy of war that is often overlooked, the sufferings of the POW.  Whether you are student of World War II or just looking for an inspiration "Unbroken" is the choice for you.
4 This book is an intense and quite entertaining account of the life of Army Air Corps Lieutenant Louie Zamperini and his tribulations as a Pacific POW in the Second World War. I listened to the Audiobook version.First, Louie Zamperini is a hero.  Every man who dons a uniform in wartime is a hero in the minds of many, including me.  Some heroes place themselves generally in harms' way as our warriors and protectors of home and hearth; others place themselves in harms' way in a very specific way, forfeiting or intentionally taking a substantial risk of forfeiting their own lives to save someone else's.  This is a story of a hero whose place on that continuum undoubtedly will vary among readers.A serviceman serving in the Pacific was in many ways a special kind of hero.  In a fight, one might be killed, captured, or wounded.  In a fight with the Japanese, there was statistically much less difference that here should have been between the first two, and capture often was simply a very long and painful death sentence.  The risks in a fight were therefore greater that in one against a humane enemy, as Germany basically proved to be in its treatment of POWs.Louie Zamperini was captured after facing almost certain death for many weeks and, for the remainder of the War, suffered brutal and inhumane treatment so familiar to the special bunch who were called Pacific POWs, especially those who, like Louie Zamperini, were directly under the heel of a particularly sadistic villain who became #7 on the United States list of Japanese war criminals (Tojo was #1).This book is a study in the resiliency of the human spirit and "doing what you gotta do".  The depth of character, the strength of will, even the humor shown in the pages of this book is something to savor, even as the reader is repulsed by the unbridled cruelty practiced by people whose dark side decided what was to be normal in the treatment of other human beings and who were answerable to nobody; certainly nobody with any respect for human dignity and, in fact, whose purpose was not to destroy it.The book tells of how the essential grit of Louie Zamperini was attained, and how it glittered under the pressure of terrific tests.  The story is artistically crafted, replete with imagery that plays better than a movie as one listens.  Audiobook reader Edward Herrmann does a splendid job.I read the book neither cynically nor gullibly.  In that vein, I note that the book was written after all the witnesses were dead.  Hero Louie Zamperini has lived a very long time, and yet lives to my knowledge.  When one is beyond the critique of witnesses, license can be taken by relater, author, editor, and anybody else having an interest in the book's success, constrained only by recorded history and the relater's own modesty if any.  The work of the various licensees, then, reasonably might be presumed by the reader to have been favorably spiced with some measure of fiction.A seminal event in the post-War life of Louie Zamperini was his embrace of Christianity.  True to the faith, he forgave all his former tormentors including the worst one, and went on with his life, intent on emphasizing the positive.  Yet, in his closing years on earth, he was able to reach back into the muck of the awful prison camps where he resided in filth and depredation, and produce in fine detail, this story.  That, in itself, is truly amazing.This book is an excellent read, and I came away even more proud to live in a country where the ilk of Louie Zamperini yet breathes.
4 `Unbroken' is a very nicely written book describing the survival of an American Soldier, Zamperini, after his bomber crashed into the Pacific Ocean during the War. Three men survived the crash and were able get into a rubber life raft. One later died leaving Zamperini and his pilot. The life raft supplies were limited and once the water and candy bars ran out, they survived by catching fish, sea birds and rain water while fighting off sharks.After weeks of in the ocean, 2000 miles away from the crash, they washed up on a beach and were captured by Japanese troops. Then, real hell began; surviving the murderous Japanese POW compounds.Zamperini and his pilot did survive; this is his story. The book is a quick read.
5 This book deserved its place among the top books in recent years.  Hildebrand has a steady, organized presentation of facts and ideas that would be worth following by any aspiring author.
5 I AM A WORLD WAR HISTORY BUFF, BOTH THEATERS. YHIS WAS A COMPELING STORY WITH A WONDERFUL ENDING. WELL DONE
5 True story of a world class runner who becomes a WWII prisoner of war and his strength of character and will.
5 If you are into non-fiction books Laura Hillenbrand's UNBROKEN is superb.  This book is what its all about to say great reading.  An unbelievable story about an extraordinary man, Louis Zamperani.  Simply look at the reviews and the ratings.  Get the book.  Read itHIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
5 The author did a lot of detailed, in-depth checking. What a story about the human will to survive - and still be able to forgive.
5 The life story is fascinating and inspiring; overcoming many early difficulties. The writing is exceptional. as if your are a part of the scene. An easy read. It makes you realize how much a person can stand and still have success.
5 I have read a lot of books but rarely do I read a book in one sitting; I did this one.Unbroken is a history lesson, it is a book about peseverance, it is a book about indivudl faith, it is a book about individual endurance beyond comprehension, it ia book about being grateful.  As you read Unbroken you can't help but ask the question, What would I have done?It is unfortunate that World War II has been reduced to a small section in history books taught to our children.  I am 67 years old and knew nothing but what the movies taught us about prisoners of war in the Pacific during WWII and more importantly the trauma they experienced after the war when they came home.This is not a book just for men, in fact several women referred me to the book.  In one sentence:  I just can't imagine going through what the prisoners of war went through in the Pacific!  I think you will feel the same.
5 Hillenbrand writes with passion and skill - - drawing the reader into thedepths of human existence under near unbelievable circumstances.Extremely hard to put down once you begin.
4 my wife read this for her bookclub and loved it. I wasn't surprised, as I've found most of Hillenbrand's books to be solidly written and well researched. My wife began to realize how little she really knew about the culture of pre-WWII Europe (from the Olympics part of the book) and of the Pacific front (her father drove a tank through North Africa and Southern Europe).
5 An excellence book on air war, in the Pacific theater during WW ll.  An unvarnished story of the treatment that our POW's received from the Japanese.A very good insight into what the Japanese thought of the Americans. Very well written & researched book, by  Laura Hillenbrand. I highly recommend this book.
5 I really liked this book.  I almost felt like I was reading a modern day version of the Odyssey. The challenges that the main character had to overcome really are amazing.  The book takes the reader from the  Olympics, to  surviving an airplane crash at sea,  and then a survival situation on a raft.  The reader then continues to follow the main character through a series of barbaric Japanese prison camps.  The main character then confronts perhaps the biggest challenge: raising a family while dealing with severe PTSD combined with the ravages of alcoholism.  The book gives a lot of good background history of the World War period.  It is very well written and researched.  I am glad I read it.
5 The truth of war is unfathomable. The stories of facing the enemy, capture and POW camps (where the laws of the Geneva Convention were ignored and sadistic people were in charge) seem unimaginable. The depths at which the human soul can go is heart breaking.But in the midst of reading such hate and brutality, there are stories like Unbroken, telling of the strength of a person's will to live, choosing to stand up and even stories of compassion.Laura Hillenbrand does her research well and writes in a way that keeps you reading (with enough footnotes to make any history dork like myself happy). She does an incredible job. And the story itself is amazing. At one point Louis Zamperini was under a raft in the Pacific Ocean hiding from the Japanese bullets while kicking a shark in the nose so the shark wouldn't eat him. In case you skimmed that last part, here it is again: while hoping a bullet didn't hit him, he was kicking a shark in the nose. Repeatedly. I can't even make that stuff up.While reading the story, I was angry, heartbroken, sad and cried plenty. But it was worth it - every single word I read. I hope it turns into a movie like her first book, Seabiscuit.To close, I leave with two quotes from the book and Hillenbrand's dedication. My hope is that they'll give you a glimpse of what had me crying and the power of forgiveness. I can't imagine the path Louis has lived, but wow, it's one of the most inspiring tales I have ever come across."In Sugamo prison, as he was told of Watanabe's fate, all Louis saw was a lost person, a life now beyond redemption. He felt something that he had never felt for a captor before. With a shiver of amazement, he realized that it was compassion. At that moment, something shifted sweetly inside him. It was forgiveness, beautiful and effortless and complete. For Louis Zamperini, the war was over" (page 379).This is from a letter he wrote to The Bird/Watanabe:"Under your discipline, my rights, not only as a prisoner of war, but as a human being, were stripped from me. It was a struggle to maintain enough dignity and hope to live until the war's end.The post-war nightmares caused my life to crumble, but thanks to a confrontation with God though the evangelist Billy Graham, I committed my life to Christ. Love replaced the hate I had for you. Christ said, "Forgive your enemies and pray for them."As you probably know, I returned to Japan in 1952 [sic] and was graciously allowed to address all the Japanese war criminals at Sugamo Prison...I asked then about you, and was told that you probably committed the Hara Kiri, which I was sad to hear. At that moment, like the others, I also forgave you and now would hope that you would also become a Christian."Louis Zamperini"Finally, I wish to remember the millions of Allied servicemen and prisoners of war who lived the story of the Second World War. Many of these men never came home; many others returned bearing emotional and physical scars that would stay with them for the for the rest of their lives. I come away from this book with the deepest appreciation for what these men endured, and what they sacrificed, for the good of humanity. It is to them that this book dedicated." - Laura Hillenbrand
5 every once & awhile a book comes along that you fall in love with and you want to tell everyone about it. this was that book for me. it captivated me from the first chapter and I looked forward to the next time I could pick it up again.unbroken follows the story of Louis Zamperini during WW2. I dont want to say too much and give the story away but what an amazing man... Every reader should take somethibg away from this book, inspiration of some sort on how lucky we are.This isnt a book I would typically read. However, I have already recommended it to numerous people. Ive heard its going to be a movie later in 2014 and i hope the movie does the book justice.Thank you Laura Hillenbrand for this beautiful book. This wasa story ive never heard before but am so grateful i now have. without your hard work (And Louis of course) I never would have known it.
1 I can't imagine why people liked this book. It was one horrible event after another. If this story is even half true, what kind of a God would allow such suffering? I don't go to church because I hate organized religion but I pray every night and this made me question my beliefs. What sort of God would put a man through this?Spoilers:Plane crashes because someone hits the wrong switch, then entangled in wires, then raft-mate eats all the food in one day, then sharks constantly swimming below the raft, then attack the raft, then a plane attacks the raft, then finally find land over a month later, only to end up beaten mercilessly, tormentor finally leaves camp only to have Louie sent to tormentor's new camp, then, when the war is finally over Louie doesn't get happiness but PTSD and alcoholism.Whee! I wanted to slit my wrists after reading this.Unbroken? How? Everyone in this book was broken multiple times and there were no stories of heroism, more like stories of just enduring and surviving.As others have pointed out, there was so much that was just unbelievable. Like the prisoners deciding, "I know, let's kill the Bird. First, we'll need a lot of rope. And a big boulder. And a river. We'll subdue him, tie him to the boulder, and then, like a 1920's cartoon, we'll roll the boulder into the river..." How about you just hit him in the head with a rock a couple times behind the barracks?I was just negative, depressed and in disbelief after reading this poorly written book.
5 Awesome story. Up there with The Long Walk.  I wan enthralled by the hardship and inspired by the subjects capacity for forgiveness to his tormentors.
5 Remarkable story, absolutely remarkable.  Hillenbrand manages to move back and forth from the grand stage of World War II to the actions of the individual soldiers on both sides both effectively and smoothly.  The book flows and is very well-written--not easy to do with all the research she has done and the ambitious scope of this book.  I note that there are some reviewers who believe things could not have occurred precisely as she wrote it.  Wow, big news.  No author every gets it completely, fully accurate--the author couldn't be there and has to rely on the accounts of those that were there, both years ago and those that now remember.  The point is not to assume that every detail is precisely as it happened--rather, the book provides vivid, clear, and fully supported scenes of what happened that are true, if not always exact.  Hillenbrand has also worked hard to sort out the underlying themes within the history she describes, not an easy thing to do.  The book will transport you back to a different time and place, and it will grip you and leave you enlightened, amazed, and inspired.  Great job, Laura Hillenbrand.
5 This book is an Amazing and inspirational story, told in a straightforward and articulate manner. I learned so much about WW2- sad and tragic things that history books fail to mention.
5 Received today.  Took a little longer to get here, but it did!  Book is in great condition, no defects appear, binding looks like it was barely opened.  Would order again.  I've read the first chapter and have no doubt I'll enjoy it.
5 Louis Zamperini is now one of my biggest heroes.  An incredible story, an incredible journey of an incredible man.  Unbroken has just moved up into my top 10 favorite books of all time.
5 Put whatever book you are reading now, down.  Pick this one up, read and do not stop till you're finished.  Unbroken is the best book I have ever read.  HIllenbrand's style of writing is great.  She pulls you into the story, and you will find yourself cheering, crying and moving along with the people in the story.  This book is too GOOD not to own.
4 Hillenbrand unfurls the story of Louie Zamperini--a juvenile delinquent-turned-Olympic runner-turned-Army hero. During a routine search mission over the Pacific, Louie's plane crashed into the ocean, and what happened to him over the next three years of his life is a story that will keep you glued to the pages, eagerly awaiting the next turn in the story and fearing it at the same time. You'll cheer for the man who somehow maintained his selfhood and humanity despite the monumental degradations he suffered, and you'll want to share this book with everyone you know.
5 It took me about a third of the way into the story before I got the messaage. The story of how he found God's forgiveness and wanted to give that forgiveness back it really amazing. You wont be the same after reading this book.
5 You need to read this book. If you have any interest in sports, history, WWII, life in the depression, life after WWII, you will like this book. It has it all, Delinquent youth in sunny California, followed by redemption via sports, Olympics in Berlin in 1936, war in the Pacific, and the might of the human spirit. Read it!
5 When a friend first told me about this book, I wasn't much interested.  World War II?  But I got it, based on all the reviews.  Well, I could not put the book down.  I finished it in three days.  And then I did something that I've never done in my life.  The minute I finished the last page of the book, I turned to the front and began to read it all over again.  So much happened, I simply could not digest all the details in one reading.I am very grateful to Laura Hillenbrand, the brilliant author of the equally engaging book "Seabiscuit" for this astonishing story of survival and redemption.  Being a Christian, the latter part of the book was especially sweet to me.I'm telling all my friends about it.  Reading this book is an experience no one should miss.
5 Riviting! I read it twice.
4 Unbroken is a well written story of an amazing life. It is also a moving discription of the fearless flyers and crew who fought against Japan in WW2. This is one of the many stories which should be told.
5 This is one of the best books I have read in a long time.  You just get swept away and cannot put it down. I enjoyed this book more than any I have read in a long time.  I am a voracious reader  and always have two or three waiting on the bookshelf. I prefer non-fiction, but do enjoy Pat Conroy now and again!
5 Really enjoyed this account of a WWII Japanese prisoner of war and Olympic star.  This is the well-written story of a real hero!
5 This is the first book I've read covering any of the history of WWI. I have shyed away from this part of history and this genre in general...not anymore. This was a very well written book with TONS of reserach and detail. I would suggest it to everyone.
4 Once you get over the wordiness of this book it is a good read. I gained an better understanding of Japan's psyche during world war II. Selecting Louie Zamperini, a class runner, as the main character was a strong anchor around which to build the story. I would recommend this to any one interested in aircraft, running, Japan or the tenacity of the human spirit.
5 A stunning real story about Louie who was not only an Olympic Champion he was a Army Air Force soldier who went through hell after his plane went down and he survived Japanese POW camps mistreatment and the after effects...The end where it tells how the POW's were compensated made me finally cry about the story. What an amazing man, what an amazing story!
5 I honor all those who serve our country.  And those that can forgive, even the worst of atrocities, live a peaceful life.
5 Outstanding. Only way to describe OUTSTANDING. No other words are needed to describe this story, so why should I write more.
5 I bought this book after reading the various reviews..it sat around the house for a month and then I threw it in the bag when I went to Florida for vacation..once I got past the first few chapters, I couldn't lay it down.  It is one of the most unbelieveable stories I have ever read and so well written.  Don't miss out on this book..it is a keeper in every sense.
5 A really good story of survival  in the Pacific as told by the author of &#34;Seabiscuit.&#34; Well worth the time and effort to read the book. I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys stories of WWII.
5 Hillenbrand brings us into the life of a fascinating man, snaring us with his outrageous childhood in the early thirties, taking us to the Berlin Olympics where Louie ran and lifted(stole) a Nazi flag (among other things). We know the war is coming (hints:history, the title) but by then we're thoroughly attached to this man.  The center of the book is wrenching; we need resilience to stay with the book through the center.  Her specific focus, her ability to turn painstaking and thorough research into delightful and/or horrifying experiences bring the reader to the promised &#34;Redemption.&#34; Couldn't put it down.
5 It's hard to believe that human beings could endure the suffering described in &#34;Unbroken.&#34;  While there are many, many memoirs devoted to the extraordinary sacrifices made for country during WW2, Laura Hillenbrand's story of Louis Zamperini certainly gave me a new appreciation for the courage demonstrated by &#34;the greatest generation.&#34;  I raised our American flag here at home with a new pride and reverence, let me tell you.  As she so well showed throughout &#34;Seabiscuit,&#34; Ms. Hillenbrand's writing excels on all levels, enabling one to identify with Mr. Zamperini and share fully in his life and trials.  This wonderful book should be required reading by every American.
5 This is an amazing true story of survival and redemption. Not only does this book dip the reader back into the reality of WWII but it also details the account of one very amazing airman who survived against all odds.
4 A story about a determined man that braved so many obstacles and abuse that one wonders how he ever survived.  He did!  This is a true story about an impossible journey.
5 What a story about the will to live, not just one man's will but all the POW's.  I read this book because I wanted to learn more about WWII in the Pacific, it was more a story of a young man, great athlete, goes to fight the war, is a good friend to others, suffers as a POW but then how he recovers from that.  Really a great story, I was fascinated and horrified all at the same time.I did not want to put it down!
5 I can't get this book out of my mind.  There is always a conversation with someone about this book.  It was well written and documented.Thank you Laura Hillenbrand for writing this book.
5 Very well written.  Really holds your attention.  Unblievable that the human body can stay alive under such cruel circumstances.  Makes me realize that the human body can endure more pain and starvation than I ever realized!
5 The test of the human spirit is the theme of this amazing book. The story is riveting and the heroes are many. The love of two brothers is examined and explained in wonderful detail. A mother's will to never give up on her &#34;missing in action&#34; son will bring tears to any mother's eyes. I read this book in two days with a few hours of sleep. Louis was a man's man who was drafted into a war we were not prepared for. He was given second rate airplanes to battle a well prepared army of vicious soldiers with no feelings for their prisoners. I laughed, I cried, but mostly I cheered at what Louis and the rest of the POW's overcame when the war ended. Then I was shocked and amazed at the ability for all to forgive.
3 I bought this book as a recommendation by my husband's son.  My husband never read the book and he has passed on so I gave it to his daughter.  I don't know if the book is great or not.  It isn't my kind of reading.
5 The story was an amazing account of a true story and the brutality and depth of emotion and stamina required of a soldier at war. The details continually kept you eagerly turning to the next page to see what was going to happen next.  The fact that it is a true story made the read so enjoyable and you felt connected to the main character the entire time.
5 Unbroken was a really good book.  I thoroughly enjoyed it.  What Louis went through was disturbing but finally it had a good ending.  I would definitely recommend it.
5 Mrs. Hillenbrand is so good at picking her subjects, writing in clear detail about pain and suffering, and then redemption. I just loved it and couldn't put it down.  I was mesmerized by her true characters and the insight she had into them. Please keep writing!
5 This was an excellent book. I had a very hard time putting it down. Amazing what many of our soldiers go through.  .
5 I'm not really a war novel type person.  This intrigued me because it was a true story.  I can't believe the junk our service men go through and yet we don't respect them much for what they've done.  My own son was KIA in Afghanistan two years ago tomorrow and his men remember, but society as a whole could really care less.  Read this book, you'll get a renewed sense of patriotism.  You'll understand why your grandparents wouldn't own a Toyota if it were given to them.
4 This is a well written but horrifying account of an olympic runner's experience in the air force during World War II.  The equipment failures, poor rescue preparations, fatalities from equipment failure, human error and the evil of the Japanese was shocking.
5 ... then read this book. Hillenbrand has written a carefully researched and gripping true story (well, maybe the hero stretched it a bit in the telling) of courage and forgiveness. She doesn't do what a lot of non-fiction authors do, which is to digress with a lot of information you don't want to know, just because he/she has researched it and by god it goes in the book. Hillenbrand gives enough background, and moves back to the story - the capture and imprisonment of an unusual man by the Japanese army in WWII. It is a war story of great suffering and pain; it informs us of the outer limits of tenacity, and of cruelty. Far from depressing though, it is an uplifting story with humor, pathos, and a great example of the generosity of a human spirit.
5 Thanks Laura. Impossible to comprehend how they survived and went forward. Incredible read. Looking forward to your next great story.
5 OMG! I love this book. I am a World War II fan, and I have never read a book from America's perspective. I'm always reading about Hitler and Germany. This is a must read book. Heartbreaking, wonderful book.
5 This is a most remarkable story in just about any way that a story can be well told. The subject, Louis Zamperini, is presented as a force of nature. The amazement and what staggers the imagination is the depths of suffering and height of redemption that one man, and groups of people can endure. The writing is first rate. At over five hundred pages, I am not sure that there is a wasted word, and Hillenbrand rarely uses the same adjective twice, causing her words to pop off the page.The level of research is extraordinary. The technical details of German airships in the 20's, US B-24 bombsights, and even the type of training that track athletes would have experienced in the 30's is told with the rare combination of expertise and clarity, so a person with no prior background can understand the information.Unbroken has rightly received its many accolades. This is the third book treatment (along with many articles and video productions) of the World War II events surrounding Louis Zamperini, and the most comprehensive. Zamperini has led the most remarkable life, a real American story of the 20th century. At his birth, I do not think that much of any of his life could have been predicted: from NCAA & 1936 Olympic track star (shaking hands with Hitler one day and stealing a NAZI flag from the Reich Chancellery the next), to World War II bombardier, to his unimaginable suffering of drifting for nearly two months in the open Pacific, to over two years as a POW of the Japanese Empire, to the real work of his life after the war.Zamperini, still active in the Los Angeles area at age 93, has written his memoirs twice, nearly 50 years apart. What Laura Hillenbrand, a remarkable writer who has dealt with much physical disability in her own life, does in Unbroken, is show Zamperini's life in the broader context of the time period of this book, roughly 1930 - 1950, with great detail.This is likely one of the last books to be written regarding World War II, where the primary source is still alive to provide much of the content. The climax of this story, where a broken, likely depressed and post traumatic stressed Zamperini's encounter with Billy Graham at the 1949 Los Angeles revival meetings was handled exceptionally well. She did not force the content, but let the story tell itself, ending with a finally at peace Zamperini sitting under the shade of a California tree, ready to accomplish great things for the rest of his life.The only possible negative that I can mention is that it might have been good to learn more of some of the other POW's and associates of Zamperini, but there is honestly less documentation for them; and many of them have passed away in years since.I cannot recommend this book more highly, on any level, or on any subject that this book touches. I suspect this work will have staying power for many years to come.
4 I heard this still sharp 94 year old on a radio show and immediately bought the book.  These reviews have described  the horrors he endured, not the least of which the prison camp assaults on human dignity.  I've read several soldier/sailor/airmen accounts of the Pacific war and this is among the starkest.The writing is crisp and satisfying and the content true to history.  She tries valiantly to put you in his shoes and mostly brings it off.  I'm embarrassed with all I have complained about and thoughtlessly taken for granted when I read these accounts.
5 A story of a mischievious child growing up, being part of the 1936 Olympics, then getting drafted.  The author creates a whole picture of the characters, blending the pre and post war stories.  He was a survivor from day one.  He was a man who would never give up.  He overcame impossible odds and showed resilience in the most severe circumstance.  The WWII details in itself was an eye opener.  The story of a bombadier, getting shot down and surviving 47 days at sea in a raft, found by the Japanese and taken to a POW camp, repeatedly beaten and starving.  Seriously, how much can one person possibly endure.  I've heard stories before but not to this degree.  Reading what so many had to go through as POW'S was heartbreaking.  It has deepened my respect for all of our service men and women.  A great read.
5 Unbroken is the most inspirational book that I have read. It's a true story of survival and the will to live at all costs. What these men went through is truly amazing and reading this book will leave you wanting to turn the page quicker. A must to read.
5 This is just a wonderful book.  Everyone should read it.  Well written & I believe they are going to make it into a movie.
5 I'm not going to give you an elaborate review.  This is arguably the best book I have ever read.  Don't put it in your cart and think about buying it.  BUY IT!  You will not regret it.  GREAT BOOK!
5 This is one of the most captivating books ever written about war. Unbroken was often difficult to read because of its intensity, but it is a book I highly recommend. Louis Zamperini is a human marvel, and his life could be an example for everyone. Same for many of his war buddies - true heroes. The sadness I had when I finished the book was about today's military with its myriad troubling issues, including lackluster, self-absorbed leaders (many of whom have recently experienced public meltdowns) and the poor example they set for young people under their command. Maybe the younger generations can return to the transcendence of Zamperini and his friends.
5 Unbroken is our book club's selection for November, and I'm glad that my sister bibliophile Tilara chose it. Concerned about whether I could finish reading it before our meeting, I ordered it from Audible and listened raptly to every word of the masterfully told story. At first, I wondered whether I'd be able to finish it and found myself wondering about why Laura chose this book about a juvenile delinquent turned Olympic runner for us to read.That was before Louie's story of courage, resilience, redemption, and unbreakable spirit "took hold of me." I personally have never met an individual who, regardless of pain, disappointment, horrendous mistreatment, starvation, and deprivation, just kept brushing himself off and getting back up. To say that Louie Zamperini was an Olympic star who became a war hero doesn't do him justice. He survived 47 days on a life raft in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, fighting off sharks and starvation and somehow surviving attacks by enemy aircraft.When he and Phil finally find land, they soon learn that they're now POWs at the mercy of the Japanese. What follows next stretches the imagination and makes one wonder about the darkness of humanity. How can someone like "the Bird" inflict such horrible pain on another human being? And how can his fellow guards allow such cruelty? Though an important part of the narrative, the sections about the inhumane conditions in which the prisoners lived are more than a little disturbing. Even now, I see an image of Louie's skull being hit with the Bird's belt buckle...again and again.At war's end, Louie and his fellow POWs return to America where he fights yet another battle or two or three, those related to readjustment to civilian life. Now called PTSD, Louie had a severe case of it and turned to alcohol for reprieve from nightmares of the Bird. At the urging of his wife Cynthia, he attended a Billy Graham revival and was able to forgive his tormentors. The rest of his life has been devoted to service for others. He's now 94.Thanks to Laura Hillenbrand's marvelous writing and Louis Zamperini's strength, Louie is my new hero. I recently participated in a half marathon, and whenever I'd get tired and want to quit, I'd think of Louie and the physical demands made upon him on the ocean and later by Japanese guards, and I'd say to myself, "You're such a wimp. Think of what Louie Zamperini endured." This morning while I was trying to decide whether some bread was fresh enough to eat, I thought of Louie and ate every bite.America needs more role models like him and more writers like Hillenbrand to tell us their stories.
5 An unbelievable true story that until now, few had never known of this one man's courage and undaunted willingness to live.
5 I bought this for my dad who is 90!  He loves the World War II Stories as he is a WWII veteran!  Recommended for all ages!
5 One of the best books I've ever read. Spellbinding and filled with history I had never learned in my formal education.
5 This book was gripping, moving and eye-opening. It is impossible not to be inspired by it. I sometimes fear true stories that include suffering because I am so sensitive, but this book was really amazing and I was left with feelings of respect and faith so I encourage even sensitive readers to dive in. I will remember it as a great book. I just read &#34;Into Thin Air&#34; by John Krakauer (sp?) and both books made me say &#34;wow!&#34;  I recommend Unbroken to everyone.
5 Louie Zamperini entered this world with a fiery spirit which was fortunately channeled into making his life one of courage and inspiration. How he endured the punishing years of captivity and worked through his demons is a story that is deeply touching and trans formative.  Laura Hillenbrand is a meticulous, insightful and sensitive writer who approaches the tough passages with courage. I have bought this book for others and urge you to read it and consider gifting others with Louis' story.
5 This guy endured more than I could ever imagine a person going through.  Thank you Laura Hillenbrand for digging up so much detail!  Amazing story of endurance.  Loved Seabiscuit!  What a great writer.
4 We originally selected this title because two members of our household once lived in Torrance California and we knew that our local airport was re-named in Louis Zimperini's honor. This story of his life does not disappoint and is truthfully reflected in the title. &#34;Unbroken&#34; absolutely characterizes Louis's spirit. His life is really a series of battles starting with his running career, the 1936 Olympics, then his ill-fated role as bombardier in the Pacific war.  He survives 40+ days adrift on a life raft after his plane is shot down, then captivity in the Japanese POW camps. Louis's WW 2 career reads like an airman/ soldier's worst nightmare. There is no pause in his life challenges, however, after coming home he has to start a wholly different course in life. He cannot pick up where he left off and go back to competitive running. Today, we understand Post Traumatic Stress syndrome, but such understanding wasn't common in Louis's post WW2 world. Fortunately,in Louis's case, the love and support of his wife, and eventually his embracing of faith, brings resolution to his demons.  He &#34;pays it forward&#34; at this point by seeing a need to help others, especially troubled teenage boys. One could say that Louis's chain of inspiration is most certainly &#34;unbroken.&#34;
5 Laura Hillenbrand tells a story that grabs you as you keep shaking your head in amazement about the strength and resilience of the people from &#34;our greatest generation.&#34;
5 This was a fantastic book about his early life, the running years, the war, survival and redemption when he returned. A great read.
5 What a story!  I can't believe Louie Zamperini survived so much.  Perhaps hisrunning put him in superior physical condition, not to mention his indomitable spirit.  Couldn't put it down.  It broadened my knowledge of WWII -- how the families of the GIs in the US suffered and especially the brutality of some of the Japanese.
5 If you like survival stories you will love this book! The part of the book about his 47 days on a life raft and over two years held captive by the Japanese was very spell binding! Also great pics of the different people that crossed his life, even the cruel Japenese guards. The other great thing about the book, is it told the reader what happen to even the Japanese guards and prison commandants after the war, not just his fellow airmen/prisoners. Just a very interesting and entertaining book!
4 The writing of this heroic story makes one feel as if one is living everything that happened. The final happy ending describing a recovery from the horrific imprisonment by the Japanese while a necessary and satisfactory conclusion is too long.
5 Excellent story of survival and courage beyond all belief! It is a true testament to the strength of the human spirit in very difficult times. My heart and admiration go out to the people in this incredible story. It is well written and told. One small criticism. I don't think it adds anything to this book to tack on to the end the first chapter of the author's other book.
4 The story is unbelieveable but truely verified.  I could not put the book down it was so interesting.  I cannot believe how these men survived their torture.
5 One of the best books I've read, ever. The story itself is spellbinding, and Laura Hillenbrand is a master writer. I'm a former newspaper editor, and good writing is what draws me into a book. This one did it. I read it on my Kindle, then immediately ordered two hardbound copies for my sons.
5 Sometime in the early 1980's I read a book entitled "Man's Search for Meaning" by Viktor Frankl, a man who endured unspeakable horror in Nazi death camps. It so inspired and motivated me and brought me the confidence to endure the little hardships that I was experiencing in life. Times today are tough for many of us, and I just finished Unbroken yesterday. I am as inspired as I was after "Man's Search". This is a book for our times, about a man still alive today and still inspiring multitudes. Thank you for your sacrifice Louis, thank you for an incredible and incredibly well documented story, a story that I thought about between readings, and thrilled me each time I sat to read more. I've recommended it to nearly everyone I know.
5 this book was extremely good and I could not puthis book down. the depth and level this book reaches is very imteresting
5 A Riveting read. I didn't want to put the book down! I wanted to know what would happen next. The book was finished but I still thought about it days later. Truthfully only a few books have ever impacted me in this way. I rarely read a book more than once but will most likely read this one again.
5 Easily 5 stars! Amazing story written from every possible angle to think that this is a true story. This is a book I wouldnt typically read but once I got started I really could not get enough.
5 The other reviews here give plenty of detail about the book, I just wanted to add my two cents by saying that it was well worth the price and a must-read on many levels: the amazing life of an amazing man, insight into the mentality of the Japanese, the savagely inhumane treatment of POWs, the lingering aftermath of psychological damage to veterans, and the peace found through final forgiveness and reconciliation. This book needs to be read not just as a testament to the life of Zamperini, but so that we never forget those poor souls who suffered in the camps, and that war will inevitably bring out both the most evil cruelty in some men and the most courageous and enduring resilience in others.
5 It is hard to imagine anyone going through this ordeal. I would have given up after a few days at sea!  I could not put the book down.  Unbelievable!
5 &#34;Unbroken&#34; really lived up to the hype my (gray haired, over 60, male) friends told me when they urged me to buy the book. What? A woman writing a World War II Saga? Yep-- Ms. Hillenbrand is quite an author-- whatever the subject-- racehorses or WWII vets. As Louis, the book's protagonist, put it, &#34;Unbroken&#34; is even better than &#34;Seabiscuit,&#34; because Louis could talk!Once I began to read, I couldn't put &#34;Unbroken&#34; down. Come home from work and read the book. Watch tv and read the book. Watch weekend football games and read the book. Go to bed and read the book. Addictive!
5 Reading this story of our POW's in Japan made me feel angry at war (& Japan), empathy for soldiers, sympathy for family members and overall pride for our military service personnel - I highly recommend this book.
5 Ordinarily I am definitely NOT a WWII fan.  My husband is the avid reader of this particular genre.  However, when I read a few sentences in the preview I was somewhat intrigued and decided to try it, knowing if I didn't like it my husband would.Let me say, I am in the new Senior group of 55-70 - being somewhat familiar with WWII history - but this brought to light the most blatant abuse of our soldiers and the pain - emotional and physical that followed them all of their lives.  What a shortcoming they have received in this country and what an honor Laura Hillenbrand brought to all - not just Louie but to all his fellow soldiers - I experienced a gamut of emotions reading this book, my heart and spirit literally was in sorrowful pain for Louie and these soldiers that were captured - I so admired his spirit and that of the others in the camps - I was absolutely amazed at their stamina - I was so mad at times I wanted to crawl into the book and just slit the throat of that maniac "The Bird" - and felt so empty when that jerk was not punished for his crimes!!! Then as a Christian I would have to ask for forgiveness of my thoughts - but oh how hard it was - I cannot imagine how hard it was for Louie.  For all - if you think you know about WWII and our men in captivity - you may not - this is an awesome read and kudos to Ms. Laura!!  God Bless all our Soldiers in each and every war!!
5 This is a marvelous and inspiring book. It took me back to so much of WW II and all of the men I knew who were involved in it. (Yes, I'm of that vintage---) I would certainly recommend it to anyone for a good read.
5 I have recommended this book to everyone who likes to read, who likes biographies, and who likes inspiring stories. If the movie is made from the book (as is believed), I hope it is done well and accurately to honor Louie's life!
5 Meticulously documented, Laura Hillenbrand's story of Louie Zamperini's odysessy from out-of-control child, to an Olympian runner in the l936 Games, to a survivor of the WW II debacle is both inspriring and horrific. Cheers to the lady who wrote Seabiscuit. I admire her research; am doubtful of the "Christian" conversion but will leave it to the main characters to resolve. It's a great read, and one deserved for a little-known hero!Jean Bell32 Simpson RoadOcean City, NJ 08226jmb580@comcast.net
5 Captivating. This book had me so hooked I literally couldn't put it down. I held it and read as I walked around, played with my kids, sorted laundry, and made meals. I made my husband take my boys to a movie so I could sit and read. The story telling is amazing, and to know it is true blows my mind. Laura Hillenbrand did her research and took her time getting this story right. I am so sad the book is over, not that I wanted the bad events to continue on, but I was so engrossed, I felt sad when it ended. As melancholy and depressing as a lot of this book was, I didn't shed many tears, which is a concern for me with books. I feel more educated, more aware, and grateful for the life I lead after finishing Unbroken. I really hope the movie plans do evolve.
5 This book is so unnervingly riveting and easy to read.  The story is true and chilling and I couldn't put it down.
5 I saw this man run at the LA  Coliseum back in maybe 1949 or 50, awesome....Then back in 1993, when I took up running, I bought a pair of running shoes from Mr. Zamperini (store was on Woodman Ave. in Van Nuys, CA) and got a few helpful tips from a real runner. Needless to say, the book was worth every penny and more......words can't describe it.....emotional, having Faith in God and to think I was blesed with meeting this person.
4 It was a very engaging story about a man who became a Japanese prisoner of war.  I had trouble putting it down.  I was hoping that it would end with his Olympic dreams being fulfilled in some way, but it didn't.  I also liked the way the autor summarized some of what the other prisoners experienced after the war.
5 I LOVED THIS BOOK  GAVE IT TO MANY PEOPLE FOR GIFTS  WHAT AN INCREDIBLE  MAN. ALSO WHAT A CREDIT HISTORY BOOK  OF BEFORE WW2  AND DURING. SUCH REVELATION.
5 This book is one of the best I have ever read concerning WWll.  I was  overwhelmed at the brutality In the POW camps in Japan.  Can't wait to see the movie.
5 Lots of war details in the beginning, especially about WW II fighting planes. Gruesome details throughout the story but it has a happy ending.  If I told more, it would spoil it.  I would recommend this especially to men or anyone searching for life's meaning.
2 I am disappointed.  Thought I would enjoy it.  Disappointing - put it down mid book -- perhaps I will continue at another time.
5 This was an amazing book!  It was wonderful and horrible.  The prison camp years were difficult to read as they were so graphic, but real.  It's almost hard to believe that this could all be true, but every stage of the book is documented by official sources.  The style of switching from one scene to another keeps you wondering to the end.  Louis Zamparini is truly an amazing person to be greatly admired.
5 Our book club chose this book, so "Obviously", I ordered it from Amazon.I had no idea that this book would capture me!  To be honest I could not put it down, sometimes I had to stop because some of the circumstances were too much for me to comprehend!Indeed a book worth reading!Well worth reading!Jean Zuccaro
5 This book offered some insights into world war II that has been erased by history. Well worth reading the story of a national hero.
5 I read about 2 books/week. I was recommended this book by a friend, and never read it. Finally, last week, I started it. This book is so good that I could not put it down! The story itself is both fascinating and shocking, with twists ans turns everywhere. However, the author's writing style is superb, making this for a great read. I heartily endorse this book to anyone with an interest in WW2, prison, or just stories of sheer survival. Absolutely one of the best books I have ever read!
4 I've been throwing out haiku to distill the essence of the story that is being told in the English language:Over and overagain life sprouts up.The world is new.
5 Laura Hildebrand has done an outstanding job, no this wasn't a job, this was a labor of love in honoring Mr Louis Zimparenelli and his struggles through a very difficult time.It has been quite some time since I have read such an excellent story honoring a veteran and his comrades during WWII. In the description she mentions that this book was seven years in the making. Trust me, it shows. Her research is immaculate and the way the story is put together is bar far the best biography I have ever read.She takes you through Louie's troubled formative years to his introduction to running track. His dedication to the sport and strong training ethic gets him on the Olympic team in 1936; Berlin. Like many, he was amazed at the spectacle the Nazis put together for the world stage. He no idea that in five short years he would be thrust into the largest conflict the world has ever witnessed.No embellishment in this story either. She compiles her notes, interviews, and thoughts and delivers a story marking an incredible desire of survival. Louie, Phil and Mac find themselves at the mercy of the currents of the Pacific Ocean. For forty-seven days they float on the trade winds after their B-24 crashed into the endless expanse. He and his comrades realize being spotted and rescued is a 1000 to one as he had been called out on search and rescue missions in the past with no sign of the downed planes or crews.The sight of landfall brings a sense of hope and relief for he and Phil (Mac had succumbed to their unchosen plight). She quotes Louie later, "if he knew what the next two-and-a-half years would hold for him, he would have rather died on the raft then been a POW of the IJA (Imperial Japanese Army)."For the next two and a quarter years, Louie and his fellow POW's were stripped of their dignity, their pride, their homeland, but never their beliefs. No matter what torture or horrendous inhumane acts the Japanese dished-out upon the captives, the men did everything in their power to not be broken by the captors and the "Rising Sun."I had to take a break from writing this review for the more I thought of how these men suffered and died because they were prisoners, infuriated me. Like Louie, I wanted vengeance dispensed upon the Japanese men and officers who supervised the camps. Death would be a mere sideshow for the oppressors. It could never be administered in enough doses. But I sat back (like Louie did after seeing Billy Graham in California) and realized, this man, along with the thousands of other pow survivors were somehow able to let the anger and hate finally diminish. The men of the IJA had held them captors long after the VJ celebrations had subsided and America tried to return to a normalcy of life. For many that lived the nightmare, the war would never end. For Louie it did at a tent revival. He realized that as long his hatred remained and his quest for justice went unsatisfied, the war would never end and his life would be over.In my case, I can understand how he turned the corner and moved forward with his life. I have always been appalled at how easily the Japanese soldiers, officers, and government employees so easily dodged the long arm of the law and what we perceived as "true justice." But if Louie could put it in the past, so can I, yet for those of us who read and study history, it is our duty to never let it happen again.Laura, this book has to be the ultimate memoir and testament for the men and women who have been imprisoned by our enemies and survived the worst they can unfurl on defenseless people. This book has no equal.
5 Amazing story! Difficult to write a review without giving away spoilers. The imprisonment period is not for the faint-of-heart or to be read just before going to bed. Not scary just cruel.
5 I couldn't put this book down! I have a new appreciation for what our troops suffered under the Japanese. I thought my heart would beat out of my chest during certain parts. So well told, so well written. I think this should be reqired reading for students so they can better understand our "Greatest Generation".
5 You can not go wrong with this read.  I found than once I started it was hard to put down.
5 Laura Hildenbrand wrote an outstanding biography of a World War II hero. As a volunteeer with the Honor Flight program I get to shake the hands of thousands of WWII heros some who had many of the same experiences as Louis Zamperini, coming through Dulles Airport on their way to see the WWII Memorial. Her work gave me a new appreciation for the efforts of those men and women.
5 What a great story. The best parts that caught my attention the most was the detail of survival on the raft. It is crazy to think that the sharks were going after them 24/7 and trying to pull them under. How he survived through the shark attacks, guard attacks, lack of food, plane crashes, and many other things is beyond me. This is a great read and pulls you in right away. The author gave such great detail about his track and field life that it made me want to go run the mile and see how long it would take me. Anyone interested in a person's life before WW-2....during WW-2 and after WW-2...then this is a must read. Great book!MY SIDE RANT:I also has an extreme dislike for the Japanese and their treatment of POWs. I wish our country would have still tried these men since we are still trying war criminals from the holocaust in europe. The things they did to Louie and his friends is unbearable. We should use this book as a lesson of how war makes others insane and do things we think are unimaginable!
5 This book is amazing. I love history, which is why I bought this book, but I got a LOT more than history from it. (And I read it on my new Kindle.)What the track star Louis Zamparini and those other men lived through in WWII was unbelievable - but it really happened. What they did after the war is equally unbelievable. How Louis was haunted by the memory of his abuser known at "The Bird" - and descended into alcoholism before finding Jesus through Billy Graham - was an intense page turner.If you want to learn what the human is really capable of doing, read this book.
5 there are tons of books out about WWII, however, this one is well worth the read.....Great story, brutal story, true story....Great book.
5 There were many times throughout the book that I had to pause and take stock of the overwhelming adversity faced by Louis Zamperini. It makes the current complaints of my generation and our children's look small and petty. Zamperini's athletic accomplishments, life raft survival, POW experiences, and post-war challenges seems to represent the lives of several men not one. Hillenbrand's deeply respectful treatment is thoroughly researched and beautifully written. People, places, situations, and emotions flow off the page in a clear and engaging visual. The aspects dealing with Matsuhiro Watanabe are incredible and will elicit a strong reaction. And though Zamperini is the linchpin and primary focus, the author ensures that his family, crew mates, fellow prisoners are properly shown as much more than supporting characters. They were, in fact, Zamperini's reason to survive.
5 Remarkable story written well. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. So good I even read all the pages of acknowledgements at the end.
5 Louis Zamperini was born in Torrance, California.  He was a rough, rugged child who loved to play pranks and get into trouble.  Thanks to his older brother Pete, Louis was set on the straight and narrow.  Pete instilled a love for running in Louie, and soon he was setting all sorts of records in the mile run.  Louis set an intercollegiate record in the mile run that stood for years.  Many thought he'd be the first runner to break the mythical 4-minute mile.  Louis was so accomplished in running that he qualified for the 1936 Olympics, but instead of running his customary mile, he ran the 5,000 meters.  Although he didn't win a medal, Louie established himself as one of the best distance runners in the world.  He set his sights on the 1940 Olympics and gold.  But, war intervened and, as author Laura Hillenbrand so eloquently describes, Louie's life was about to make an amazing change.Accepted as a crewman on a B-24 Liberator stationed in the Pacific, Louie and his crew flew many missions over Japanese-held territory.  Each time, Louie had returned safely.  However, on May 27, 1943, Louie wouldn't be so lucky.  Dispatched to find another B-24 that had gone missing, Louie and his crew took off in a seldom-used spare plane.  As luck would have it, the men started experiencing problems and soon, they themselves crashed into the vast Pacific.  Only 3 men; Louie, pilot Russell "Phil" Phillips, and "Mac", the tail gunner survived the crash.  Thus began an odyssey that lasted for forty-seven days as the men drifted on the ocean.  Mac would eventually succumb, but Phil and Louie survived and were eventually captured by the Japanese.For the next 2+ years, Louie was moved from prison camp to prison camp, all the while enduring beatings, little food, and humiliation at the hands of the Japanese guards.  One guard in particular, known simply as "the bird" was especially cruel.  Louie suffered at the hands of his Japanese captors until the Japanese surrendered in August, 1945.Upon arriving home, Louie slipped into alcoholism, depression, and flashbacks about being beaten by "the bird".  Even his new wife Cynthia couldn't console him.  Finally, unable to endure any more, Cynthia filed for divorce.  Before signing the papers, Louie was persuaded to attend a Billy Graham revival in Los Angeles.  It was here where Louie finally found peace.  By accepting Jesus, Louie was able to fix his relationship with his wife, and he even traveled to Japan to forgive his former Japanese guards.  He wasn't able to meet with "the bird", though.  Even at his advanced age, Louie continued to run and set up a campground for underprivileged boys.This is an amazing story and book.  Laura Hillenbrand has done an excellent job of telling Louie's incredible story.  It's remarkable that Louie was able to survive his ordeal on the raft and then at the hands of the Japanese. Hillenbrand describes each aspect of this story with great detail; pulling no punches as she describes Louie's miserable existence in the POW camps. She also includes passages from Billy Graham's sermons that led to Louie's salvation.This book is a triumph of World War II history as well as one man's struggle for survival and ultimately, redemption.  Highly recommended.
5 I was hard-pressed to put down this book.  It is engrossing, but be warned: parts are difficult to read.  I found myself skipping sections which were just "too much" for me to read and endure.  But overall, the story is amazing, almost unbelieveable.  I thought back upon this man's story for days after completing the book.  It's a must-read.
5 After &#34;Seabiscuit&#34; the story of a olympic runner/wartime hero was a surprise in terms of subject matter, until you read the well written story of his trials and triumphs, and his courage, it is indeed a suitable sequel.  I highly recommend it.  Read it in two sittings.  Hillenbrand will hopefully be working on another book as we read this.
5 This story is absolutely amazing. I have never ever heard anything like it and am surprised at my ignorance to this history. The story is life-changing and the way it is written is so great that I feel as though I lived through everything the characters endured. I will truly remember this story for the rest of my life and I urge everyone to experience it.
5 Great book but even better is no ordinary Joe's written in the same time period both are amazing books that gave me a new appreciation for survival in the worst circumstances and the power of the human spiritNo Ordinary Joes: The Extraordinary True Story of Four Submariners in War and Love and Life
5 I read this book a few weeks ago and I've been telling everyone I know what a good story it is. It's an amazing story of resilience. I actually had the opportunity today to hear Louis Zamperini speak at a local college. It was such a thrill to see and hear him in person. He's a very gracious gentleman and even requested, after his speaking, for all veterans to join in having a group picture taken with him. I felt very honored to have had this chance to see and hear him speak after having read his incredible life story.
5 This book sure opened my eyes on the war. What a fantastic read. My eyes are wide open now thank you
4 BOOK DESCRIPTIONUnbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience and Redemption tells the amazing story of Louis Zamperini. A wild and troublesome child, Zamperini finally reined in his considerable energy, focus and talent to become a world-class runner--qualifying for the Berlin Olympics and gaining fame for his track exploits. When World War II began, Zamperini enlisted in the Air Force and spent a rather uneventful tour of duty in Hawaii ... uneventful, that is, until his plane went down during a bombing run over the Pacific in May 1943.The 47 days that Zamperini and his pilot, "Phil" Phillips, survived at sea in a life raft make for a riveting read. From their struggles to stay hydrated, fight off starvation, and battle sharks, perhaps that greatest struggle was the fight to stay sane. So when Zamperini and Phil finally saw a plane, they thought their long saga was over and they were saved. They could not have been more wrong. The "rescue" plane was a Japanese war plan, and Louie and Phil were now Prisoners of War (POWs). Their struggles were only just beginning.MY THOUGHTSWhen Hillenbrand, the author of  Seabiscuit, first heard Louie Zamperini's story, she must have felt like she hit the jackpot. After all, when  a 47-day lost at sea saga is just the beginning of the story, you know you have lots of material to work with. Louie's life story offers everything promised in the subtitle: survival, resilience and redemption. The things that Louis managed to survive will boggle your mind. I had no idea about the conditions that American POWs faced in Japan. It seemed amazing that anyone survived the camps ... let alone go on to live a long and productive life. Even if Louie had been rescued at sea by Americans instead of taken prisoner by the Japanese, his story still would have been astounding. The lost at sea section just drew me in, and I kept thinking "I can't believe these guys survived this."Hillenbrand realizes the power of Louie's story and tells it in a straightforward and no-nonsense style with few embellishments. Sometimes, though, I wish Hillenbrand had adopted a more "novelistic" approach to her writing as it felt very journalistic with its "these are the facts" style. (In all honesty, the writing felt a bit dry at times.) However, I did appreciate that Hillenbrand tells the full story--she never tries to make Louie seem like a mythic, heroic figure. He is very human--full of the frailties and flaws that plague us all.One final thought: I do think that Phil deserves his own book as well. Despite not being an Olympic athlete, he underwent and survived virtually everything that Louie did during the war. I hope that, one day, his story can be told with the same respect and detail.RECOMMENDED FORAnyone with an interest in World War II stories, readers seeking an inspirational story of survival and what the human spirit can endure, anyone looking for a riveting biography that captures several key moments in history.
5 What a perfect title to describe the real-life hero of this novel, Louie Zamperini: UNBROKEN.One tip for writers to evoke emotion in their stories is to put their characters through hell, and I've never witnessed such emotional torture of a character. I was on the verge of tears for most of the book and at one point sobbed, reading what Louie suffered. What makes this story even more emotionally compelling is that Louie isn't a fictional character. He's a real Olympic runner, Air Force veteran, and inspirational speaker, now in his 90s.Laura Hillenbrand, author of Seabiscuit, did exhaustive research for this novel and I'm proud to say I attended the same liberal arts college as she did (Kenyon College). I loved learning about the early days of competitive running . . . the firm belief that no human could break the 4:00 mile barrier . . . archaic ideas that training hills would make a runner slower . . . the cruise ship completely hindering training and race preparation as the American athletes traveled to Berlin for the 1936 Olympics.But what was most educational were there fascinating details of WWII. I had no idea that rescue flights for downed air crew over the Pacific were so unsuccessful. Rescue missions often caused even more deaths. Most WWII novels and movies cover the European theater, but The Bronze Horseman by Paullina Simons taught me about the events in Russia, and this novel Unbroken really educated me about Japan's role in the Pacific.My book club recently read Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet, which highlighted the unfair treatment of Japanese-Americans in the internment camps during WWII. Unbroken shows a very different side---the unimaginable cruelty of the Japanese toward their prisoners of war. I developed a thirst for vengeance reading what these poor POW's suffered. But to seek vengeance or to view only one side is to miss the point of this novel and of Louie's life entirely. Louie's indomitable, forgiving spirit is truly a gift of God. His story is such a spiritual masterpiece that it absolutely confirms my faith in God. Gah, I'm welling up in tears again just writing this review!It's so rare to find a meaningful read like this one. I know Louie's story will stay with me for some time.
5 So much focus is given to the European Theatre in WWII. Reading Zampieri's story has opened my eyes to a cruelty in the Japanese that equalized that of the Nazi's. Hillenbrand's level of detail and writing style are phenomenal. Highly recommend this read.
5 The history was so well researched, what an amazing story! I don't know if I could live through what these POWs lived through!
4 Loved this amazing story. The author did an amazing job bringing so many stories together. Her effort, time and research were very obvious. The first 25% was a little slow. Not bad, but not gripping. Then the middle part was  non stop. Amazing men and their trials; you didn't want to know what was next, but you also can't stop reading! I appreciate the last part which was what happens to everyone over several years. Something you don't get very often.
5 The author did an excellent job on her interviews and research.  I gained a much better understanding of WWII.  This book helped me to truly appreciate what a sacrifice it is to go to war.  I am so sad for those POWs who had to endure so much suffering during WWII.  What an amazing bunch of men!
5 I think for the most part, Americans have an "of course life is this way" attitude.  We don't think too deeply about the huge gift that freedom truly is.  We celebrate Veterans Day and support the troops and give a nominal nod to the soldiers who put their lives on the line for the protection of the life and lifestyles we so easily take for granted. Underneath all that, shouldering the load, are the soldiers and their families who give years of service, years of being apart, years of torture and imprisonment and for thousands of them; ultimately they give their lives.  In that group of exceptional people, some shine even brighter, and thankfully their stories are told.If I were to use one word to describe Unbroken, I'd say "inspirational". But it's layers and layers of so many other emotions -  shock, outrage, hate, depression, joy, hope, despair, admiration, disbelief...and ultimately the deepest respect for every man and woman who enters our armed services not knowing what tomorrow might bring.  One of the most unforgettable stories I've ever read.
5 if you have not bought this book than just do it!What an amazing story - very well written.They are making this book into a movie.I have given this book to at least 4-5 friends.
5 masterly written in its description of events and life of this courageous individual. Its unbelievable that someone could have lived through all the pain and suffering. As depicted many lost their life during captivity which was worse and Zamperini probably came as close to it as you can. I was absolutely spellbound to the end.
5 Linda Hillenbrand's wonderful depiction of the amazing survival of Louis Zamperini is an amazing story of an amazing individual. Anybody that could undergo the hardships that he endured and then afterwards live a normal life illustrates how worthwhile life is.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book. The writing is wonderful and the story itself is gripping. Absolutely one of the best books of the year! Loved it.
5 I loved this book! The true unforgettable story of how WWII was for the soldiers in the Pacific. I will always remember Louie Zamperini, a true american hero, and the incredible obstacles he survived during our time of war. The veterans of our country should never be forgotten! Thank you for fighting for our freedoms!
5 This book is a triumph, such an uplifting and enlightening book. Anyone who thinks they are having a bad day should read Louie's tale, you'll be ashamed that you were bothered by a late bus, or a leaky faucet, the simple little things that we let dictate a "bad day" will slip away as you read this book of a mans endurance and strength, and connect with that "great generation" and remember what our service men and women give for our freedom.
5 This is one of the most powerful biographies I've ever had the privilege to read. This is about a troubled kid who turned into a powerful track star who happened to survive some of the worst consequences of war. Without giving too much way this man literally had a unbreakable soul. If ever someone was search in hero or to find reason to find the good in their lives read this book. If not, read it anyway. Laura Hillenbrand is officially on the list of whatever she writes I will read. Hillenbrand makes you see the story as if you were watching it all play out in life. I loved Seabiscuit and I love Unbroken. Read! Read!
5 What an inspirational story! Laura Hillenbrand has, again, captured a time and a story from our past. I have read other books detailing the stories of Pacific POWs (Ghost Soldiers is great) and this one blew me away. Perhaps because "Unbroken" is so much more than a prison camp tale (though that is certainly at it's heart). Louis Zamperini's story is truly amazing: troubled youth, Olympian, hero, survivor, and more. I couldn't put this down and read it in what is, for me, record time. I am passing my copy on to my son and will tell him to pass it along too. Great.
5 Inspiring. Turning around for a better.Unbroken... just like what Louis' father, Anthony, said, "Those Japs couldn't break him. My boy's pretty tough, you know." His body and mind were tolled by hardship physically tormented.  All of his love ones, who stayed in America and worry about him, had passed away before him. As of right now, he is still alive! 94.5 years old.This book is hard to put it down. I often found myself looking at the number of pages left but this one, Ms. Hillenbrand made the number of pages invisible and I kept reading on. Poof. I was on the end of book.
5 This book is one of the greatest I have ever read. It is an astonishing account of the life and courage of Louie Zamperini who survived unimaginable horrors during World War II and afterwards yet went on to a compelling life. What is it like surviving 47 days in a life raft in the ocean? How is it possible to survive the ordeals and brutality of a Japanese POW camp? Reading the book makes one want to reach out to Louis and hug him forever. What an amazing hero. I knew the author from her wonderful book about Seabiscuit the race horse but with this book she has surpassed herself. Really wondrous.
5 Born in 1931 set the stage for a personal recollection of many details of aviation, ww2 and some details off the aftermath,  In my medical school training my rotation through a major psychiatric facilitie
5 Audio version performed by Edward Herman5 starsThis is a thoroughly gripping true story of the life of Louis Zamperini. Beginning with his early years as an up and coming juvenile delinquent Hillenbrand details each phase of an extraordinary life. There is sufficient material in Zamperini's life to fill several books. Early chapters are devoted to his quest for Olympic gold. His brazen encounter with Hitler at the Berlin Olympics felt truly surreal. Naturally, the core of the book is devoted to Zamperini's epic WW2 survival tale of plane crash, life raft, and internment as a Japanese prisoner of war. The end of the book deals briefly with his painful post traumatic distress and related alcoholism. Finally, Hillenbrand relates how Zamperini repairs his life by "finding" Christ under the influence of a young Billy Graham.I was impressed with Hillenbrand's ability to bring this extraordinary personality to life on paper. Along the way, she gave insight into the lives of some less well known heroes of the war. I also appreciated the way she placed Zamperini's story in its proper historical context. She told the parallel story of his stateside family, detailed the military progress of the war and used pertinent war statistics in a way that made the scope and suffering of the conflict comprehensible. I feel I have a better understanding of the military decisions made regarding the Pacific theater of the war.Edward Herman gave a wonderful performance of this book. Personally, I found much of the tortuous prison camp narration impossible to listen to. I'm able to read these horrors, but cannot hear them spoken aloud. Fortunately, this caused me to look at a paper copy of the book, so I was able to see the many photographs included with the text.
4 Louis Zamperini was one of those kids who make even juvenile delinquents look like angels.  He fought with everyone, stole from everyone, and was constantly in trouble.  But in high school he discovered running and a talent that carried him to the 1936 Berlin Olympics.  He was predicted to be the first man to break the 4 minute mile and looked forward to the 1940 Olympics.  But WWII changed everything.  He became a bombardier aboard a B-24 Liberator flying over the Pacific, and in May of 1943 his plane went down while on a search and rescue mission.  Only he and two others survived the watery crash, and thus began an ordeal that was to last well beyond the dropping of atomic bombs on Japan.Laura Hillenbrand covers Louie's history from his incorrigible youth in Torrance, California to carrying Olympic torches and riding skateboards in his 80s, and does so in a way that makes the book hard to put down.  His triumphs on the track are inspiring, his trials as a castaway and POW are astonishing, and his post-war struggles with PTSD are heart-breaking.  But through it all Louie remains "unbroken" even in the face of insurmountable difficulties and a sadistically brutal Japanese commander nicknamed The Bird who continued to haunt him even years after the war's end.  At times his story sounds almost too good to be true, and it drags a bit throughout the POW years, but I still found myself unable to put it down.  A friend who read the Preface was ready to run out and buy her own copy.  And I especially appreciated the histories of others in the story - Phil, the pilot of the plane; Bill Harris, a fellow POW; and even The Bird - and I wished there'd been even more on some of them.
5 This book was simply amazing.  It was truly hard to put down from beginning to end.  If you are interested in WWII stories or just plain human survival stories, don't miss this book.  An amazing story that would make a wonderful movie!
5 Incredible book on so many fronts.  So well-written with such a rich vocabulary.  So well-researched.  She can't get credit for the actual story itself, but she presents it in such a wonderful way that it's difficult to put the book down.  As for the story - it still makes me shake my head that it's real.
5 READ THIS BOOK.I try to read a book a week but a year later I think about this book all the time.  It's the first book I mention when people ask for recommendations.  It's not always easy to read.  But if this man could live through it, you can damn well get through reading about it.I had almost no interest in this book when it was suggested to me.  I saw the movie "Seabiscuit" but hadn't read it.  I don't like war stories.  But this book about a complete stranger whose life has no similarity to mine has impacted me deeply.  Read this book.  Your reward will be a shockingly, staggeringly powerful portrait of inner strength that is life-affirming.  After I read this book I thought about my own life.  I thought about a true life-or-death decision I had to make a long time ago... I was given two choices, black or white.  I've never understood how or why I chose the right one, but somehow I did.  After reading this book I realized that I too am unbreakable.  This is not a story about war or sports or an Italian family.  This is a story about everything.  Read it.
5 This is an excellent book. It had a lot of positive hype and it is well deserved. Military books aren't my thing (I bought it for my husband) but I am glad that I took the time to read this one.
5 One of the best books I have ever read, Zamperini's life story is one for the ages.  I look forward to the movie, hoping Angelina can pull it off without screwing it up.  I wish I could meet this man!
5 I never realized how little I knew about America's war with Japan until I read this book. I can't say that it was enjoyable to read, obviously, but it is absolutely invaluable if you want to understand what soldiers on both sides in the Pacific arena went through during WWII. I recommend following it with Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of WWII.
5 Quite possibly the best book I have read in the past 10 years.  Without question the best non-fiction book I have ever read.  Riveting!  I think I put it down 3 times.  Amazing story.  I do not think anyone can read this and not come away with a renewed respect for a generation that gave so much for ideals, home, and country.  I would not object if this were to become required reading in schools.  This is a story that needs to be heard.
5 I think what is most amazing about this story is that we heard so little about it until the book. Achievement, loss, survival are all part of life but an amazing part of this life story. Read it.
4 Although Lauren Hollenbrand subtitles her book "Unbroken" as a story of"Survival, Resilience, and Redempton," it might well have been subtitled "Chaos and Suffering" for the vast bulk of this big book portrays world class Olympic miler, Louie Zamberini, as the survivor of seemingly insurmountable trials. Author Hillenbrand begins with Louie's childhood, years that describe a  youth and young man who could not have been more troubled, an obstreperous and disobedient miscreant. A repeated thief and troublemaker, he somehow eluded incarceration until his phenomenal talent for running is discovered at which time his criminality is overlooked. Furthermore, it is likely that his athletic celebrity saved him from 4F status in the U. S. Air Force for World War II.The next episode of this story covers his time as a B24 bomber pilot when he is shot down to spend 44 days on a raft in the Pacific Ocean where the three live crewmembers face daily harrowing adventures: e.g., fighting off sharks, attempting to stay alive drinking minimal drops of rainwater and eating bits of dead birds and fish until the two remaining crew members are rescued by the Japanese.The third segment of Louie's journey details his surviving a Japanese prison camp controlled by a known sexual sadist. Hillenbrand spares no details in her account of the viciousness of the Japanese in the prison camp where Hillenbrand's descriptions of cruelty finally become boring for their repetition, i.e., the starvation, frequent beatings with fists and clubs, the slave labor extracted from foreign nationals as well as POW's from American, British, and Canadian military troops."Unbroken" is a fascinating book albeit several hundred pages too long -while author Hillenbrand must account for all of it, the constant proximity of death's door, the starvation, the inhospitable climate and unfeeling adversaries. The reader does not need to read all this great laundry list of such travesties in order to experience them. It's rather like our behavior passing an accident on the highway. We look at all of them in the way that gawkers do, as though we need to study it all to fully understand and empathize with the victims.For many reasons, "Unbroken" is an important book - as an encyclopedia of horrors - but I don't believe the reader would have been cheated by the loss of anything if spared some of the endless details.
5 Amazing story of survival, a must read and fun read for everyone.  Hillenbrand puts the reader in the Pacific and I was worn out during some sections just trying to survive.
5 I thought I was buying a novel (well, the jacket called it a "story").  But it was much better.  Sure, the author got hold of a great "story", but then she did great sleuthwork to present factual information and illuminating insights.  The emotionality was thrilling and gripping.  I cried openly at several spots.  And the author provided some of the best quiet descriptions of a mother's love I have read in years.  Enjoy it at Christmastime!
5 A great book. Once started it was hard to put down. I would read well into the night. Hope you enjoy as much as I did.
5 Could not put it down from start to finish.  Gave it to lots of friends/family and they say the same thing.  This is definitely a &#34;truth is stranger than fiction&#34; type of story.  The things this fellow endured is beyond comprehension.  Also, Laura Hillenbrand is an outstanding writer.  Great story + great writer = fantastic book.
5 Facts about WWII are presented in a manner I would associate with a novel then blended with the true life events of subject's life.  Not only did I learn things about WWII,  I was treated to a life story that was suspenseful, exciting, and amazing.  Now if I can  find some fiction that is as good...
5 If you think you are going thru tough times, read this book! It is a great example of the resilience of a man if he choses to not be defeated by his circumstance.
5 If you loved reading Seabiscut, you will enjoy this as much or more.  This is an unbelievable story!  I could not put this book down.  This is absolutely a must read.  You will not believe what one person went through and survived.  Laura Hillenbrand is an amazing writer with such immense study of the details of the story.  This has become one of my favorite books!!
5 This book was an incredible read. The very personal story was also a history lesson worth sharing. The research was phenomenal.
4 Is Laura Hillenbrand a biographer, a sports writer, a military  historian,  a survival writer, a political scientist, or a Christian revivalist?  Whatever she is her ability to recognize and capture the essence of a good story and convey its meaningful content with action, clarity, and balance are hallmarks of her craft.For these reasons Hillenbrand has taken her second book, "Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption" to the top of the best seller list. Her first book, "Seabiscuit: The True Story of Three Men and a Racehorse" also rose to #1 on the best seller list.  Should we be surprised that she did it again?She starts with a compelling story.  Just like Seabiscuit, many have never heard of Louis Zamperini and his harrowing saga as Olympic athlete turned,Army Air Forces officer, turned prisoner of war.  And in a similar fashion to Seabiscuit, those who study military history, in particular the War in the Pacific during WW II, are no strangers to his tale (as with those who know horse racing history).  In addition, Louis Zamperini's autobiography is already on the bookshelves and has been since 2003.  His work, "The Devil at My Heels" did not achieve the same lofty heights as Hillenbrand...but the story was told, and has been told, countless times in newspaper articles, interviews, and lectures given by Zamperini across the country since his return from the WWII.  However when Hillenbrand tells the story, her gift, and her gift to us through her writing, is her ability to turn her subjects into household names.As a biographer Hillenbrand gives us the hometown feel for a child growing up in a poor Italian family along with the good, the bad, the mini crime sprees, and the prejudices Zamperini faced along his way...Mario Puzo would be proud.  She then transitions to sports writer and brings us, to quote from the old ABC Wide World of Sports "The thrill of victory, and the agony of defeat...[and] the human drama of athletic competition" necessary to compete in the 1936 Olympics in Germany.  We are not just in the stands, we are with the athlete, on the track, as we feel each step and each breath of the racers.  This particular story suggests the four minute mile was under serious threat from Zamperini if only he could get to the 1942 Olympics...as a former distance runner, and based on the facts as given, I believe he would have broken the barrier had WWII not interrupted.Next she puts on the hat of a military historian and brings us the Air War in the Pacific at the start of World War II.  Joseph Heller brought us the fictional Yossarrian, a bombardier on  the B-25 Mitchell, and the air war over the Mediterranean.  Hillenbrand brings us Zamperini, a bombardier on the B-24 Liberator, with all the drama, bureaucracy and insanity that is a Catch-22...but with the actual people who flew, and in this case crashed, into the wide expanse of the Pacific Ocean without a trace...the statistics on how often that happened are staggering and sobering so it's good to be reminded of them from time to time.  So now she begins the castaway saga and the epic tale of three survivors being lost at sea on a tiny raft...for 47 hunger and thirst filled days.  They fight sharks, they fight death, until finally they are delivered from certain death straight into the hands of the enemy.  Can it get any worse?Drawing from interviews with surviving POWs and the documentation taken from the archives of Post WWII Japan Hillenbrand writes one of the most explicit exposes on the Japanese treatment of the POWs they captured during this dark page in world history. As she explores the evil that lurks just beneath the surface of men, with undisciplined power over other men, she weaves an understanding of the utter brutality of war and it's consequences.  While not a philosopher she does approach some plausible explanations for what was witnessed by many accounts of POW at the hands of their Japanese captors.Another understanding that she reveals from the first-hand accounts of POWs on the ground in Japan during the Allied advance in the Pacific is that without the use of the atomic bomb in Hiroshima and Nagasaki the Japanese people would have fought to the death making any straightforward attack on Japan very costly.  While not exactly Richard Rhodes, "The Making of the Atomic Bomb", with regard to military history, Hillenbrand nevertheless makes a compelling case.Now the happy spoiler...Zamperini, of course survives and returns to his family in the US.  He still faces the demons of war and suffers with post traumatic stress and alcoholism. After marriage and the tough realization that he will never return to his Olympic form, he reaches rock bottom.  The book ends rather quickly at this point.  Zamperini finds God through the early ministry of Billy Graham, the demons he has faced since captivity miraculously leave his body, and he lives happily ever after. Which by all accounts...and the fact that Zamperini is still full of life and happiness at 95 (as of March 2012)...is certainly true. Lest we forget the brutal Japanese guards, some punishment is meted out to convicted war criminals but based on a policy of reconciliation to rebuild Japan, the main nemesis lives to a ripe old age...however for true redemption to occur all was forgiven in Zamperini's heart.This is an amazing story of an amazing man by an amazing author.  There are some who have been critical of the believability of the Zamperini story and of the author's writing.  I share a certain scepticism of both counts but find overall that so  many facts in this story are absolutely sound. Any incidental information which may not rise to the exact standards of historical fact are of little consequence in this epic saga of a true American hero...Louis Zamperini.  This book is immediately an unbreakable classic.
5 Wonderful but sad story of a man whose character is tested time and again.  It was written in such a way that I could not stop reading until I finished.
3 i did read the whole book.  i did enjoy and learn from the many key characters of the book and tons from the realities of Japanese camps during ww2.  however, i did also think it was so thoroughly research and detailed the story was lost and i had the notion mid way through this was also a movie script...only just to find it is to become a movie soon.
4 Great reading- excellently presented.  I felt as if I was there with Louie! Just too many credits, about 25% of the book!
4 Laura Hillenbrand has written and excellently researched and presented history of a mostly forgotten part of WWII.  Most war stories follow the adventures of people in battles.  "Unbroken" is about those in a different battle; the battle to survive being a POW.  I had thought the book would be more about flying and the air war over the Pacific and the adventure, however unwanted, of being stranded at sea.  That story is only a small part of the history presented.  A majority of the book is the story of a very extreme POW situation, involving both mental and physical torture.  It is a truly inspiring story of survival.  Being adrift at sea and fighting off sharks is a cake walk compared to the vile treatment received at the hands of the guards in the POW camps.It is hard to hear of the tortures but it is also an inspiration to know that a generation of men survived them and lived to tell about them.  I highly recommend this very well written adventure for anyone interested in WWII or in human resilience.
5 Incredible life story from his early to his late years. Another great book by Laura Hillenbrand.  I highly recommend this book.
5 This was an absolutely amazing, mesmerizing story....a true story of one man's life, before and after WW11.  I can't find the words to describe what this man went through.  I cried for him, feared for him & cheered for him.  How could one man & many others with him suffer so much (starvation, torture, filth) & still find the will to live?  I wish everyone would read this story!  It is life changing.
5 I have read and re-read this book and both times I cried at what &#34;The Bird&#34; did to these men...especially one special man who lived to tell it.  Anyone who is a baby=boomer needs to read this.  I had NO idea that our men were subjected to such terrible conditionsduring WWII.  No one ever shared these stories with us, the children of WWII.  I am going to share this with all my siblings and I know they, too, will be glad they read this story.
2 This novel did not maintain its original pace and was badly edited.  It held a certain promise but became more of a cheer leading exercise.
5 What a wonderful book.  Everyone should read this story of strength and endurance during the most difficult of times.  Another amazing story of the Greatest Generation.
5 The best book ever written- I have purchased many copies and have given as gifts.  I lived in Torrance for 35 years and know know why the Torrance High Football Field was named, after such a great hero.
5 This was a gripping story from the first page to the last.  I've read quite a few POW stories and this one tops them all.
5 This fascinating read was inspiring and amazing.  It made me want to know the Zamperini family.  It gave me hope for every difficult chid who was always in trouble.  This may be my favorite book of all time.
5 If you want to read one of the most detailed books in your lifetime and learn more about World War II, then this is the book for you.The author spent over 7 years research and writing this book to tell a story about a great man.
1 This was the most patently boring piece of literature I've encountered in some time.  the author progresses with a list of pedestrian facts interspersed with hyperbolic prose about the state of mind or state of "louie", his family and/or friends and/or the condition of the world at large.It offers no insight other than a '50's perspective on how the world was.  It was devoid of character development and would give me good reason to avoid punishing myself with any prior or further efforts from the author.
4 I liked this book, tho the beginning is a little slow and rambling.  The true story is compelling, with great photos to add to the reading experience.  It is a story that must be told.
5 I am a huge fan of Hillenbrand's first book, Seabiscuit. My high hopes for this book were not in vain. The pacing of the story is brisk and often gripping.I heartily recommend it.
5 If you think you're having a bad day, just read a little of this book and your day will seem great.This is an excellent book! I've read some great books lately but this tops them all.Book was very well written and researched.I was shocked and saddened to learn of the way our men and allies were treated, or should I say mistreated at the hands of the Japanese. I never knew it was as bad as what it was.As far as the kindle version, I would have liked to see the footnotes at the bottom of there respective pages instead of at the end of each chapter.Also the pictures(which were great) were sprinkled through the book and almost impossible to go back to.I think they should be at the end of each chapter, so the reader could easily go back to them. Just my opinion.
5 This is the best book I have ever read. It is a fantastic story written by a fabulous author.  I could not put this book down. From beginning to end it owned me.
5 I am not a fan of history...at all. I picked this book solely because SO many people had rated it highly; I felt I was not likely to hate it. Once I got into it, I realized that this book had been part of the sermon at our Christmas Eve church service. It had sounded intriguing then, but the title was not mentioned. The book is very well written, keeping even those non-history buffs turning pages and wanting more. After reading Louie's story, I went to make Grandpa lunch and talk about his WWII experiences. Like Louie had surprised the author, Grandpa surprised my husband and I with precise dates of events and amazing recollection.This book is written so that it flows well and would be easy to follow for nearly all. My 14-year-old was asking this morning if she could read it, and I don't think she'll have any problems. I hope she starts it on a weekend because I know it will have her wanting to stay up reading into the wee hours to finish it.My only negative comment is that it seemed that the book ended kind of abruptly. I would've liked to read a little more on Louie's life after the war, more about how he changed the lives of the troubled boys he worked with.
5 i'm given to superlatives but this just might be the best book I've ever read of its type.  It is certainly up there with Endurance and Perfect STorm or the Curse of the Narrows.  Every time you thought there was a resolution, something else would happen to this guy and his mates.  He was truly a hero, as were the hundreds and thousands of fellow POW's and soldiers of that war.  The story stands on its own but the writing works, it is taut, well organized, suspenseful and gripping.  I tried to have a few problems with the author, as I assume anyone who is a journalist or writer is going to be a progressive hack and I am very opinionated, but she did a superb job and I found myself with a huge lump in my throat during numerous parts of this book.  Just staggering in scope, brilliant book.
5 Join Laura Hillenbrand as she  delves into often sensational life of Louis Zamperini."Who is Louis Zamperini?" and "What did he do?" you may ask (I did).A more concise answer might be ascertained from asking "What did he not do/experience?"Hillenbrand begins her account of Zamperini's astounding experiences by introducing him as an impish boy.  As I am sure his mother was acutely aware, it is no small feat that this daring child ever saw adolescence, much less lived through it! His survival and, albeit transient, triumph into young adulthood as a world class runner can be credited to the diligent efforts of his older brother to tame his rash impulses.  Despite the success of the elder Zamperini's persistence, Louie's time at the top was destined to be short-lived. America having been thrust into war with the attack at Pearl Harbor, ensured that the once Olympic bound runner would have to apply his efforts elsewhere, in the Army Airforce. Just as his reckless ways had been transformed into superior focus and stamina on the track, his extreme focus towards reaching the Olympics was mutated into accuracy and precision... skills more befitting of a bombardier assigned to a B-24. However, no amount of skill nor teamwork could save Zamperini and his commrads when they were temporarily assigned to an ill-fated and dilapidated craft that would ultimately ferry most of the crew to their untimely deaths. Remarkably, Louie and his pilot survived both the initial impact and their harrowing time afloat in the middle of the ocean. Even more unbelievably, his temporary fame aided in his survival as a POW; but, with a cruel twist.The value of Louis Zamperini's life and the story that it encapsulates supra cedes his mere survival, and even the inhumane events that transpired during a brief period of it. Somehow, the amazing man that emerged from this horrific time (and his life immediately after returning safely to the States was not enviable either) ultimately forgave his captors for the atrocities that they committed to him and his fellow POWs.Ms Hillenbrand eloquently communicates this implausible journey to even the most unacquainted reader.
4 Well, you'll probably want to kiss your Japanese friends good-bye forever after this read !!!  They made the Nazis seem almost humane !
5 Obviously I cannot add any context that has not been added before, but I can say this is one of the most fascinating books that I have read. Troubled youth to Olympic hero, Army pilot to POW, war hero to alcoholic, poor husband to devout Christian- this book has it all. The story of Louis Zamperini is an amazing one, and once the reader is brought into his world, the book becomes near impossible to put down. Thank you to Mrs. Hillenbrand for telling CPT Zamperini's story!
5 First book of this type (World War II participant's memoir) that I ever read. Could not put it down! Phenomenal! Inspirational! Historical! One of the best books I've ever read.
5 A fascinating yet hard to imagine tale of bravery, courage, resilience all wrapped by one word:  UNBROKEN.  I was a tween/teen during WW II and I do remember some of the stories that came out of Germany and the Jewish population.  Very little was written about the Japanese treatment of their POWs with the exception of the Bataan march.  Where Louie Zamperini got his will to survive is hard to imagine, but survive he did.  And it was magnificent scarey reading.  I highly recomment this book to everyone - we who stayed at home will never EVER know what our soldiers went through then and go through now.
5 One of my doctors was rivited by this book and recommended that I get it.  However I also got Louis' book which I read first and then gave to my doctor.  The two books are quite different and I'm enjoying this one, although I haven't finished it.
5 Best book i've read in years!
5 The other reviews echo most of my thoughts, I just wanted to go on record as saying how much I agree that it was a wonderfully detailed and well researched account of a prisoner of war in the Pacific in WWII.  Zamparini was a survivor for sure.  You will love this book if you are interested in how people overcome seemingly impossible odds.
5 This is a great book, full of detail of a life well-lived and the tremendous value of hope. Having not read on WW2 before, it was an eye-opener to the horrors and yet spirits of the POWs.
5 I loved this book, although it took me months to finish, and love the author. It read like a novel, and was a page turner most of the book. It took me so long because I read non-fiction along with other fiction, and found I liked to savor this book so I only read it in little chunks. This was well written, well researched and very entertaining. I do not usually even read non-fiction about war history, but this one was so personal and gripping I could not deny loving it.
5 This is a fascinating story.  It grabs you and doesn't let go - I couldn't put it down.  Amazing what Louis Zamperini went through!
4 My book club read this and some of the women almost didn't finish it.  I, however, live with a healing war veteran and have rarely encountered any tale as familiar feeling as this. Heroic and raw, but worth it.
5 This is an amazing book.  Grabs your interest on every page.  It was hard to lay down.  I found it very informative of POW's life in WWII.  It was heartbreaking.  This book was wonderfully written - very factual.  I applaud this author.
5 I am about half way through this fascinating book. Some say this difficult to read, but I found it very interesting, and I don't want to put the book down. This is rewarding  description of what happened during the Second World War. It is very sad, but it is amazing how Louie survived through all this. The Lord was definately with him. At that time I was just a baby having been born in 1944. I had an Uncle Harold,who was in the Philipines during the war,  and he lost his life there. I wish I knew more about how it happened.  I think of him as I read this book.Amazon approved purchase
5 If you've ever wondered how you would stand up to brutality, this story will show you how the strong survive.
5 The book is an excellent reminder of WWII and the horrible things that happen during war. It shows the ability of prisoners of war to make it through the war and be able to forgive the guards for their cruelty towards the prisoners.  It includes the kindness of some of the guards and the suffering of the Japanese people during the end of the war.The book also includes information pertaining to the loss of life when the planes and crews were NOT in combat.  It took until the end of the war for the US to have the B29's, which were decent planes.  The pilots and crews dealt with the enemy while using unreliable planes.
5 This was sad but worth reading.  I was so happy to have them off the boat but the the Japanese torturing was heartbreaking.  Very heart wrenching was our soldiers had to endure.
5 This is perhaps the best book I've read this year. The writing is crisp. Laura Hillenbrand knows how to tell a story, letting it speak for itself without a lot of flowery embellishment. She has a gift for putting the reader in the moment, whether competing in the Olympics, flying a B-24, surviving on a raft at sea or enduring the horrors of a Japanese POW camp.The triumph of the human spirit comes through in every page. You can't help but wonder at man's inhumanity to man, but motivates someone to such levels of cruelty. I was humbled by these brave men and their ability to hold on to dignity under the most inhumane conditions. This is truly a timeless story that will inspire any reader.
5 Very interesting story told extremely well. Kept my interest throughout and was almost sorry when it ended.Would definitely recommend this to others.
5 Best Book of the Year. I couldn't put this book down. I highly recommend this read. If for no other reason than to try to understand truly man's inhumanity to man described so completely that you feel as if you've survived what the charachters survived. Incredibly well written.
5 This is a great remarkable story about Louis Zamperini, an athlete which ran in the 1936 Berlin Olympic and later become a bomber in World War II. Flying over the Pacific in 1943 his plane crashed and he was adrift in the ocean for 47 days until he was found by a Japanese ship. He was sent to a Japanese prisoner camp where he tested again the survival limits of man. The story is well researched and well told and reconstructs World War II in great detail. I highly recommend it.
4 I purchased this book totally on a whim, not knowing anything about it, but ending up not being able to put it down. Truly an amazing read, inspiring, unbelievable, but a true story that wowed me all the way. A great book about forgiveness and closure as well as detailed accounts of the horrific settings of POW camps and treatment. Worth every cent. If you're interested in historical nonfiction or really amazing stories, this is for you.
5 I love this book! I love Louie! I love Jesus for his power to renew and make what should be broken unbroken! I highly suggest reading this book, and then reading it again. I also suggest that after you read this book that you read &#34;For that One Day: Mitsuo Fuchida&#34;. You will not regret it. You will see how God can transform two enemies. I hope this book blesses your life like it has blessed mine.
5 Oh My Goodness...Fantastic book, well written and absolutely gripping. Life changing when you realize what these men have  endured for us.
5 This book shows how mean man can be to man.  It is an unbelievable true story of a man's journey through life from a kid to an Olympic champion to being lost in the Pacific being shot at in the ocean while on a raft,then being rescued by the enemy and treated worst than anything your imagination can conjure followed by going through horrendous nightmares to total forgiveness and a miraculous transformation.  A totally unbelievable book that really happened.  I loved every page and couldn't wait to read it every day.  Do yourself a favor and read this book.
4 UNBROKEN...was found on a corner of a table...after I dealt with the death of a service member who died in Towin Kowt, AFG one April in 2012.The Nurse told me to borrow it for a week or so, and bring it back, so I read it, and enjoyed it.It was quite interesting.Who is Louis Zamperini ?Having never heard of this fellow- Zamperini before reading this book. I appreciated the forthrightness and lessons learned that jumped out throughout his story. I think Hillenbrand did her research.I did find his story  very very uplifting, quite interesting really, it was somewhat of a rags to reality story, and his experiences as a POW and his faith and personal story was quite amazing.Glad to hear that Hollywood powers that be...are going to make it into a movie. We certainly need more good movies coming out of Hollywood.Walter (Joe Guide) DinkinsChaplain, CDR, USN (Ret)SEAL TEAM TWOTowin Kowt, AFG 2012
5 I have to admit that I was a hold-out for a really long time reading this book. Once I heard that they were actually making a movie out of this to be released in December I was prompted to finally pick this book up (down-load) and give this a try. Boy what was I thinking. I can now see why they are making a movie out of this as it has all of the ingredients of a good human interest story from his mischievous childhood and shaking hands with Hitler at the Olympics to surviving 47 days at sea and to his experience in the Japanese prison camps, his passing through the rough alcoholic years after the war and finally finding peace through religion. There is something for everyone in this book.One part I found interesting was that I was stationed at Naval Air Facility Atsugi Japan in the 1980&#8217;s and one of the train stations I passed thru many times was Ofuna, the town  where Mr. Zamperini was held when first arriving in Japan. It is now a peaceful suburb of Tokyo and it is hard to believe so much misery and suffering occurred there.There have been so many 5 star reviews that mine will hardly get noticed but I recommend this book heartily.
5 The saying that those who ignore history will relive it (this is paraphrased) ! Well If you do not read this great book you would not ignore WW 11. God help us one and all!
5 Wow.  The writing is superb.  The story is absolutely compelling.  The history is fascinating.  This is one of only two books that I can remember that ever brought tears to my eyes.  Don't miss it.
5 When I first got this book, I was anticipating disappointment as there are so many war sagas. But once I got into it, I could not believe the story had never been told.  Just like Seabiscuit, Ms. Hillenbrand has a talent for finding stories that facially may appear boring but in reality are better than any Hollywood drama.  One of the best parts was the section dealing with the main character's emotional response after the war. Our generation has kind of been led to believe that "shell shock" and "combat fatigue" were Vietnam phenomenon and that everyone who served in WWII came back without emotional baggage.  Overall, a great work.
5 This is the story of Louis (Louie) Zamperini growing up as a wild kid, taking up running and working up to Olympic-record speeds, then going off to war during WWII, having his plane go down in the Pacific and barely existing on a life raft for so long that it is disintegrating beneath him, his pilot friend and another crew member while sharks were a constant menace.  Shot at by Japanese fighters and having to go into the water to avoid getting hit, then finally getting captured by the Japanese.  He spent years in Japanese prisons being beaten, degraded and starved (among just some of the indignities and life-threatening conditions) and surviving to the end of the war.  Just surviving seemed impossible.  At that time, POWs in the European Theatre had a 1% death rate; those in the Pacific Theatre has a 50% death rate.  This says a lot about the will and the good luck in not being, for example, in one of the prison camps where every prisoner was killed in revenge for American victories.  This is the same author who wrote Seabiscuit: An American Legend.  Laura Hillenbrand is a superb writer.
5 One of the best books I've ever read.  The only problem with it is I couldn't stop reading.  It's full of unbelievable stories of survival, redemption, and courage.I finished it with an overwhelming sense of gratitude for my life.  No struggle seems as consuming once this book is read.
5 I now understand much more of what the brave men who fought in the war endured.  I now understand how our Fathers couldn't discuss their war experiences.  How can people be so cruel?  How soft and demanding we have become.  Could this generation survive?
5 This book sparked a profound desire to discover my own father's WWII service.  He also was named Louis and was also in the Pacific theater for over four years.  I also remembered as a young child waking up to his screaming nightmares of which he never spoke.  I feel I can now have greater compassion and a love for my father that was never present before.
5 Well written book about a World War II hero.  On parr with &#34;Flags of our Fathers&#34; and &#34;Flyboys&#34;.  A must read for history lovers.
5 Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and RedemptionMy son gave me this book for Christmas and I couldn't put it down. Perseverance and shear will to live is portrayed in this well written novel. I feel literally ashamed that I have not heard about Louis Zamperini before reading this book. The insight into Japanese war time prison has never been a focus of history I have read. But clearly the stewards of the prisons discussed were truly cruel beyond humanity could ever conceive. Many times I had to put the book down and just say how on earth could one go on. But the ending was so enlightening to me. There are those in this world that I would want to perhaps get even with, but how could one ever feel that need again once one reads how Louis Zamperini forgave the most vial atrocities conceivable. The reader feels the need to get even or for justice to prevail. But Mr. Zamperini forgives so why can't I?  Read and enjoy, but keep in mind how it applies to your everyday life and how little one has to get angry about.
4 the soldiers experiences need to be remembered. The survival tales marveled at. Whether exaggerated or not the story is a amazing.
5 Riveting and inspirational.  Louis Zamperini's harrowing journey through war, adrift at sea and eventual years as a Japanese POW held me spellbound. His years of post-war torment and emotional anguish gave way to a life of love and forgiveness after finding Christ at a Billy Graham revival. I could not put this book down...
5 I have read this book twice fully and yet cannot do justice by my words. So moving, inspirational and uplifting a story! Spellbinding to the last page.
5 The life story of Louis Zamperini, Olympic athlete, prisoner of war, and human being, is brilliantly crafted, emotionally powerful, and memorable.  Hillenbrand proves herself the consumate stylist and craftsman once again.  She is able without apparent effort to create suspense in a tale without mystery- we all know that he is going to survive, and yet we hang on every word!  As she did in "Seabiscuit", she explores how humans achieve the impossible, survive the unsurvivable, and find the resilience to recover from the unimaginable.This is as good as it gets in nonfiction history and biography. She scares me......
5 I chose a 5 star rating because this is the best book I've read regarding the human spirit. What those POW 's endured for as long as they did especially Louis seemed too much for any man to tolerate. His life from childhood to senior citizen was extraordinary. I thoroughly enjoyed his story. I was happy to see how our Lord became such an important part of his life.
5 If we did not already know it, this book confirms what a tremendous debt we owe to those who served in World War II.  And what a tremendous impact the war had on all those who lived through it.  They might have been unbroken, but they were not unscarred.This is the story of Louie Zamperini, a tremendous distance runner who was just reaching his prime in 1941. Were it not for one or two of the thousands of examples of cruelty described in this book, it is possible, maybe even likely, that he, not Roger Bannister, would have broken the four minute mile barrier.  The early termination of his competitive running was a huge disappointment to Zamperini, but the emotional trauma that resulted from his World War II experiences went far beyond the destruction of his running aspirations.Because of who Captain Zamperini was before and after the war and all that he experienced during the war, he seems to be the best symbol of the book's title.  But this book is also about all of the other soldiers mentioned in the book.  All who served and particularly all who suffered as POWs have a special bond that is difficult for those of us who did not share those experiences to completely understand.  But, thanks to this book, we can come a little bit closer.Some reviewers question whether this book is realistic.  Did the POWs really get beaten as viciously and frequently as depicted in this book?  If their meals were as meager and un-nutritious as depicted in this book, how were they able to look somewhat healthy in the first photos taken after their release?  Who knows?  Some of the stories seem incredible, but the author documents her anecdotes and cross checks the events with as many Japanese and American sources as she can.  I commend her for her commitment to memorializing the lives of all of these heroic men and women.  And I commend her for her writing skill and for using creative similes such as "the Bird [notorious prison guard] ... had been whipping about camp like a severed power line" to make her narrative come alive.The book makes one reference on page 308 to a "legendary" TBF Avenger pilot named Ray Hawkins who was awarded 3 Navy Crosses.  To me, there is one TBF Avenger pilot - my father - who is more legendary than any other (for earning one Navy Cross and also being a wonderful artist, teacher, father and grandfather), but Captain Hawkins does deserve to be held in high esteem.  I am sorry that my father has entered the life eternal and is no longer available to have a good discussion about the topics in this book.  But I am thankful that Captain Zamperini is still alive and that he was able to overcome his physical and emotional scars and share his remarkable story.
4 The vast majority of readers have given Unbroken a very favorable review and I cannot help but agree with them.  This is a compelling story of a man destined by fate to face immense challenges and despite the odds, he remained Unbroken.There are a number of interesting back stories to illuminate the life of Louis Zamperini among which are the 1936 Olympics in Berlin, his job as a bombardier on a B-24 Liberator bomber and the trials and tribulations of a Pacific POW in the hands of the Japanese.  Zamperini's life and his fame consists almost totally by these challenges and throw in a record 45 days adrift in a life raft to provide a bit more drama.  His childhood is interesting but just a prelude to a challenging and demanding adult life.The book does drag in spots and Hillenbrand has a tendency to insert some awkward prose that compelled me to read a sentence more than once, on more than one occasion, but besides these two minor flaws, the book is a fabulous read.With almost 400 footnotes and a full index, Unbroken represents a masterpiece of research.  Collating and organizing this information in a cogent and readable form is the strength of this book.  It also has some unpredictable plot twists that surprise the reader just when we thought we had it all figured out.If you are interested in World War II in the Pacific, would like to know more about the "other" bomber - the B-24 - and are looking to be inspired by a true story of courage and raw determination both in sports and in life, this book is for you!John E. NevolaAuthor of The Last Jump - A Novel of World War II
5 What can one say about Laura Hillenbrand's writing?  It is absolutely great.  This story is about a man that I would imagine most Americans have never heard of; Louis Zamperini, an Olympian who is not in any  Olympic record books, yet has set records of his own which will never be matched, and was outstanding in his tanacity and in his life. I am sure Mr.Zamperini is representative of many others who sacrificed in much the same manner.  Ms.Hillenbrand brings this man to life, and as a result, by the end of the book you feel almost as if Mr. Zamperini is a personal friend. Probably the greatest achievement in American history was the defeat of Japan, a country whose existence is difficult to explain. A country was bent on terrorizing the world with their goal of total conquest. A country whose entire popuation seemed to be imbued with cruelty; and a country that met a fate much deserved, almost total destruction. It was people like Mr.Zamperini, those who put their lives on the line, and whose sacrifices cannot be matched that saved the world, and this is no exaggertion. How it was, and is, that our country produces such men is a mystery to me, but time and time again it has shown that such men exist.  Mr. Zamperini's determination to survive and to defeat the cruelties to which he was subjected can hardly be imagined, yet they existed and he did survive only to go on and face and conquer other demons that seemed intent on destroying him.  I will leave a review of this book to the professionals, but I must say that the author, Ms. Hillenbrand, is also an American hero for bringing a story such as this to our attention in spite of many of her own issues.  We can only wish her well, an thank her for what she has given us here. If one wants to read about perseverance, determination, sacrifice, and courage beyond belief, one must read this book.
5 The author is such a fantastic writer and the true story she writes about is equally fantastic. To imagine that the individual could adapt to such trying circumstances but live was to be survived. An then one had such a challenging life leading to this story. Everyone who reads this will be more complete.
5 We bought this book after reading a Vanity Fair article about it.  The book is very well written, it holds your interest as you are transported from place to place with the crews of the planes, being shot up, and shot down, in the life raft, in the different pow camps.  All in all a great book.
5 As far as incredible military stories of any time period. I was so moved by these brave men and their stories...even the spouses story as in A Sea Story.
5 This book is fantastic.  Probably rates up there with one of the best books I have ever read.  If you have ever doubted if there is a God, there will be no doubt after reading this book.
5 This was an amazing story.  I could barely put it down. As evil as 9/11 was or Nazi Germany, the Japanese were pretty merciless in conducting WWII. This story was very inspiring; Louis's redemption & forgiveness of his Japanese tormentors is absolutely remarkable. I am looking forward to seeing the movie.
3 At times I felt like I was reading a daily journal. I'd skip paragraphs and pages when the writing became repitious to the point of tedium. I'm not inclined to read anything else shes written.The story is amazing and I did read to the end. It was worth the read if you don't read every word.
5 Great story about an amazing life.  Mr. Z goes from Olympic athlete to flying in bombers, to being in a life raft for months, to being a POW and survives it all, and in the end develops a very positive attitude. Uplifting.
5 I could hardly put the book down.  Never in my wildess guess did I have any idea the cost in men and machines that World War II imposed on America.  A good history lesson in itself besides the story of Louie.
5 A very well written story that keeps you wondering how he could live to go to another unvbelie periog in his life..
5 Written clearly and with graphic descriptions of the sadistic treatment of P.O.Ws in Japan. It reminds us today of the horror of war and how it changes people.  It also shows what the human body can withstand when others treat them without dignity or give them what we take for granted as the necessities of life.  Unfrogettable!
5 A compelling, at times mesmerizing read, with a surprise twist at the end.  You won't be disappointed.  I have heard rumors of a movie deal, and though movies tend to 'ruin' books (look at Peter Jacksons bastardizations of Tolkien's work, for example) I still would love to see a film done on this book.
1 Too much of the book was obviously fictional.  After an 80 pound emaciated man punched out his 9th shark in the snout (I exaggerate only slightly) I tuned out and couldn't finish it.  And I didn't even get to the parts in the P.O.W. camp that other reviewers have described as lacking credibility.  It was like a Hollywood movie where the action hero miraculously escapes death time after time in the most preposterous fashion.  This is not to diminish the ordeal that Louie clearly went through, but this account, in its details, failed to cross the threshhold of minimal believability.
5 Although I was a child during the war and remember the stories of the atrocities committed by the Japanese soldiers, I don't recall ever hearing anything about Louie, his achievements and what he had gone through in a life boat in the middle of the Pacific and then the unspeakable treatment as a POW. I have often commented that the generation of soldiers who fought in WW ll, were a "bunch of tough bastards!" Louie's ordeal was a story that had to be written.The
5 Laura Hillenbrand has gifted us with an outstanding rendition of a truly incredible story.  There's nothing I can say that hasn't already been said, but this book so moved me that I HAD to review it.Louie Zamperini is a winner.  As a teen, he finally discovered his gift:  running.  Before then he was, to put it generously, a handful. Fighting, stealing, thumbing his nose at society and the law.  In fairness, growing up dirt poor certainly led to his stealing food.  Upon discovering his gift for running, and with his brother Pete's help, he channeled his energies into a positive direction.As a B-24 Liberator Bombardier, Louie saw combat in the Pacific before his plane went down during a Search & Rescue mission. He and two remembers, one not surviving the ordeal, spent almost 2 months adrift on a raft, barely surviving.After being picked up by the Japanese, Louie was held in different POW camps, beaten, forced into slave labor, and routinely humiliated by his guards.  Where Laura HIllenbrand shines is by spotlighting the few Japanese guards who were humane and looked out for the POWs.  She certainly does not sugarcoat things, focusing mainly on the psychotic, cowardly, sadistic &#34;Bird&#34; and some of the other barbaric guards.  But, again, she makes it impossible to hate the POW camp staffs as a whole, as she documents several kindnesses shown by the camp staffs, acts performed even at risk to themselves.Overall, this masterpiece is a story not only of determination and a will to live, but also of an almost forgotten promise kept.  That promise saves Louie's life and turns his life in a direction that positively affects many others' lives.If you are on the fence about this book, PLEASE jump in Laura's direction.  You will be richly rewarded.  If you are a Military member, like I, you will again stand in awe of The Greatest Generation and what they did.
5 This story of a real life man and what he survived will choke you up because of his bravery and perseverance. Another great man from our greatest generation.
5 I read the Kindle edition. This was recommended to me for a long time and I kept putting it off. I finally relented. I have to say that it was as good as my friend said it was.From start to finish this book was an attention grabber. These military men and women, especially the main character, endured so much hardship under the Japanese so that we can have the freedoms we enjoy today. The fact that it is a true story makes it that much more riveting.The author laid this book out accurately both chronologically and factually.I highly recommend this book to anyone. It is the best one I have read in a long time.
4 Takes u way down but brings you back up_ could have spent more time on the up part._ would have been nice.
2 I thought the author spent far too much time with useless details on the B14 and B24 airplanes and crews.  A little goes a long ways!  I scrutinized another book about Louis Zamberini titled "Devil At My Heals" and it appears to be more direct and to the point.
5 This story is amazing.  A must read for historical reasons and to learn of a man so courageous and strong.  Hillenbrand`s books are educational and inspiring.
5 Actually, this account is better than the autobiography the pweson wrote himself.  It was good, but Laura Hillenbrand set a high standard and unique style of writing with this great book.  I loaned it out.... and it never came home!
4 Not only is it great story about a great man who endured some of the most severe hardships known to man but it is well written. It really takes you inside the character, the war and the camps.If anything I would change the title because Louis was indeed broken by the war, not during but afterwards. His life was a complete mess and it was only when he realize just how broken he was and how much he needed a saviour and God's grace was his life made complete again.The only question mark I have is that sometimes I found certain events almost unbelievable. I knew a very fit, healthy young man who got into a fist fight and died as a result of his injuries. He was only beaten with punches and kicks and he had the best medical care afterwards and yet he died. I am not saying therefore the prisoners were not beaten that severely and regularly but I do wonder how they survived it.One thing is sure; I doubt I would have been able to endure half the things Louis and Phil went through.Overall a great read and not to be missed.
5 Here's a flatly journalistic presentation of a true story, hard to take and hard to believe, but a huge and inspiring testament to the human drive to survive, and survive with dignity. One person, Louie Zamperini, lived through what would surely have killed every one of us. The straightforward writing, with no distractions, drives events forward and draws you in to the point where you're there too, endlessly drifting on a flimsy raft in the middle of the Pacific, beating back sharks, eating albatrosses, and starving in a POW camp while daily being beaten by a sadistic lunatic. So many facts that need to be remembered are also thrown out, such as the eugenics movement here in the United States that allowed the weak in hospitals to be casually neglected and die. This book is as good as any nonfiction you'll read. Laura Hillenbrand is up there with Erik Larson and Candice Millard. Highly recommended.
4 This book addresses one of the finest records of human survival.  The story is incredible, and speaks of a crew that survived an aircraft accident in the Pacific Ocean during WW II.  The survival story continued after they were captured by the Japanese.  Some of it I doubted as accurate, but nonetheless basically loved the book.
5 A true tale of an American hero. God had a purpose in saving this man's life in WWII. His journey in a rubber raft with his two companions was a miracle in itself. His imprisonment as a POW of the Japanese lets the reader know just how brutal his captors could be. His coming to Jesus and Christianity was also a wonderful story.
5 I read Unbroken in two days. I will summarize the story, mention the author's effect on the story, and then discuss the effect on me the reader.If I didn't have family responsibilities I would have finished it on Saturday, but this book was hard to put down. I really did not know what to expect. I knew it was a book about American soldiers in the Pacific Theater of World War 2 but that's all. I didn't realize it was primarily a biography of Louis Zamperini who went from a sickly child to being a troublemaker, to being a record setting miler who competed in the Berlin Olympics where he stole a Nazi flag, to being a bombadier on B-24's, to a cast away living on a raft with 3 guys for 45 days until he was captured by the Japanese and tortured and degraded by them for the next year to the point of death until the Japanese surrendered. But his life continued on an amazing journey after the war. He suffered from PTSD and became a horrible alcoholic who endangered his wife and baby until she moved out and filed for divorce. But before the divorce proceedings started she went to a Billy Graham revival in Los Angeles and got saved by Jesus. She convinced her husband, after telling him she was not going to divorce him anymore, to come with her to hear Graham. He did and left irritated. But somehow she got him to go one more time. He got up to leave during Graham's invitation to receive Jesus as savior and turned around and went to front to repent. He had promised God as he lay dying on a raft in the Pacific Ocean that if he lived he would serve God. He was completely changed that night. He dumped all his booze down the drain. His nightmares stopped. He was able to live again. He became an evangelist with Graham's organization for a while and was able to visit some of his prison guards, now prisoners themselves for their war crimes, and tell them the good news of Jesus and even personally forgive some of them.The story is compelling enough but the details and the authority which Hillenbrand writes with magnify the power. Hillenbrand suffers from Chronic Fatigue Syndrome and spent seven years on this book, mostly from the confines of her house. She knows suffering and weakness and oppression beyond her control. I think she can speak with empathy about Louis's experiences with privation. In the linked interview above, she says she still calls on Louis for support in the struggles of her illness.The facts she uncovered on the war were usually disturbing and gruesome."In 1943 in the Pacific Ocean Areas theater in which Phil's crew served, for every plane lost in combat, some six planes were lost in accidents. Over time, combat took a greater toll, but combat losses never overtook noncombat losses." p.80I vacillate on my agreement with Truman's atomic bombing of Japan. But when I learned about Japan's orders and practices of execution for all POW's about to be liberated, I lean to supporting the use of the bombs.That August, the Japanese War Ministry would issue a clarification of this order, sending it to all POW camp commanders: At such time as the situation becomes urgent and it be extremely important, the POWs will be concentrated and confined in their present location and under heavy guard the preparation for the final disposition will be made ... Whether they are destroyed individually or in groups, or however it is done, with mass bombing, poisonous smoke, poisons, drowning, decapitation, or what, dispose of them as the situation dictates ... In any case it is the aim not to allow the escape of a single one, to annihilate them all, and not to leave any traces. p, 198The bombings killed up to a quarter million people directly. I don't know if there is a moral calculus to see if the costs in lives balance, but, like I said, I'm now tipped somewhat in favor of Truman's decision. These two bombs alone don't equal the death brought by the Japanese on Nanking. Look at this example of their actions before the US got to the main island,That same month, American forces turned on Saipan's neighboring isle, Tinian, where the Japanese held five thousand Koreans, conscripted as laborers. Apparently afraid that the Koreans would join the enemy if the Americans invaded, the Japanese employed the kill-all policy. They murdered all five thousand Koreans. p. 223The massacre would truly have been bloodthirsty. When Japan was successful, their treatment of slave labor was just as brutal. In its rampage over the east, Japan had brought atrocity and death on a scale that staggers the imagination. In the midst of it were the prisoners of war.Japan held some 132,000 POWs from America, Britain, Canada, New Zealand, Holland, and Australia. Of those, nearly 36,000 died, more than one in every four.* Americans fared particularly badly; of the 34,648 Americans held by Japan, 12,935--more than 37 percent--died.* By comparison, only 1 percent of Americans held by the Nazis and Italians died. Japan murdered thousands of POWs on death marches, and worked thousands of others to death in slavery, including some 16,000 POWs who died alongside as many as 100,000 Asian laborers forced to build the Burma-Siam Railway. p. 313If the American invasion triggered the slaughter of POWs, then 132,000 would have died right away before the losses to the invading army. Just as radiation from the bombs caused long term illness and destruction to Japan, so did the inhuman treatment of POWs by the Japanese also create long term damage.As bad as were the physical consequences of captivity, the emotional injuries were much more insidious, widespread, and enduring. In the first six postwar years, one of the most common diagnoses given to hospitalized former Pacific POWs was psychoneurosis. Nearly forty years after the war, more than 85 percent of former Pacific POWs in one study suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), characterized in part by flashbacks, anxiety, and nightmares. And in a 1987 study, eight in ten former Pacific POWs had "psychiatric impairment," six in ten had anxiety disorders, more than one in four had PTSD, and nearly one in five was depressed. For some, there was only one way out: a 1970 study reported that former Pacific POWs committed suicide 30 percent more often than controls. p.346It wasn't the effects of starvation that caused nightmares and self-destructive behaviors, but the effects of the dehumanization of POWs. For Louis Zamperini though, his secret was forgiveness,In Sugamo Prison, as he was told of Watanabe's fate, all Louie saw was a lost person, a life now beyond redemption. He felt something that he had never felt for his captor before. With a shiver of amazement, he realized that it was compassion. At that moment, something shifted sweetly inside him. It was forgiveness, beautiful and effortless and complete. For Louie Zamperini, the war was over. p. 379Jesus speaks about this secret himself, as many others have. So I entered into the hatred of the POW's toward the Japanese guards but, with Louis was able to journey out of it into forgiveness for them and empathy for our soldiers.
5 "Unbroken", by Laura Hillenbrand, is, perhaps one of the most epic survival stories ever told.  Sagas like the life of Louis Zamperini are few and far between - this one is, likely, singular in scope as it comprises multiple instances of survival any one of which would be amazing in itself.  Today, if you mentioned the name Zamperini, virtually no one would know who, or what,  you were referring to.  Ms. Hillenbrand knew she had to rectify that...delivering "Unbroken" after seven years of meticulous research which, amazingly, included being able to receive a first-hand accounts (over 70 interview sessions) from a still hale and hardy 90+ year old Louis Zamperini himself.  If anyone believed the author could not top her first book, "Unbroken" cements her ability to expose profound and worthy subject matter in an engaging and heartwarming way.Louie Zamperini's life began as the second child of four children raised by Anthony and Louise Zamperini.  Besides his indomitable father and scrappy mother there was Pete, his older brother, and two sisters.  The family was the big-loving close-knit hard working Italian type settling in Torrance California.  We learn right away that being Italian, and without wealth meant discrimination in California, discrimination to the point certain neighborhoods "encouraged" The Zamperinis to live elsewhere.  Perhaps, being an outsider (Louie didn't even speak English when the Zamperinis settled in California) hit Louie in a way where he gravitated into a pattern of escalating juvenile delinquency?  Louie grew to be a notorious thief and brawler as he headed toward flunking out of school.  Pete, however, was the quintessential "good kid" as well as fine athlete who believed since Louis was fleet on his feet (a successful young thief as to getaway quick) he just might be a runner.  Pete introduced him to Torrance High's track program hoping for the best.  It was an instant life changer, literally enabling Louis to turn his life around - in the process he became a U.S. record-breaking miler, resulting in a scholarship to USC.  This led to Louis being an Olympic athlete at the infamous 1936 Berlin World Olympics!  It would seem Louis had survived his youth's criminal tendencies and, as a young man, was poised for a bright future.  While training for the 1940 Olympic Games the world began its precipitous slide toward a Second World War.  As a result, the Olympic Games were cancelled and Louis decided he wanted to be an Air Force pilot.  Things did not work out initially, but when the U.S. was forced into WWII Louis settled into a support role as a bombardier.  So ends his first survival experience from a life of crime to a successful athlete to a soldier.As a crew member of a B-24 Liberator it became apparent that Louis did, in fact, have a knack for survival when he lived through his plane being riddled with machine gun fire and flak on an early mission.  One crew member of that mission did die as a result of injuries sustained.  That good fortune changed, however, when the remaining crew was asked to participate in the search effort for a lost plane.  Flying in a replacement plane, the "Green Hornet" (which no one wanted to pilot due to its mysterious erratic aerodynamic nature as well as being cannibalized for parts) the entire crew never reached their destination and were, eventually, declared dead.  Miraculously, Louis survived along with two fellow crew members.  For a second time, living through deadly air battles and a Pacific Ocean crash landing, Louie proved to beat the odds.On occasion, a person survives an initial incident only to face an almost certain later demise.  With minimal life support would the remaining crew be found in the Pacific before dehydration and other perils took their toll?  This is where the story passes from the point where if I revealed anymore I would deprive you of great pleasure.  If you are at all interested now, all I can say is the level of intensity and downright amazement will keep you riveted and you'll have no choice other than to trade sleep in lieu of finishing this book.  You'll gladly walk around like a zombie because "Unbroken" is, IMHO, one of the greatest human survival sagas ever.  This book is wholly beautiful as it horrifies yet, ultimately, uplifts.  This is a fantastic book.
5 An amazing story that is told so well. To my knowledge, the author has only written one other book, and it shows. There is so much information that requires extensive research, and it is presented in a well-written book. I highly recommend this book.
5 At times, this was not an easy book to read, particularly the graphic descriptions of abuse in the Japanese prison camps. However, it is an amazing story of man's will to survive, man's inhumanity to man (especially during wartime), and the capacity to forgive.If it were a fictional story, one might feel that all of the experiences ascribed to Louis Zamperini would be a bit over the top. The survival of Louis and Phil after the B-24 crash in the Pacific on a raft with little to no supplies for over 40 days was amazing enough. It is difficult to comprehend the ordeals they had yet to face as Japanese POWs. The more inspiring accomplishment however, was the fact that he found peace and chose forgiveness despite these horrifying experiences.I liked the following passage from the book: "Dignity is as essential to human life as water, food and oxygen. The stubborn retention of it, even in the face of extreme physical hardship, can hold a man's soul in his body long past the point at which the body should have surrendered it."
5 I LOVED, LOVED, LOVED THIS BOOK.  AN AMAZING STORY OF SURVIVAL OVER AND OVER AGAIN WHEN MOST GOOD MEN WOULD HAVE BROKEN AND GIVEN UP.  COULDN'T PUT THIS BOOK DOWN.
5 I could not put this book down.  Amazing what these men endured.  I learned a bit of history along the way
5 I listened to this book on my IPod so I wasn't quite sure how far I was into it, but when I reached Chapter 15 or so I stopped and said to myself, "This is the most amazing survival story I've ever read. How could anyone ever survive all this? Surely I'm near the end." Come to find out, I was only about 1/3 of the way through, and many more horrible trials lay ahead for Louie Zamperini. As I read it I also thought, "They oughta make a movie out of this," but now I realize it would have to be a miniseries.The research was thorough, the writing impeccable, the story riveting. This is one of the top 10 books I've ever read. You don't have to be a war buff to appreciate this amazing story. If you are considering reading this book, DO IT. You will not be disappointed.
5 Great book that builds as it goes. What fortitude to survive!!!  Very well written with descriptive language that captures the times.
5 Awesome!
5 What an extraordinary life.  While we all know the horrors of the Holocaust, very few of us know the horrors perpetrated in POW camps. This book graphically illustrates what young men of the Greatest Generation went through to keep America free from the hands of Hitler and his cohorts.  Heartbreaking and, at times, hard to read, but really important to understand this little known story of our soldiers.
5 The author writes this story well and deserves credit for bringing Louis Zamperini's story to life again. While it reads almost like a novel, the only shortcoming is that the redemption part of Louie's story seems to be covered quickly. How he turns his life around and what he does after that night with Billy Graham could have been developed a little further.Having said all this, it is a book which I would want my sons to read this summer. It shows how one's story can unfold in unplanned ways as well as how people can intervene and give you an opportunity to get on the right path.  How you survive it all may depend on friends and faith, with a strong dash of dignity mixed in. Read the story of Louie Zamperini; his story may lend a handful of insights to yours.
5 Laura HIllenbrand is a master of nonfiction. This book has everything, history, suspense, and an amazing true story. Laura Hillenbrand does her homework, and writes with amazing fact and detail. A fictional story could not be as readable. Can't wait for her next project, which will probably take her another five years. It will be worth the wait.
3 I just checked the Amazon site and 85% of customer reviewers give Unbroken by Laura Hillenbrand 5 full stars. Incredible, inspirational story, they say, and a beautifully written book.  All true.  It is one of the most incredible stories about survival and courage in the face of the horrors and atrocities of war you will ever read.  And Hillenbrand is a terrific writer - very descriptive. She brings her historical characters alive and dishes enough interesting and detailed historical background to satisfy even the most ardent adherents to the School of Lifelong Learning. Thanks to Hillenbrand, I now have a much better understanding about what went on in the Pacific theater during WWII, and if you stuck me in the cockpit of a B-24 bomber I'm pretty sure I could fly it!But here's my problem. I can't buy into everything Hillenbrand says. There's no doubt that the main figure in the book, Louis Zamperini was (and at age 93 still is) an exceptionally courageous war hero who deserves every medal and accolade ever bestowed upon him.  His story is one of the most heroic - if not THE most heroic story of the entire war. But nobody could endure the cruelty and physical abuse that he endured and still live, or at least not completely crack. It's just not humanly possible.  Surely Zamperini's veins run red with blood, not neon green with Krypton.I won't tell you much about what Zamperini goes through because I think it's best if, like me, you read this book without knowing too much about his exploits and hardships ahead of time.  Let me just say when I was around halfway through the book and the guy had miraculously survived a couple of vicious air and ground battles, ditched with his bomber into the Pacific, floated in a dinky little rubber raft for over a month with no food or water while fighting off swarms of man eating sharks, I said to myself there must be something wrong with my Kindle.  It says I'm only 45% through with the book.  There's got to be some kind of electronic gadgetary screw up at work here. Surely this story must be nearly finished. Things can't possibly get any worse for Louis, but just you wait and see ... They most certainly can!Here's my theory.  I too just so happen to be in the middle of writing a personal memoir for a wonderful old gentleman, Leon, who was also a WWII veteran and a man who greatly distinguished himself and accomplished extraordinary things in his life.  I've interviewed him five or six times up to this point (by way of comparison Hillenbrand interviewed Zamperini 75 times!!) and feel as if I know him pretty well.  In fact, I've grown extremely fond of the guy, and so when he tells me for example, that after his father suffered a terrible debilitating accident he ran the family farm single handedly from the time he was 14 years old, I'm inclined to believe him. There's a part of my brain that says he surely must have had plenty of help from his mother, uncles and older brothers, but there's another part of my brain that wants to believe in every single golden word.Memories and the people we share them with work that way. Don't you think? As we reflect upon our lives don't we all get a little bigger better faster stronger smarter as more and more time goes by?  When we share our personal stories with the people we love, don't you think they may be inclined to add their own embellishments over time as well? And when a stranger comes along and spends hours upon hours listening to the hero tell his tale, isn't it possible that they too will want to believe in every golden word and may, in fact, buff it up into an even brighter shine once they get it all down in the final definitive biography?That's the feeling I get about this book.  Sure, Hillenbrand cross checked everything Zamperini told her with actual military records and she spoke to dozens of eye witnesses who could collaborate his claims.  But think about it. When has the military ever been known to be a completely objective purveyor of its own history?  And because Zamperini has been telling his personal story on the national banquet circuit for decades, could there be anyone left alive who isn't now more familiar with the story's retelling than to the original version?Maybe I would have liked this book better if Hillenbrand hadn't been so clearly swept up by Zamperini as a person and hadn't written his story in such unabashedly rhapsodic tones. Maybe then Unbroken would have struck me as a gritty bio about a truly brave and remarkable war hero and less, as it seemed to me from time to time, like an over-the-top and sadistic Monty Python skit.So anyhow, in spite of risking the wrath of all those who are rightfully in awe of Zamperini's true and actual acts of heroism, the best I can do for this book is three stars out of five.
4 This book is interesting to almost anyone.  A wonderful story of resilience, survival and change.  Not a &#34;can't put it down book&#34; but had no trouble staying with the book until the end.
5 Fantastic story of hardship, endurance and redemption, but for every Louie Zamperini there were a thousand unknowns who never made it home. This book tells their tale as well and in doing so, they too are remembered.
5 I enjoy non-fiction, historical works that are very dynamic, as this was. Also, having been a history major it was even more appealing. The brutality and what the POW's had to endure at the hands of the Japanese showed what kind of heroes they were. It gives one a feeling of admiration and respect to those servicemen who truly were of the &#34;greatest generation&#34; as well as a total disdain for their captors. Highly recommend
5 This was a very interesting read. Things learned about what happened to our brave POWs was appalling, sad and mostly un-nerving.It was faith in God that gave Louis and his fellow POWs the strength to survive the brutality inflicted upon them. I don't know if I were in their shoes if I could forgive them for what they did.Joe L
5 I just finished reading Unbroken On my Kindle) and found it to be superior in every regard.As a history buff, I was shocked that as a 60 year old, I had not heard of the man or the story before. I recommend this book to everyone who likes non-fiction historical writings.On a separate note, I wanted to buy Unbroken on Audible Books for Kindle but the cost was outrageous. In fact all Kindle titles are excessive in audio format. The same audio prmat for Ipod is half of the Kindle price. I am a loyal Kindle user with hundreds of paid titles but the audio-audible quality and pricing for Kindle makes it a clear second choice against Ipod.
5 This is one of the best books I've read in a long time. Laura Hillenbrand (author of Seabiscuit) tells the story of Louie Zamperini. A colorful character in his youth in California, Zamperini becomes a track star, even making it all the way to the Olympics in 1936 in the 5,000 meters. The mile was his specialty, however, and he seemed poised to be the first person to break the 4 minute mile. He was on track in his training to do just that, and then the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. Louie entered military service as a bombadier. After flying several missions in the Pacific, he was shot down and lost at sea for 47 days. Eventually he was picked up by the Japanese, and spent the next two and half years experiencing the closest thing to hell on earth - internment at 4 different Japanese prison camps. He was experimented on, savagely beaten, and made the personal "project" of a sadistic guard.But he survived - "unbroken" as Hillenbrand says. Well, not actually. Like so many who experience war, Zamperini was traumatized. His captors haunted his dreams. He coped by drinking. His behavior became more erratic. His marriage seemed on the verge of ruin. His only hope was revenge - he needed to kill th sadistic guard who tormented him all those months and ruined his life.I'll stop there, because you'll want to read the last chapters for yourself. Or at least, you can stop reading here. I'll give away the ending in the next paragraph. But before I do that - let me say that Hillenbrand is a great writer. She has tremendious sense of pacing, giving the reader plenty of detail to fill out Zamperini's experiences, while pushing the story forward to its climax. This is a really good book. I'm not sure I've read a more well-written biography - EVER!Here comes the Spoiler:Okay, so Zamperini is on the brink of despair. His wife is about to leave him, along with his young daughter. He can't keep it together. No money. No hope. And then he goes to a Billy Graham crusade and hears the gospel. His life is transformed almost immediately. His marriage is repaired. He speaks evangelistically around the country and works for a Presbyterian church in Hollywood. And Zamperini even goes back to Japan to proclaim the gospel, even having the opportunity to share his faith with some of the former guards.I've been told this is going to be made into a movie in the near future. The only surprise there, is that Zamperini's life hasn't already been portrayed in film. I highly recommend Unbroken. It's one of those rare times when an extraordinary writer gets to write about an extraordinary life.
5 My review really can't be fair. My grandfather was shot down over occupied Europe and was able to avoid capture because of the French (I do not share the common contempt for France as other Americans). When I  was finally  old enough to learn more about  his experiences, I didn't ask. So every chance I get now to learn of someone else's I take. So I am biased. But if you are anything like me, you won't be able to stop reading, and I don't read often.
5 Hillenbrand once again proved that she is not just a researcher, but truly a great writer.  The story moves along at a fast clip with all the research served up in such a  palatable way, that one does not even realize one has had a history lesson.  The story is so moving and so unbelievable that I went back to the computer to see if this was really a biography.  Zamperini is all but forgotten among most gatherings, but was a heroic, Olympian contender and a heroic airman of WWII.  Read the first few pages, and I think you will realize it is too good to put down till you've finished it.
5 I became so attached to this man for his ability to withstand all kinds of human indignations, that the average person would not be able to do.  I am keeping this book in my permanent library, not only to possible read again, but as a kind of honor to this man who had such spirit of resilience, so will be a reminder to me of just that. A true Hero.  And of course, Laura Hillenbrand made it happen for me by her brilliant ability to load every sentence and make those pages just keep turning well into the night.
4 I enjoyed Unbroken quite a bit, which really brought the war in the Pacific to life for me. The author did some wonderful research and put together an impressive narration. My only quibble was that I felt that the first 80 pages or so were kind of unbalanced. But the end made up for the beginning.
5 It is so hard to believe what brutal treatment our POW's received in Japan during the war.  This book certainly gave a description of the brutal and sadistic treatment given to POW's.  How did any of them survive?
5 Incredible story of survival and redemption. I'm reading this book to my junior high class to give them a personal interest approach to WWII- they are hooked.
5 This story was brilliantly constructed and took the reader through many emotions and years. Research was superb and details so vivid I felt the reality.
5 Great book. I found it to be very informative in regards to the Pacific theatre during the war. The courage that the soldiers from this war was unbelievable. Having to endure such hardships and mistreatment from the Japanese, it was amazing that they survived.  I highly recommend this book.
4 A captivating story. It took me a while to adjust to the nature of the writing because she has a unique style, but it is very descriptive and definitely takes you into a new world where you are completely invested in the characters. It is highly emotional and evocative and I would recommend it to anyone.
5 An incredible story of human survival under the most intense inhuman conditions.  Very well written about the true life experiences of an Olympic athlete who was cheated of his life's ambition when the 1940 Olympics were canceled due to the war in Europe.  Instead he entered the US armed services and found a greater challenge just to survive when he is taken prisoner by the Japanese.  A very intense but uplifting read.
5 It really is true that fact is stranger than fiction, and in this case a real life story that is so incredible. A story about how a person can live through incredible suffering and overcome life shattering events. I see they are soon to make a movie about this book, I doubt that it will do justice to the book. Well worth reading.
5 An unbelievable and inspiring story.  I knew very little about aspects of the Pacific war.  The human spirit is the most resilient and encompassing entity imaginable.  This book confirms both.  I continue to search for words to adequately express my experiences as I read this incredible account of one man's story.
5 My dad was a runner and joined the army air corps.  He has passed away, I would have like to share this book with him.  This story is epic in its span, detail and character.  Is America still making men like this?
5 This will be required reading for every one of my children once they are in their later teens.Our nation is chock full of human beings that don't have the gumption, grit or dignity to withstand 10% of what this man went through.Read it and you'll realize the majority of your problems are pathetic.Reading this book and adhering to the lessons taught within would make us a society of great citizens, decent human beings and would eliminate 99% of the whining out there.Don't pass this up, it will change your life.
5 This is an interesting story that is extremely well written. It started out a bit slow, but after a few chapters I could not put it down. For a non-fiction book, it is an absolute page-turner! I think it is only a matter of time before it is turned into a movie. This man was truly one of the great heroes of WWII.
5 Beautifully written. Stories of many amazing caring people in the midst of horrible conditions  made me want to be a better person.  Especially reading how one person living his life's mission, being in the right place and the right time, can impact so monumentally another persons life
5 You can read the 1000+ reviews above and below I'll just add that meaningful reads are accompanied by a lasting after taste / memory.  Unbroken will last with you for many years to come. For many reasons.
5 The title says it all.  This has got to be one of the greatest stories I have ever read. Remarkable. Definitely worth reading.
5 The title says it all. Amazing story of survival, resilience, and self -redemption. Also a great history lesson. I wish our American government wasn't such a bunch of cowards. We should have executed those Jap's who abused our soliders, especially "The Bird". I bet it was the dem's who allowed that to happen. Nothing's changed.
4 ** Unbroken was read as the November 2012 selection for our book club. **The story of Louis Zamperini is incredibly heart wrenching and inspiring when you see everything he and his fellow soldiers went through. Hillenbrand has an amazing talent of making you forget that you already know the ending, and those in our book club all got wrapped up in the moment, "...wondering if Louis would make it out alive!".Hillenbrand excellently draws each reader through philosophic reflections on Louis' experience. An example:"Dignity is as essential to human life as water, food, and oxygen. The stubborn retention of it, even in the face of extreme physical hardship, can hold a man's soul in his body long past the point at which the body should have surrendered it. The loss of it can carry a man off as surely as thirst, hunger, exposure, and asphyxiation, and with greater cruelty."I was particularly shocked by the brutality of the Japanese, which I was quite honestly naive about. History has not been favorable to the Nazis, for good reason, but somehow my high school and university history teachers neglected to cover the war crimes of the Japanese. I will refrain from republishing the atrocities, but needless to say I was shocked at the inhumanity.Our only real criticism, which I feel is worth a star deduction, was that you get very little account of what as going through Louis's head. You get a very straightforward retelling, and you get the occasional glimpse at who he may have missed or how he often thought of the Olympics, but very little about the emotions he felt. I know he became a very religious man later in life and perhaps that has impacted what he is and isn't willing to say about his captors, but I'm curious as to how he dealt with these trials in the moment.I recommend Unbroken to anyone looking for a bit of inspirational history
4 My husband read this book and recommended it to me.  I do not usually like WWII stories but this one grabbed me from the beginning..what this poor man goes through is a true testament to the human spirit.I haven't finished it yet but can't put it down.  If you are looking for an exciting page turner, this is it!
5 This book was fantastic. I was engaged from start to finish. Laura Hillenbrand does an amazing job with research and getting the complete story rather than a simple narrative from the main character. I look forward to my husband reading the book too because I can't stop telling him about it and I am giving away the awesome details!!!
5 On my personal list of best books..this would be in the top five!!  I highly recommend this to any teenager or adult.
3 This is a story that is hard to believe and the details of this man's life make an awesome story.  However, I found the writing to be grade school level and more a regurgitation of facts than a well written account.  At best it was more like a newspaper account than a stirring novel.  It is hard to give the story itself a bad review as it is so engrossing, but the book is so poorly written for adult consumption that I think it is over rated.
5 This is one of my favorite books.  My husband & I both enjoyed it so much.  What an amazing true story!  It was so good that my book club also read this book.
5 An unbelievable story of humanity at its best, and its worst. If I didn't know it was true it would be hard to believe. Talk about gaining faith in yourself through the bravery, and perseverance of others. An inspiring book that you will never forget.
5 Wow! My friend's daughter graduated from  USC, and the author spoke, and shared his amazing story. Reading of such atrocities is heartbreaking, and photos of those brave men made me cry. They were skeletal, beaten, and forced to do inhumane acts. My first time really reading about Japanese prison camps. Horrific is not strong enough a word--none really exists to describe such evil. God bless our veterans!
5 I read this book in my Kindle and I have to confess that I did not miss one single page or one single word. I read it in less than a week and could have been less if I had had the time. Zamperini's capacity to survive against all odds is something that defies anyone imagination. His recuperation and forgiveness is admirable.  Some human beings are made of a special mixture. Zamperini is one of those. What an ordeal. Every detail of this book is worth reading. The writer talent to drive readers inside the book while maintaining the rhythm and interest deserves a chapeau!  Recommend it 100%.
5 I bought this book for my husband who loves history.  He couldn't put the book down.  a great read for male or female.
5 This is one of the best books I've read in years. Everytime I had to put it down, I could hardly wait to read again. And it's all true.The footnotes are at the end of each chapter (very useful for Kindle readers).Laura Hillenbrand keeps you wanting more.
5 well written with compassion and concern
4 Almost finished with "Unbroken" and I've really enjoyed it.  Laura Hillenbrand is a great storyteller.  I plan on purchasing the audiobook as well.  Listening to the book will bring out things I missed in the read.
5 This was a gift for my son as well.  I had read the book and loved it, and wanted him to have a copy too.  He spent many years in Japan in the 90's, and has been in or near several of the places in Japan mentioned in the book.  It was a favorite of the book club, and I hope he enjoys it as much as we did.
3 This book was wonderful.  Yes, it had some parts that were absolutely terrible to read, but that is war, and the Japanese were known to abuse their POW's unmercifully.  This book gives hope and strength to anyone who reads it.  Our day to day issues are trivial compared to what Zamperini endured and survived, and went on to live into his 90's.  Amazing story!
5 This is without a doubt one of the best books I've every read. I have heard that it may be a movie soon. I sure hope so. Everyone, man or woman should read this most inspiring true story.
5 Love this book.  It was both a pleasure yet painful to read some of the events in the book.  Well written.
5 The works were completely regarding hope where there is no hope; and endurance and determination where there is not reason to feel hope.  A wonderful book that makes me appreciate the soldiers who endured so that we can have freedom; we should never forget.
5 This was a very good book.  I loved reading about World War 11, and especially the survival, resilience, and redemption involving the main character.  Some of the torture this character was put through leaves you (the reader) wondering how he could have survived.  He was definitely a unique character.  I believe he became a better person for all that he had to go through and endured.  This is one of those books that you really cannot say enough good things about so I hope all those readers out there looking for something good to read, will purchase, read, and learn a lesson about life and living.
5 I never thought I would enjoy reading a true history book!  I hated anything that included. History when I was in schoolbut this book really held my interest throughout the book.  Never realized what the POW's had to endure during thewar and have a greater appreciation for what they did for our country.  A truly good read!
5 After seeing Louie being interviewed on tv, I had to get this book.  It was great!  Amazing story that was impossible to put down.  I do volunteer work with vets and it gave me great insight into PTSD.
5 A well-written, detailed account focusing on one man's WW2 experiences as a POW.  A must read, especially for those under 50!
4 I am a WWII nut, but I've got to admit that this part of the war is very upsetting.  The atrocities and hardships this generation faced is unbelievable.  Every American should have to read about D Day in this 70th anniversary of the landings.  Louie was one tough guy.
5 This is an incredible true story about one mans life through WWII and beyond.  I must admit, I have a different opinion of the Japanese after reading this though.....
5 This book is both historically accurate and informative as well as a compelling story of resilience, courage, strength, determination, and survival.The author took great care in establishing the events, time lines, and historical context for the story which made it like a history lesson through the lens of a person who lived through it.Recommend to anyone.Oh, I've also read that it made some ashamed of their Japanese heritage.  As an American of Japanese decent, I find that statement disheartening.  My family was in internment camps in Colorado and suffered many abuses and losses as well.  No one comes out of a war smelling like roses.
5 in the hands of Hillenbrand.Because the inside book jacket contains a nice little summary, it won't spoil anything to say that the main character in this true story, Louis Zamperini, was a ruffian during his childhood who, with the support of his brother, achieved athletic excellence as a runner. As luck would have it, a permanent detour while on a path towards the Olympics to make use of what he'd probably call his God-given talent, sent him instead towards WWII. Along with the rest of his crew aboard the "flying coffin," he survived a number of missions before being shot down during a search and rescue operation and ending up in the shark-infested drink. The recounting of his nearly seven week ordeal aboard a life raft with little food, drinkable water or shelter is one of the most compelling parts of the book. He survives, but, unfortunately, goes straight from the frying pan into the fire, becoming a Japanese POW camp under the command of a particularly nefarious man who prisoners nickname "the bird." He lives to tell the tales of the brutalities he suffered at the hands of his captors, but, having endured incomprehensible horrors, he returns to civilian life forever changed, unadapted to the now unfamiliar world. Zamperini eventually thrives, though afflicted with post traumatic stress disorder, primarily as a result of a certain experience that I won't reveal so as not to spoil the moment. Although it's not for any of us to judge, I must confess a certain level of...disappointment at the inspiration that became Zamperini's saving grace. It was as if he'd survived an odyssey to hell and back only to require assistance afterward. Then again, that is sometimes the way with ptsd. We each have our own way of dealing with difficulty. And I'm very thankful for his success, whatever the mechanism required to achieve it. Having previously read Seabiscuit, I knew I was in for quite a story with Unbroken with Hillenbrand doing the telling. Reading her version of his recounting of events is a little like being a fly on the wall of his home, his raft, and his cell. Unbroken is an utterly amazing story of survival. Also good: Coming Out of the Ice: An Unexpected Life by Victor Herman, Even Silence Has an End by Ingrid Betancourt and Left for Dead: A Young Man's Search for Justice for the USS Indianapolis by Pete Nelson.
5 This is the Book of the Year."Unbroken" is Laura Hillenbrand's non-fictional, multi-dimensional account of Louis Zamperini's life from his youthful ruffian days in Torrence California to becoming an Olympic runner in the 1936 Berlin games.  She retraces his service career as a WWII hero and POW. Captured and tortured for 3 years by the Japanese Louie returns stateside with PTSD (not recognized or treated by the military). Temporary salvation was found in the bottom of a bottle.  Jim Beam was his best friend. His thirst for revenge upon his Japanese captors understandable but soul consuming.  His wife, Cynthia, was at her wits' end trying to cope with Louie's inability to adjust back to civilian life when she attends one of the young Billy Graham's tent revivals and becomes a Christian.  She drags Louie there.  Louie will have nothing to do with it.  After much hounding Louie finally agrees to accompany Cynthia once more just to get her off his back.  They say 'The Lord works in mysterious ways' and Louie lets the burdens and anger fall off his shoulders during the Rev. Graham's service and opens his heart to God. Louie became an inspirational speaker and starts a camp for troubled boys. He is now 93 and always sees the glass half full.Ms. Hillenbrand's exhaustive research into WWII aviation, flight missions and disasters had the possibility of being very dry.  It was fascinating.  What our captured servicemen endured in the Japanese Prison Camps could have been written with gratuitous detail to satisfy our curious, baser instincts.  Instead, the author gave us an acute, vivid portrait without being needlessly gory.  The historical picture of the men who fought in the Pacific has not been as pronounced as the European theater to us over the years. Their deeds and sacrifices are certainly not overlooked in this book.  Incredibly, after the war they were then expected to resume their civilian lives without a hitch.  For many that assignment proved too daunting.I finished the book last week and usually post my review immediately.  I simply could not find the words until today, Thanksgiving Day.  I don't believe that is a coincidence.So on this special American holiday I would like to say "Thank you" to all the servicemen and women who have given so much to so many while asking for so little in return.  I would love for Louie to receive the Medal of Freedom. He deserves it.Thank you, Laura Hillenbrand, for this rare gem of a book.  You should be on the short list for a Pulitzer.Happy Thanksgiving!
5 So I don't typically read non-fiction, and I don't like novels about war but I LOVED this book.  Laura Hillenbrand captures the amazing life of Louie Zamperini.  This story has a sense of honesty that is wonderful.  Louie's experiences don't seem to be sugar coated or overstated which makes him and his story so much more likeable, relatable and believeable.  I have passed this around and it is a winner across my family demographics.  It is a real page turner and definitely worth reading!As a side note, on the kindle there is significant footnoting at the end of the book so the actual end of the story comes up rather unexpectedly if you are just looking at your "progress".  Not a big deal just worth a quick mention.
5 I've been a fan of Hillenbrand since &#34;Seabiscuit,&#34; and she didn't disappoint me this time.  As a post-war navigator in B-25's, having lived under Soviet occupation, and having written about it, as well, I had a particular angle on this story. But I was in no way prepared for what I would experience here. What her hero lived through is truly rmarkable, as is the research job that the author must have done to collect all that data. My hat is off.
5 a testamy to how some men rise above themselves and how others sink into disgracea great and sometimes frightening read
4 I wasn't sure I'd enjoy a book about WWII, but I did and I learned a lot! I didn't know very much about the war with Japan, so this was a lot of new and interesting material.  The perspective from a POW was very engrossing and eye opening. This is a great choice for a husband/wife road trip if you get the audio book.
5 Thank you Laura for taking such care to tell such an amazing story. Your attention to every detail makes this book hard to put down. I just bought the book for my father to read as well. I know he will enjoy it as much as I did.
5 This story is the best I have read on World War II in the Pacific. An excellent work of non-fiction written as an amazing and gripping story.
5 Unbroken has generated a lot of buzz over the last year and I finally devoured it for my book club.  It is certainly one of the most amazing stories I've read in years.  The book follows the life of Louis Zamperini from his days as a troublemaking rascal, to his career as a world-class runner, then his traumatic experiences in the Pacific theater of WWII.  After his rebellious younger years, Louis learns to channel his energy into running, becoming a record-holding miler and competing in the 1936 Berlin Olympics.  I thought it was very clever for Hillenbrand to quote someone saying of Louis, "The only runner who could beat him, the coach said, was Seabiscuit," (pg 40), considering she wrote the biography of the famous racehorse.It's when Louis joins the Army Air Corps that his story becomes almost incredulous.  Surviving combat missions as a bombardier, his crew ironically crashes during a search mission.  He and two other survivors are stranded in the middle of the Pacific.  After a harrowing 47 days at sea, fending off sharks and barely surviving starvation and dehydration, not to mention strafing by Japanese, two remain, only to be rescued by the enemy.  This is the first time I've ever read an account about battle over the Pacific, and I was amazed at how many casualties occurred during non-combat missions and training.  It's tragic knowing most of Louis's crew were killed in an accident that was completely avoidable (some CO sent them up in a broken plane!).Once Louis and his pilot are in custody of the Japanese, their situation only worsens.  How can it be worse than being adrift for almost 7 weeks in shark-infested waters with no food or fresh water?  The Japanese brutality towards POW's was insanely cruel.  Defying the Geneva Convention, the Japanese had no objection to physical torture and mental debilitation. It was their goal to completely strip their prisoners of any dignity and deprive them of what it is to be human.  And Louis survived two years of that treatment.  Possibly he endured worse than most, having been singled out by an especially sadistic tormentor, known as "The Bird."  This guy made my stomach turn.  Remarkably, after all is said and done, Louis survives the war, though only as a shadow of himself.  I won't giveaway how he overcomes the demons that follow him home, but I will encourage you to experience Louis's incredible tale and Hillenbrand's exceptional story-telling.  You really have to read it to believe it.
5 My mom bought this book and I don't know anything about it, so therefore I can't give it good review or not!
5 This is the most amazing and compelling story I have ever read. Read it and it will change your perspective on the things you value in life.
4 Laura Hillenbrand is a wonderful story teller  and  the story that is told in this book is a powerful  tale  of true grit  Louie Zamperini shows us that if you perservere you can overcome not only mans cruelty to man but your own inner demons and still survive and live a good life
4 Very difficult to read what went on during the War but sometimes necessary.  Great message at the end to wrap up the book.
5 Everybody needs to read this book.  The story of Louis Zamperini is so good, so compelling, so unbelievable, that is needs to be part of our American psyche forever.  Hillenbrand is a great writer and has a way of making even the average sound incredible, but she took on subject matter that was mind-blowing to begin with and reached entirely new heights with her descriptive style.  I can't praise this book enough; definitely, buy it!
1 First, the writing is awful and the book is boring (considering the story, that's quite the feat by the author).  I didn't finish it became impossible to read.  Also, I find it hard to believe one man endured so much torture, starvation, abuse, neglect, sharks, attacks and survived.  Did someone exaggerate just a little?
5 possibly one of the best books ive ever read.... not just because of the story but how its written.buy another copy to lend out.
5 Just finished reading it. Excellent character development. Details. Suspense.  A real page-turner!  You'll have a hard time putting it down.  Highly recommended.
5 A very moving story.a must read for everyone. This book is a story of human endurance courage and strength,, beyond imagination.
5 It is hard for those of us who are fortunate enough to have never gone to war to imagine what it is really like.  Ms. Hillenbrand has put us as close as I think I will ever get, and she did it with beautiful writing, a fast moving story, and excellent research.The story is mainly about POWs who were captured by the Japanese in WWII, and it follows the stories of several although Louis Zamperini is the main focus.I am truly amazed, despite years of examples, by how horribly human beings can treat one another.  I am even more amazed how people can forgive their torturers.  I have not suffered in a lifetime what some of these men suffered in a day, and to my dismay, I am not at all sure I could find forgiveness as some of them did.  How they even survived is beyond my comprehension.This is a piece of history that should not be forgotten, and anyone who reads this exemplary book will not be able to forget.
5 outstanding nonfiction.the story of a man who has gone through hell.he came out dented, but he remains unbroken.Louie Zamperini's story is both heartbreaking and uplifting.then it's heartbreaking and uplifting again.  and then again.Laura Hillenbrand's storytelling is unsurpassed.her extensive research into World War II and into Louie's life allow her to paint an intimate picture. i don't know how she does it with such a devastating chronic condition.  but i'm so glad that she does.Unbroken may seem a little long at first.but not one page is wasted and it's never boring.looking forward to the movie.in the meantime, i'm sure to read the book at least one more time.
5 I purchased this book a while back and have nothing but great things to say.  Very well written, with exquisite details along the way.  Hands down one of the best books I've ever read what an amazing story of survival, hope and resilience.  I typically don't read books very quickly, but I finished this book in three sittings after about 5 days.  It's a true story that reads like a novel; very tough to put this book down once you start.
5 No wonder this book has such high ratings.  Everyone loves it.  I loved it, my dad, my mom, my husband, my sister all loved it.  There is something for everyone.
5 This is the story of Louis Zamperini.  He goes from rebel to runner, from Olympian to POW.  This book covers his olympic running abilities and his beatings in a prison camp.  Zamperini story is that of an unlikely hero and one of great hardship.  i found myself unable to put the book down.
4 I enjoyed the story of Louie Zamperini very much, the man has been through hell and back.  While it was well written, and the author obviously did a lot of research, the writing style itself seemed pretty straight forward to me.
5 This definitely goes on my list of the most favorite books I've read.  I couldn't put this book down, it kept me on the edge of my seat. What a story!  I'll never think of World War II in the Pacific in the same way, and what so many of my fellow Americans went through to give us the freedom that we have.  It also shows how God can change a person's life.  Great reading, highly recommend!
5 Not sure what to say about books, since everyone has different taste. If it's got 5 stars, I liked it a lot and if not, I didn't like it much.
5 Loved this book and loved the background, the characters, and the true story of what happened to one person in a huge war. The details are stunning and unforgettable. The day to day drama, action, friendships, as well as the determination of the "Greatest Generation" will stick with me a long time. I highly recommend the book. Be ready to dig in and come out with a lasting impression of "What it was like" to be there. I felt like I was in the olympics, the war, the boat, the plane, the prison, and made it back out.
5 I would recommend this book to everyone. I could hardly put it down. It was interesting and chilling. When we learn about the extreme sacrifices our soldiers make to keep us safe we have a deeper respect for them.
4 Incredible story of human endurance and resilience - what a story!  Also the history of the Japanese prisoner of war  camps - apart of the history of WWII that I was not familiar with.
5 An amazing story about an even more amazing person.  Well written and compelling.
5 A must read for all age groups.  Splendidly authored. An unbelievable story of the strength of the human spirit.
5 What more can I say that has not been said?  This book is excellent - stayed up 3 nights in a row reading - could not put it down!  Highly recommended!
5 Over 2,000 reviewers have written about how great this book is. And, yet, I'm compelled to write and chime in with the rest of them. This book is great. Laura Hillenbrand is a writer who stuns you. When I read Seabiscuit, I felt like I was the jockey. In this book, for better or for worse, I felt like I was with Louie in the raft, at the prison camp and in the audience during the tent revival that changed his life. I am going through some stressful times right now and this book was just what I needed to give me some much-needed perspective. Thank you Louis Zamperini. Your life continues to be an inspiration.
2 I am one of those people that will pick up a book I am not interested in only because of great reviews. I should know by now that I do not have the same taste as the majority of book readers. I really try to keep an open mind every time I start a new story.I am also one of those people that will not keep reading a book just because I started it. I will stop reading at any point. Never to return if I am bored no matter how far I am into a story.I did like the beginning. Louis Zamparini's story was very interesting but then I had to read a history of war airplanes. BORING!I hope I can go back to this story someday but right now I have too many other books in my wishlist.
4 This story is a great tribute to the Allied WWII Vets.  While the story is about Louis it also tells the stories of others.  Everything is well documented, sometimes repeating facts, and can get very depressing with the statistics. If you really get into your books be prepared for some rough nights.  I wouldn't recommend it to young readers but if you want a good historical book I definitely would recommend it.
5 I first read the excerpt in Vanity Fair, and was not disappointed by the complete book.  Not only is Ernie's story inspiring as to his survival in the face of extreme adversity, but his life after returning from the war is equally if not more amazing.  This is a man I am glad to know.
5 Bought as a gift, but I also got to read it.  Quite fascinating, the history of the main character and what he survived.
5 Book was recomended by a friend order it for my husband he read it like the store and would recomnd it to others
5 Wonderfully well written.  This story of how a soldier came to be a POW, and his experiences during and after his capture, is a riveting story - even more so since it is a documented real case.  Can't wait for the movie.
5 What a life and what a book!  This story is just unbelievable but when you think of it as a story you remember it's real.  You will follow Louie's life in incredible detail with appropriate citings and acknowledgments.  I am so happy I read this book but so sad I'm finished.  I could read even more chapters of Louie's amazing life and accomplishments.  He and his fellow soldiers deserve every accolade and award presented to them for all they have endured.After reading this, you will never complain about what's for dinner or paying your taxes again.  Louie's struggles and perseverance gripped me and his forgiveness overwhelmed me.  A son, brother, athlete, soldier, prisoner, husband, father, inspirational speaker and man turned to Christ who helped young lost boys find their way.  Louie is an inspiration to all!Thank you
5 Having never heard of Louis Zamperini and knowing little or nothing about World War II's Pacific Theater, I opened this book at the suggestion of a friend. What a ride! Unlike the reviewer who read it in two days it took me a couple of weeks to finish because 3/4 of the text was so disturbing that I could not sleep at night.Even though this book graphically describes "man's inhumanity to man" in a way I've never even imagined, I am more than glad I was stuck on that raft for 40-some days with Louie and his fellow fly boys, that I saw his beautiful visions. Glad even to have suffered torture, hunger, despair, filth, hatred and fear with Louie and the other prisoners of war. Glad I was there for his homecoming, that I met his beautiful wife and incredible mother. Glad, at last, when he was free from war and PTSD and I was overjoyed to the point of tears at the redemptive ending.
5 OMG, I loved this book. Not one to read military books very often, this grabbed my attention from the start. Louie's story is overwhelming.Everything all those men went through is unimaginable. I am a veteran, but when I think of WWII, I inevitably think of Europe. Pacific warriors went through the same, and more painful circumstances, than European POW's.I never really had any idea of what the Japanese military had done to POW's. This story brought it to my attention, and I will always remember WWII in a different way.
5 A great hit for anyone who enjoys military stories, but also for those who love any great story of human struggle. Hard ot believe this is a true story - what an American hero.
5 This book was so intense that I had a hard time reading some of it, especially during his time in the prisoner of war camps.  It kept me riveted through out the entire book.  I don't know how anyone could survive!  It's a book that after you read it, you never forget it.  God bless our solidiers.
5 I know many people underwent hardships during WWII, but this one both broke my heart and gave me a will to persevere in my own life.
5 this was a fabulous book and even more enjoyable because of its biographical genre.  Really enjoyed reading this.  worth it.
4 Made the 10 hour flight to hawaii fast! Can't imagine all these guys went through...makes me glad i only have the minor probs i have..
4 An excellent story of men who survived unspeakable horrors in POW camps. For me the most exciting part was the the section on the piolets and crews as they flew in the B24s. I remember looking at my Father's graduation book from flight training, all of those young kids, most who would never return: mere boys.It always strikes me that mere fate and fortitude determines who survives any war.Only one of my Father's crew died on the Tropical Trollop" with the 392nd, that they survived their 30 missions, 3 patrols and 1 sortie and numerous training flights as training officers, and the search and rescue flights they flew seemed miraculous.  To have survived that and years as  Japanese prisoners of war is almost beyond comprehension.  The odds of any airmen coming home were not on any crew's side.Well told and hard to set aside.
5 If you like stories of how the human body, mind, and heart can recover the most horrific tortures imaginable, then read this book.  I thought that it was a story of how we can overcome anything.I must tell you though, that a couple of members of the book club did not like the book because they couldn't get past the torture aspect of it.If you can see past that, and learn the lesson of the book, which is humans can take what happens to them and use it for GOOD, then this is the book for you.My book club gave it mixed reviews.  I think it's one of the best books I've ever read.
5 I am not a history buff, and certainly not world war history, but this book had me from the beginning.
2 This was a read for my book club and I didn't  finish it yet. I think everyone should read it.
5 Unbroken was an excellant book.  It put the history into story and I could not put the book down. Well written and such an amazing story/history.
5 This is an astounding story of shear fortitude and incredible cruelty.  I have much better understanding of the Pacific War.  I feel sorry for all of GI's who came home from that front.  It was before post traumatic disorder was well understood.  It is amazing any of the men survived the Japanese War Camps.  I think those  Americans who do not realize why we used the Atomic Bomb to end the war should read this harrowing story.  Maybe they would have a change of heart on that subject.I would recommend this book to anyone who was not around at the time of that war and even to those who were.  I was just 6 when it ended.  So my recollections are spotty a best and that is why I bought the book in the first place.  Katie McLeod
5 My favorite book this year. It is a story of the ability of mankind to surmount incredible difficulties and it inspires readers to emmulate this resourchefulness.
5 It was tough living this story because of the innumerable near death experiences of the main character. He is truly a hero.
5 I enjoy reading true stories. What is amazing to me is how some people like to read with suspense and here is a true story better than anyone could imagine. Plus the history of World war 2, and all the planes and what they had to endure, wow, poor soldiers.  However the soldiers still were willing to give their lives for our country. I hope all will take the time to read this, well worth your time.
5 I couldn't put this book down.  I felt like I was living each hour with Louis Zamperini as he struggled to survive his war ordeal and recapture his life.  I saw him on TV as he celebrated his 96th birthday recently and he continues to inspire and teach forgiveness. He is a fine American and hero.
5 I had never heard of Louis Zamperini, not having been born until 1944, but his story made him personal to me.Laura Hillenbrand was as candid and yet heart felt about Louie's experience during that horrible time. This left an impression on me that I will never forgot. I can transfer understanding of his PTSD to those that are suffering now, from other wars. Thank God for Billy Graham. Laura Hillenbrand could not have done better, she gets 10 stars.
5 It would be wonderful if this book was required reading for high school and college students. It reveals the character and strength of a true American.A wonderful and inspiring account of an average man thrown into a world of adversity. A MUST READ!!
5 A well-written account of how the war and experience as a POW changed an independent man into a man who was searching for self. This is a powerful story,one that portrays the horrible acts humans inflict on each other. Highly recommended.
5 If you can make it through the logistics of aeronautics-hang on to an incredibly powerful story of personal courage, fortitude and endurance of both the body and soul of humanity. It is both humbling and inspiring. I am, yet again, in awe of the sacrifices of the few. Cruelty,generosity and ingenuity are wonderfully articulated in these pages. It makes me glad that I have stood on a nearly empty Memorial Day parade and sad that so few of us do. Applause to the author!
5 Amazing story - hard to believe that it really happened.  Book is a real page-turner.  Author did a marvelous job of relating this story so that we felt we were getting burned by the sun while waiting to be rescued and getting exhausted while swimming to shore. Great human interest story.
5 A gripping narrative about one man's journey through World War II and beyond, this volume will not allow you to put it down until you have read the last word.
5 This book is undoubtedly one of the best I have ever read.  It is an incredible account of an incredibly strong man during incredibly unbelievable circumstances.  EVERY American should read this - both for the history as well as the courage portrayed amongst the pages.  I had heard so much about this book and finally decided to pick it up - a truly monumental work.  I cannot say enough about it!  Loved it!
5 This is an amzing story of the life of a WW2 survivor who beats all odds & still keeps his head togther in the worst of situations. I have never read a book about any type of WW2 & absolutely LOVE this story that is being made into a movie as I type. The author can really tell a good story!!! I reccomend it whole heartedly!!
5 This is an excellent book.  It is very thought provoking and I enjoyed that.  Thank you for writing this book.
5 Such an amazing test of human will.  Completely captivating, kudos to all our service people serving all over the world so we may be safe!
4 This is an incredible story of survival during WWII. The story is unforgettable, well written and thoroughly researched. This is a story that both men and women would enjoy.
5 I wasn't sure how to rate this because of the subject and it's hard to say you love it. The author did an amazing job telling this story, which needed to be told. It is always hard to read about war and all that happens during them. This story followed a man through his life and all the people who were part of that life. So many people, such a heart wrenching story. This is a story that everyone should know to have a better appreciation for the men and women who fight to defend our country.
5 This is a book everyone should read. You will never be the same. It is not an easy book to read. You will laugh and cry and find it hard to believe that it really is a true story. After learning what the main character lived through, you will never again complain about a cold, an illness, a broken arm or leg. The book will tell you things that happened during WWII that you never knew and the author is outstanding in the way she tells this story. The movie will never be able to tell the whole story.
5 I really liked reading this book even though the subject was so sad because it was real. It shows how powerful the will to survive is.
5 I was sucked into this story from the very beginning.  I fell in love with Louie from the start and my heart went up and down as I followed him through his life's story.  As I was on a Cruise and surrounded by water, I could totally relate to the opening of this book.  Bravo, Louie, you are a stronger man then I could ever be. For people who like the World War II era, this is a must read.
5 This book is such an excellent read!  The truth and history are so wonderful.  My dad served in World War II but never talked about it much.  He was a gunner in the B-29's.  This book gave me such an insight to what he might have gone through.  Dad has been gone many years now and i still miss him terribly.  This book just helped me appreciate his service a iittle bit more.  Thank you!
5 Seriously amazing story.  I had to remind myself frequently that this was a true story.  The things Louis had to endure as a POW are tragically hard to believe. And to find forgiveness after all that is totally a God thing.  I am so grateful that Louis' story was told as this really is "The Greatest Generation".  I saw today that Angelina Jolie is directing this as a movie slated to hit theaters in December 2014.  I hope that Hollywood doesn't screw it up..
5 Not many books lately leave you with the feel of time and money well spent.This is one of them.
5 WOW.  I like to think of myself as a reasonably well-informed person.  I know about WW2, the 1936 Olympics and Jesse Owens, California history, (i'm from there after all!).  This book brought to light elements of all three of which I learned that I knew nothing.  The writing was thoughful, provocative, clear and compelling.  She resisted to urge to preach and draw conclusions.  Instead, she let the facts and stories speak for themselves.  What a powerful piece of writing.
5 An amazing biography.  The book was well written and was a page turner. The cruelty was horrendous and yet the kindness of even the enemy was inspiring.
5 This is a magnificent story of determination and fortitude to survive against all odds. As I read the book I couldn't help but wonder why Louie Zamperini's life took so long to be brought into full light. Louie is heroic. His parents, brother and sister and others who grew to love him are equally admirable. He was not a perfect man nor was there any pretense of perfection, but he is a remarkable person with a story that begs to be on film. History is replete with people who demonstrated extraordinary will and sadly their stories remain within their families and the families of witnesses. This is one story that the world can witness through words.Hillenbrand brought Louie's life to light and in her inimitable writing style takes you on a lifeboat drifting in dangerous waters, in the jungle to the inhumane POW camps. If you loved her book, Seabiscuit, then you how she pulls a reader in. May she keep writing about the lives of those who impacted many but that time almost forgot.
5 This book...wow.  Very well written and just an incredible story.  I am so happy I read this book.  Talk about an amazing man.
5 Every American should be required to read this book in order to understand the reality of WWII and in order to understand the need to protect this nation.
5 Unbroken is one of the most profound, disturbing, and touching books I have read. A testimony to endurance and Christianity.
5 There are many detailed reviews on this book, however when I personally scan reviews I need to know a few things, so here's what "I would want to know."Will You Regret Spending Time with This Book? No. You will ache when you read it, but will want to read it again anyways. It's worth every cent. The history in this book is brilliant with description making it fun to read, while learning some invaluable information in the process. The only regret you will have is having your eyes opened to the horrific trials that Zamperini (along with many others) endured.Will it Take Forever to Read? It's not an "easy read", you can't scan this book if you tried. The details are so lush, that every other sentence is written so romantically you can't pull yourself from one word of it. You sink into the descriptive nature of the book so much that after each chapter I had to sit on it for a while until I was ready for the next chapter. It's hard to "digest" if you will. WWII Fans will enjoy it. I guarantee there is some fact written in this book that you are unaware of, you will definitely learn something new. READ IT!!!Is it TOO Much? That's for each person to decide, but it's a true story, which to me trumps any personal feelings and goes straight to educational. After I read the book, I youtube'd, Google'd, and wiki'ed the heck out of every element of the story. It's intense... but valuable.READ IT!!!
5 Harrowing, incredible, beyond bravery, truly one of the best books I have read.  When I finished the book I put it down and breathed a sigh of sadness and joy.  How men could be so incredibly cruel There is no way to describe this book other than to have lived to tell about it.  He did and, through a master storyteller, lived to tell his documented story.
5 If you want a near unbelievable story that is an amazing adventure of someone overcoming so many obstacles, read this book. It is probably the best book I've ever read.
5 This was a great read and I learned so much about the war.  I rarely read these types of books, but I found that I couldn't put it down.  When I finished this book I downloaded to my iPhone Seabiscuit.  Loved that one too! The author gives you just enough details that keeps you in engaged in the book. It is a must read.
4 I was pleasantly surprised by this book. I don't read a lot of non-fiction but this story was very interesting and well written.
5 I am completely confounded as to why it took so long for this story to evolve.  I had never heard of Mr. Zamperini but wish I heard of him way before than I did.  This has to be one the greatest books that I have ever read, I rank it in my top 5 of books that I have read all time.....if you haven't read this, you are seriously missing out on a wonderful book.  We need more Louie Zamperinis in this world.....Mr. Zamperini,you truly are a HERO!
5 Fantastic book, makes me appreciate all that I have and the freedom we take forgranted, earned by the suffering of those who came before us to make this country what it is. Bought this copy as a gift for an Army veteran friend and he enjoyed it as well. I've been recommending this book to both men and women readers of all ages (adult). A case of truth being &#34;better&#34; than fiction, and in this case a very well written account of it.
5 I finished the book Unbroken - A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience and Redemption today with tears streaming down my face.Unbroken by Laura Hillenbrand is a gut wrenching biography / memoir of Louis Zamperini, a former Olympian who was drafted during World War II. After a series of "lucky to still be alive" events, Louis finds himself captured as a POW in Japan. Suffering unmentionable torture and abuse, Louis' story brings light to the treatment of POW's in Japan in a way I have never comprehended.This is a heavy, heart wrenching book... it was difficult to get through yet extremely hard to put down.Unbroken is more than a war story... it is a book about persevering, faith, and forgiveness.I will live my life differently, with a much deeper respect for the Veterans of the past and the present, thanks to this book. I highly recommend this book to all of you.
5 Unbreakable is a remarkable saga of survival and perseverance in the face brutal circumstances and human cruelty. The drama is unrelenting as Louie Lamperine survives a plane crash, floating for 47 days on the pacific ocean in a rubber raft, hounded by sharks only to be rescued by an enemie even more cruel. but this is also a story of friendship and faith set in the matrix of real life. The book, like life, interweaves stories of friends, family and enemies and opens a window into a time gone by.  And like life one experiences glimpses of divine grace and guiding providence that beckons and invites us into the larger story of Divine redemption.
3 I enjoyed reading this book, but felt flat at the end when I should have felt inspired.  The author is an excellent, very clear writer, but overall, this book felt like 1950's propaganda.  As some other reviewers have noted, her portrayal of the main character was over the top.  Louie obviously went through some unimaginably terrible things, and the world owes his entire generation a debt of gratitude, but the exaggerated tone of the whole book left me questioning what was real and what wasn't.  Even when the author admitted to his character flaws (in his youth and after the war), it was in the tone of a mother who makes a million excuses for her son.  I found myself more interested in the other Allied soldiers because they seemed more credible.  With the plethora of WWII stories out there, I'd recommend something less sensationalized.On a more technical note, I read this on my Kindle, and the asterisked footnotes were annoying because you couldn't jump to them; they only appear at the end of the chapter and by that point, you've forgotten the context.
5 Enjoyed this one.  WOW the things that happen to people and they make it out on the other side!  I strongly recommend
5 Loved it.  Couldn't put it down.  Don't want to talk about any of the details and give anything away.  Read this book
5 I personally did not read this book but we went to dinner with about 50-60 people and all of them raved about the book. So I ordered it for my wife. She loved it and we then ordered a copy for her brother. He is in Wisconsin in the winter, so he should have lots of time to read it.
4 This was a very good read. Hillenbrand writes in such a way that allows the story to unfold like suspenseful fiction, which is a true testament to her abilities as a non-fiction writer. Only a few dry spots jeopardized the 5-star rating. Would highly recommend to all, though.
5 I read this book and kept turning pages and kept thinking, COME ON, really? This is an amazing story of survival and heart and bad ass-ness. I can't believe this story almost wasn't told. I loved it. I gave it to my FIL this year for the holiday. Great read. I'm jealous of you. I'd love to read it again.
5 Call in sick to work.  Put on a movie for the kids.  Cancel your plans for dinner.  You must read this book.  Now.Had he not been lost at sea and then captured by the Japanese, Louis Zamperini's life would still make for an interesting story.  He was a wildly mischievous child.  As a two-year-old he not only climbed out of his bedroom window and ran down the block naked, but as his family was leaving New York's Grand Central Station he escaped from his parents and jumped off the train.  Once the family managed to get him to Torrance, California, he soon began terrorizing his new neighbors by deflating tires, stealing food and ringing church bells in the middle of the night.  Immune to all punishments and consequences, he entered his teen years and his foolish pranks gave way to a temper that began to flare dangerously out of control.Running saved him.First long distance running, then track and field provided a place where Louie could pour all of his energy and frustrations and instead of breaking and entering, Louie began breaking records.  Coached by his brother, he soon dominated the local running competition and eventually went on to compete in the Olympics.  Louie's running career was interrupted by World War II, and in 1941 he joined the Army Air Corps.As the reader follows Louie into the war, you learn not only about his personal fears and challenges, but also about the war fought in the Pacific, the daily life of army airmen and the airplanes and technology of the time.On Thursday, May 27, 1943, Louie's plane crashes into the Pacific.  From there begins a story of survival that defies belief.  Lost at sea, battling starvation and sharks, Louie survives.  In the hands of the enemy, enduring beatings, humiliation and sickness, Louie survives.  Back home, with the war still alive in his mind, he slides into alcoholism, and survives.Unbroken is a story of endurance, determination, and ultimately (and most powerfully), the freedom that comes with forgiveness.
5 Tough to read in that its hard to believe anyone could survive such awful dealings. I was inspired and in awe of the story this book details. It goes to show you how resilient we can be.
5 Louis Zamperini?  Who is he?  Laura Hillenbrand's near 500-page reply will answer the question not only once, but for all.  He is the California boy who was a kleptomaniac.  He is the running prodigy who competed at Hitler's Berlin Olympics, shook hands with the Fuhrer, and was almost shot by Nazi guards for stealing a Nazi souvenir.  He is the American serviceman who entered the Pacific theater, crashed into the sea, and spent a harrowing forty-odd days floating on a disintegrating raft circled by aggressive sharks, scorched by a relentless sun, and gnawed to the bone by an inescapable hunger.Who is Louis Zamperini?  He is a man who overcame all THAT only to be "rescued" by the wrong side -- the Japanese.  He is the man who went from being a prisoner of starvation and sharks that actually leaped up and tried to snatch him out of the foundering raft to being a prisoner of Japanese guards who were every bit as predatory as the great white of the seas.  He is the man who was beaten every day by a particular Japanese corporal named Mutsuhiro Watanabe, a.k.a. "the Bird."  He is, in short, the Unbroken One -- the man who kept getting up, coming back, rebounding, and holding on to the tenuous thread that connected him with life and hope, past any duration that any of us could possibly imagine.  And, as YOU can imagine, his story is compelling.  In fact, in the capable hands of Laura Hillenbrand, author of SEABISCUIT, it reads like a thriller, a page-turner, a fictional product of a keenly talented mind -- proving once again that truth can trump fiction when it comes to stories and mankind's love of hearing them.When you reach the end of this man's incredible journey, you will be awed by the scope of Hillenbrand's writing.  It is clear that she did a vast amount of research -- reading letters, telegrams, newspaper clippings, radio transcripts, etc., AND interviewing not only Zamperini himself, but his family members, friends, surviving fellow servicemen, and even Japanese captors.  Woven in her biography are many statistics and facts from the history of World War II as well.  You will learn about the science of survival -- why certain men live and certain men die -- and about the strengths and weaknesses of America's planes that carried servicemen over the vast distances of the Pacific Ocean.  You will learn about the war strategy, the Japanese culture and its effects on treatment of POWs as well as on conducting (and refusing to surrender in) a war to the bitter end.  And, sadly, you will learn about the aftermath of war in Japan.It's all here, bigger than life, packed into the small frame of one man from Torrance, California -- a man that could, and did, live to tell about a page in history we hope never to repeat.  Both a personal tale of redemption and resilience, UNBROKEN is destined to become a classic in the category of narrative nonfiction.  Ordinarily I'm a fiction guy, but I was spellbound from the start.  Honest.  Give it a try.  It's big, but reads small.  I think, when you reach the end, you, too, will sing its (and Louie's) praises (at 93, Zamperini is still alive and still "Unbroken"!).
5 I bought & read this amazing book based on Amazon reader reviews.  They were right.  It hooked me from the very beginning.I'm a big Grisham, Baldacci fan--needed a break to something &#34;newsworthy.&#34;  Best book I've read in a very long time.  The movieis in the process of being made.Kendall Malloy
5 An extremely well-written and well-documented World War II story about a real hero.  This book was recommended to me on Christmas Eve and so glad I read it.
5 The spirit of America constantly survives the powerfully gripping onslaught of a vicious, twisted, ancient Samari culture, so different from our own. The story is of survival, not only physical but psychological and emotional survival as well. This is an important book.
5 This is a phenomenal book.  The story is powerful and potent, the writing is masterful, and the lessons learned are deep.  I am not someone who seeks out books about war but this book is so much more than that.  Yes, it tells that side of history, but it is the humanity that is so profoundly moving.  Read it!
5 Don't miss this amazing read. I felt like I was right there, living in WWII, trying to survive.  Why this man's story isn't part of US history taught in high school is sad.
5 I can't remember the last book that had me stay up all night to finish it. Haunting, horrifying, redemptive. This book is a must read to get you thinking about the depths and heights of humanity.
5 This (basically) 400 page book was full of interesting facts about World War 11, was written in an way that kept me interested from beginning to end. I am not an aircraft nut, but I did gain many insights about the aircraft that kept me intrigued and made me want to learn more.  I also had never known so much about how differently different societies view our culture and way of thinking.
3 This is a nice story. It just moves a little slow for me. I would have liked for it to give less &#34;backstory&#34; and move more quickly into the theme of the book.
5 A inspirational, beautiful story of the life of Louis Zamperini. The tortures described in the later part of this book when Louis was a prisoner of war were hard to read and I wished that part of the book was shorter. Overall though the book is an amazing story. I highly recommend this book!
5 I have read many novel of the seconf world war however this book was like no other.A definate must for those of you that enjoy histroy and what it really was like!
5 What an incredible true story.This undeniably insightful narrative forced me to examine myself and think deeply about the true limits of both human will and the capacity to forgive the unthinkable.My Grandfathers served in the South Pacific and his brother was a fighter pilot.  This provided a wonderful mix of historical edification coupled with colorful and illuminating context.Survival, compassion, and ultimately the beauty that can only come from true reconciliation.Thank you to the author for sharing this unbelievably pure story with the world.- Kevin Rustagi.
5 What a story and what a man, anybody could enjoy this extraordinary story.Laura Hillenbrand has done an excellent job of portraying such an amazing story.I really cannot rate this story high enough, 5 stars does not even do it justice.
5 One of the more amazing stories I've read in a long time. Very amazed by the strength of these guys. Even more amazed by what they accomplished later in life. Fantastic read.
5 I loved it.  You can't make up a story like this.  Long live non fiction.  Be sure to read this book.
4 Laura H is a master storyeteller, keeping you turning the pages. She has a warm style and is a great researcher. For all these reasons this is a compelling read. But it doesn't really plumb the depths of Louie's psychology--and perhaps that wasn't a real option. Still well recommended. IF you don't know, also ck out:Seabiscuit
5 I really enjoyed this story about a soldier's journer during WWII. I learned a lot, and was certainly inspired by the stories of the soldiers and POWs. This is a heavier read, but well worth it. Moves along quickly as the story is well told and captivating. Would recommend to anyone.
5 Don't get me wrong, it's an amazing story about a group of amazing survivors, all members of the "Greatest Generation".  It offers a lot of insight into just how much human beings can endure to survive. All in all a stunning book.The reason I say I almost wish I'd never read it is because I find it very hard to accept the fact that some of the men responsible for such attrocities as were visited upon allied pow's were allowed to get away with it because our government had an agenda. It left me feeling bitter and betrayed and embarrassed to be an American. It colored the entire rest of the book for me.I am by no means a babe in the woods, I'm in my 50's and I'm well aware of the injustices that occur in this world but still, to read page after page of the torture these men had to endure only to learn that many of the men, and especially the worst of them all, the "Bird" got off scott free because we needed Japan as an ally is just disgusting. One Japanese officer beheaded an allied pow and was still given his freedom! And please don't comment that all sides commit attrocities in war, this went way beyond anything we did in the war, it was a systematic torture of prisoners that was official policy, something civilized nations don't do. To know that you need only research the way in which we and our allies treated pow's.For Louie and his comrades to serve their country the way they did, only to have that country let many of their torturers off scott free is the worst kind of betrayal. I'm sure that isn't the country they thought they were fighting for. And I know from reading the book that Louie forgave his tormenters including The Bird but I can't, the fact that The Bird was still alive and able to dismiss meeting Louie again out of hand just ruined the experience of reading this book. Louie may well have been able to turn the other cheek but the "civilized" world shouldn't have.And while I'm well aware of what happens in the real world I'm also well aware that when those who commit such acts suffer little or no consequences it almost insures that they will continue to happen again and again and again;"All that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing"
5 This is usual not the type of book I would read. I kept seeing that it had been on the bestsellers list forever so I bought it!! This book is not only great it also inspires you to be a better person!! This author is so talented and I would recommend this book to  anyone!!
5 This is still one of my favorite books ever.  So awful, but so amazing.  Laura Hillenbrand is an excellent researcher and story teller.  Reads like ficton.
5 Hat's off to Laura for another great story... I found myself constantly wondering how I would deal with the trials and tribulations that Louis dealt with.. WOW.. I do believe I would have given up..Loved the story and love that some people can rise above adversity only to achieve peace of mind and a "good" life... Love the book!!!
5 I had read The Rape of Nanking years early and it never left me.  Now this very personal account of a war hero before, during and after the war - I am very moved and have a far greater appreciation of all that our veterans have done for us. The story was told in such an engaging way that It was almost impossilbe to put down.  Louis Zamperini - You are a champion.
4 Incredible story of a determined and strong American soldier, Louis Zamperini, during WW2 who overcomes the most insurmountable and horrific treatment as, first, he survives a plane crash on the open water for over a month, and then, spends 2 years as a Japanese prisoner of war, under a brutal and sadistic camp leader.Unless you've been living under a rock for the last couple of years, you know about this incredibly popular book, and the man it is about. This kind of story should be required reading for all American high school students: not just because it about the Greatest generation and one of its biggest heroes, but because Zamperini is NOT perfect. He is a flawed human being, with many emotions and hopes and dreams like any other person on this planet, and even after his odyssey in the Pacific, he still struggles. Very human. I had to stop reading this several times, due to the highly charged subject matter!My only criticism of this book is that often, Hillenbrand's technique for trying to end chapters on a cliff hanger where there is none can be a little trying at times. No need to manufacture suspense here, truly. The story is so amazing, there is no way anyone can be bored by it.
5 This is what brilliant non-fiction narrative looks like. Stunning subject, stunning writing, a must read for lovers of history and the human condition.
5 Wonderful book by a truly gifted author. The book tells a story that is filled with hope and despair, joy and sorrow, maltreatment and forgiveness.LikeAmerican Nightingale: The Story of Frances Slanger, Forgotten Heroine of NormandyandSalt In Our Blood: The Memoir of a Fisherman's Wife, this is a difficult read - and not just because of the subject matter. The story is so well written, and the historical figures are so well developed, I felt as though I'd known them all my life; and deep inside I wished with all my heart that each of them would survive and live healthy, happy lives. I knew this wouldn't happen, but still my heart hoped. So with the loss of each person, my heart hurt and I would cry. Still I read on - I had to for the future of others was still waiting for me.My stomach would churn as I read about the POW camps and the treatment of these heroes. I find it strange that the world has long focused on the horrors of the Nazi POW camps and Jewish concentration camps of WWII, yet little is said about the horrors of the Japanese POW camps of WWII. Having heard Kay Friederichsen speak at a woman's retreat, I'd already heard about the treatment of some people in Japanese camps; but never did I dream it was worse than what Kay had shared. I hurt as I read the story of Louie in the camps. I hurt as I read the story of Louie once he returned home and he let his life fall apart. While I can see the reasons for his emotional pain, there were times when I wanted to find him and shake him.Then I read about Louie's salvation. As I got to the paragraph where Billy Graham extends a personal invitation to Louie I remembered all those nights that my family sat and listened to Billy Graham (TV and radio). How often I heard him say something so similar. I remembered my dad telling about the night he went forward. I remembered the teen crusade I attended and how my heart longed for the peace of Christ. As I read the words, " `This is it,' said Graham. `God has spoken to you. You come on.' ", my heart rejoiced. The horrors shared in the book washed away. The sadness and despair lifted from my shoulders and I rejoiced. Louie had finally found the joy and love he had so long sought.What a testimony his life is. Would I find it in my heart to forgive as he has? I'm not sure I would. I've faced far less in my life and have had a hard time letting go of the bitterness.How often in life we fail to see that God is polishing us, and preparing us for what is ahead. For surely He knows our future and what we will face. He knows how we will fail, yet He loves us still and stands with us -- holding us up when we don't even realize it. Just as He loved Louie and held him up.Such a wonderful book. One that has renewed the joy within my heart.
5 I can't think of a better recommendation for this book than to say a cousin loaned it to our family, and all of us - my father, my husband, me, my 19-year-old son, and my 16-year-old daughter - devoured it and discussed it many times.I loved the arc of the story.  Hillenbrand opens with Louis Zamperini's childhood, and I loved seeing how a rebellious, thieving, wild child developed into a young man who discovered the stamina and discipline to compete in the Olympics, and later found in himself the inner strength and optimism to survive unbelievable ordeals, first at sea, then in the Japanese POW camps.Your mouth will be wide open in disbelief at several points - you will find yourself attempting to describe these sections to friends and relatives, and ultimately just begging them to read the book so you can marvel at it together.  The time at sea is particularly harrowing, and while I don't want to ruin the reading experience by giving away details, I think I can say that the behavior of the sharks has left me afraid to scuba dive.The section that deals with the POW camps in Japan left me with such rage and despair; I almost cannot comprehend how the survivors emerged and managed to return to any kind of normal life.You will be so swept away by Louis Zamperini's true-life saga, and you will feel better for knowing him through these pages. If you can convince your high school teenagers to read it, you may suddenly find yourself with children who appreciate their history classes.  Unbroken is a gift in so many ways:  history lesson, true adventure story, glimpses of the best and worst of man, and ultimately, a testament to resilience that you will never forget.  It is a true story, and it will be one of the best books you will ever read.
5 writes a book that brings history together in such a way, that it reads like fiction!  This book captivates and appalls all at once.  A true story worth reading.  A story of being human.
5 Wonderful detail. Make the reader feel as if they were actually in WWII with Louis. Incredible story. Hard to put down.
3 After reading this book, I have to say that I am filled with admiration for all the POW's who had to endure such misery.  The story of the torture and deprivation has haunted me long after I finished the book.  When cleaning crumbs off the dinner table, I feel grateful that I don't need to eat them, and a twinge of shame at the waste while others somewhere are starving even today.This book is well-written, although the story did drag at the beginning.  I am glad I read it.  What ruined it for me, though, is the idea that true mental illness can be instantaneously cured by sprinkling a little baby jesus dust around.  It really doesn't work that way, and anyone who thinks it does needs to take a walk through any mental institution or homeless shelter.  I promise there are christians there, and their faith didn't miraculously fix them, no matter how desperately they wanted it to.  Louis Zamperini found hope and strength inside himself, where they had been all along, which is why he was able to survive in the first place.I am a RN, I have cared for many veterans, many plagued with the same issues as Mr. Zamperini.  I have seen it up close, and we should be very, very careful before we put our men and women in such situations.  For many, even those who believe in jesus and Billy Graham, the nightmares and panic attacks never, ever leave, even 60 or 70 years later.  This aspect of the story was an insult to those who don't experience the miraculous cure, and are forever tortured.
5 I heard the man this book is written about speak on a Success magazine cd.  He has one of the most amazing life stories that I have ever heard!  From being in the Olympics to floating for days on the ocean being surrounded by sharks, this is a man who exemplifies what it means to be unbroken by life.  Great story, great book!
2 I had to force myself to finish this book...I really do not understand how this author has become so acclaimed...I think she is a horrible author.  The book had no rythm, no cadence.  It was written like a history textbook and not a novel, in my mind.  Though, truthfully, I have had more interesting textbook reads.
5 This is an amazing book. It was hard to read at times. I would gasp, feel sick to my stomach, and sometimes sob at what these and others of our servicemen went through in the POW camps of WW II, and later wars. I am going to see this move when it comes out, but am nervous about watching what I read come to life on screen. Heartbreaking. These people were truly Our Greatest Generation.
5 Just when you thought you heard every single story about World War 2, here's another one you have to read.  HIllenbrand is one of our great non fiction writers and here's another. Def. worth a the read.
5 I just finished this book, reading over half of it just today. It is one of the best stories I've read in a long time. How men can survive in such humiliating, filthy, and cruel conditions is beyond imagination; yet, through it all, Louis Zamperini did survive, and eventually used his experiences to help others. This true story is absolutely worth reading!
5 I like to read intelligent books but don't always want to read nonfiction for fun; however, this is the best of both worlds.  I learned so much about the war and the time period without getting bored because of the focus on Louis Zamperini.  What a great story of courage, resilience and forgiveness.
5 I was drawn into the life story of someone I never knew existed.  Zamperini's story revealed a facet of WWII history I had never heard.
5 please read this book. it is amazing. you will learn so much.  you will not be disappointed. get it now
5 Very difficult to read in some chapters for all the suffering and depravity depicted but there is healing and forgiveness and triumph over such adversity. I found it interesting to learn about the appalling condition of the US military airplanes and all the deaths caused by emerging technology at the time by unsound aircraft and untested planes. These planes were barely functional. Well-paced, and researched. Would perhaps not re-read again but worthy of reading at least once.
4 While I don't feel this book is as great as Hillenbrand's "Seabiscuit", I still enjoyed it immensely. It's hard to believe a human being could endure what this man endured. Truly puts things in your own life into perspective. It also opened my eyes to the war crimes perpetrated by the Japanese during WW2. I had always assumed the Nazi's were more cruel to their POW's, but only 1% of American soldiers in their care were killed, compared to the more than 30% of American's killed by their Japanese captors! A truly staggering number. How this man managed to survive this harrowing experience is nothing short of a miracle.
5 This is an excellent book.  I know this because my husband spends most of his time reading. He is disable.  He enjoys telling me all about the books he reads and I enjoy listening.  He gave this a five plus.
4 It's hard to look at WW II any different than I have most of my adult life. From the bombing of Pearl Harbor to the dropping of the bomb on Hiroshima, I still whole-heartedly defend the position of this country and after reading about the treatment of our soldiers I will never change my mind. Louis Zamperini was an Olympic hero, a champion athlete who ran in the Berlin Olympics. The young Italian-American from Torrance, Calif., was expected to be the first to run a four-minute mile. After an astonishing but losing race at the 1936 Olympics, Louie was hoping for gold in the 1940 games. But war ended those dreams forever. When his plane crashed into the Pacific, he and his pilot survive a grueling 47 days adrift at sea only to be captured by the Japanese. The story of Louis' life and survival is amazing.
5 Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience and Redemption by Laura Hillenbrand is an amazing read. This is a true story of a WWII bombardier Louis Zamperini and his incredible journey from star athlete to suffering prisoner of war and finally to man at peace with his life. It is a truly inspiring tale of war and forgiveness. This book focuses on the Japanese and the War in the Pacific. I am more familiar with the German forces and the War in Europe. Louis's journey really was an eye-opener for me. I never really comprehended how terrible the Pacific really was.Louis was a bombardier on a B-24 bomber. He was part of a crew that flew several bombing missions targeting strategic Japanese-held islands. After one such flight, his plane crashed in the middle of the Pacific Ocean.  Louis and the pilot, Phil, were the only survivors. They were able to survive on a raft for 47 days.  They fought dehydration, starvation and sharks. That journey of survival would be an entire book in of itself. However, the raft was only the beginning. They managed to reach land in the Marshall Islands which was occupied by the Japanese and from there their horrific journey really began.Louis's treatment in the hands of the Japanese was appalling. Unlike the Germans, the Japanese did not adhere to the Geneva Convention's treatment of prisoners of war. The prisoners were severely tortured by the Japanese guards. Ms. Hillenbrand was able to capture the horrific treatment of the Allied POWs. At times, I just wanted to close my eyes and deny that anyone could be treated that way. As I was reading, I kept comparing the POWs to the Jews in Europe. The POWs were routinely tortured, beaten, and executed at any given time. The Japanese even experimented on the POWs. As you read, you are shocked at their treatment.Ms. Hillenbrand description of the Louis's torment was heart-wrenching. With every blow he received, you felt a little of his spirit fading away. I find it really incredible that she was able to get Louis and the other men to open up to her and share their horrific stories.The most compelling aspect of this book is the forgiveness that Louis is able to achieve. The author painted a picture of Louis as a tortured, broken and angry man when he returned from the War. It is truly amazing that Louis was able to feel any kind of forgiveness towards his tormentors. Ms. Hillenbrand vividly described Louis's journey from total anger to total forgiveness. It is hard to fathom that kind of forgiveness.After I finished reading Unbroken, I watched a 60 Minutes piece on Louis Zamperini and Unbroken. Both Louis and Laura Hillenbrand were interviewed. First, Louis is still with us at 95 years old and he still has that unbroken spirit. Second, it took seven years to write Unbroken. In all that time, Louis and Laura never met.  All of the interviews were conducted by phone. It is really remarkable that Ms. Hillenbrand was able to capture that confidence with Louis. If you enjoy historical nonfiction, I highly recommend this book.
5 Laura Hillenbrand has done it again! The award winning author of Seabiscuit has written a portrait of inspiring courage and fortitute. She brings you into the minute by minute reliving of an incredible story of one man's journey from the heights to the depths and back. Just as she told the story of a little horse who inspired a nation, she tells Louis Zamperini's amazing tale of unimaginable hardship and unwavering human spirit. The book is un-put-down-able and a must read!
5 It is just unbelieveable how much a human can take and the will to live.  At the end of the book he finally found the peace of forgiving.
5 I really wish I hadn't read this twice already.....a wonderful book.  This author does an incredible amount of research on her books.  I read 'Seabiscuit' next.  Love, love, love them both.  Can't wait for another book from Laura Hillenbrand
5 highly recommended! I rarely read nonfiction but this one i couldn't put down and i loved it! what a great man.
5 What a great story. darn near unbelievable that so much could happen to one individual. I guess that when amazing things happen to an amazing person this is what you get. this book really has something for everyone. if you are a history buff, this book is for you. indvidual effort and pusrserverence, spiritual redemption, patriotism? it's in there. I was amazed again and again. i expected a full chapter on how he died and who all came to the funeral and when it didn't appear i Googled him. lo and behold! there he was on Jay Leno in June of this year (2012) at age 95 cracking jokes and telling his story with extreme humility. because this book is the real life story of Louie Zamporini it doesn't flow like a Tom Clancy novel but it is truly worth the read. especially for those who think there life is so hard and unfair. a real motivator.
5 Loved it! I have recommended it to every person I know, and 10 out of 10 in my book club give it 5 stars!  This story is amazing!
5 This was my favorite book of 2011.  Great story and well written.  What a great story and it is true!  It is amazing to me that Louis Zamperini could survive what he did and then live to be 90. Truly amazing!
3 The book is good, well written, very entertaining and engaging. The story line is heartbreaking at many points and leaves you amazed at what a human being can take and still survive. Be aware that 25% of the book is fluff, biography, thank yous etc...
5 This was my favorite book for 2012. Amazing story. You read and think, there is no way this guy made it, and only in first half of book. Great inspirational story, a must read!
4 It took me a little while to get into this book. I put it down many times, but kept coming back to it. In the end I am glad I did. The truth is I just read for fun so I didn't think to much about the character development or writing style. The bottom line is I enjoyed the book, especially towards the middle and end.
5 On the one hand, this is a book that is pretty much all over the place. It's hard to quantify in any brief subject heading. It's not just about an Olympic runner. It's not just about a bombardier in WWII. It's not just about men surviving on the ocean for months. It's not just about Japanese POWs. And it's not just about a man's conversion to Christianity giving him the strength to rise above PTSD and alcoholism.So, on the one hand, you might say this is a pretty scattered book, in some senses. But, on the other hand, this is a book that somehow manages to get better with each passing phase. It sounds out interestingly enough, obviously playing on Hillenbrand's knack for strong racing nomenclature, but the worse it gets for Louie and Co., the stronger the story gets.I was educated and entertained. But I was also moved. Even if the claims of questionable authenticity regarding of some of the events are true, I still have to give it five stars for touching my heart, broadening my view of the world, and inspiring me in my own life.
5 This is a must read for all ages.  It provides a historical perspective to war, and the atrocities committed to the World War II POWs held by the Japanese.  But equally important is the incredible strength and endurance of those men in the camps.
3 It would have been 4 or 5 except the final chapter was unnecessary and political nonsense that lessened my respect for the man. The author chose to end it with such unconstitutional tripe it made me wonder about the rest of the story. An amazing and worthy recounting of a true hero.
5 I purchased this book for my Kindle Fire. I was a bit apprehensive originally since this is not the typical type of book I read. I was pleasantly surprised. A must read for all!
5 Great book - I'm looking forward to the movie, but I have a feeling after I see it, I'll come back and read this book again. This book gave me a new perspective on what our soldiers go through, or could go through.
5 This book is a tribute to a living hero - Louis Zamperini.  Louis Zamperini's plane went down in the Pacific on May 27, 1943, while on a search mission for other downed airmen.  His incredible will to survive, his tenacity to overcome any obstacle, and his unbroken spirit impel him to survive 5 weeks adrift at sea on a small inflatable, and then his two years in a Japanese POW camp tortured each day by an infamous guard named "The Bird".With war horrors plaguing his dreams and his marriage about to crumble, Zamperini attends a Billy Graham crusade and learns that forgiveness is the only way for his injured spirit to heal.  Zamperini forgives his Japanese tormentor and travels back to Japan to offer his forgiveness in person.Written over a 7 year time period by author Laura Hillenbrand, Zamperini's story is one of adventure, excitement, courage, and faith. This engrosing book exemplifies the true definition of the label, "page-turner"; it is riveting!  Virtually all ages will enjoy reading the heroic and inspiring story of a modern day hero - Louis Zamperini.This is a book you will never forget.kone
5 I loved this book and highly recommend it. I work at a veterans hospital and it gave me such a deeper respect than I already had for the patients I have been taking care of for all these years.
5 I simply could not put it down and could not stop thinking about it when I finally did.  I am sincerely sad it's over.  I will miss Louie!
5 I couldn't put this down. I have since passed it on to my father, my father-in-law, and my mother-in-law. We all loved it. Such an amazing story.
5 Wonderful book.  Well written.  Author puts you right there every step of the way.  Could not put it down.Shows you the true human spirit to survive practically everything and persevere.
4 Parts were riveting....maybe i was tired at the end but it wasn't clear whether he was still living.....had to tootle to find out on wiki.  May be a small thing but it left me wondering. Overall very compelling....
5 Seabiscuit is one of my favorite books, so I knew that I would like Unbroken.  I was wrong, I loved it!
5 It was difficult to stop reading even though I didn't want to picture all of the graphic details of torture and psychic agony.  His conversion at the end came as a surprise.  I knew it would have a happy ending somehow, but his link with Billy Graham, his contemporary, was really interesting.
5 It was a gift for my husband--we heard about it through a friend.  He enjoyed the book very much.He would recommend it to others.
5 I haven't read Seabiscuit, as the topic never really called to me. I may read it now just because I love Ms. Hillenbrand's writing style so much. She knows how to make a story come alive on the page, and that is a rare gift.Unbroken is right in my non-fiction wheelhouse. I read voraciously about WWII, fiction and non-fiction. Though the focus of this book is narrow, mainly telling the tale of one man, it is totally engrossing. Louis Zamperini grew up in southern California, and was an excellent runner. He ran in the 1936 Olympics, and was training to run in the next Olympics when WWII broke out. Instead he enlisted, and became a bombardier in the Pacific theater. In 1942 his plane disappeared over the Pacific ocean while on a search and rescue mission for another lost plane. And so begins one of the most epic and harrowing stories you will ever read. Please keep in mind that books written about the war in the Pacific are not for the faint of heart. There are sentences and sections in this book that will make your stomach turn, even if you know what atrocities that war held.I've always found the war in the Pacific fascinating, because that is where both of my grandfathers served. My father's father died the year before I was born. He was an Army Ranger, and towards the end of the war he freed Japanese POW camps. Dad said he never talked about what he saw, but that he hated the Japanese until the day he died. This books gave me a little more insight into what he may have seen, and how he and other vets dealt with it when they came home.I hope you read this book; it is worth your time.
5 Couldnt put this book down, though I did have to skip some the gut wrenching passages. It is simply unimaginable that our POW's were subjected to both physically and mentally. And their families too - not knowing if they were alive or not, waiting years to find out. Louis Zamperini is a true hero.  This book renews my appreciation for those who fought for our country. Bless them.
5 This is one of my favorite books. Wow, what a captivating story. It's such an easy read and it's amazing how the author brings out Louis Zamperini's personality in this book. You really feel like you personally know the guy after reading. I just can't believe how great this book is.
5 Amazing how a positive psychological attitude can assist when all else seems to fail. This book shares our worst fears of life as a POW.  This Olympic champions forgiveness of those who tortured him, must be a gift from God.
5 Unbroken is the story of Louis Zampirini. He goes from being an Olympic hopeful to a POW in a Japanese war camp. It's such a good book, if you can handle reading about the abuse the Americans suffer while in the war camp.I would also recommend Seabiscuit by the same author. Hillenbrand does a great job with biographies.
4 rI like this book.  It was interesting and well written.  I didn't understand some of the horrible violence and fount this disturbing.  How could a person survive continual violence day after day.  I would recommend this book to anyone who wanted insight into WWII and what happened to the men who served in the Pacific.  I understand many of these men and women seldom speak of it.  Read this book.
2 I purchased the audio version of this book so as to listen to on the way back and forth to work (about an hours commute each day). As of today I am abandoning the story at about 60% complete. There are several reasons for this:1) It's really starting to get boring. There's only so much you can say about the brutality of POW camps. Repetition leads to boredom leads to callousness. Louis got up.. The Bird beat him... Louis went to bed... The Bird beat him... Louis got up....etc etc. This AFTER pages on pages of description of life in Ofuna, which was AFTER pages on pages of descriptions of his cell and mistreatment on Kwajalein, which was AFTER about 100 pages of descriptions his 47 day ordeal in a raft. As I said, I have the audio version so perhaps this isn't as long or as big a part of the book as it seems when listening to it.2) Some stories are somewhat unbelievable. One example is the one Louis describes about running a race against a Japanese athlete and how he somehow found the strength to come back and win the race. For which of course he got beaten. Since Louis' specialty was intermediate distances (the mile or longer), one assumes that this race was at least a mile long. This race supposedly occurred AFTER 47 days in a raft with little food or water, AFTER several weeks on Kwajalien with the described horrific conditions and AFTER several months in Ofuna with daily beatings, little food, and rampant disease. Forgive me if I doubt that any man in those conditions would be able to 'run' any distance, let alone win a race against an athlete not subject to those same conditions.3) Finally... I can see where this story is going. I knew it when I read the reviews, but I hoped that it wouldn't be so blatant. Forgiveness is one thing... but this is more than unbelievable. A 92 year old man has just been convicted of being a brutal prison guard in Nazi Germany. Yet Isohuro Watanabe is forgiven and forgotten? (I'm speculating at this point since I haven't finished the book... but I did look up Watanabe, and it appears that he's never been arrested for his crimes, and the general consensus is that it wasn't his fault. Or something.) One wonders if there would be so many 5-star reviews if Billy Graham and Louis' conversion story were replaced with a different ending.I may go back and finish the story later. I did enjoy the Olympics description and the stories of Louis' childhood. But the rest... not so much.***Updated: finished listening to the book this weekend and while I'm not changing my 2-stars, I will say that the last third of the book was not nearly as offensive as I feared it would be. Louis Zamperini is an extraordinary man, and the story he tells is a riveting one. Unfortunately I believe that many of the events have been dramatized by time, by the endless re-telling of the story as an inspirational speaker, and by the desire of both Louis himself, the author, and the Christian desire to make the message as moving and spiritual as possible.
5 Louie Zamperini was a truly outstanding subject. And - as she did with Seabiscuit - Laura Hillenbrand writes the story of Zamperini's trials, triumphs and failures like an adventure novel. She is obviously fascinated with her subjects, and her wit, compassion and talent as a researcher and a writer make the story glow.The last quarter of the book drags a bit. There are a lot of statistics, and the focus on Zamperini's struggle with alcohol gets a little drawn out. I won't suggest "plot" changes since this is about a man's life, not a novel where she can make up anything she wants, but there were certainly some other things Hillenbrand could have focused on that happened later in Zamperini's life. I wish Hillenbrand had covered a bit more of Zamperini's transformation from an alcoholic whose wife was preparing to leave him with their young daughter to a man who pulled himself up from the bootstraps - yet again - to raise the money to buy a camp where he helped youth throughout the rest of his life. I also wish Zamperini's wife had gotten more "coverage," as she seemed a pretty extraordinary person too. Perhaps she wasn't the type to keep a diary, and if I remember correctly, she passed away during the early years of Hillenbrand's research.That said, these are small thing and I highly, highly recommend this book.
5 This book was so amazing. Read on my Kindle...I could not put it down, well hardly.  The strength one can have in the face of HELL, is just so powerful.  Gives you thought, when you are down and think you can't take it anymore....you read Louie's ordeal, and know you could not have survived.  How he made it through , came out a winner is a tribute to God watching over him even before he found the Lord as his own personal Lord and Savior.  What a guy, tough, and wonderful...God bless you Louie!
5 Hands down this is the best book I have ever read. The author grabs you at the first sentence and never lets go. I even read the acknowledgements at the end. It's a story that made me angry, cry, smile and laugh. I've recommended it relatives, friends and people at the library. READ.THIS.BOOK!
5 This book had me hooked right from the beginning.  The spirit of the men who served our country during the WWII era never cease to amaze me.  This book offers a very unique view into the very harsh (sometimes evil) spirit of man and how the strong survived that treatment.  I highly recommend this book!
4 "Fortitudine Vincimus" is Latin for "By endurance we conquer", and I think this is a good way to summarize what thousands of our soldiers went through to survive the brutality of Japanese POW camps in World War 2. The United States of America owes them and their families the highest honors.This is an amazing story of the extremes people can endure in the struggle to survive. While the story focuses on the life of Louis Zamperini, there are other men and women in...more"Fortitudine Vincimus" is Latin for "By endurance we conquer", and I think this is a good way to summarize what thousands of our soldiers went through to survive the brutality of Japanese POW camps in World War 2. The United States of America owes them and their families the highest honors.This is an amazing story of the extremes people can endure in the struggle to survive. While the story focuses on the life of Louis Zamperini, there are other men and women in the cast, and I found it interesting to see what motivated them to survive.Without including spoilers, I will mention the book has a Christian theme to it, and one should realize this going in because it plays a vital role in the "redemption" mentioned in the subtitle. I found this to be an encouraging story that touched on God's providence, and the comfort He can bring to our troubled lives. I highly recommend the story to people struggling under heavy burdens because I finished the story being both encouraged and stronger in faith.The only reason I didn't give the book five stars is because I thought the ending was a little weak. It seemed to peter out rather than coming to a strong conclusion about Louis' life and his will to remain unbroken. The ending was OK, but it left me wanting a little more closure and/or reflections from Louis life.
5 There are just no words to describe this story adequately. This book is a must read! Louis Zamerini's story, and that of his crewmembers and fellow POWs is amazing and it is obvious that Hillenbrand really did her research on this one. I will not bore you by trying to interpret the story, just buy it and read it; you will not be disappointed, but I guarantee you will learn something about history and about mankind.Kyle Williams
5 When I first picked up Seabiscuit, I did so because all of my life I had been fascinated by horses. I lived, breathed, slept and dreamed of them as a child.  When Seabiscuit came out, it was a dream read for me.Because Laura was such a good writer, I decided to download the Kindle version of Unbroken.  Being a genealogist, and Army Brat, I thought I might enjoy the story of a World War II veteran.  I had know idea what I was getting into.  As the pages unfolded, I kept saying to myself, "I can't believe that this is happening to a human being!!"  Every page brought a more unbelievable section to the story.  When I was about half way through the book, I watched the interview on Fox News about Louis (Christmas Eve, I think)and realized what an amazing, person he is.But more important, I realized that Louis' story is far from unique.  Being born two generations from this one, all I knew of World War II is the glory; the heroism, and how we went all around the world kicking butt. It never occurred to me, until Laura's book, of the suffering that so many endured.  It was brought into our living rooms in Viet Nam, but you just didn't hear of it during WWII.Thank you, Laura, for giving us a truly remarkable story.  You showed us how extraordinary an ordinary man can be.Stacey BlantonKentucky
5 I read this book for my book club through work.  I probably would have never picked this book to read on my own.  I'm so glad someone else did and I had the opportunity to read this book.  At first I groaned when I heard what the book was about because I'm typically not interested in history and "war stories."  But this book is so much more then that.  Louie's story is remarkable and it's hard for me to fathom everything he went through and come out alive.  The book was well written and easy to understand for someone who is not familiar with war terminology.  I finished the book in a little over a week, which is fast for me with having a full-time job and two little kids.  I highly recommend it!
5 A real &#34;page turner&#34;
5 I saw this advertised as a movie in the making while I was watching the Winter Olympics. It sounded intriguing and I wanted to read the book before I saw the movie. I couldn't put it down - I was spellbound as I read everything this former Olympian had gone through.... I highly recommend this read!
5 Seabiscuit, Lauren Hillenbrand's first book, is one of my all time favorites and I was so happy to learn she had a new book out. Once again she has taken a true story, done incredible research and written a non-fiction book that is not only a page turner but had it not been a true story you would never believe it.Louis Zamperini's story is full of humor, sorrow, glory, pain and his unrelenting determination.  As a young man Louis was a juvenile delinquent; he would steal anything he could, was running with a bad crowd and was one step away from a life of crime. When his older brother tries to help him by getting him interested in running track Louis becomes a new person. One of the fastest runners of the era Louis becomes a track star and heads off to the 1936 Olympics in Berlin. Although he doesn't win a medal he sets his sights on the 1940 Olympics and is expected to be the first man to break the 4 minute mile record. Unfortunately the onset of the Second World War changes everything.Enlisting in the army Louie becomes a bombardier and flies many successful missions. In May of 1943 while on a bombing run Louie's plane crashes in the Pacific and he begins a journey that will test him in ways unimaginable to both Louie and you the reader.I could not put this book down once I started it; I think I read it in 2 days. It is funny, sad and at times utterly heartbreaking. Louis Zamperini is probably the most charming and irresistible characters I have ever met in a book.  He is also the most stubborn and just refused to die when so many others around him succumbed. I have read a great deal of books set during World War II, both fiction and non-fiction, but almost all were focused on the European theater and the horrors of what was endured in the Pacific theatre were virtually unknown to me; this book opened my eyes to a whole side of the war.I don't want to tell too much of what happens to Louie, I could not do justice to the brilliant story telling of the author, and it should be experienced without too much knowledge of the events. Suffice it to say that Louie Zamperini is my definition of a true hero and his story is not one I will soon forget. For a truly inspiring and astonishing read pick up this book, you will not regret it.
5 I'm usually more of a fiction reader, but this truly was a book I could not put down!  The story is compelling by itself, but the author takes it even further and tells about this man's life as if she witnessed it firsthand. The entire book was a testament to her gift for storytelling.  I had never heard of Louie Zamperini, and now I feel as if he's an old friend.  What an amazing life!!  And her deep level of research leaves no questions about the truth of what he endured.I can't wait to see who she introduces me to next!
5 I read this book for my book club, and am so glad I did. It is definitely a "heavy" read: every time you're utterly certain nothing worse can happen to the main character(s), something does, but this story is truly inspiring, and so worth reading, not just for Hillenbrand's expressive, beautiful style, or for the incredible life story of Louie Zamperini, but to learn about the atrocities committed against Allied POWs in the Pacific during WWII.Neither I, nor any of the smart and well-read members of my book club, had any idea about this horrifying part of our world's history.  One fact stands out for me as expressive of just how bad this was and, therefore, how much we need to be aware of it:"Japan held some 132,000 POWs from America, Britain, Canada, New Zealand, Holland, and Australia. Of those, nearly 36,000 died, more than one in every four. Americans fared particularly badly; of the 34,648 Americans held by Japan, 12,935--more than 37 percent--died. By comparison, only 1 percent of Americans held by the Nazis and Italians died. Japan murdered thousands of POWs on death marches, and worked thousands of others to death in slavery . . .  Thousands of other POWs were beaten, burned, stabbed, or clubbed to death, shot, beheaded, killed during medical experiments, or eaten alive in ritual acts of cannibalism . . . thousands more died of starvation and easily preventable diseases." (pp. 314-5)This book, which does an excellent job of examining the reasons why this occurred, from many perspectives, had all of us thinking hard and deeply about the horrors of war. It's well-worth reading, and an excellent choice for any book club.
5 This book found me. I was drawn to it and the reviews helped. I am in awe of Louis. When I was reading this at work I couldn't help but tell my co-workers little tidbits of information.  This book is very inspiring
5 I was unfamiliar with so much as i'm not from the U.S. The story was tightly written and engaging. True as well. Mostly though, the book opened up channels for conversation. Many did not know Louis' story. It's pretty disturbing to think about the battered up planes our flyers had not to mention being caught by the Japanese.
5 Thought that some parts grew a little long, but all in all I thoroughly enjoyed this book. Looking forward to reading other books by the same author.
5 A really brave hero
4 It is so hard to imagine how anyone can survive such truly horrible experiences and then to have them one after the other is beyond comprehension.  I knew very little about the atrocities of WWII.  This book was definitely an eye opener.
5 This book was just plain great. It's a truly gripping story, told with a perfect mixture of suspense and historical fact. By far and away the best book I've read this year.
5 This is one of the best books I've read in awhile. The story of Louis Zamparini is fascinating and inspiring. I was unable to put the book down. It was horrifying in that it describes the horrible torture of POWS under Japan, the US's response (the way the Pacific war is barely taught in schools, the blanket amnesty for war criminals, etc.). I stayed up until 2 am finishing the book, but then couldn't fall asleep it was so disturbing. But it was *amazing*. Everyone I know that has read it has thought it was fantastic - from my 24 year old sister to my dad and mother-in-law.
1 NEGATIVE  AND VERY  DARK. I DO NOT KNOW WHY IT IS CALLED "UNBROKEN" SINCE THE MEN IN THE BOOK SEEM TO HAVE BEEN BROKEN.
5 Could hardly put the book down.  What a movie it will make.  Louis Zamperini will be a  very difficult character to cast.  His life captures a range of experiences that can be known to very few.  The fact that he has spent two thirds of his life sharing the redemptive power of faith in God through the blood of Jesus is the most compelling aspect of his life story.
5 Wasn't sure the kind of language that would be used as some of the war stories have language the military used, which I understand why, but don't necessarily want to have a steady diet of it.  I was pleasantly surprised and really enjoy Laura Hillenbrand's writing.  The story is very riviting and reveals a lot about the combat and how many perished by accidents as opposed to combat.  Louie is incredibly tough, resilient and fascinating.  Well written and enjoyable.
5 Laura Hillenbrand compiled a masterpiece of biographical, emotional, and personal information on an American soldier and several war time buddies.  The stamina and determination of these soldiers is a marvel.  The post war stories are as intriguing as their experiences in the concentration camp.  The book is a great read.
5 Truly a wonderful story of a great man who showed courage and a human side that we could relate to.
5 One of the best books I've read in a long time.  An amazing and unbelievable true story from a child in California, world famous runner, 1936 Olympics, the war in the Pacific, a raft lost in the pacific, POWs, Atomic bombs, freedom, personal demands and redemption.  It is a complex and beautiful story.
5 As she did with &#34;Seabiscuit&#34;, Hillenbrand does exhausting research then skilfully uses it to enable you to get to know the main character on a personal basis. By the time you finish reading &#34;unbroken&#34;, you feel like Louie Zamperini just told you his story himself.
5 I could not put this novel down - it is that simple.  I highly recommend to everyone wanting a great read.
5 I just finished this book. Whew! what a journey. This is one of those books that is hard to read in the sense that the characters are having such a difficult time. This is not for the faint of heart as it truly protrays the brutality of war. The fact that these true life characters are able to survive with such dignity in the face of the inhumanity they must deal with day after day is inspiring. I highly recommend this for anyone who's willing to take a painful journey to see what is possible.
4 `Unbroken' by Laura Hillenbrand;Wms (Jack R. Williams)I found this to be an excellent read, full of details that flowed logically. It is easy to see how it is a best seller.I often took my son to air shows. One was in Chino California. A booth inside a hanger held Pappy Boyington, Medal of a honor winner, ace, member of the Flying Tigers in China and a legendary hero. He was selling his book, `Baa, Baa, Black Sheep'. I talked with him about his being shot down and becoming a POW. While being transported to Japan, the plane landed on Truk Island, the Japanese stronghold. The Americans launched an air attack just as his plane was landing. The POWs jumped out of the plane and ran to a bomb crater on the runway. He described the irony of this.My son and I then walked outside the hanger and there was a booth holding a Japanese man with his book. I asked him who he was. `I'm the pilot that shot down Pappy Boyington,' he said. His book was titled, `Bye, Bye, Black Sheep.' How darned extraordinary, I thought, and later told all my friends.I later learned he was an imposter!!!I learned from this, `If it is too extraordinary to ring true, it probably isn't.The author puts together an extraordinary journey as an American captured pilot in the Pacific after drifting in a rubber life raft for 47 (?) days. He was transported as a POW from prison-to-prison, ending in Japan. The glue of the story is a psychotic Japanese corporal prison guard that became his Nemesis. He had power beyond his officers and singles out our hero for `indescribable' abuse. He even follows our hero from prison to prison.The story is extremely well written. It is extraordinary that this corporal even directs high Japanese officers or influences their decisions while he heaps abuse on our hero. The author's last book was `Seabiscuit', a horse hero. She can probably hero-whisper and Nemesis-whisper after 65 years as well as she can horse-whisper.  I nevertheless recommend this book as a good read."Amazon Verified Purchase" review?
5 This is a story that needed telling as it depicts a totally unbelievable portrait of a man whose inner strength is difficult for us ordinary people to comprehend.  It is so well written that I was immediately drawn into the story as it was told and finally had to keep reminding myself that the events detailed actually occurred.  Amazing.
5 Hillenbrand's details of life make you feel like you are living the experience yourself.  I was drawn in and anxious to find out when they would ever be saved.  The triumph of the human spirit over inhumane conditions was so encouraging.  The power of forgiveness is also inspiring.  Highly recommend this book.
4 The author of "Seabiscuit" has done it again. Great story.Sometimes the book reads like fiction and I don't know if all the facts are exact or if some liberties were taken but the story of this great American hero is extraordinary and powerfully presented.Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption
5 This book has history and a personal story that proves the strength of the human spirit.  I didn't want to put this book down. You will fall in love with the main character.
5 I love this book. Its true what they say about real life being stranger than fiction. The event are so amazing you can hardly believe they are true. Laura Hillenbrand has an engaging style and does excellent research on her subject and backgrounds. The book is decently long but not a difficult read. I'd recommend it to anyone interested in WWII or true stories.
4 This book is good...a little tedious but what do you expect concerning a book about being lost at sea? But I think the book really covered everything well and kept me interested.
5 Wow.  This book blew me away.The story is unbelievable, while I'm sure the story itself would make this book amazing on its own, Laura Hillenbrand's writing just takes it to a completely different level. I don't like giving too much away in my reviews, so I will just say that this book is about survival against all odds-particularly pertaining to the lives of POWs in Japan during WWII, but also much more.  I had no idea, absolutely none whatsoever, what happened to these POWs and the stories just make you appreciate the life we have now and the sacrifices that were made to preserve that life.I love WWII books as it is, and this has now surpassed all of my previous reads as my favorite. The research that had to go into this book is just mind blowing. I highly, highly recommend you give this book a read!!
3 I agree with just about everything that's been said here. &#34;Unbroken&#34; is a very well written book with careful description and interesting footnotes that clarify things that sometimes don't really require clarification.It was hard to put down because of the unbelievable abuse and degradation the POWs were subjected to - and managed to live through.  What incredible men these POWs were ( and specifically Louis Zamperini) which is why it also worries me that I have had to suspend reality regarding so many of the more extreme accounts.All in all, it's a good book and I'm glad that I read it. I just wish the author would stop using the word &#34;snuck&#34;.  The word is really not yet accepted in the literary world and her wording and choice of descriptives is so carefully done that I am surprised and disappointed she chose to employ this colloquialism - often.
5 Let me start by saying I read this book because it really hit close to home for me.  My grandfather now 88 fought in WW2 and he was also in the Army Airforce and he flew in a B24.  He is also a very athletic Italian who even ran a marathon in his 60's. Everything about Louises spunky personality reminded me of Papa.  Thankfully my grandfather was not a POW but I never felt so moved in all my life.  I found myself getting angry at the author surly one more bad thing is not possible, stop, help him, and having to remind myself that it is all true this isn't a story she made up.  This story will never leave my heart I only wish he lived in CT I truly wish I could meet Him. Thank you for telling his story.
5 I read this book for my book club. I probably never would have picked it up otherwise, because I general don't enjoy biographies or war stories. I'm grateful that I did read it. The story is horrifying and well as inspiring. The reader is taken to the depths of human depravity, made worse because this is not fiction, but fact. It also takes us to the furthest reaches of human resilience as displayed by Louis Zamperini.While the first hundred pages did not grab my attention, they laid the necessary groundwork for the heart of the story. As a boy, Louie was a hard headed scoundrel who later channeled his energies into running. He became a world renowned track star, and even shook hands with Hitler at the Berlin Olympics. When the U.S. got involved in the World War, Louie signed on and became a bombardier. When his plane went down due to mechanical failure, he was one of only three survivors. Louie's hard headed determination enabled him to survive on a rubber raft at sea longer than anyone on record, only to be captured and imprisoned by the Japanese. What he suffered at their hands made for some hard reading.The book was well researched, the story well told. I think anyone who decides to give it a try will be well rewarded.Laurie Hanan author of the Louise Golden Hawaiian mysteries Almost Paradise and How Far Is Heaven?
5 Once read, you'll never forget this book. From surviving 29 days on a small raft in the Pacific after his airplane was shot down to spending the rest of the war in Japanese prison camps, Louis Zamperini demonstrated a passion for living and survival. When he finally did come home to his family in Torrance, CA, he discovered that he couldn't appreciate his freedom until he was willing to give up the hate for the Japanese prison guards that made life absolutely miserable. It is also a story of family and unconditional love. His family never believed he perished in the war and never gave up hope for his safe return.
5 I cannot believe that a person could survive in the circumstances detailed in this book. Gave a copy for a present
5 I am only 46% complete (according to my wonderful new Paperwhite Kindle), however, I can't imagine rating the book less than 5 stars even after I'm through reading.Hillenbrand writes with the reader in mind.  Every sentence propels you to the next.  The flow is tremendous.  The reader is constantly asking - what else could POSSIBLY happen in this narrative?  How much more can Louie Zamperini endure?  And, what a fascinating character he is.I have highly recommended this book to all my family members.  Coincidentally, my eldest daughter will be meeting Louie Zamperini in the near future when he speaks to a business group in which she's involved.  She had never heard of him before I raved about the book and talked about it repeatedly over Christmas.
3 The story is amazing and the author's work exceptional; however, realizing the reality of the horrific details make it very hard to read.  I have had to read it in small bites or get ill thinking about it.
5 ...that grips you from the very first page and doesn't let you go until you reluctantly reach the last page.  I could not put this book down!  A TRUE story of rebellion, determination, atrocities, strength, endurance, self-worth, suffering, and ultimately, triumph.  A tribute to the Pacific POW's of WWII, and especially one man, Louie Zamperini.A MUST READ!!!I greatly look forward to another novel by Ms. Hillenbrand.
5 Beating all odds at survival. POW camps and the perils and the will to live. At times wishing death would arrive quickly.
