5 This was purchased as a gift for a person who was recovering from surgery over the winter. As a race fan, she loved the book.
4 I was incredulous when I was told that even though this book was about horse racing, it was worth reading even if I didn't care about the sport. But after all the hype, I decided to go ahead and read it. And to my surprise, I actually enjoyed it. At times, some of the technical aspects of horse racing got a bit dry. But the action was always moving fast enough to keep my attention. It's the ultimate underdog-rising-to-fame story. Even if horse racing doesn't interest you, this is still a pretty interesting book and well worth reading.
5 Here it is: the quintessential American saga for the ages. &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; is the ultimate, true tale of what it means to start poor, to feel rejected and abandoned, to travel life's toughest roads; and yet, to never give up, never give in, until your dreams are finally fulfilled. All the characters are as richly drawn as those in a Damon Runyan short story. They include: Charles Howard, the self-made automotive magnate who knew early heartbreak and loss through the death of his own son in, of all things, an auto accident; Tom Smith, the high plains cowboy drifter who was the original Horse Whisperer of his day; Red Polland and George Woolf, the self-made, plucky jockeys, who undertook some of the most horrific training methods known to sport; and Seabiscuit, the ungainly horse who lost many, many races in his early years before finally finding his stride. Ms Hillenbrand, herself an unlikely heroine in her real-life battle with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, weaves these characters into a delightful tapestry that the reader will want to savor again and again. The climactic match race between Seabiscuit and Triple-Crown winner War Admiral is alone worth the price of the book, as western upstarts are pitted against blueblooded eastern racing establishment. Finally, don't forget the acknowledgements and interview sections at the end of the book for insight into the author's writing and thought processes. I guarantee when you finish the book (and watch the Oscar-worthy movie version) that you will want to make a beeline for the nearest racetrack and bet two dollars on a longshot, for &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; is proof enough that, here in America, the odds are never too long to have a chance at success.
5 A great read! This true story of an amazing horse reads like excellent fiction. It covers a fascinating aspect of US history as it traces Seabiscuit's future owner, trainer and jockey from the early 1900's through the depression. The prose is rich and clear; the races are exciting; the horse has a big heart and a personality you'll never forget. Don't miss this one. And never fear, you do not need to be a horse racing fan to love this book.
5 Seabiscuit follows the gradual rise of an underdeveloped horse born of grand breading. With no expectations of greatness thrust upon him, Seabiscuit enters a life of racing mediocrity. Slowly, his anger gestates as he is forced to lose to lesser horses in training to build their confidence. Eventually his life comes into confluence with a quixotic entrepreneur recovering from a personal disaster, a down-on-his-luck trainer with natural talent, and one of the tallest but most dedicated jockeys in the league. Together this unlikely but somehow perfect team take Seabiscuit to the greatest heights of horse racing, at the time the most popular sport in the United States. Along the way, their journey takes on grander scope than just personal redemption. They become a much needed beacon of triumph and personal renewal for American emotionally wasted by the throes of the Great Depression.The story is excellently researched, well crafted, and favors reality to fairy tale endings. Each of the characters is presented in written detail akin to HD TV. Hillenbrand should patent HD Words.Many times a book is not worth reading after seeing the movie (i.e. Twilight), which is a shame because a good book can greatly enlighten the backstory that doesn't come across in moving pictures. Seabiscuit thankfully makes the reading as well as the watching equally worthwhile regardless of the order they are undertaken.
5 I love this book so much that I want to tell the whole world. Seabiscut I love you !!!
5 All the previous accolades given to this book are well deserved.Thoughts:  I found it intriguing that horse racing was so much more popular back in the first half of the 20th Century than the second half.  Probably has to do with the horse being a major mode of transportation up until the early 1900's and that more people had firsthand contact with horses.It also seemed that you didn't have to win the Triple Crown (let alone race in those three races) to be a popular horse.Great story and excellent writing!  A non-fiction page turner!
5 Wow, the author Laura Hillenbrand drove me right to the 1930's and placed me right in the heart of Team Seabiscuit. I felt like I was there at each and every race. I was the owner of Seabiscuit, while I was the jockey on Seabiscuit, the trainer of Seabicuit.  I WAS SEABISCUIT!  Though I had never seen the movie, never been a horse person and never been a race track junkie I can honestly say that during the all too brief time it took me to read this book, I was there in the middle of all of it and remain touched to the depth of my being by this beloved horse and the people who were able to share their time with him.  His spirit, his very essence lives on through the eloquent story as told by Ms Hillenbrand.  Seabiscuit is now a part of my life and he is definitely my horse of the century! Bravo!
5 I purchased this book years ago when it first came out.  My husband is an avid fan of horse races and having went with him on numerous occasions I became interested in reading about them myself.  This book will not disappoint and even though the movie was very good the book is tons better (which is almost always the case).  I enjoyed reading about the background of all the people involved with Seabiscuit it is a real heartwarming story about a horse that everyone gave up on but everyone ended up having hope in.  A trainer that was an outsider and an owner that wasn't your average horse owner and the faith he put into the jockey who was left by his parents at a horse track because they couldn't afford to keep him home (it was during the Great Depression).  I could probably go on and on about the book because I enjoyed it very much.
5 This is a must read.  It is well researched and a compelling story. Laura tells a good story it is hard to put the book down.
4 Laura Hillenbrand caringly wrote a thorough and uplifting biography of the champion racehorse Seabiscuit.  The life of Seabiscuit is immortalized through the eyes of his owner Charles Howard, his trainer Tom Smith and his jockeys Red Pollard and George Woolf.  Each member of Seabiscuit entourage is also given a biographic chapter in the novel.Seabiscuit's story is somewhat of a rags to riches story.  He was a short ugly duckling thoroughbreed who most thought would be a bust as a money winning racehorse. Under the tender nurturing and training of his handlers, he would develope into one of the most successful and beloved horses of all time.  Seabiscuit became an important distraction from the Great Depression of the late 30's.  He actually was more newsworthy in his heyday than either FDR, Hitler or Mussolini.  His wide appeal was based on his solid determination and iron will which raised his somewhat modest physical attributes into championship caliber.The book read as sort of an equine version of the movie "Rocky".
5 I have never been to the track in my life, and the only time I ever watch a horse race on TV is if it has to do with the Triple Crown, and then only if a baseball game isn't on some other channel. Yet, I was always curious how a book about a horse who raced so long ago could reach the top of the bestseller lists, and stay there for a long time. After all, horse racing, like boxing, is a dying sport.The answer to its success is in multiple layers. First, proving a great writer can make any subject interest, Laura Hillenbrand is astonishingly skilled with the written word. I never imagined the fascination I would feel reading about the technical side of training racehorses, or the riding of them by jockeys at breakneck speeds. Or that jockeys have to be quite intelligent strategically, and have to make snap decisions repeatedly. Then of course, there is the racehorse himself, Seabiscuit, his strange gait and at times difficult personality. Add to that the quirky, seemingly mismatched trio, owner, trainer and jockey, all with distinct personalities and foibles who bonded together to make Seabiscuit a great winner, all the time being cautious in the use of their four-legged legend. Good men all,they showed great character in triumph.
5 When I finished reading this book five years ago, I thought "Wow, that is the greatest sports book I have read."  Well, I still think that way and I've read some great sports literature since.It's the combination of fascinating mini-biographies of  Seabiscuit's owner, trainer and jockey that make this book so entertaining. These were fascinating people and if you were a horse racing fan, the era was just about perfect.  People went nuts over horse racing, baseball and boxing.  It's not like today where football, basketball and hockey share the limelight, sports-wise.Author Laura Hillebrand's account of owner Charles Howard, trainer Tom Smith and jockey "Red" Pollard are just incredible.  These man have amazing stories and what they and Seabiscuit attained in racing, are almost unbelivable.....yet everything in this easy-to-read book is true.  From the early pages on, the book hooks you in to the point where you care deeply about all the main characters.I'll always remember getting to the chapter which told about the famous match race between Seabiscuit and War Admiral.  Hillenbrand had done such a great job of building up to that, I almost didn't want to read on for fear I would be greatly disappointed. That's how involving her book was for me, and for many others.I guess the highest praise I can give this book is so good that it got me back reading, after a long absence.
5 Have you ever read a book that you could not put down, even if it cost you sleep from staying up late at night?  SEABISCUIT is one of those books.  Instead of wasting time reading my humble words, may I suggest that you buy SEABISCUIT...NOW and read the words of a great author, Laura Hillenbrand, as she takes you back to the time of the great horse, Seabiscuit, and lives he touched?  You will not be disappointed.
5 I read Seabiscuit at the recommendation of an editor at a New York publishing house. He felt that the structure of the book represented the best of current American writing.True, true. But there is so much more to this book!Hillebrand captures the era, the social demographics of the 1930's, and the mystique of this horse. She researched this book extensively and her work comes through in all corners of her masterpiece: she builds tiny descriptions in her depictions of characters (he had a dime in his pocket) that tell everything. Her chapters on the lives of the jockeys at that time-living in poverty, no health insurance, many of them only 15 or 16-made me cry.Hillebrand also writes beautifully. At times, yes, she can go too far. But for the most part, the passion she feels for her topic and for her characters, channels itself realistically into her descriptions and depictions.I read this book for two very different book clubs: a group of well educated suburban women and a very intense Ivy League city club of older intellectuals. I would say that 90-95% of the members of both clubs loved it. Five to ten percent found it boring. However, I can't give an exact demographic on those who disliked it-it was  a personal thing. I can say that all types of people loved it: people who hate sports and horses, people who love sports, young mothers, seventy-something retired professors, grandmothers.I would recommend this book for most people. You should be able to find something in it that you will like if not love: beautiful writing, exciting horse racing, carefully researched descriptions of historic settings and times in the 1930's, a strong plot with two climaxes, memorable characters. If you are one of the random people that I have encountered who for whatever reason finds the book boring, I apologize!
4 Incredible story.... nothing is so exciting as real history!  Enjoyed all the stories of the folks connected to this wonderful horse and the entire horse racing community at this time in American history.
2 It was a selection for our book club and I have tried three times to read it. I can't get past all the details and therefore I can't want to read it. I am not a horseperson. I wouldn't have bought it if I wasn't required to do so.
5 I received &quot;Seabiscuit: An American Legend&quot; for Christmas and devoured it in just a few days. The story is so well told, it is impossible to put the book down. Laura Hillenbrand really, really did her homework in bringing all of the central characters vividly to life. (The amount of research this took--richly detailed at the end of the book--is staggering). I found myself reading portions of the book aloud to my husband, and we shared a hearty laugh over Red Pollard's hilarious NBC radio broadcast. While I read extensively, I am not generally attracted to sports-related subject matter, yet I found &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; enthralling. Read it to be transported back to the 30s, to encounter genuine heroism, to root for a plucky underdog, to be greatly entertained. I can't recommend the book highly enough. Excellent!
5 I WASN'T interested in horses before, or horse racing, but I still really enjoyed this book.  A real page turner, excellently written.
4 "Seabiscuit" is a non-fiction book written about an almost fictional racehorse.I began loving the sport of horse racing when I was a teenager going to the races at the Valley County Fair.In my four-year sojourn in Kentucky, I went to races at Churchill Downs many times. My all time favorite event was the year I had finish-line, front row seats at the Oakes (the day before the Kentucky Derby annual race for thoroughbred 3 year old fillies).  I mingled with over 100,000 people, went to the paddock, drank mint juleps, and had a never-to-be-forgotten day.  My favorite racing jockey of that era was Gary Stevens. But when I met former jockey, current trainer, Kentucky Derby winner Bob Baffert at a party one afternoon, that was the epitome of my racing experience.I was shocked when I found out the reality of the day-to -ay lives of jockeys, trainers.  And the horses themselves.  It is far from glamorous.Author Laura Hillenbrand did a first rate of making the lives of jockeys Red Pollard, George Woolf, trainer Tom Smith and owner Charles Howard come alive. Her accounts of actual races, literally "put you poised above the house like a real jockey."I highly recommend "Seabiscuit" to lovers of thoroughbred horse racing.
5 My first experience with horse racing was when Nashua won the Preakness and the Belmont in 1955. He finished second to Swaps in the Kentucky Derby. As I recall, he was a beautiful, black stallion who looked like something out of the Arabian nights. I've loved horse racing ever since, although I'm too chicken to place a bet.And so I decided to read Laura Hillenbrand's SEABISCUIT. I'd heard of the horse before, but I hadn't known he was a grandson of Man o' War. I had known, however, that War Admiral, Seabisbuit's nemesis, was Man o' War's son. I also didn't know that Seabiscuit was almost overlooked. "He was a rough-hewn, undersized horse with a sad little tail and knees that wouldn't straighten all the way. He lost his first sixteen races. Sonny Jim Fitzsimmons, his first trainer, thought the talent was there but that Seabiscuit was lazy. But that didn't stop him from racing the little horse thirty-five times as a two-year-old.Three men salvaged Seabiscuit's career. Red Pollard, his jockey, who'd been sleeping in a stall. Tom Smith, the trainer known as "The Lone Plainsman", and Charles Howard, his owner, who introduced the automobile to the West. Ultimately, in the year 1938, Seabiscuit received more newspaper coverage than FDR or Hitler.The story builds to a match race between Seabiscuit and War Admiral, who won the triple crown, but the true merit of the book is the inspiration this little animal provides. Nobody's ever really down and out. It's never too late. I also loved the little sidelights Hillenbrand reveals about racing. How Pollard won Seabiscuit's affection with a sugar cube, how all sorts of animals from German shepherds to three-legged cats were used as stablemates for horses, what a hard-scrabble existence jockeys lived during the Depression. Hillenbrand's been writing about thoroughbred racing since 1988. She really, really knows her stuff.
5 This story was a multi-media experience for me. First I saw a one-hour PBS documentary on the horse, which included interviews and film footage of the real horse and his races. Then I saw the 2003 feature film. And lastly I read this book. The book was the most rewarding experience. Naturally a 300+ page book is going to have more complexity and depth than any movie or documentary. Even so, this book is exceptionally well-done. The author did an impressive amount of research; had a plenty of prior experience writing about horse racing; and she had a great story which she tells very well.To me the story of Seabiscuit is a great example of the merging of potential and providence. All four central characters (Charles Howard, Tom Smith, Red Pollard and Seabiscuit) could have been big disappointments in life if providence hadn't brought the four of them together at just the right time. Together they fulfilled potential that no one else saw was there. Together they accomplished something extraordinary, even something beyond winning a few big races; they gave spirit to a nation in despair.It's a GREAT story.
5 I read UNBROKEN first then SEABISCUIT. I loved the history and the details that brought both stories alive.Very well written.
5 I read the author's "Unbroken" and recently found this at the library. She does a wonderful job here, too. First-rate.My grandfather was into horse racing in the 30s and 40s; certainly he saw this horse run as he lived in Jamaica, Queens near a track where The Bisquit ran. I found videos on UTube for the Santa Anita races and that was a beautiful horse.Look at the picture opposite Chapter 23, caption: "Trapped behind a wall of horses...." On the face of the outside horse is the number '23' except it is reversed. Hold it up to a mirror and you'll see. Yet that places the horses racing backwards, with the rail on their right instead of the left. Is there some photographic trick that could reverse those numerals but retain the correct 'sense' in the rest of the picture?
5 I never have had any interest in horses or horseracing.  Still don't.  In spite of that I found this book so enjoyable that I couldn't put it down and read it very rapidly.  I saw the movie first, so maybe that helped?  Even if you didn't like the movie (I did), I do recommend you give the book a try.  It is (of course) much more detailed.  Some reviewers found it too detailed, but I thought the initimate details of the lives of the parties involved made this much more enjoyable than if it had been just a book about horseracing.  Some say the first section of the book is slow.  Perhaps so, but I found it interesting and enjoyable and a nice foundation to finally introducing the horse. Includes a fascinating look at the hard life of jockey's in the 30's & 40's.  Worth reading just for that.  Inspiring, emotional, heartwarming story that will have you in tears at times.  Hildebrand knows how to grab the reader and never let go.  Yes, it may be a little syrupy, preachy and overdone at times, but always enjoyable and never boring.  Not many writers could appeal to such a wide audience in a book that is supposedly about horseracing.  It is so much more than a "horse" book.  It is really about a team of unlikely people and animals who on their own were failures and worth very little, but as a team came together to produce one of the most enduring legends in American history.
5 I could see that this book has rave reviews, and there is not much more that I could add. Here on the East Coast we only have heard of War Admiral. I never heard of Seabiscuit until the movie came out some years ago. I was not thinking of reading it until the local reading group at the library had it as a selection. It's a winner! The story is wonderful, and true. Laura Hillerbrand can write non-fiction in an exciting way that captivates the reader. She knows her horse racing but she doesn't deluge the reader with a glut of "racing-ology". She gives you enough to stay in the race. And she can really play out the scene in a way that has you racing pages. The story leading up to the match with the East Coast champion is enticing enough. But the race!? It is like you are there! The movie could not do the justice to Seabiscuit that Hillerbrand does. I know nothing about horses, and I enjoyed the biography of Monty Roberts, the "Man Who Listens to Horses". I enjoyed this much more.
4 Seabiscuit: An American Legend is as exciting as the best kind of mystery novel, and readers will not be able to put down its accounts of how this undersized horse became one of the greatest performers in American sports history.  The book has all the drama and romance of "Chariots of Fire."  Its only drawback in fact is that the story it tells takes place in a vacuum.  If there is a Depression or a looming world war, characters here never seem to sense it.  The few times that Hillenbrand does sketch out a larger historical context (e.g., when Santa Anita becomes a detention center for Japanese-Americans in the early 1940s) make readers recognize what they're missing the rest of the time.  So this is an great read, but part of its story is missing: the relationship between the horses, their owners, trainers, and riders-and the larger American culture.
5 I don't know anything about horseracing. I saw the movie, and then this book fell into my hands, and I began it wondering if it would live up to the hype. Of course, it did, and then some. Laura Hillenbrand is a wonderful writer, full of anecdotes and information about the '30s, the depression, and the world of horseracing in those days. The author spends a great deal of time (a quarter or a third of the book) setting the stage, but she does such a wonderful job that you don't mind. When she gets to the spot where things begin to take off, the book is frankly wonderful.I won't tell you anything more about the book, other than to mention that Seabiscuit was the typical underdog (underhorse?) that Americans love to see win, and he didn't dissappoint. I enjoyed this book immensely, and would recommend it to anyone.
5 Like so many other readers, I have no interest in horse racing and, as a result, ignored the ubiquitousness of this book for over two years. I am now scolding myself for my narrow-mindedness: sometimes you can't judge a book even by its subject.Although as quickly paced as a thriller, "Seabiscuit" should not be appraised (or read) as a literary work or a historical treatise. Laura Hillenbrand's style and background is journalistic, and this book is one of the best works of sports journalism ever published. (This has to rank also as one of the most humorous works of non-fiction I've ever read.) She gives just enough historical background and just enough racing fundamentals for general readers, but her focus is on the rags-to-riches story of the horse and its very human owner, trainer, and jockeys. What gives the narrative particular resonance is her ability to provide the unique background and importance of each significant race, and the story is greatly helped by the fact that Seabiscuit was far from invincible: you are never quite sure which races will be won and which will be lost.Judging from the notes, the book seems extremely well researched, using an astonishing variety of interviews, books, magazine articles, and long-lost newspaper clippings. (The book is also well documented, with citations to back up every quotation and arcane fact.) And, finally, the paperback edition concludes with an interview with the author, which provides a valuable backdrop for the creation of the book itself.
5 This is truly a great book...the best I've read in months.  Hillenbrand's descriptions of Seabiscuit's races are just as emotional as watching the real thing--the anticipation, excitement, and triumph of a winning race, as well as the crushing disappointment of a loss or injury.  Even if you aren't a horse/horseracing fan, the historical aspects alone are fascinating.
5 But it's not. I loved this book, and I am a horse guy (track-rat) but you don't have to have any interest in the &quot;sport of Kings&quot; to enjoy this book.
5 When this book was first published, I heard all the great reviews, but not being a horseracing fan, I thought, &quot; How interesting could a book about a horse be?&quot;  Well, it meets and exceeds all the hype you've heard about it!If the movie is even HALF as good as this book, RUN, do not walk, to see it!  I literally inhaled this book over 2 days, and was completely taken in and enthralled by the story of this improbable champion and the men who believed in him, and brought out the best in him.  The meticulous research and documentation by the author is seamlessly converted into a &quot;you are there&quot; story...this will be a book you cannot put down!
5 If you only read one book about sports this year, make it Seabiscuit.  This book deserves many more than five stars for its superb portrayal of the underdog horse whose career captured the nation's heart during the depths of the Depression.  In fact, the less you know about thoroughbred racing in the 1930s the more you will probably like this book.Similar to its subject, the underdog Seabiscuit, the book, Seabiscuit, constantly surprises in many multi-dimensional ways.  The best books about sports transcend sports and teach us about life.  Seabiscuit is a fine example of that success.Ms. Hillenbrand is a brilliant story teller, a fine writer, and has an eye for detail that brings you into the scenes she describes.  You will feel yourself on Seabiscuit's back, looking for an opening to the rail, as you read the accounts of his most famous races.If you do not know about Seabiscuit, this horse was an unlikely candidate for racing greatness.  He was built all wrong, had a weird personality, and required unusual handling that few would provide.  His career was heading nowhere when he was bought by the wealthy Charles Howard, a legendary automobile dealer in the western United Sates, on the advice of his obscure trainer, Tom Smith.Finding ways to encourage Seabiscuit provides all of the intellectual excitement of a puzzle.  Part of solving the puzzle required finding a very special jockey, one whose intelligence allowed him to be flexible.  No one could have seemed less likely to play the role of top jockey based on his career track record than Red Pollard, who became the most effective jockey on Seabiscuit.The triumverate combined to take advantage of Seabiscuit's &quot;blistering speed, tactical versatility, and indomitable will.&quot;  All of that training and work led up to a monumental match race against Triple Crown winner War Admiral in 1938.  During that year, more inches of newspaper space in the United States were devoted to Seabiscuit than to FDR or Hitler.The book has so many dimensions that they cannot all be addressed in this brief space.  There is a lot of history.  The biographies of the three main human characters tell you a lot about the development of the automobile, horse training, and the careers of jockeys.  The colorful side stories are priceless, especially the ones in Tijuana around the old track there (where western racing migrated after betting was made illegal in California).  The tales about the manure pile there are hilarious.Each of the three main characters could have been the subject of his own very interesting biography, and much interesting detail is included here.There is a lot of humor.  You will especially like the cat-and-mouse games that Tom Smith played with the media so that they could not find out how fast Seabiscuit was running in his workouts.The stories also involve a lot of diplomacy.  The background leading up to the match race with War Admiral will remind you of the peace negotiations to end the Vietnam War.Finally, there is much tragedy.  Horseracing is dangerous (especially for the jockeys), and many paid the price is a variety of ways.I cannot remember a sports book that captures so many dimensions of fine book writing and story telling.  I was reminded of Death in the Afternoon by Ernest Hemingway as I read this book, but I think that Seabiscuit is the better book.After you finish enjoying the book, look around you.  Where is there hidden potential waiting to be tapped?  Do you have a Seabiscuit-like opportunity you can develop?  Probably.Be flexible in looking for great potential!
5 My husbands family lives in the Willits area, so I was interested in the background of Seabiscuit.  After I read the book, I visited the farm where Seabiscuit was stabled.  Very interesting.  Laura Hillenbrand makes the details so interesting.  Hard to put this book down!
4 This book presents a colorful personal history of a somewhat forgotten race horse. The initial threads of the story are meticulously woven -- the first two or three furlongs seem to be a slow-going jockeying for position (or perhaps, the loading into the gate?), whereby authoress Laura Hillenbrand chronicles the lives of the three principal non-equine characters -- owner Charles Howard, trainer Tom Smith, and jockey/boxer Red Pollard -- before their lives became totally roped around the success of their beloved thoroughbred -- Seabiscuit. Once down the backstretch, the telling of the tale picks up pace, with a freshly-told recalling of probably every race this champion horse has ever run. Around the final turn, the storyline becomes climatic, stretching to the wire for a triumphant finish. To some, the concept of an underdog horse overcoming adversity to eventually end up in the winner's circle might seem a bit lame. But as we learn from Hillenbrand's sound and stable research, Seabiscuit could gamely overcome almost any obstacle, including lameness, to be the American legend that he truly was. And if you're too lame to read the book, at least go see the movie ...
5 Don't underestimate the hype...this book is the real deal.  I place it easily in my top ten books I've ever read. From page one Ms. Hillenbrand has you strangely interested in the convergence of an entreprenuer heading west, a man who could communicate with horses, a rough-shod jockey who was penniless and needed one big break, and a &quot;stall poney&quot; who would grow to capture the hearts of millions.  Hours seemed like minutes while reading this simple masterpiece.  If &quot;O' Brother Where Art Thou&quot; stirred up interest in the art of Bluegrass music, &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; is bound to have the same effect on Thoroughbred Racing.  As many have probably said, you needn't be interested in horses to read this book.  This is simply great writing that keeps the reader wanting more.You might see the movie.  But, by all means, read the book.  It's a joy.
4 . . . I would have disliked the book due to its complete implausibility.  This is a generally solid telling of a fascinating piece of American sporting history.  It also provides a lot of interesting detail into how the sport works, suitable for all levels of interest/knowledge in thoroughbred racing.In the early pages of the book, Hillenbrand draws up a wonderful snapshot of America at the turn of the 20th century and does a great job of conveying how society shaped the characters and drove the story.  For example, the retelling of the early hatred of the automobile are not only interesting and humorous, but also critical to the development of Charles Howard as a character.Unfortunately, this level of attention to the world around the main characters falls away midway through the book.  Instead of factual listings of every scratch that Seabiscuit ever had because of muddy track conditions, I would rather have had more information on how and why the Depression-era populace came to adore this horse as a national celebrity.Nevertheless, once you muddle past the slow middle of the book, you're in for a treat.  I wasn't able to put it down as it recapped the climax and conclusion of this amazing horse's career.
5 Seabiscuit: An American Legend by Laura Hillenbrand is an inspiring story of an improbable racehorse and an improbable jockey who, together, set the world of horse racing on its head during the last days of the Great Depression. Hillenbrand skillfully weaves the historical events of the era in with the story of Seabiscuit and his rider, Red Pollard. Both overcame incredible odds to win some of racing's greatest races, and gave hope to millions of Americans who had been battered by years of war and economic hardship.She avoids the temptation to draw Pollard as a saint, laying out his problems with alcohol, while at the same time detailing his courageous comeback from injuries the like of which have ended the careers of many other jockeys.The unwavering faith that Seabiscuit's owner, trainer and rider exhibit in the gangly little horse is inspiring, and reading the very ruses Seabiscuit's handlers came up with to disguise him at the racetracks adds an air of amusement to the whole incredible story.This is a great book, a modern day classic. Five stars!
5 This story was very interesting reading. I never thought I'd enjoy reading about a horse but Seabiscuit proved me wrong. I have suggested this book to others and everyone thanked me for the suggestion.Once you start reading the first few Chapters you will find it difficult to put down.
5 Not only has Laura Hilldenbrand captured the spirit of the country during Sea Biscuit's reign. She put on paper the feelings and emotions of the participants in his life. She explains the racing industry as it was in the 1930's and early 40's  clearly and correctly. I am thoroughly impressed with her ability to drag the reader track side to experience each race, each injury, and each triumph. I  only hope she will write about other spectacular athletes, the four-legged kind!
5 To Hillenbrand, all lives are heroic, all personality flaws are endearing quirks, and all stories are worth telling.  The author makes everyone in Seabiscuit, equine as well as human, lovable.  She doesn't accomplish this by editing out their various flaws and sins, but by understanding, sympathizing with, and loving these characters herself to the extent that you can't help but join her.
5 What do you say about a non-fiction book that revolves around an obstinate but spirited race-horse with an awkward gait, his ex-bicycle mechanic owner, his reclusive mustang breaker trainer and his alcoholic and accident prone jockey?  Superb, wonderful, terrific, awesome and superlative - that is what you say.  Ms Hillebrand can take a bow for bringing to fruition a tour de force story of a struggling era and of an inimitable race-horse and three diverse characters who helped in making America believe in itself again.  + 60 years after the fact her pages had me shouting for Seabiscuit down those home runs and forever on I will look at race-horses, their jockeys and this sport with completely new eyes.
5 If you think Steinbeck's fictional Joad family had a tough time during the Great Depression, read Laura Hillenbrand's "Seabiscuit" to find out what it was like to be a down-at-the-heels jockey or trainer trying to make a living from `The Sport of Kings' back in the 1930s.Hillenbrand not only gives her reader a fresh perspective on the Depression, she also lets us into the hearts and minds of three men and one great racehorse.  Before reading this book, I had the vague notion that Seabiscuit was a gelding who won a big match race against War Admiral.Okay, I thought, so Seabiscuit got lucky.  War Admiral was a triple-crown winner, and even War Admiral's sire, the immortal Man O'War lost one race.I could not have been more wrong (for one thing, Seabiscuit was a stallion).In some respects, Seabiscuit was like the Depression-era survivors who filled the stands to watch him:  hard-bitten, tough, struggling to win in spite of bad knees and the weight that race-track stewards piled onto his back when he began to win.  The bay colt started thirty-five (!) times at age two, and evidently impressed no-one as he could have been claimed for $2,500 more than once.  At age three, when trainer Smith bought him for his new owner, Buick-dealer Charles Howard, he paid $7,000 for a colt whose, "... body, built low to the ground, had all the properties of a cinder block.  Where Hard Tack [Seabiscuit's sire] had been tall, sleek, tapered, every line suggesting motion, his son was blunt, coarse, rectangular, stationary.  He had a sad little tail, barely long enough to brush his hocks.  His stubby legs were a study in unsound construction with squarish, asymmetrical `baseball glove' knees that didn't quite straighten all the way, leaving him in a permanent semicrouch."Paging through old issues of "The Blood-Horse," I see that Seabiscuit at age three was described as `useful.'It was not until the colt turned four that his rags-to-riches fairy tale truly began.  At four and five he was one of the best handicap horses in training, although he lost the Santa Anita Handicap (the `Big Cap') twice in close finishes---and this was the one race that his owner, Charles Howard had set his heart on winning.The fairy tale might have ended when Seabiscuit turned six---he injured his knee and was retired to stud.  But his owner never gave up hope.Read this marvelous book to see what Seabiscuit, his owner, trainer, and jockeys accomplished when the rugged, little stallion turned seven---well past the retirement age for most Thoroughbreds.
5 Seabiscuit's story is just too incredible to overlook.  This book provides all the details and is very entertaining.  For fans of horse racing or horses in general, this is a must read.
5 Ms. Hillenbrand has a gift for conveying the drama and excitement of horse racing.  The description of the races places the reader right in the saddle, rooting for Seabiscuit to triumph with each approach to the finish line.  She maintains narrative tension despite the heartbreaks, losses and false starts this true story chronicles. What was even more enjoyable was her skill in recreating the men and women that brought Seabiscuit to the attention of a nation starved for heroes and hope.  This is a book I will read again and again.  Even if you have no interest in the sport of kings, this book will provide a rewarding reading experience.
5 Admittedly, I was slow out of the gates when it came to reading Laura Hillenbrand's "Seabiscuit: An American Legend."  So after endless weeks atop the bestseller list and 300+ glowing reviews here on Amazon, I finally decided to give the book a shot.  Much to my surprise and delight, the book actually lived up to all of its hype and success, a true rarity in my reading experiences of late.Hillenbrand has fashioned a compulsively readable account of one of the greatest thoroughbred horses of all time as well as three men (owner Charles Howard, trainer Tom Smith, and jockey Red Pollard) who molded the lame-looking animal into a national hero.  Through meticulous research, Hillenbrand masterfully fleshes the main players and events of the day.  With all its drama, suspense, and surprises, "Seabiscuit" is one of those real-life stories that reads like fiction.So there is probably little more to say, except to add one more voice to this already word-of-mouth bestseller.  It is an inspiring story of reaching beyond what was thought possible to achieve one's dreams - be it man, beast, or even the author herself.
5 This is the 2nd book I have read by Laura Hillenbrand.  She is an excellent author, doing the necessary research and having the &#34;heart&#34; to understand her subject, she is able to keep you interested and reading to the conclusion.If you haven't read her book &#34;Unbroken&#34;, it is well worth doing.  The man about whom she wrote is a WWII Vet and still alive.  It is a remarkable story about courage and the will to live.
4 I would recommend this book for anyone, even if they know nothing about horseracing. In fact it's better if one has never even heard of Seabiscuit, as I was pretty ignorant of the whole story. I had no idea how the races were going to end, and Ms Hillenbrand has a wonderful ability to build suspense. Amazing that she wrote this while dealing with chronic fatigue syndrome (see her essay in the New Yorker, July 13 issue). Now, will the movie be as good?
5 Laura Hillenbrand's Seabiscuit, An American Legend, is a great book.The author was fortunate in that the story provides a leading character, in the form of Seabiscuit, his owner (and his formidable spouse), his trainer and his jockey.  The horse was even fortunate in having a rival, War Admiral, which led up to climactic competitions of the racetrack.The author is writing for a broad audience, most of those who are not racetrack fans.  This required the explanation of concepts, such as the impost, that may not be readily apparent or understood.  TOne of the most interesting parts is the background story of the people the evocation of the disparate cultures (the entrepreneurs for Howard, the jockeys for Pollard) and locations (the different racetracks and stables).Among the craft elements that are directly applicable to my personal concerns were the introduction of the characters (such as Pollard in chapter 4).  This is significant because it segued, through its focus on Pollard, ionto an example of how jockeys, for all their skill and popular following, were highly expendable and poorly paid.  Now, the comparison with wartime fighter pilots is not a fair one.  While many jockeys were injured and lots more came away with painful injuries and little money, most did get to die from old age.But for all these differences, the author's craft decisions were aimed at getting the readers to care, to follow the story, even when it is a long-ago horse race and the fate of civilization was not at stake.  This is why the books' preface, before we get to the story of the horse, sets out what is at stake and why the reader should care.The main characters are all dead.  While they were interviewed by the press at times, they wrote no memoirs and filled out few reports.  The author is willing to state, for example in the Epilogue, what the last things a dead jockey would have seen before a fatal fall.
4 This narrative leaps out of the first paragraph in the same way Seabiscuit learns to bolt from the starting gate.  From the start, Laura Hillenbrand draws the reader into the story with colorful, taut writing.  There are no meaningless side stories in this book - each detail weaves itself back into the tale of a horse who beat the odds to become one of the greatest  athletes of the 20th century.This story is gripping even if you have no interest in horseracing.
4 A detailed account of the background of horseracing and all that is involved. Tells the story of how a horse and rider became famous. Puts you right there with all the information which makes the reader appreciate the story all that much more.
5 I am very aware, but not exactly proud, of the fact that virtually all of my horseplay these days consists of watching numbers and then making wager involving more numbers based on the results of the first numbers.  Most of the time it's a result of what a computer has number crunched, or from what I've garnered from staring at toteboards while on the Internet. This routine almost never involves seeing, touching, or smelling a live horse.Which is why I was delighted when I came across the book "Seabiscuit An American Legend" by Laura Hillenbrand.  I was aware that there was a famous horse a long time ago named Seabiscuit, but that's about it.  Since the average age of today's race player is about 102 years old, many of you race fans should read the book to relive this period of time.  For the rest of us young punks that follow racing (by that I mean those over forty), it's a valuable history lesson.  If you don't follow racing at all, pick it up anyway.Yes, the book completely covers the life of the horse named Seabiscuit.  It traces the horses lineage, birthplace, entire career, and life after racing.  But it also presents a story that is much more than a collection of statistics.I "absorb" a lot of books, mostly by listening to unabridged recordings of them while at work.  Among them are a lot of mysteries.  In many of these I end up not really caring if the butler or transvestite senator did the killing.  What gets me to like a story is how it creates the world it visits, be it historical period, such as the Depression, or a particular profession, like say, horseracing."Seabiscuit" does both very well, and intermixes both of them seamlessly.  With the Depression , it sets the tone for what peoples' lives were in those days.  While unemployment was the primary concern, it's the uncertainty of when good times, if ever, are going to return.  While "heroes" is a very overused term, it shows how this uncertainty leads to people to look for stories with good endings, and the participants of those good endings.  Replace the word "hero" with the one you deem appropriate for the characters of this story.On the other hand, maybe "hero" is not such a bad term here.  No, we're not talking about saving the world, only winning a few horse races.  And nobody put a gun to anybody's head to proceed on the path both horse and jockey followed (a great horse usually loves to run).  But both here made sacrifices, where a perfect lack of execution could have been fatal to either or both of them, to try and accomplish something that not only they, but millions of people considered important.It lets you know how racing was in the 1930's, and who were the players.  For example, Bing Crosby spent a fortune on racing.  He put a lot of money into his own stable, which the book states, sadly never produced personal financial reward for his efforts.  But he also had a lot to do with the building of Santa Anita and the establishment of the Santa Anita Handicap.Besides the Depression, the book also gives a colorful look into the world of the owner, trainer, jockey, and horse.  It brings you into a world that somehow doesn't translate into the Daily Racing Form.  You can look at all the numbers you want, and logically conclude that your horse SHOULD be the choice.  But the form can't tell you that it was a lousy trip to a new track, or it got bit by a horsefly in the wrong place that morning, or the horse just plain doesn't like the new horse in the next stall.  This book brings you into that world.Of the majors players listed above, it does paint an eye-opening picture of what a jockey has to go through to have any chance of success.  Like any other professional athlete, the odds are slim of making it big.  But the jockey has the added pressure of getting his/her weight down to unhealthy levels.  And with these low weight levels, enough strength and stamina have to be built up to not only maneuver a horse, but avoid serious injury every time they go to work.  Being a jockey is one of the most dangerous professions in the world.But, of course, the book centers around the life of one horse.  A horse that showed early promise, then bombed spectacularly and was given up on.  A horse that by sheer luck, crossed paths with exactly the right owner, then exactly the right trainer, then exactly the right jockey to make a spectacular comeback and capture that hero need in America we talked about earlier.  When life-threatening events seemingly put both horse and jockey out of the picture for good, they both regroup to give a shot at yet one more miracle. I'll leave it to your reading to find out what happened.
5 To the people already working on a film from this book: STOP! There's no way a movie can be as good as the book. Seabiscuit is as superb as entertainment can be.It was extraordinary serendipity that brought the right owner, trainer and jockey together to unleash the champion in Seabiscuit. The same benevolent fate brought Laura Hillenbrand to her subject and her wonderful book to us. Seabiscuit by Laura Hillenbrand is an extraordinary pairing of subject and style. Hillenbrand writes in cadences that imitate the rhythms of the thoroughbred horses she loves. Sometimes gamboling, sometimes cantering, then galloping  and thundering to smashing climaxes.  Her descriptions of races will make you want to rise from your seat and shout. Her reports of loses and calamities are equally charged, but never syrupy.The chapter on the match race with War Admiral is magnificent. A model of perfect writing. It is almost like a film. It begins with extended scenes of race preparation  and the actions of several characters. As the event approaches the scenes grow shorter and the momentum more concentrated. Hillenbrand shifts from crowd scenes to close-ups which lend emotional impact as she builds suspense. For the race itself Hillenbrand unleashes her most descriptive writing-short sentences full of color and energy. And if you don't already know who won (as I did) the suspense is deliciously unbearable. Then, she de-accelerates,  restores peace and finishes up with a grace note that will put a lump in your throat if there isn't one already there. Whole movies, whole novels even, don't pack the punch and exercise emotions the way this one chapter does.Along with the magnificent horse we also three fascinating men: flamboyant and sentimental  owner C.H. Howard, impulsive and intellectual  jockey Red Pollard, reticent  and sly trainer Tom Smith. They and their wives are good people you will enjoy spending time with as you read and will remember them fondly after you are finished.
5 One of the best books I have read in a long time. Hillenbrand is a terrific writer; she makes the world of 1930s thoroughbred racing come alive and reveals the people and horses who inhabited it as flesh and blood, complex characters. She brings a depth of feeling to the high and low points of Seabiscuit's career that is wonderful to experience. Whether or not you have any interest in thoroughbred racing, this story will grab you.
5 Thoroughly enjoyed reading this book written by a lady who certainly knows her craft. Thank you so very much Laura!
5 Probably one of the best books I have ever read.  I could not put it down.  Even the Epilogue and Q &A in the back of the book was fascinating.  After watching the movie numerous times, I wanted to read the book.  Unbelievable how much the book differs from the movie.  The book goes into such interesting detail into the sport of horseracing that there was stuff I could not even fathom.  The author has another book &#34;Unbroken&#34; which there is a movie being made at the time of this posting.  I read that book also and is another on top of my list.  I am confident the movie wont even be close to the book.  Get both books.  You won't be sorry.
4 Book is well written as any of Laura Hillenbrand's work is.  Anyone that is interested in the time peroid would enjoy this book and other books about the Great Horses should be interesting.Flecia
4 One of the aspects that make this such a fantastic book is the way it evokes the competitive nature in all of us. Everyone roots for one team or another, one athlete or another, and this story, while still being able to successfully depict the history of horse racing, lures us in with the idea of competition.Seabiscuit became such a sports icon in 1938 because the nation appeared hungry for the thrill of a sport's figure to take off. Americans had just caught onto the buzz of sports betting, and since the racing track in Tijuana had been closed, it was only natural that horse racing would make its way back to the United States. Americans during this time searched for a sports icon to cheer for, and Seabiscuit seemed to fit that role to a tee because of the "underdog" tag given to him.Hillenbrand also delves into the subtleties of the life of a horse racing jockey, not only the lifestyle they led and the sacrifices they made to compete in the sport, but also the corruption by them in horse racing in general. There were many issues that riders faced: unsafe conditions, lack of proper assistance if there were injuries, competition and cheating from other riders. Red Pollard's ability to come back so many times to race is one of the more remarkable achievements in the novel.There was also the luster of rivalry that I think all Americans can relate to, and Seabiscuit had that in War Admiral. Hillenbrand depicts the events leading up to "the biggest sports event of the century"-the match up between Seabiscuit and War Admiral. She describes how each horse had its own following, those in the West supporting Seabiscuit and those in the East War Admiral. When the two horses did finally meet, it was such a big event not only because of the remarkable press coverage of the race, but because there had already been at least two failed attempts at bringing the two together.If there is an overlying message in the book it is that perseverance pays off in many forms, and takes time to merit its rewards. Those who were directly responsible for making Seabiscuit a household name and success--- Red Pollard, Tom Smith, Charles Howard and George Woolf-had to achieve success when failure seemed eminent. The story really is a lesson in not only understanding what horse racing was like during the late 30s, but also the main idea that victory can come out of small failures. After all , there were many times that Seabiscuit was injured and had to make it back, and Red Pollard often had to battle his own demons, such as injuries and alcoholism. Charles Howard perhaps had to overcome the biggest of tragedies in his life, the loss of his son.Laura Hillenbrand's novel is probably another reason why they say that you should read the book before checking out the movie.  Those who are turned off by non-fiction will probably find that this work is a little different from the norm.Definitely recommended!!
4 This is a well-written book, deftly bringing the reader into the complex world of horse racing and writing a book with scarcely less information and emotion than if the protagonists themselves had written the book.Although the author does offer a glimpse of the underside of horse racing, she keeps her rose-colored glasses on as she affirms that everything is wonderful, the horses run because they love to run, and everyone is either happy, or at least brave;  why, even the prostitutes are glad to join the party scene.  Yet in the background, horses are injured, jockeys suffer severe injuries while racing with no medical help, and even Seabiscuit's jockey needs to hide the fact that he's blind in one eye.  Jockeys ruin their bodies while drastically reducing to ridiculous weights (right before engaging in a demanding and dangerous sport) because that's what's allowed by the racing rules, and the Racing Commission ruins lives by making tyrannical and unappealable decisions.
4 Good book about a great horse.  The underdog does come out on top part of the time, all it takes is a little faith.
5 My interest in horse racing was right up there with watching paint dry. The movie Seabiscuit was very well done and I purchased the paperback in conjunction with the theatrical release of the movie as well as the gushy reviews Ms. Hillengrand's book had received. And then there it sat... gathering dust on my bookshelf for nearly six years. Don't be an idiot like me and rush out to get this absolutely fantastic story. It has everything short of ET phoning home or bodies being dumped into the harbor. It is truly an educational and suspenseful story. I found myself rooting for Seabiscuit, Howard, Small, Pollard, Woolf, oh heck, practically everyone that had a hearbeat. There are plenty of other reviews on Amazon that go into more detail about Ms. Hillenbrand's masterpiece. So, this write-up is my screwy attempt to convey the feeling of one of those inspirational, ole-time gospel pitches. Brothers and sisters, I'm tellin' you that I've read ah lot of books in my time on this here lowly planet and this baby is easily one of my favorites. Seriously, pick it up and get ready for the ride of your life.
5 Hillenbrand has hit the track running with this marvelous book which is at once the biography of an unlikely athletic hero and a superb social/political overview of America just before and during the great depression.  Her moving text and unvarnished portrayal of Seabiscuit and the humans around him captures a moment in American history that is long gone and deserves to be shown to current generations.  Hillenbrand takes the individual threads of each peron's *horse's* life and weaves them together into a glorious tapestry that will satisfy even the most finicky of readers.  If you like horses, racing, American history or a tale of the underdog then Seabiscuit is for you.  If you don't read non-fiction, then I challenge you to pick up Seabiscuit this summer...it will redefine the standards by which you choose your next book.
5 I loved this book !! It made me feel as though I was there watching the drama unfold as the unknown underestimated horse rose to champion status. The characters are real and the story is built piece by piece. If you like rooting for the underdog and enjoy the thrill of competition, this book is for you. The large print of this edition was easy on the eyes as well.
4 For most people under age 70, the name &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; probably doesn't elicit much, but for those who were around during his reign, I would have to imagine that it's a bit like mentioning Michael Jordan to a modern sportsfan. Hillenbrand paints a compelling portrait of this non-human competitor, tracing his exploits through the American racing world of the late 1930s.I held off reading this book for a long time, wondering if I could really get interested in a story built around thoroughbred racing. However, if you're not a race fan, fear not. You'll be entertained. This is due to the fact that the book is not primarily about horses; it's about personalities. In particular, those of Seabicuit's owners, his trainer, and his primary jockey. Mix in equal parts tragedy, humor, human weakness, and cliff-hanger races and you have &quot;Seabiscuit&quot;. (Oh, let's not forget the involvement that pulling for your favoite &quot;team&quot; can create in a narrative.)While sitting through movie trailers the other day, I discovered that the book has been made into a movie to be released sometime in the summer of 2003. No wonder, either. This tale has just the kind of emotional highs and lows that could make for a very good film.I give the book four stars and not five partly because I didn't feel that it lived up to the massive hype that it received and partly because I felt it was repetitive at certain points. (A horse race can only be described in so many different ways over 340 pages.) Also, I was a little too conscious of the impossible-to-know historical details that Hillenbrand sprinkled in, though I know that's part of the trick she used to keep &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; from being just another dry history book.
5 I loved &#34;Unbroken&#34; by Laura Hillenbrand!  My husband and I watched the movie. &#34;Seabiscuit&#34; and enjoyed it so much.  Knowing that there was &#34;more&#34; to the story than was contained in the movie, I bought it for my Kindle and thoroughly enjoyed it!
5 If you ever stand silently and look into a horse's handsome face, you see that they are intelligent, gentle creatures. Laura Hillenbrand's wonderful story conveys this, as well as the excitement that racing fans feel when horses round the turn and charge into the homestretch. More than that, she describes beautifully the heart and soul of a remarkable horse. Seabiscuit didn't look like a champion, but he had heart, hustle, a perverse sense of humor, and he could run like the wind. His owner, his trainer, and his jockey saw what he had, and he took them to such dazzling heights in 1938 that he became more famous than world leaders. Laura Hillenbrand has done an outstanding job of tracing the career of this magnificent horse. Reading her story is pure enjoyment.
5 I generally don't pay any attention to horse racing.  In fact, I sometimes think its either silly or cruel to the horses.  Who cares if a horse can run fast, or can't or doesn't want to.  But I do get interested in the Triple Crown races, I'll admit.  They're sort of fun.  Having said all that, I can't imagine that I'd ever pick up a book about horses or racing.  Waste of time.  Forget it.My sister bought this book some years ago, and gave it to me during an apartment cleaning.  ok, fine, I do admit to being a bibliophile, so I took it and stuck it away.  Thought I might read a page or two and to see what it was like.  Maybe there were some pictures.Fast forward a couple of years.  I had languished in the trunk of my car.  I was stuck somewhere and needed something to read.  In some semi-desperation, I grabbed this book.  From the first page, I was hooked.  This gal can write!  Reading this book was like living with the folks who walked through the pages.  It was like you were there in the stables, and on the race course.  I felt like I was the one riding Seabiscuit!  It was that good.The book didn't turn me into a racing fan, but it was a good romp through a fascinating time.Thanks Laura!
5 I bought the hardback in 2003.  I know because when I pulled the book off my bookshelf last month (6/10) to finally read it I found the receipt inside!I bought the book originally just because I love horses and I just wanted to read it.  Well as you can see it took a while but WOW!!!!! What an amazing book about an incredible horse!!  I wanted to change my puppy's name to 'biscuit' after I finished reading it! :)You will be incredibly tense as the author is describing a horse race...your heart will beat fast, your breathing will be shallow...you couldn't put the book down even if your house was on fire...just waiting to see who is going to cross the finish line first.This author has an amazing talent of making her characters come alive on the page.  There are so many authors (best-selling to boot) that have little skill in character development.  You just really connect with this mis-matched bunch of people.  You feel what they feel. You laugh.. you cry... It is a masterpiece and quite a ride!
5 Wow, can Ms. Hillenbrand tell a story! I was reading this in bed and my husband asked, "Why's the bed shaking like that?" Well, it was because Seabiscuit was pounding down the track and I felt like I was in the saddle. It was that real!But this book is about far more than the action and excitement of the races themselves; it is about the people who came together to groom this fabulous little horse for success, and about the long-ago time when Seabiscuit's name was a household word.Hillenbrand has exhaustively researched her topic, but she does something else at least as important: she breathes life into it!
5 Laura has managed to capture a bit of history just before it was lost to us. If she hadn't started the book when she did, no one who knew the participants in this grand drama would have been around to tell us the inside story and what story it is. Hollywood did a pretty good job with translating it to film but as usual the book is a lot better.One can only hope that the healing nature of Seabiscuit's spirit can transform space and time to heal Ms. Hillenbrand. Of course if she had been healthy all those years she may not have spent all that time writing articles for those horse magazines and not discovered the basics of the story.Still a highly recommended read. You may have thought of the '30s as all soup kitchens and Hoverville's but horse racing really got going here in America and Seabiscuit led the champs.
5 Seabiscuit was an amazing horse, yes, but the book isn't entirely about him.  There would not have been a glorious memory of Seabiscuit if it hadn't been for four very different men in his life.  Charles Howard, Tom Smith, Red Pollard and George Woolf all have their stories to share, and Hillenbrand brings them to life in beautiful and lyrical prose.  Each man had his own gift to share with this horse; lose just one of them from the story, and you lose the story.  Hillenbrand's descriptions of the races put me directly in Seabiscuit's saddle, and I had to repeatedly remind myself &quot;breathe&quot; during each of his approaches to the wire.  This is perhaps the best book I've read in the last 10 years, and I cannot wait to see what Ms. Hillenbrand has up her sleeve for an encore.  She has given herself a tremendously hard act to follow.
5 ..to appreciate this well-constructed tale. The author does a fine job of weaving this story together. Rivetting. Not being a particular fan of horses or horse-racing myself, I listened to this book on audio CD after having read the author's more recent title, "Unbroken". This book far exceeded my expectations. I can't wait to see where this author takes us on her next effort.
5 And so, when my wife recommended this book, I was skeptical. Horse racing has never interested me. But wow, what a book. Hillenbrand can really tell a story. It inspires, entertains and amazes. I love it when she says, after introducing the characters and bringing them together, &quot;Their crowded hour had begun.&quot; Terrific. If you like history with some passion mixed in, you'll love this book.
5 My idea of a book about horse racing was an airplane and the latest Dick Francis novel. This was before I read Seabiscuit, An American Legend.This is without any doubt the best book I have read in ten years-not the best horse racing book, the best book. Meticulously researched Laura Hillenbrand depicts the strange lives and rituals of jockeys and trainers, the excesses of the press and owners, and the thrill of the ride on the great Seabiscuit.You will feel a part of this world at every level. You will come to understand life in the owner's box at a great stakes race, the indentured servitude of bug boys, the race strategy of the jocks, and the caginess of trainers. Mostly you will touch the heart of a great champion, Seabiscuit.
5 This is a worthwhile book even if you have zero interest in horses or racing. It is one of the five best written books I've ever read regardless of topic.
3 Well, let me offer a slightly different view of this extremely well publicized book.  While there is a lot to enjoy in the story and in some of the writing, the first hundred pages should have been trimmed to twenty.  The book doesn't get going till the second section, the first being a kind of prologue that wanders all over the place - you get the whole life story of people who have nothing to do with the tale at all, and you will learn more than you ever wanted to know about Mexican brothels before the writer remembers what the book is supposed to be describing.  That is worth a one-star deduction on my scorecard.And I have problems with the author's writing style, mostly during this part of the book as well.  &quot;Smith cleaned up good,&quot; is one example of the kind of thing the author tosses out every page or so, a vernacular style that works as a direct quote but not in narrative, to my ear, at least.She also throws out quotations that I suspect are invented, something that blurs the line between a work supposedly of fact with fiction.  Occasionally we get a detailed description of some casual conversation sixty years ago and asked to accept it at face value, such as when Red Pollard, the jockey, is supposed to say from his hospital bed, &quot; ...&quot;Go get those bums, Seabiscuit!&quot; Pollard sang out, &quot;Get 'em, you old devil!'&quot; (page 169). He really said that?  How do we know?And then, there are the factual problems.  &quot;A few days after the Bay Meadows Handicap, the Overland Limited clattered to a stop at the Tanforan siding for the long trek east.&quot;  The Overland Limited never came within thirty miles of Tanforan, on the opposite side of San Francisco Bay from Oakland, where the train began its journey.  Not a big deal, but not accurate either.  Most editors won't let most writers get away with this sort of thing.All that said, once you get past page 100, the story begins to hit its stride and is worth the price of admission.  The author finally gets down to business and tells the story, and it is a story worth hearing.  It just isn't quite up to its extremely expensive publicity campaign, but it is good enough.  Skip Section One and it is a four star book.  The publicity campaign, however, wins the prize for best of the year.
4 To find this subject matter, and to tackle it so brilliantly, readers must credit author Laura Hillenbrand with amazing vision. She has unearthed a point on the American timeline, dating back to the Depression era, which virtually had been forgotten.Yet Hillenbrand's account is so vivid that the reader gets caught up in the excitement of that moment long past. Her research is breath-taking, and her prose is lively and elegant. She tells this story well enough that the book reads like fiction.And, for the span of this account, one truly can understand the frenzy surrounding this racehorse which was so improbable in its success; in fact, the broken-down horse becomes almost a metaphor for the broken-down spirit of the nation in those difficult days. At his height of glory, Seabiscuit was as important to American pop culture as J-Lo and Britney are today.The vision of the book extends to the film. It is rare for movies to equal, or exceed, the books from which they are adapted, but SEABISCUIT is one of the most visually beautiful movies ever made, much to the producer's credit.Take a break from the bad news of the moment and enjoy the history of the horse that had delighted America during those grim days of the Depression.
5 When you finally need a break from murder,terror, sex, virgin births, etc. and you want to feel good about a book, read this book. I will not summarize the story or plot of the book (read the other reviews if you want that),but finally a book (and movie) that when it is over I don't feel as though I need a shower.  The books reads as though it is fiction, these people can't be real but it is so good you want to read it again. It is a story of a time in history and how three men got together with a horse and made history.  Believe me, read the book you will not be disappointed.
5 I had no particular interest in horse-racing, but picked this book up for half price at a used bookstore, and figured &quot;Why not?&quot; Several people had recommended it to me, so it couldn't be all bad.  I completely underestimated this book.  I absolutely could not put it down!  I found myself waking up early in the morning before work to have time to read.  I took public transportation instead of my car so I could read.  I read 339 pages in two days (and I have a full time job).Hillenbrand brings the race track to life, in a way that is so engrossing, it won't matter a bit if the only thing you know about horses is that they're quadrupeds.  She offers an inside glimpse into the strange world of jockeys.  Along with the story of Seabiscuit himself is interwoven a cultural history of the times.  Particularaly fascinating is Hillenbrand's discussion of America's switch from horse-drawn carriages to automobiles.Read this book...it is history and story-telling at it finest.  One of the best books I have read in recent memory.
5 Truly an inspirational story that will touch the hearts of everyone. I bought this book after watching the movie and was hoping it would be just as good or better than the movie....and I was right. It's a phenomenal story of a horse and the people that surrounded it.
5 Laura Hillenbrand makes horse racing fans out of everyone. More than simply a biography of a horse, this book portrays the spirit of a sport as it tells the tale of an owner, a jockey and a thoroughbred champion that captivated the nation.This book was a great way to give historical insight into the life and times of the time period when automobiles were coming into existence and the USA was fighting bad times. Hard to believe a young female writer could be the author of this enjoyable read without missing the details of the lives and times of the characters.
5 A racehorse I was vaguely familiar with as I was growing up in the '50s, but never truly knew or appreciated until I read this fascinating book. A heartwarming saga about one of America's most successful racehorses and the men that helped make him famous. A horse with the physique of a cowpony, Seabiscuit continued winning races at well beyond the age where the majority of horses retire.Laura Hillenbrand has a winning book here. She embraces the reader and takes him on a wild journey inside the world of horseracing. She focuses not only on the horse, but the unlikely mix of individuals responsible for his success. The owner (Charles Howard), the trainer (Tom Smith) and the jockeys (Red Pollard & George Woolf) all fatefully come together in the mid-1930s to purchase and turn around the fortunes of an erratic horse given up on by knowledgeable others.If this wasn't enough of a storyline ...it gets even better !!! The plot slowly develops around the ultimate match up of Seabiscuit, the pride of the West Coast, and War Admiral, the Triple Crown winner from the east. This all important stakes race will once and for all determine "Horse of the Year" honors for the eventual winner.This book is not merely your ordinary powder puff story....thanks to the author's obvious knowledge, and extensive research, she delves into the nuts and bolts of horseracing including several chapters devoted to the wretched life of a jockey .....and all the hardships endured in order to manage body weight and stay healthy long enough to eke out a meager existence. For the most part...this is a light and fast pace read...very entertaining...very informative.....and truly unforgettable.J.B. KruzKruzKontrol
5 I do not like horses, nor horse racing, but this is one of the best books I have read in a long time.  You WILL be cheering, and perhaps crying, for Seabuscuit and his companions before the end.  I've also learned something about the times, the 1930's, and am waling away from this book more educated.  Thanks you Laura H. for this great book.
5 Ms. Hillenbrand's research for &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; couldn't have been more timely.  She was fortunate to secure interviews with important sources not long before they passed on.  As a result, this quintissentially American success story is laced with details and anecdotes that could only have come from individuals who had lived through them.Setting the stage for the main story, Hillenbrand provides background that within itself is a rich window upon California in the early 20th Century.  Her insight into the rough and demanding world of thoroughbred racing is sobering.But overall, it is her dynamic prose that relates the historic and heroic story of a racehorse and the people of whose lives he was a part that will keep you reading right on through.  Yet, you may put it down when you reach &quot;Now, Pops, now!,&quot; just to stand up and cheer.No fiction can best a well-told story like this one.
5 A terrific book by an excellent author.
5 Very well-written, accurate, comprehensive but evocative story about a horse who came up from nothing and the people who loved and believed in him.  The country needed a hero and along came Seabiscuit.  His owner, rider, and trainer gave him a second chance, and he did the same for them.  This non-fiction book reads like a novel, but it's all there, fully researched.  Hillenbrand tells a great story in great book.
5 One of the best books I have ever read.  Constantly give it to others as a gift. It is a wonderful story of how hope can work miracles.
5 If you love horses, great storys, learning more about different eras or regions - this is a great story. I enjoyed it! Great pictures, too.
5 Laura outdid herself with this one, learned so much and loved so much while reading it.  I love horses but great to hear about the development and growth of horse racing in the country and it's place especially during the depression.  Most of all couldn't help but fall in love with Seabiscuit himself and the great people around him.
4 You know the story already: Underdog - stumpy, funny-looking, kicked off the varsity squad - makes good with help from a misfit collection of castoff characters. So you know the story already, big deal. "Seabiscuit" is nonetheless a great yarn and a fun read. Hillenbrand crafted a winner, and it should make a swell movie.First the crit. I got the feeling that the uglier sides of "Seabiscuit"'s characters were suppressed. Sure, Pollard was a drunk - although we never actually saw the fallout his alcoholism created - jockeys visited brothels and had eating disorders, the press was vicious and uninformed. But...there's an intriguing accusation against Smith that he doped his horses, and doping is a problem in horse racing just as it is in any other professional sport. Might the accusations be true? And there are mentions of feuds between riders, owners, and trainers...yet no conflict is explored. And what about corruption? Based on "Seabiscuit," you'd think there were no fixed races. Somehow I doubt it.But who cares? Hillenbrand was writing about an underdog, about her love for horse racing; she penned a tale about the downtrodden who finally got their big break and bucked the odds. It's a tale of myth of legend. Ambiguity and ambivalence don't belong. Normally, I'd fault a book for feeling a bit flat. After all, it's the curves in bumps in life that makes life, well, life, right?Well...Hillenbrand pumps so much suspense, character, and detail into "Seabiscuit", that it satisfies my need for realistic characters, but manages to keep them pure. And in the process, "Seabiscuit" satisfies, too, my need for heroes.
5 Those who saw the movie and never read the book are making a mistake.  The fascinating details and superb writing are not to be missed.  If you read the author's great Unbroken, then what are you waiting for?  Better late than never, which was the case with me.  What a wonderful book, especially if you care at all about horse racing.
5 Bought this book several years ago. While not a &#34;horse person,&#34; but I enjoy seeing them on TV. I am a person who loves reading historical books delving into the lives of people who endured hard times. I always ask myself how I would manage living under difficult conditions. To me the depression era was important and interesting and the folks who lived it became great Americans, and raised great American children. I always re-read the &#34;good books&#34; in my library at least once, but this one has been re-read 4 times! To me it's THAT good! The movie version was just Okay, but the book..... I highly recommend!
5 Laura Hillenbrand has put into a captivating prose the essense of what makes horse-racing the 'sport of kings'!  Extreme sacrifice, intrique, exultation and devastation in the click of a hoof. Seabiscuit was much more than a horse or even a legend. Seabiscuit was the result of ethic and morality born of down-and-out, fueled by the unforgiving spirit of 'never say die': by man and horse.A wonderous read; informative history; captivating even though you already know the outcome! In her own right, Laura is a formidable warrior in her own painful struggles. Though suffering the ravages of CFS, she maintains a stamina and energy in her writing that masks the pain and suffering endured to produce this fine work.Highly recommened reading!  Worth re-reading regularly!  Textbook examples of continuing on in the face of defeat, pain, trauma, danger and ridicule.  Seabiscuit: An American Legend will get your heart thumping, your mind racing, tears flowing and pride swelling.  What an amazing story of commradre, perseverance and respect.  Get it today!  And read it often .. it will be good therapy!
4 Not being even a casual fan of horse racing, I have always found it interesting to see how a horse could capture the public's imagination. Seabiscuit has always been one of those names on the periphery of my awareness; I knew the horse was famous, but really was unsure of the circumstances. Laura Hillenbrand does an excellent job of capturing the story of this horse, a horse that seemed to be tailor made for The Great Depression. It is a fascinating look at the era, a prime example of how America was looking for anything to chase away the hard times, if even for a moment.  Hillenbrand's research is excellent, the cast of characters, the taciturn trainer, Tom Smith, the hard luck jockey, Red Pollard, and the larger than life owner, Charles Howard, come to life as fully fleshed people via her careful research. While occasionally the prose is a bit over the top, (A description of Red Pollard, "His emotions were liquid; his anger was a wild rage, his pleasure jubilation, his humor biting, his sorrow and empathy, a bottomless abyss." is just one example of this unfortunate approach.) the effort put into recreating the public infatuation with this horse is infectious and this capsule view of one of America's great sport stories is well worth the time of anyone interested in 20th century history, not just fan's of horse racing.
5 Well written. It gives an in depth look at the world of horse racing and the lives of those involved in it.
3 For this reader, Hillenbrand's book comprises two parts. The first and by far the greater part is a good story of a fine race horse Seabiscuit and three men - Seabiscuit's trainer Tom Smith, his principal rider Red Pollard, and his wealthy owner Charles Howard. We follow these men and Seabiscuit through some difficult times when he was not winning races and then through some great times when he was. The personalities and characters of all are well developed so that the reader comes to know them, understand them and feel the loss when they ultimately pass on. It is apparent to the reader that Hillenbrand's efforts included a prodigious amount of research.The second part only comprises melodramatic and/or anthropomorphic phrases scattered here and there through the book but taken together, they insult the reader's intelligence and cast doubts on the integrity of the research and writing that created the first part. These phrases are often accompanied with observations or with actions of the characters or with quotations from the characters that no one could possibly know of or verify. These had to have been invented by Hillenbrand as no one now could possibly know of them or attest to them. Here are some examples - the page numbers of the quotations are those in the Ballentine Books paperback version.page 123 - "His left ear swung around lazily, as if he were paying attention to something in the infield. His stride slowed. His mind seemed scattered"page 143 - "he lunged forward on the bleeding leg --- and charged on, a lurid spray of blood flying out behind him"page 144 - "Pollard felt Seabiscuit's mouth harden down on the bit: resolution"page 151 - "Smith saw Masked General level his eye right at War Admiral --- for the first time in his career, War Admiral hesitated"page 167 - "He could see that the horse was fooling around, playing with Aneroid"page 167 - Pollard is quoted as saying "Go get him, Biscuit - you broke his heart once - break it again!" and it is said of Pollard that "he crouched over the bed as if moving over his horse - his forehead was puckered in sweat"page 178 - "Seabiscuit spun through the gap like a bullet rifling down a barrel"page 178 - "the clockers banged their thumbs down on their stopwatches - the hands stared back at them: 44 1/2"page 181 - "Howard looked at Seabiscuit --- "We'll try again - next time we'll win it""page 257 - "once a horse gives Seabiscuit the old look-in-the-eye, he begins to run to parts unknown"page 273 - "Seabiscuit was looking right at his opponent - War Admiral glared back at him, his eyes wide open"page 273 - "Woolf felt a subtle hesitation in his opponent, a wavering - he looked at War Admiral - the colt's tongue shot out the side of his mouth - Seabiscuit had broken him"page 313 - "He leaned toward Howard and said five words: "it's Seabiscuit, wire to wire". Howard wheeled on Smith in amazement. He jumped up, ran to the betting booth, and emptied his pockets into the clerk's hands"page 321 - "She spotted a water wagon parked ahead, track workers perched up on top of it, and ran toward it - her dress whipped in the wind"page 322 - "a jockey in the pack heard a deep plaintive sound rise up over the shouts --- it was Pollard, crying out a prayer"page 323 - "for the last time in his life, Seabiscuit eased up to tease an opponent"page 325 - "Pollard said "I got a great ride --- the greatest ride I ever got from the greatest horse that ever lived"page 323 - Pollard is quoted as saying "I'll never throw a leg over another horse unless it's for a canter in the park"page 339 - Smith is quoted as saying "I never dreamed the old boy would go so quickly!"These melodramatic, anthropomorphic, and unverifiable instances are a tiny portion of the whole but they are striking because they differ so much from the greater part of the book and because they cast a doubt in the reader's mind about the integrity, accuracy and honesty of the whole. But why does this matter? Isn't every author permitted a little license, a little latitude, a bit of straying from the truth? The answer is no - not when your goal has been to set down what actually happened to a race horse and his attending humans.  If the author believes a horse will hesitate due to the stare of another, can envision resolution in a horse that has no concept of such an emotion, and discern a sweaty forehead or a dress whipping in the wind when such was never noted down at the time, then how does a reader know where the line is between fact and fiction? Accordingly, I found myself constantly looking over on the internet to check on facts discussed in the book (such as Seabiscuit's overall record) as I could no longer trust Hillenbrand's statements.
5 In the spine-tingling, once-in-a-century legend of Seabiscuit, there were four unique individuals, each splendid in his own right. There was the bluff wheeler-dealing owner, the taciturn trainer who read horses' minds, the jockey who rode rejects into the winners' circle, and of course, there was the great horse himself. But now there comes one more champion into the circle: Laura Hillenbrand, the author of SEABISCUIT: AN AMERICAN LEGEND. She is every bit as remarkable at her craft as each of the others. Many of us regret that we were born too late to see Seabiscuit run; but after reading this book, I feel a little sorry for those born too early to read Hillenbrand's magnificent narrative. From the time of Beowulf to the present, great heroes have understood the importance of the storyteller in keeping their fame alive. Now Seabiscuit and his associates have a bard worthy of their deeds.
5 Yes, the movie was pretty good, but the cliche applies--"the book is better", much better. It is simply a sublime piece of writing, all the more admirable if you know that Hillenbrand wrote most of it on a board hovering above her while flat on her back with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome.  Nothing will do but another cliche, rarely to be invoked, but applicable here:  "you can't put it down".
5 There's only been a few books I've read three times. This is one of them. The characters are portrayed beautifully and when Seabiscuit ran it felt I was in the irons.
5 Despite the title, this book is actually about the people involved in this great horse's life.  It is skillfully written and you find yourself submerged in the story.  It's a real treasure.
5 I believe this is the best non-fiction book I've ever read. Hillenbrand really draws you into this story. I kept thinking of Smith, Howard, Pollard and Woolf as characters rather than real people. I chose this book for two book clubs, and the readers enjoyed it so much, they've recommended it to their friends.
5 Any American knows that America was built up by underdogs since the Revolution to present day. Even if you don't know anything about Horse Racing,like me, you'll enjoy this book because it's about underdogs. These aren't your normal underdogs either they're the kind that have the worst luck possible. So if your looking for a good American Tale with underdogs, determination, sportsmanship, and a bit of history then this is a must have.
5 I saw the movie first, and then read the book, and if it is at all possible, the book was even more gripping than the movie (which was very good)!  There was no way that everything Seabiscuit faced could be captured in a cinematic format, so the book reveals even more hardships the Seabuscuit team had to overcome in their journey.This is truly a book about capturing the nation.  Seabiscuit was important due to his place in the political and cultural events of his time.  I found myself wondering if the entire nation could be captured again by comething like The Great Match Race, the ultimate elite old-school East Coast vs. new-fangled West Coast match-up.This book is highly recommended, and I hope Hillenbrand continues to turn out non-fiction like this.
5 Let me state up front that I have no real interest in horse racing, and my only &quot;horsey period&quot; was the brief but common one experienced by prepubescent girls.  None the less, I was captivated by this fascinating and compelling story of an unlikely horse and the three men that encouraged his greatness.  The writing is so evocative you'll swear you are hurtling down the backstretch along with the jockeys.  As I said I have no real interest in racing, but I even found the copious amount of detail about the lives of horses, jocks, trainers and owners far from dull.  Join in cheering for Seabiscuit, you won't be disappointed.
5 I'm not usually a big fan of the non-fiction books, but this is one startling exception.  Being from the Bluegrass State, I've always heard about the great horses like Man O' War and Secretariat, but I didn't know nearly as much about Seabiscuit.  The way Hillenbrand writes about this horse is absolutely amazing.  You forget you're reading about a horse at all because her descriptions and the way she talks about Seabiscuit make you forget she's writing about an animal.  This is easily one of the best books I've read in quite some time mainly just because it feels as though it's a throwback.  It's almost as if you're in the grandstands for one of Seabiscuits races.  The stories of the human counterparts are intersting as well, but you can tell the real passion lies with the horse itself.  Seabiscuit was an amazing horse and this is a very worthy book about his remarkable life and racing career.
5 "Seabiscuit" is a lyrical tale broken into three parts.  In the first part Laura Hillenbrand introduces us to the four individuals who will comprise Team Seabiscuit.  There's Charles Howard, the winning salesman who upon the death of his beloved child loses his passion for cars (his son was killed in a car crash) and discovers a passion for horses, and in so doing brings his competitive showmanship to horse racing.  There's Red Pollard who grew up in terrible poverty just as Charles Howard grew up in terrible wealth; his family ravaged by the Great Depression, Red Pollard decides to ravage his body in order to become a jockey and prizefighter, and he brought to horse-racing a maniacal obsession with the sport and deep sensitivity to the marginalized.  Then there's Tom Smith, the original horse whisperer, who was born a century too late, and as his home -- the plains and hills of the Western frontier -- receded he retreated to the only skill he could market to a modern world that no longer had time and patience for his sort of time and patience with life.  Finally, there's the rascally, lazy, and profoundly talented Seabiscuit, who had the speed and the gameness to win it all all along, but who went misunderstood until Howard, Pollard, and Smith found him.In the second part, we read about Seabiscuit's anti-climactic ego-driven rivalry with War Admiral.  It's the final and third part that makes this book such a lyrical and memorable read.  Severely hampered by age and injuries, Red Pollard and Seabiscuit make one final bid for the Santa Anita Handicap, the richest prize in all of horse-racing and the race that they should have won but lost twice before.  And it's this last part that's non-fiction storytelling at its best.
5 The story of Seabiscuit captivated me so much that I have read the book 2 times already.  Laura Hillenbrand does a tremendous job of bringing you right back into the moment, the intersection of 4 characters - owner, trainer, jockey, and of course, Seabiscuit.  I found myself lost in the period of the late 1930's when horseracing was a hugely popular sport.  I also found myself rooting like crazy for Seabiscuit as the great horseraces he was involved in are retold with amazing suspense.  In particular the races in which George Woolf jockeyed Seabiscuit - the 1938 Santa Anita Handicap, and the race of the century, Seabiscuit's 1938 match race against heavily favored War Admiral - were completely spellbinding.  Also extremely interesting is the story of trainer Tom Smith, whose quirky tricks and incredible intuition with Seabiscuit brought the horse into his own.  Something about this unlikely story attracts me.  It is as if the stars aligned and the sun shone on Seabiscuit for a period of 3 years in America's eyes.  I was also left with the feeling that this had to be one of the greatest, if not the greatest thoroughbreds the world has ever known.  A highly recommended book even to someone who has no particular attraction to horseracing.
5 I loved this story.....The characters were dynamic, and the story was well written.  Lots of impact, held your interest to the end.  I bought the audio book, and listened to it while exercising.
5 Ms. Hillenbrand may have embellished the facts or not but she certainly wrote a nice warm story. It's obvious she did a lot of homework and research to string together so many facts that makes the book read very much like a novel. When I look back at this horse, whether it happened exactly like that or not, matters not. It is the way I would want everyone to remember this story if I had written it. If you grew up with the horsetrack as your hobby, if you go to Vegas and truck off to the sports parlor to bet on the tracks instead of Blackjack then this will be a very nice read for you. Even money you will love it.
5 I didn't expect to like this book to the degree I did.  I'd read the reviews of course, but thought, no, it's just about this horse.  Well, this horse seems more alive than most people, then and now.  The prose is magnificent.  The details are riveting.  Who thought one could care about the injuries to someone 60 years ago that I'd never heard of?  The helpful hints on how to lose 10 pounds overnight could be used by everyone who has a wedding to go to.  The picture of this horse and his people is magnificent and something I couldn't put down.  Hillenbrand spent 4 years on the research.  I even read the research notes!
5 This book left me almost breathless!  I loved it!  I have allowed a neighbor to read it, and she feels the same way.  This book will be making the rounds in our family... I want all my extended family to enjoy this book as much as I did.The Trainer, the Owner, the Jockey, the Horse, the Era... five elements that came to create one of the most outstanding books on focused drive and ambition I have ever read.I read a huge amount, and this is one of my all time favorite books.  Some of the other reviewers have given more detail about the book.  I just wanted to say, stop reading the reviews and click that buy button: you will not be sorry!
5 I truly enjoyed this book.  It was very inspiring. Interesteing writing.  Loved that it was a true story & loved all the characters. Good ending.
5 This was a great read.  Although I am not a &#34;horseman&#34; I can appreciate the efforts and dedicatiion necessary to breed and raise any horse such as this.  We can be thankful that there are people out there who know what they are doing, and give such pleasure to those of us watching. Seabisquit, although perhaps not the normal, was outstanding, and I am sure will always be in the annals of fame for horselovers throughout the world.
5 Hillenbrand's books are fantastic. This one is on par with Unbroken, a fantastic read as we'll. We'll worth your time.
5 Even though I have no interest in horses or horse racing, I really enjoyed this story.  Hillenbrand wove a lot of  suspense and drama into Seabiscuit's rise to fame & glory that I found hard to resist. I recommend this book whole heartedly.
5 A horse is a horse, of course. Unless that horse is something more. Much more. Like Hope.  Winning. Success. Beating the Odds. A Second Chance. Being an American. Striking it Rich. Coming from Behind. The underdog that finishes on Top. Seabiscuit. In his time, he was as great a representative, and in many ways a better spokesman, for the eminence of American rugged individualism and perseverance, than some of his less communicative superhero contemporaries such as Lucky Lindy, John D, Joey D, Stan the Man and the Brown Bomber.Surely a great American icon deserves an equally great biographer. But a big name author would not be in keeping with the spirit of our story. Seabiscuit was a nobody. His greatness was built on adversity, his own and that of his teammates, Pollard, Smith and Howard. So too, it is with Hillenbrand. Before she discovered this  remarkable quartet, she too was a sickly, defeated nobody, suffering from severe depression. We may never know for sure what personal demons she needed to exorcise by writing this book. But, her achievement speaks for itself. Thanks to this most unlikely Boswell, it can now be said that Seabiscuit is not only a great horse but also a great biography, an accolade that can not be made for even the grandest of historical subjects from Columbus to Lincoln to Ali.
5 I have recently read Seabiscuit and watched the film and found both to be very compelling. We dont think much anymore about the dark days of the Depression but Laura Hillenbrand puts us right back in the middle of it.  The important lesson was to look to the future as Charles Howard implored, the sun will come up tomorrow.Three incredible characters intersect with this horse of unknown promise. Howard is the wealthy owner, despondent over the death of his son and unsure how to live the life of leisure; Red Pollard is a jockey not able to break into the big-time, due to his attitude, blindness, and injuries; Tom Smith is a taciturn man who belongs in the 19th century of his youth, not the modern world.  Together they develop and promote Seabiscuit, a horse of incredible bloodlines, yet given up on by better trainers due to his work habits, attitude, injuries, and size.Eventually the Biscuit wins all the stakes in the state of California and gets a shot at a match race with the great Eastern horse and Triple Crown winner, War Admiral.  Both horses are descendants of the great Man'o'war, but the eastern elites dont want to give the western upstart his chance.  After a few cancellations due to injuries and prickly owners, the match race goes off in Baltimore and the smaller horse brings it home.The book is more enlighting with respect to the fuller stories of the characters, especially the relationship between the jockeys and Pollard's romance and marriage to a Boston nurse.  The movie brings the times to life. Howard and Pollard were the raconteurs who made Seabiscuit the hero of the little guys during those lean years.  Dont forget, tough times dont last but tough guys do.Ms. Hillenbrand is an equally interesting story.  She suffers from Chronic Fatigue Syndrome and is only able to work at a fraction of the typical writer. Here she focused her energy on this story and these times.  Seabiscuit has been the story many times in film and books but Ms. Hillenbrand brings it to life for us.
5 I may be the last person on the planet not to have read this book before now, even though it was on my &quot;to read&quot; pile for quite some time. It was after watching a one hour tv show about the making of the move based on this book, that I decided I had waited long enough, if not too long.Laura Hillenbrand has reached back in time and written an account of such detail and interest that you feel as though you have lived the experience yourself when you finally have finished.There are four main focuses of the story. The owner, the trainer, the jockey and of course, the horse. I suspect that after Seabiscuit, each reader will rank them differently in interest, but all of them are truly that.You will laugh, you will tear up and you will read the accounts of some of the races with an increased heartbeat as Hillenbrand captures the moments in the written word better that movie camera as she sees and writes about what is in the heart of the four major subjects.At the end, you wish you could have lived through it yourself and then as you reflect on it, thanks to an exceptional job of writing, you realize that you have. Don't wait for the movie. Read the book.
4 Hillenbrand tells not just the story of a great horse but the story of America in the late 1930s. The nation was still in the process of recovering from the Depression and it wanted a diversion and a great story. Seabiscuit provided both. Hillenbrand's depiction of the whole long-gone racing world of the era -- the reporters, the track owners, the jockeys, even the stable boys -- and of the public hungry for news is brilliantly done.Seabiscuit would not have succeeded without the trio of men who surrounded him -- the owner, Howard; the trainer, Smith; and the jockey, Pollard. Hillenbrand portrays each of them as an American unique.This book could have been 40 pages shorter without losing its impact. But it is still a riveting read and a great accomplishment.
5 Ladies and gents, this is indeed an inspiring story.From every side including the writer, she worked hard to create this masterpiece.I know a thing or two about hourses so this review is not all fluff. So here goes.I am not one to brag but ...Ok I do have a few things that set me apart from the "norms" the "pedestrians" the .. the I'll continue.Back around 1968 I was visiting my grandparents in North Carolina which was what I did back then, it was either that or watch my folks go completely insane with me and my bro's company for an entire summer, we were delightful children. This trip to NC my mom came down to join us for a trip to Florida to visit my Grandpa Oscars sister. Oscar did not go on this trip because he was tied up doing anything but traveling in a car to Florida with a bunch of kids.So it was me my Mum, Grammie, Kelly (my favorite uncle), my bro Chuck and I think thats the cast.(Lot of odd things happened on this trip but for now its all about me)Cast? Now I am talking about a cast!OK my aunt we visited lived next to Ron Turcotte the famous jockey, he was out of town but left his house open for my aunts relatives to use. Me being around four was awarded the champions chambers, I remember the oil painting of a fine race horse above his bed and the looks my elders exchanged when they realized the following morning I had pissed in the neighbors bed... I dont know the rest of the story but I figure they cleaned the sheets and kept their mouths shut about my ultra hydration problem. Next to that guy who rode Sea Biscuit I don't know much about Jockeys other than when they leave town they should not offer their beds to strangers. JW
5 Laura Hillenbrand's book &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; is a winner. She has told a story of triumph so richly and so deftly that when I finished the last page I closed the book very slowly, deeply moved by what I had read. Her penchant for drama coupled with her wonderful insights into horse and human alike make this a book for the ages.The story of Seabiscuit is one of the great sports stories of the twentieth century. Like the &quot;little engine that could&quot;, Seabiscuit overcame overwhelming odds to become a true champion. And Ms. Hillenbrand captures it all.From the most basic point of view the author puts you in each horse race. Instead of watching from the sidelines, which is the only way most people ever see this kind of competition, the author puts you ON TOP of Seabiscuit. You feel you're racing along with him at breakneck speed, co-habiting the bodies of Red Pollard and George Woolf. It's an amazing piece of writing.Of course, this is about so much more than a horse race. Pollard, Tom Smith and Charles Howard share the spotlight with their famous equine and theirs is really a collective story in a sense....how these three with their enormously different backgrounds could come together and work so well as a team year after year is credit to each of them...and their horse. Smith, to me, is the most intriguing of the three. He seems to share the same sixth sense about horses as Seabiscuit does about people.The dramatic content of the book, however, is what drives it. Hillenbrand is a wonderful storyteller and her research is terrific. The dozens of moves around the country, the constant scratches due to weather, the teamwork....and especially Seabiscuit's losses....all add up to make his victories that much sweeter. And you can hear the current cheering from the thousands of people who &quot;watch&quot; Seabiscuit's races in the pages of this book.....most of us who may have known this wonderful horse by name only.You don't have to be a fan of horse racing to enjoy this book. But in the end, you will have much more of an appreciation for it and a love of a book well written.
5 This was a great book. The beginning section was alittle boring but other wise  A WONDERFUL BOOK to read before the movie!
5 Outstanding book. Very well written. Great story of Seabiscuit and an excellent &quot;history&quot; or inside information of horse racing in the early 90s.
5 Rich in anecdotes, quotables, track ambience, humor, suspense, excitement.  Highest quality non-fiction.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book and only wish this author would write more books. She did an excellent job introducing me to a world I was unfamiliar with and helping the reader feel comfortable in this place. I highly recommend this!
5 &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; is easily one of the most inspiring stories of the last century.  Set against the backdrop of Depression 1930s America, a team of misfits (owner, trainer, jockeys and horse) come together to forge a winning team that few could have foreseen.Each had his own obstacles -  the jockey's blind eye, the trainer's unorthodox methods, the owner's western roots - and that's not even mentioning the horse.  Seabiscuit had even bigger problems.  He didn't look like a champion, for starters.  And he was raced far too much as a 2-year old, which stunted his progress and made him appear to be a joke to much of the racing establishment.But once these men began to work with Seabiscuit, it was not long before his true promise came to be realized.  Seabiscuit won numerous races, set many track records, and retired as the leading money winner of his time.  Not bad for an &quot;also-ran!&quot;Hillenbrand tells Seabiscuit's story while also managing to give many details about &quot;big picture&quot; stories as well - e.g., life in 1930s America, the trials and tribulations of jockeys, the up-and-down popularity of the sport of horse racing. Telling all of these while keeping the reader not only interested but riveted, Hillenbrand has written an exceptional book.I did not know the story of Seabiscuit before this book came along; now, I will never forget it!  His is one of the great &quot;underdog&quot; stories of all time.Five stars.  Absolutely fantastic!
5 I cannot begin to describe how good this book is. For those of us who know horses, it is simply a masterpiece. For those who don't, it is an absolutely thrilling account of a time in American history when there were real heros (an heroines), many of them found in the most unlikely places. It is the story of a funny-looking little horse and the triumverate who helped him channel his ferocious heart and tremendous energy into the best racehorse who ever lived. It is a story of the matchless courage and determination of the men and women and the horses they loved. Not merely a biography of a legendary horse, it is also a true and accurate picture of horseracing as it was in its glory days. Hillenbrand captures perfectly the incredible tension of the track; her accounts of the races themselves are so enthralling that the reader could well be one of the screaming thousands in the stands. Suspense at its best. At times both laugh-out-loud hilarious and also heartbreakingly sad, this is a book to own, to inspire, to give as gifts to even the most jaded among us. My only regret is that my parents, life-long lovers of horseracing, are no longer living. How they would have enjoyed this wonderful account of times and places they know so well. Seabiscuit should be on every high school reading list - it is a treat for all ages. It is the first time I have given a book five stars - and I would give it six, if that were possible!
5 I read this book over a year ago and haven't passed it along first intending to send my thanks to the author. It is a superb account of a remarkable horse and his jockey that reveals both their characters in a most empathetic and articulate manner. To give form to this bit of history is a rare achievement, and made an indelible impression on me. Hillenbrand's enviable writing is pure pleasure to read.
5 This book was chosen to be read by my book club and I dragged my feet until the last minute because I thought that I'd be bored with the subject.  Once I got into the story, I had a wonderful surprise. Laura Hillenbrand has written a detailed account of Seabiscuit, and managed to made it incredibly interesting and very exciting.The author starts by giving the biographies of the fascinating men that had the most to do with Seabiscuit's rise to fame.  They were Charles Howard, Tom Smith, Red Pollard and George Woolf.  Each of these men contributed to the greatness of the famed horse.Seabiscuit himself was not the most beautiful of horses and, in fact was a pretty difficult animal to deal with. Trainer Tom Smith saw something in the horse that he knew was worth tapping and encouraged Charles Howard to purchase Seabiscuit.  Red Pollard and George Woolf were the jockeys who rode him into fame.  By the time I was reading about the races, I couldn't put the book down until I found out which horse won that particular race.This is a great American story!
5 This is simply a great book. Laura Hillenbrand is a great writer. And Seabiscuit is a great American horse. We are lucky to live in a world where such a wonderful story can be told and re-told.
5 I like the honesty with which Laura Hillenbrand writes.  I also appreciate the fact that the book is not just a bio of a great horse, but also of the human characters in his life.  This adds great depth to the book and helps the reader understand the era of all the characters.
5 This is a page turner full of historical context woven seamlessly into the story about the brutal reality of horse racing, while focusing on Seabiscuit--an unlikely hero of a horse whose energy would lull before races. This book rivals In Cold Blood as a nonfiction narrative that reads like a novel.
5 I know little to nothing about horses, but this book captured me from beginning to end.  SEABISCUIT is as much about people as it is about horses.Charles Howard, the bycycle repairman turned automobile entrepreneur.Howard's  beautiful Mexican wife, MarcellaJohn (Red) Pollard the poetry-quoting little jockey with the booming voice and a way with horsesTom Smith, the legendary man of the plains who could communicate with horses almost as though he was one of them.These characters along with other jockeys, horsemen, horsewomen, entertainers (Bing Crosby) and reporters make SEABISCUIT come alive.  Hillenbrand is meticuous in describing the economic and historical conditions surrounding the circumstances in which Seabiscuit came to prominence.  She is especially good bringing the reader into the world of horses through the eyes of the jockeys, stable boys, trainers, and reporters.After listening to this entire book in CD form I am well satisfied.  The book reads like fiction.  The people come alive.  There were parts that brought me to tears.I thank Laura Hillenbrand for bringing the world of SEABISCUIT to me.
4 I would actually give this 4 1/2 stars.  I kept putting off reading it, as I could not see how a book about a racehorse would hold my attention in fact I never saw the movie.  But Hillenbrand made it amazingly exciting. I learned a lot about the life and livelihoods surrounding the world of horseracing, human as well as horse.  I'm very glad I read it.
5 If books were given Academy awards (and if authors had the same celebrity status as actors) this one would be a winner hands down. As someone who reads every horse book I can, I can say that this one is a stand-out and could be enjoyed by nearly anyone, horse lover or not. It is filled with the kind of details that make a book come alive, - vivid portraits of horse owners, riders and those in the racing world, an intimate look at racing, vivid descriptions that make you feel as though you were actually in the saddle, little-known (and fascinating) facts. I thought I knew everything about Seabiscuit already, from having read about this horse from the time I was a child but this author proved me wrong. I'd recommend this book to anyone. If you find it easy to put down, I'll eat my riding helmet!
5 I absolutely loved this book, both historical side and comical side.  There were some serious type stories in this book and there were some really comedic stories.  Seabiscuit is a remarkable comeback story and everyone loves a comeback story.  This has to be one of the greatest horse racing comeback stories of all time.  I highly recommend this book to anyone that is interested in horse racing and the general reader of comeback stories.  The comedic stories in this book are funny, including the story about Ralph Neves......that was hilarious! Definitely a worthwhile read
5 This is a great book.  I was not sure if a book about horseracing would hold my interest, but this book is riveting.  The author draws you in and you have to find out what happens to the characters.  I knew nothing about horseracing before this book and now I feel like I had an inside look into the sport.  The characters lives are fascinating and seabiscuit is a hero you can cheer for.  Pick this book up and give it a try,  you won't be sorry.
5 Makes you think you can do the impossible when you read the story of such unlikely characters creating the greatest horse in history.  You just can't make stuff like this up!!
5 As Laura said in her interview, she was unwilling to write herfirst book until she found a strong story. She recognized Seabiscuit as that strong story early on in her research. Thank GodLaura saw the story and there were still people alive who couldadd otherwise undiscoverable details. Anyone who thinks you needto write fiction to write a moving story is dead wrong - truestories are always the best and most satisfying. Reality beats fiction in nearly every case because very few works of fictionare believable, if they are indeed really fiction. A very finebook that will be enjoyed by all - no horse racing knowledgerequired. If the movie is as good as the book, it will be thebest of the year.
5 I'm no fan of horse racing. Yet I found this to be an extremely well-written, great evocation of the times and a subculture. There are lots of very specific images that have stayed with me for a long time after reading the book. My only complaints are minor: Hillenbrand sometimes uses a bit too much racing jargon without explanation, and I would love to have more photos.
4 It is very rare for me to say I liked the movie better than the book, but it is true in this case. My book club read this book and honestly I had high hopes for it, as Laura Hillenbrand's book Unbroken is one of my top 5 books of all time! I didn't love this book. It was hard to get into. I liked it, but I really had to push through it. Maybe if I loved horses that would have helped. I don't know.
5 The characters surrounding Seabiscuit and the story of his incredible rise to the top of the racing world are beautifully and splendidly written by Laura Hillenbrand. Set during the Depression before tv when horse racing was one of the most spectator attended events in the country. Seabiscuit pulled a nation out of the doldrums and literally gave hope to people all over this country. This story is so well told and you are rooting and can identify so strongly with the characters, it truly is one of those once in a lifetime books.
5 I just found out about this absolutely magnificent book last month.  I was channel surfing, and ran across the Laura Hillebrand interview on C-Span.  I was immediately mesmerized by the name 'Seabiscuit' and listened intently to the story of how the book was done, saw the Seabiscuit memorabilia Miss Hillebrand brought to the interview, and was fascinated with the facts of the horse himself, what he did, and how it came about.  I immediately ordered the book.It is a fascinating story of the little horse that could, his rich owner, the extraordinary man who trained him, and who could talk to horses, and the tragic, magnificent jockeys who rode him in his famous races.  All I could say when I finished the book was, 'What a horse!'It is a story straight out of Hollywood, but this is the real thing.  As unlikely a partnership that ever was found the soon-to-be-great horse, bought him, trained, him, rode him, and loved that stellar animal that mesmerized Depression-ridden America in the mid-to-late thirties.  No matter what others may say, there was only one Seabiscuit, and there is only one book to get on him-this one.  He may have been the greatest race horse the United States ever produced, bar none.The author is a magnificent story-teller.  Except in Dick Francis novels (and he was a jockey) I have never read the stride-for-stride descriptions of horse races that the author here discribes.  You actually hold your breath as you read the passages, and you end up reading them so fast to see who wins, you have to go back and reread them so as not to miss anything.  Miss Hillebrand is one of the three best authors I have ever read, and she has captured the spirit of her horse, those who were closest to him, and the spirit of the times in this very well-done book.  I certainly hope she continues to write, and I will look forward to her next effort with great anticipation.  This is one of the best books of this or any other year.This is one of the great horse stories of all time, and if you don't read it, you are missing out on both a literary treat, a great American saga, and a first-rate read that is impossible to put down.  If you love horses and stories about them, or just love a great read, this is the book for you.  It deserves the Pulitzer.
4 Seabiscuit fills the place in American Mythology that can only be attained a true &quot;Rags to Riches&quot; story.Laura Hillenbrand has recovered a true American story that warms us to the dream of what this country wants to be.
5 True story written with so much rich detail about the life of a jockey and the racing world.  Couldn't put it down, and have read it several times.  The movie really brings it to life, too!!
5 I read this before I saw the movie.  It provides some real great insight into the times and the people.It had the effect of making me wish I could have spent an evening just chatting with these people.  They sure were interesting and full of character.
5 Laura Hillenbrand had a daunting task in front of her in writing this book.  Horse racing no longer has the distinction of the most popular sport in America.  So by necessity, she has to educate the readers about horse racing to even make them care, or even be able> to care about the story.  Terms like bug boy, filly, spill, lame, stakes, and reducing had completely different meanings, if they had meaning at all, before I read this book.  She masterfully uses the first part of the book as an incognito primer into the world of horse racing at the turn of 20th century.  Yet, it was entertaining enough that I would imagine even a person familiar with racing wouldn't feel condescended to.  It is a tale unto itself.After arming us with this newfound knowledge, she seamlessly drops us into the story.  I mused to myself that most books have one climax, and a good one may have two.  But I easily rattled off 4 climaxes in this book that had enough grip to keep you reading well into the wee hours of the night.  Just when you thought the book couldn't go any farther, you noticed there were 150 pages left.  While the story is extraordinary by itself, the telling of it was absolutely riveting.Finally, in a story with this caliber of legend, it is so easy for the narrative to slip into romanticism.  Ms. Hillenbrand however, did no such thing.  Instead, she included the nasty right with the nice, relayed the story in a frank manner, and kept the characters human (or equine as the case may be).  Red's alcoholism, Seabiscuit's failed races, numerous brawls and arguments among characters and even the melancholy epilogue, all could have been omitted, but were kept.  The proximity of such lows to such triumphant highs only intensified the catharsis.What more can I say: a superb read!
5 Hopefully this author has recovered from the horrendous amounts of research for this book, and her other masterpiece, 'Unbroken'.......etc.  I have read them both many times.  I wish for her to start writing again.  Her books will be around for many decades to come.  Thank you, Laura!  your characters became personal friends, and you are a great author.
5 There have only been three occasions on which I've either read the book and seen the movie, or seen the movie then read the book where I thought that both the book and the movie were on the same high level of expertise and fulfilled the expectation I had for both the book and the movie. The first was Apollo 13, the second is Lord of the Rings, and this book/movie duo makes for the third. I do not usually go for sports books. It's just not something that interest me. But after seeing the movie and knowing the book had won so many awards and accolades, I just had to get the book.This book was very difficult to put down. The author makes the world of jockeys and horse-racing (thoroughbred) very accessible, and she illustrates the obsession that Americans had with not just the horse, Seabiscuit, but with his jockey Red Pollard, and to a lesser extent, Tom Smith, the horse's trainer, and Charles Howard, the owner of the little 'engine on wobbly sticks.' As America tried to dig itself out of the Depression and the 'Dustbowl' years, the common people of the U.S. who had so little, needed something to look up to, something to show them that winners do not always have to be rich, or good-looking, but in America winners are the ones with the resilience and stamina to keep going, even in the face of adversity.This story is about three different men with different backgrounds, who had all experienced misfortune and adversity through the loss of a loved one, through abandonment, though shyness. They all overcame tremendous odds, and their meeting must have been orchestrated in heaven, because that horse would not have realized his potential without the love and care each of those men poured onto the horse and into each other's lives.The book answers many questions that the film didn't, such as what happened to all three men. I had no idea the world of the jockey is filled with anorexics and bulemics (so is the sporting world of gymnastics), and yet no one has ever brought this crippling disease to the forefront, I suspect, because these were all men and they chose their profession out of sheer love of racing these powerful animals. The incredible control the jockey's show over their own bodies is astounding. I definitely would never encourage any boy or girl to go into this sport because of the grueling punishment they go through to keep their weight down.One thing in the book, you just did not get enough of in the movie, is the hilarious 'wars' between Red Pollard and George Woolf, and between the rather reticent Tom Smith and the journalists. There were many times I hooted with laughter at the sheer audacity of the stunts pulled by Smith on the journalists who bugged the heck out of him! Pollard and Woolf were best friends, but that didn't mean they weren't verbally nasty to each other. I think they became surrogate brothers who admired each other's abilities with a horse.Just a tremendous book...Karen Sadler
5 i read unbroken, and was told i had to read this one too.  i used to own thoroughbred race horses, so know a little about the industry.  it was facinating to read about this time in the sport.  great book!
5 This is a story for the ages. Hillenbrand does a magnificent job of capturing the swirling excitement that surrounded the unbelievable racing career of the unlikely Seabiscuit. Her exquisite attention to detail and her evocative but never ostentatious prose creates a lost world of Depression-era racing. She doesn't flinch from her cast's warts, but, in the end, we love them as much as we love the horse. Fantastic story, fantastically told.
5 In the late 1930s, with the Great Depression grinding on, year after year, America got a surprising hero in the form of a knobby-kneed racehorse with the unlikely name of Seabiscuit. Seabiscuit went on from an uninspiring start to become one of the most famous racehorses in American history. This is the story of that horse, and the men who helped him become the stuff of legends!Yeah, I must say that I was surprised at how much I enjoyed this book. The author did a great job of telling the story of Seabiscuit in an interesting, indeed engrossing manner that never felt sensationalistic. If you want to read a really, really good work of non-fiction, then get this book, you won't be disappointed!
5 I bought this book for my son, who is in a correctional institution.  He is an avid reader, and said this was one of the best books he ever read.
4 The book shows how life was in the US from the start of the Great Depression to before World War II.  It took a topic I was not interested at all (horse racing) and described it in a way that made it really interesting. I enjoyed learning about the life of a jockeys and racing horses. The writer made the horse races more exciting than if one watch them live. The writer would describe the races in detail where explaining the difficulties and strategy of the jockey at every moment. Threaded through the book was the story of Seabiscuit, which could not have been better than if it was fiction.
5 SEABISCUIT grabs you and takes you for the ride of your life, exposing you to the dreams and passions of the rich and famous, then plunging you into the desperate behavior of the bug boys as they try to survive in the ice cold terror of the jockey world.Author Laura Hillenbrand has done her homework, and shows you the little horse with the big heart, Seabiscuit, as he trains, eats and frolics, keeping his focus when each race begins.And it's not that she omits the terror of the jockeys, their bravery, their bulemia, their near-death accidents. No, Hillenbrand shows you all of these horrible coping strategies of the jockeys and we are duly horrified.But you still want more. You want to see how the owners kept the jockeys from organizing into a union. You want to hear the rich owners plotting against the jocks. You want to see their goons threaten the jockeys. You want to find out what kind of men can mistreat other human beings in this manner when they pamper their horses with extra-special care, food and doctoring.SEABISCUIT needs a sequel, UNION BUSTING AT THE RACES, but this time telling us the inhuman strategies the rich used to keep the jockeys so subservient. Maybe Hillenbrand can write that book next.
5 Hillenbrand writes a good, solid story. I know it's good because I know nothing about horse racing or for that matter, horses, and I found myself halfway through the book pulling for Red Pollard, Tom Smith and of course, The Biscuit.In that respect she is like any other competant . . . no, more than that, very competant historian, telling a tale of a particularly poignant time and wrapping that time around the lives of people we care (or would have cared) about. The 300 Spartans at the Hot Gates. Tom Verity in Korea. The numerically substantial wives of Henry, Thomas More and here, Seabiscuit.Seabiscuit didn't alter the course of American history anymore than the 1980 U.S. Hockey team sounded the death knell of Soviet communism.But maybe it did. Darn good read. Larry Scantlebury
2 I read this much-overhyped book after everyone I knew couldn't rave enough about it, but I found that I had to FORCE myself to finish it.  I love animals and regard myself as a true &quot;animal person&quot;, although I am not a fan of horse racing.  With that said, I found this book so burdened with minutiae and redundancy that I was ready to throw it across the room!  I kept telling myself that there must be SOMETHING that I was missing, so I plowed on through, disregarding my usual &quot;100 page rule&quot; (if I am not gripped by a book within the first 100 pages, I give up and go on to the next).  Well, I did finish it, but I'm not sure I should have bothered.  It never did grip me although I did find the details of the life of jockeys in that time interesting.  I did not get the image of Seabiscuit as I had hoped - just a lot of the same thing over and over and over again to the point of total frustration.  I would NOT recommend this book with so many really great books out there to read.  Laura Hillebrand must really know some powerful people in the literary world that promoted this book to this level.  I'm still totally mystified why it has been such a huge success - her writing style at best is tedious....
5 The Seabiscuit movie was a touching tear-jerker --  a boy and his horse story that was perfect in its own right. But the book is nothing like it, and of course the book is the True Story. The true story is the story of the rough and tumble heartless lives of jockies, the peculiarities and trickery of horse trainers, and the indomitable drive of horses to race and win. If you can put the book down during any one of Seabiscuit's races you have more willpower than I do. This book had me looking up Seabiscuit memorabilia on Ebay and wondering how I can learn more about horse race gambling. There were so many things about this world I was ignorant of, but Laura Hillenbrand takes you inside it and makes you feel as if you are there with these people and their amazing horse -- so close you can almost feel Seabiscuit pushing his nose in your pocket for an apple. Plenty of other reviewers have done a great job, so I won't repeat any more of what they've said. Just read the book!
5 I started to read this book only because my reading group chose it as its next selection.  I thought I would hate it - I have no interest whatsoever in horses or horse racing.  And I have very little patience with books.  If they don't grab me in the first 50 pages or so, I usually don't have the tenacity to hold on.  (There are so many wonderful books to read, why waste time with one you don't like!)  But Seabiscuit captured my interest from the very first page.  I cannot explain why I liked it so much - I just know that I thoroughly enjoyed it.  The writing was superb.  I was sorry when the book ended.  Highly recommended.
5 I never thought much of horse racing.  Lots of folks who are least able to afford it gambling money on races which always seem a bit suspect (ie, rigged).  And the horses are all in-bred, highly strung mutants of 'real' horses (animals which graze lazily over grassy meadows).  But Ms Hillenbrand sort of changed my perspective on all this, in large part to her boundless love of the sport - animals, jockeys, and trainers.'Seabiscuit' is a non-fictional account of the life of a legendary racehorse of the 1930s, and all the folks who led this horse to fulfill its potential.  Laura Hillenbrand's research of events is worthy of a doctoral thesis yet, remarkably, it is very readable.  And she is obviously very compassionate of folks who throw their lives into horse racing, especially jockeys who literally risk their lives with every race. Very educational.Bottom line: certainly one of the most enjoyable and accessible works of modern non-fiction.  Highly recommended to all.
4 This was a quick read.  It set you into the era when Seabiscuit was a star-then told you the interesting high lights.
5 ...this book is not about what you think. It's not just a story about a racehorse.  It's a story about serendipity.  Picture a gregarious California businessman with more money than sense.  Add a taciturn trainer who's a refugee from the old west, and a quirky racehorse built like a cinderblock.  Throw in a couple of insignificant jockeys - one of which is partially blind, the other a diabetic.  Sounds like a recipe for disaster, huh?  Nope!  That's the setting for one of sports most endearing stories.  You know who'd enjoy reading this book?  Anyone who's a square peg in a round hole, who marches to their own drummer, who society looks at and says, "You'll never measure up."  Even if you're not a big horseracing fan, trust me, you will enjoy this book.
5 ...because at times you will feel YOU are the jockey on the beloved Biscuit!  This book tells you all about the owner, the trainer and the jockeys and you will find yourself, as I did, becoming tense and nervous before each race.  This book has it all:  background information, wisdom, talent, humor, love, suspense and most of all HEART.  Even if you are not a fan of horses or horse racing, it is an outstanding book about the horse that caused another Civl War in America in the 1930's---A MUST READ!!!
5 I don't think Ms. Hillenbrand could have written a book of fiction as compelling as this biography.  I really had no interest in "Seabiscuit: An American Legend" until I began reading all of the favorable reviews.  After reading the bio, I am ready to say, "READ THIS BOOK AND NOW!"  It ranks as one of my all time favorites.  Why? First, of course, is the "little horse that could".  I found myself cheering while reading and saying, "run Seabiscuit! RUN!"  That he was considered by many to just be a "cowpony" and to then give them their comeuppance, was a grand ride. Secondly, the whole story of the lives of the jockeys and their striving to maintain or lose weight, their "jockeying" for positions for mounts, and the way they were treated by the owners and trainors, is, in itself, a whole story.  Third, the story of the original "horsewhisperer" and his ability to "see" inside of a horse and invision their potential, gives us added insight into how Seabiscuit became the athlete mentioned more than FDR and Hitler. Finally, the way Ms. Hillenbrand has sequenced this bio as well as the way the races are described, makes this bio a fabulous page turner.  I never realized the impact Seabiscuit had on America and now I understand why he was selected as one of the top 100 athletes of the 20th century.
5 I have been to race tracks only a handful of times. I cannot call myself a fan. Nevertheles, Laura Hillenbrand has pieced together a fascinating story and set it out in a compelling page-turning fashion. This book finishes in the money on many levels. As a work of history it evokes both an era (the 20's - 30's) and the role that sports in general, and horse racing in particular, played in depression-era America. Hillenbrand's potrayal of the hard-scrabble life of jockeys was particularly vivid and heart-wrenching. As a work of biography its portraryal of the men whose lives revolved around Seabiscuit was spot on. As a narrative, the story unfolds in a well-written suspensful and highly entertaining way. Hillenbrand has succeeded on every level. A great book.
5 You don't have to love horses or racing to appreciate this book about a little runt who could.  Exceptionally well-written and fast paced, Laura Hillenbrand has created an absolute masterpiece...I sped through all 400 pages in a day and a half, and can't wait to reread it!  Brilliantly crafted.
5 I really enjoy every book written by Laura Hillenbrand.  Her books are so well written and so well researched, they are always fantastic to read. The true story of how all these people came together is enchanting.
5 I loved this book a great read! I can't not wait until I see the movie. My husband is a huge horse racing fan, when he goes to the horse races and bet I would bring my book along, my favorite jockey is Gary Steven's, When I found out he was going to play the part of George Woolf I couldn't have been more happier. Reading this book makes you feel like you were right there in the 30's and cheering for Seabiscuit.Happy Reading Lisa
5 The story of the racing stallion Seabiscuit, one of the greatest icons from the early part of 20th century America, is both a superbly written historical piece as well as a rich character study of both the horse and his unlikely supporting cast. Simply a brilliant piece of non-fiction.
5 Laura Hillenbrand is an amazing author.  I loved this story, bought it in hardback when first released and since then ordered it again in paperback.  I see she has continued to author novels and I shall follow her stories with gusto.  It is amazing to me that Ms Hillenbrand's first novel, Seabiscuit would be so beautifully written.
5 The intro captures it all: He didn't look like much. With his smallish stature, knobby knees, and slightly crooked forelegs, he looked more like a cow pony than a thoroughbred. But looks aren't everything; his quality, an admirer once wrote, "was mostly in his heart." Laura Hillenbrand tells the story of the horse who became a cultural icon in Seabiscuit: An American Legend.Laura Hillenbrand, a respected and acclaimed sports journalist has really captured the essence of Seabiscuit and his meteoric rise from glue factory candidate to prizewinner. It's an equine Cindderella story of three men and a dream with a racehorse whose heart endured and out-distanced the snobby Eastern equestrian set who looked down on Western horses. Seabiscuit gave the American public hope in the worst of times during the depression. When he defeated the genetically and physically blessed War Admiral, Sea Biscuits legend equaled that of Bucephalus, the great war house who won many battles for Alexander the Great. Like Bucephalus, Seabiscuit had been rendered useless by the horse trainers, until one man believed in him and the rest was history.
5 When the movie Seabiscuit arrived at theaters I saw and enjoyed the film. People told me they had not liked the movie as much as the book. Not having read it, I did not fully appreciate their comments or passion. Now I have read Seabiscuit.This book is a triumph for Laura Hillenbrand. Her writing is compelling and beautiful. She draws fine portraits of Charles Howard, Red Pollard, Tom Smith and Seabiscuit himself. Through her artful storytelling the reader sees the horse's personality as clearly as the other players in the tale.Hillenbrand's reenactment of the match race with War Admiral must be the most exciting eleven pages I have ever read. The tension, the anticipation, the fear, the cheers and pandemonium of the crowd are brilliantly crafted. As a reader, I was there, in the mind of trainer Tom Smith. I was then seeing the race through the eyes of the jockey, George Woolf, who, interestingly, suffered from Type 1 diabetes. Finally, I was shrieking deliriously with the crowd as the horses pounded around the track.This amazing book will go on my favorite-books-of-all-time list. What a stunning achievement!
5 First of all, I HATE to exercise.  Now, what does that have to do with Seabiscuit....JUST THIS; I listened to Seabiscuit while I exercised and for the first time in my life, I didn't want to stop walking, or biking, or weightlifting.Take a remarkable story; add a gifted writer and the outcome is absolutely phenomenal.  The book is filled with rich, unique characters.  The race scenes are page-turners:even if you already know the outcome.  Hillenbrand is a genius!  I can't say enough good about this book.  Tom Smith, Red Pollard, Howard and his wife Marcella, they are larger than life and Hillenbrand captures their eccentricities, their greatness.  WOW, what a book; I was sad when it was over!
5 Laura Hillenbrand brings us the brilliantly written true story of Charles Howard, Tom Smith, Red Pollard, Seabiscuit and the combined effect they had on a nation from 1936-1940.  This book runs at a breathtaking pace from the very beginning which details the life of Charles Howard a bicycle repair shop owner who sets out to the West coast on a hunch and becomes a millionaire in the automobile industry. It alternates stories between  Tom Smith, born on the American Plains and raised as a horseman when they were a dying breed and the Canadian born Pollard who left home at age 16 looking for a break and ending up as a jockey.  It details the first meeting with Seabiscuit, the unlikely looking thorougbred who eventually electrifies a nation with his speed and grit. The story seamlessly weaves between the personal lives of these three people, their relationships with each other and Seabiscuit.  Nail biting race scenes, injuries and rivalries are detailed throughout the story.  Let it be known though, this isn't just another story about horses, it's about people, personalities, hardwork and believing in something so hard it comes true.  Forget about fiction when a true story can be this exciting.  These are real people who you can't help but root for. Real people who's lives are broken and made whole again all converging on a sport and a horse to give them a second chance.  I just didn't like this book, I loved it!
5 One of the best films I have seen in ages.  My dad owned some race horses with his brother, so though I was young when he was racing, he explained it all to me and I loved it.  Of course, I also rode horses, and was familiar with them.  Love horses.  The story and the plot and the characters in the film were excellent.  Thanks for putting out a great movie once in a while.
4 Seabiscuit, An American Legend was a wonderful story about the people surrounding this amazing horse. It has lots of great info on American horseracing-history and it is a true proof that looks isn't all. The lives of the trainers, owners and jockeys sometimes seems out of this world, but it is also a proof that life can be a great adventure. The author knows her stuff, and even though it is a non-fiction book, it was a pleasure to read it. It will appeal to anybody interested in a good story, but there are some technical terms that may be off-putting for some.
5 From the first page until the last Laura Hillenbrand picked me up from my living room sofa and plopped me down in depression era horse racing America.I will join the chorus of people who say that you need have no prior interest in racing at all, or even horses, to thoroughly enjoy this book. The story of Seabiscuit transcends all that. From my perspective, knowing little to nothing of racing (and nothing at all of Seabiscuit, didn't watch the movie) the book was not only bite the lip exciting at times but I found it extremely interesting. I definitely learned a fascinating thing or three while being entertained.The book is not just about a horse. You will cheer on the unique and eccentric people in Seabiscuit's world also, and at times you will be downright horrified and sad for them.I had never considered just how incredibly brave a jockey has to be. They sit precariously perched atop a highly strung animal thundering around corners in knock the elbows tight groups of other highly strung, equally thundering animals! My heart started to beat fast at times while reading.  I had also not considered what a fabulous athlete a jockey has to be, they must have thighs of steel. I of course never doubted that they have to be good at what they do but I considered (if I ever gave any consideration to horse racing at all) that they were mostly "just" a pilot of a very fast animal.  Reading this book I learned that there is so much more to it than that. The life of a jockey in the 1920's and 30's, oh my goodness, hard doesn't begin to describe it! But Laura Hillenbrand does describe it, perfectly. For one thing, find me a woman who cannot identify with the fact that staying slender can take work and be frustrating, but it is essential to a jockey. The lengths they would take in Seabiscuit's day were mostly all dangerous, and some plain repulsive. Like crawling into a giant pile of steaming horse dung. Dr. Oz, cry your heart out, you haven't thought of that one have you!Seabiscuit's trainer, what a character he was. He didn't have much patience with people as a general rule, especially not people of the racing reporter variety, but as others have said, he was nothing short of a horse whisperer.  He had an understanding of horses and definitely Seabiscuit that seemed to go into a spiritual realm of sorts. If not for Tom Smith Seabiscuit could so easily have fallen into obscurity as either a wonky legged lazy horse or a temperamental animal unfit for the track.  Seabiscuit was so bright, he basically played with people who did not understand how to get the best from him, or who did not take the time to make sure he was happy, and he would become extremely stubborn. Come to think of it I think Seabiscuit and Tom Smith were somewhat alike.As for Seabiscuit himself, I absolutely could not help but fall in love with him, idiosyncrasies and all. He enjoyed being photographed and would truly stop and pose, look the camera straight in the eye, perk up his ears and fluff his tail.  He was predisposed to liking a lot of sleep, some would say lazy (when he wasn't running) and loved to eat (not good for a horse who needs to stay a lean, mean fighting machine just as surely as his jockey does) and he liked to toy with his equine opponents.  Turns out horses are very competitive creatures that like to win and know when they have done so. The way Laura Hillenbrand describes Seabiscuit basically mocking some of his less talented stable mates was eye opening and hilarious. Well, not so hilarious for the stable mates but GO SEABISCUIT! Because he started out as such a mishandled and awkward under dog I didn't feel very bad for the mocked horses, I just felt happy that Seabiscuit was finally coming into his own. He had a personality as complex as any human (maybe more complex than some people) and amazing determination.  While reading I truly "got" all this about him, as surely as the whole country did at the time. I had no idea that Seabiscuit was such a phenomenon coast to coast.  He became a superstar when the country really needed some positive escapism and it felt like Laura Hillenbrand captured every moment and took me along for the star struck ride.This is quite simply a great story told by a great author.
4 This extremely well-researched book about the legendary horse Seabiscuit, his owner, his trainer, his jockeys, his racetrack opponents, and the world of American horse racing, especially during the 1930s, is a journey worth taking. Every character has a story and it is interesting to find out about each of them before and after their lives intersected with Seabiscuit's. Bringing out and nurturing the greatness of the unlikely looking champion Seabiscuit was a feat accomplished by special men who respected one another and this unique horse. Even if you have limited experience with horses and horse racing, you will probably enjoy the ride.
5 I decided to go back to my favorite book from a couple of years ago, the hugely successful &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; by author Laura Hillenbrand.  I perhaps enjoyed it even more than the first read, and look forward with great anticipation to the release of the film this summer.Although Hillenbrand has a tendency to &quot;over adjective&quot; in many instances, her story of a group of also-rans, two men and a horse, coupled with two men with &quot;the golden touch&quot;, is a deeply satisfying read.  Hillenbrand couches the piece with aheads-on review of the country in the 20's and 30's, something today's filmgoers could use an idea of!  When the charismatic Seabiscuit rises from obscurity along with worn-out Tom Smith (his trainer, and one of the most interesting characters ever in this colorful sport) and down-on-his-luck jockey Red Pollard, the American public is treated to one of those rare events, a longshot who succeeds brilliantly!  Backdrops of wealthy owner Charles Howard and winning jockey George Woolf also play major roles in this tale of an underdog.But central to the whole theme is the understanding that Hillenbrand derives of the very personality of the odd horse that floundered his way up and down the rollercoaster of stardom.  She has a flair for convincing you why this particular horse should be immortalized in a nonfiction book that should experience a renaissance once the film is released!A definite must for your book collection -- outstanding read!
5 This beautiful, treasured book sits proudly on my bookshelf with its striking hardback cover (2001 edition) adorned with photographs of this remarkable horse and his jockey. This is a heartwarming tale about the determination and courage of three very distinct men who put their belief in a small crooked-legged racehorse, who ended up exceeding all expectations by becoming one of the most memorable horses within history. In 1938 Seabiscuit became one of the most talked about horses of the age, going straight to the hearts of the public thanks to the most improbable meeting of three very dissimilar men. Charles Howard who had introduced the automobile to the American West and repaired bicycles decided on impulse to by this little horse and in doing so met Tom Smith; a mysterious and virtually mute Mustang horse breaker from Colorado who thus became Seabiscuit's trainer. These two men then found Seabiscuit's jockey Red Pollard who was a most intriguing man; a failed boxer and blind in one eye who was crippled and recited Emerson. This unusual and quite odd trio ended up living the dream of every racing enthusiast by creating a champion, that would go down in the history books as one of the greatest racehorses that ever lived. Surviving a four-year run of ill fortune, conspiracy and a severe injury Charles Howard's horse journeyed from the lowest levels of the sport to becoming an icon at the very top. This inspiring and honest narrative of three individuals that betted and won against the odds, overcoming depression to captivate the world is heartwarming and moving; that speaks to your very soul with its poignancy and truth.Having seen the film adaptation of the book I was intrigued more than ever by this horse, that was not striking in appearance or tall, or from a classy pedigree but which showed how an animal (or in the case of even a human or sports professional) can come from nothing and still end up succeeding at the very top. Crushing all doubts and exceeding expectations this small horse with a big heart formed a partnership with its rider that helped it to soar cloud high and win some of the most prestigious races of the time including the Brooklyn Handicap in 1937. The exciting match race between him and War Admiral made Seabiscuit a symbol of hope to many Americans in the time of the Great Depression, by also then winning at Santa Anita in 1940. He was awarded U.S champion handicap male in 1937 and 1938 and also U.S horse of the year in 1938. The unorthodox training methods of Tom Smith seemed to work as they not only brought the horse out of his lethargy, but helped him to focus and become the athlete that they required him to be. The film I personally feel is an accurate representation of this horse and his remarkable career, but it is not until one reads the book do you then feel a real part of his story and begin to understand how unique this horse actually was. This special tale will make you laugh and cry and which many an equestrian will be enchanted by, and gripped by the close relationship between horse and rider that is so magical. One of my top ten favorite horses within the racing industry who shall certainly never be forgotten, and a captivating story that is most enjoyable being a delight to behold.
5 This is one of my favorite movies and the book was full of wonderful information not covered in the movie.  Loved it.
5 I loved this book!  I learned more about horse racing and the life of jockeys than I ever dreamed.  The story is set in the great depression and that makes it so much more fun to read.
5 An exhaustively researched, detailed, but also very entertaining and dramatic story of the famous racehorse. Seabiscuit was an unlikely candidate for a throughbred champion, which Hillenbrand makes clear in her discussion of Seabiscuit's inauspicious start in life. But through the sheer persistance, drive, and loving care of his owner, trainer, and rider, Seabiscuit eventually emerges as a champion despite all his disadvantages. Although it's about a horse--this is a true Horatio Alger story if there ever was one.One final minor point, I recall one amazing statistic about Seabiscuit, which I knew before reading this book, was that Seabiscuit got more mentions in the newspapers in his biggest year than the president of the United States (unfortunately I don't recall what year that was now). That is truly an amazing fact and is just one other testimonial to how popular and famous he became.
5 Best book I ever read.Because of it, a grassroots movement, completely independent of the book, has begun all across the country to get Seabiscuit put on a U.S. postage stamp. The horse meets every qualification.The Seabiscuit-on-a-stamp movement needs every vote, since we are just ordinary people and have no lobbyist in Washington.If you loved Laura Hillenbrand's book (and the latest edition has a lot more photographs!), please write.We, the people, are the ones who choose who goes on a stamp.America is running out of heroes, and needs Seabiscuit as much today as in the days of the Great Depression.Send your request toCitizens Stamp Advisory Committee, Stamp Development, U.S.Postal Service, 475 L'Enfant Plaza Drive, Room 5670, Washington DC20260-2437Thanks to all who have already written, and who are yet to write in their request. Every vote counts.
5 The human and equine characters are brought back to life by Laura Hillenbrand in such a way that their successes and failures become our own. Never has a book evoked such emotion in me as this one. I hope the film is half as good.
5 I loved the movie so I bought the book.  The book has sooooo much more to tell - fascinating.  The author is outstanding.  Writes &#34;transparently&#34; so you feel the book rather than read it.  Loved it so much I bought another  book by her.  Outstanding!
5 I really enjoyed this book. The pictures added so much to the story. The book was well researched and led me into the world of horse racing. It was fascinating to read how the lives of three very different men and one horse wove together to create a memorable moment in history.
5 Readers of all ages will enjoy this classic about an unlikely champion.  Set during the Great Depression, the backdrop also gives a glimpse back into time.
5 Knowing little about horses and horseracing, and in general being antipathic towards those who value animals above human beings, I approached this well-reviewed book with a large measure of trepidation. Boy was I wrong. Ms. Hillenbrand has written a story that manages to capture the spirit of an America that is now lost.Written in sharp, clear prose, Seabuicut is one of the great underdog stories of all times, all the more poigniant for being true. Humans come alive here as much as horses. The characters involved with the cultivation of this horse are larger than life, and Ms. Hillenbrand makes them jump off the page. Jockeys trainers, and owners swirl, regional differences leap off the page, and the race between Seabuscuit and War Admiral is one of the best moments I've ever read.  I actually came to care for a horse.Well worth your time, and one book deserving of all the praise lavished on it.  Add my good opinion to the top of the heap.
5 I dearly loved Seabiscuit! As always Laura Hillenbrand certainly did her homework!!  This was still theera when race horses were so beloved and the public became invested in the horse!!  If you knew anyonefrom this time period (such as my Father) you will quickly see that it is captured beautifully and allby the written word!!  Exceptional!!
5 I love horses. Although I have such serious problems with the industry's treatment of its animals that I won't support it financially, I must admit I find thoroughbred racing to be an absolutely thrilling sport. Laura Hillenbrand does a marvelous job bringing the excitement of horse racing alive on the page.She also does a marvelous job bringing the slice of Depression-era social and cultural history she examines alive. The men who owned, trained and rode Seabiscuit and the horse himself were all fascinating characters who experienced horrible misfortunes and great successes. Hillenbrand carefully selects details to create a vivid tale of their lives and times. Seabiscuit was obviously a huge pop culture phenomenon in his day, when horse-racing, prize fighting and baseball were really the only professional sports on the national radar. Her writing can occasionally lapse into over-the-top breathlessness, but it's quite eloquent for the most part, very exciting to read, and frequently moves me to tears. I've read the book half a dozen times and my enjoyment never diminishes.If you are a real fan of the book and enjoy the history, get the illustrated collector's edition, which has dozens of extra photos.
5 Read other reviewers if you want to get some of the details of this book. I read over a hundred books a year and this book is, without doubt, one of the best books I have ever read. It is not a book about a horse, or a race or horse racing, It is a book about life. About the ups and downs of life. About inspiration and desperation. About sadness and joyfulness. About materialism and spirtitualism.If you only read one book a year, read it this year and every year thereafter.Congratulations to Ms. Hillenbrand for a superb book that is made all the greater by the difficulties she has encountered in attempting to write.
5 Riding Sea Biscuit was a nuanced task.  He needed to be steered.  Sea Biscuit was the premier newsmaker of 1938.  His jockey, Red Pollard, was tragic-faced.  Pollard's father had hunted gold and been an auto mechanic.  Red was odd, bookish, too tall for a jockey. A race horse can travel 40 miles per hour.  He weighs about 1400 pounds.  Jockeys are extraordinary athletes.  In the riding position there is a narrow center of balance.Hillenbrand provides back stories to emerge at a point of triangulation, the meeting of the trainer, Smith, the horse, Sea Biscuit, and the jockey, Pollard.  Sea Biscuit's owner, Charles Howard, was a highly successful seller of Buicks and a master of publicity.  He had relied upon his trainer, Tom Smith's intuition when he bought Sea Biscuit.Pollard and Sea Biscuit both had huge resources of stamina and an ability to withstand abuse.  In their sport they were both unconventional based upon less than perfect physical attributes.  Sea Biscuit was a Depression Era favorite because he had heart.  Racetracks enjoyed a comeback in the thirties as governments sought to raise funds.  In the first part of the century they had been banned, put out of business, for reason that gambling was involved.In 1940 in the San Antonio Pollard had his first win since 1938.  He was riding Sea Biscuit.  The horse was also making a comeback from injury.  At the Santa Anita Handicap Pollard and Sea Biscuit sealed the return of champions.  In six years Sea Biscuit won 33 races and set 13 track records.  To get into the race, Pollard had exhausted his reserves and for a time sorted mail.The acknowledgments section avers that history hides in unlikely places.
4 I grew up reading horse books, anything written by Walter Farley , Margurite Henry and one of my all time favorites, &quot;Come On Seabiscuit&quot; by R. Moody.  &quot;Seabiscuit, An American Legend&quot; by Laura Hillebrand offers a story of group of men and an amazing horse.  These three men, Red Pollard, a not too successful jockey, Tom Smith, a loner with an unmatched touch with horses, and Charles Howard, a risk taker who was a self made man.  These three men shared a common belief in a stubby, bandy-legged, horse with no real grace or style.  Despite being the progeny of the great Man O'War, Seabiscuit had little promise as a race horse.  Only these three men recognized the potential, and the raw speed within the odd shaped package.  The horse became the talk of the western race scene.  Time after time, the little horse fought back from poor starts and injury to astonish racetrack spectators.  When challenged to race against the cream of the eastern race circut, Seabiscuit seemed to be hobbled by bad luck, scratched from almost every race he entered.  Even more cruel, the series of injuries to Red Pollard, the jockey are seemingly  unsurmountable.  This is not just a book about a horse, it is about the late 1930's.  This seemilgly undistinguished little horse managed to capture the hearts and the imagination of the public. This is a glimpse into the racing subculture, the grueling ordeal jockeys went through to make weight, the rivalries between stables and the east and west coast.  If this was a script for a movie, there would be accusations of melodrama, the continuing injuries and struggles and adversity.  At times this book is a bit overwritten but in truth, these personalities are larger than life and the horse is a true champion.
5 I sat down and read this book in two days because I couldn't put it down.  I already love horseracing and this book just drives home the fact that it is a very hard sport but if you love it, it's in your blood...This book captures horseracing perfectly.  I laughed, cried and cheered all the way through this book.  The movie is a little different but still excellent in it's own right.  Read this book and cheer on all the people that helped make Seabiscuit great and Seabiscuit himself!
5 Loved it a great read
4 Summary:This is the true story of the greatest racing horse that ever lived, Seabiscuit. The book tracks the backstories of the animal's trainer, owner, and jockey, follows them as they combine with Seabiscuit to shake the racing world, and then follows each of them as they dodder off into obscurity. Author Hillenbrandt takes care to place every event in its context, with the most important theme being that of a group of men and a horse who come from lowly beginnings to triumph over the wealthy establishment on behalf of the poor working or want-to-be-working class everywhere.Writing: Hillenbrandt does a terrific job, giving us as many descriptive scenes as possible. Her narrative prose is richly descriptive without sounding too snooty, and she always seems to find the most interesting detail in what must have been a truly mountainous pile of material. While there were some parts that I found slow or boring, I suspect that they were included because their omission would have resulted in an incomplete story; if certain things don't happen, such as the narrative climax and happy endings that I want, I can only blame history.What I learned:The lives of horse jockey's were amazingly tough, as they went to all sorts of outrageous lengths to lose weight in order to remain legally viable to race. Their devil-may-care culture reminded me of the culture of newsboys during the same time period described in a book I read about Christmas. The fact that racing horses are weighted down with weights in order to even out their chances was a surprise to me; the decision of how much weight is made by a panel of subjective people, and the politics that accompanied this were interesting (and stomach-turning, in some cases).
4 This book is a gripping read and an inspiring story, albeit at times a bit too melodramatic.  I'm not sure if the actual events themselves were such a soap opera or if Hillenbrand's interpretation and style of writing make them come across that way.  Whichever it is, it makes for exciting, entertaining reading, but it will also make even mildly cynical readers roll their eyes when Seabiscuit, for the umpteenth time, overcomes life-threatening injuries and insurmountable odds to achieve heroic victories.This is certainly a fascinating story, especially if you like to cheer for underdogs.  There is something magical about how these four characters, three men and a horse, all started out with few advantages and rose to the top through hard work and believing in themselves and each other.  The relationships that develop, both among the men and between man and horse, are quite touching.  And Seabiscuit himself is a remarkable character, filled with personality and idiosyncrasies and charm.The writing is fluid and the story is well constructed.  Hillenbrand has a gift for building suspense.  I have to admit I was on the edge of my seat as I read the passage about the challenge race between Seabiscuit and War Admiral.  The energy and excitement in the prose made me feel as if I were there watching the actual race.  That's the definition of good writing.My only complaint is that I had this feeling throughout the book that Hillenbrand was playing with the readers' emotions, building us up for a big victory when she knew that disaster loomed around the corner, and preparing us for the worst in order to make Seabiscuit's successes seem that much more noteworthy.  I lost count of the times that Seabiscuit or his jockey had some career-ending injury, only to race again days or weeks later.  I also got tired of how Hillenbrand over-dramatized the amount of weight that Seabiscuit was required to carry in comparison to his competitors.  The first time he carried 130 pounds was certainly a milestone, since no horse had done it before, but after he did it a dozen times and won more often than not, I think it was safe to say that the weight was fair.
5 I bought 'Seabiscuit' as a gift for my dad, not having read it myself. A racing fan, he read the book in two sittings and convinced me to read it. I can say with confidence that 'Seabiscuit' is the most engaging non-fiction book I have read in many years. It is compelling for a number of reasons, but mainly because of the confluence of personalities and how each of the principles seemed fated to meet and change the others' destinies.  What I mean is that how fortunate Howard was to buy this smallish, odd horse; how Smith somehow arrived at the right time, and to be the only trainer capable of seeing Seabiscuit's true potential; and Pollard as well, who becomes a tragic figure despite his glorious victories on this magnificent horse. The author summons the mystery of horses, and how racing actually allows them to make use of their primal urges. I came to understand racing not as a brutal sport but a sublime competition of intelligent and superbly trained creatures. This was not always the case, but the mystical impulse to run is conveyed brilliantly by Hillenbrand - finally I understand why some people adore horses the way they do. Finally, 'Seabiscuit' is great storytelling, suspenseful right up to the end. You'll no doubt be cheering Seabiscuit along on all his rides, while the human drama behind the races pulls on your emotions. I know I really love a book when I slow down my reading, not wanting it to end while also looking forward to getting home from work to keep reading. I can only express admiration for the author, this story, and this horse.
5 Even if you don't follow racing very much, you will love this book. It is very informative and I recommend it to everyone!
5 This observer was about to prepare a dismissive 3 star review of &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; wondering how it attained bestseller status. I was ready to state that the authoress allocated too much space on coda. I felt that too many pages were given to background of owners, trainers, and jockeys-not to mention horses. Then a funny thing happened. I read the back of the book interview with Laura Hillenbrand and my perspective changed completely. Those 13 pages change everything! So this is the recommendation from this quarter: Buy SB BUT start after page 299 and read till the end. Then -and only then -go back and read forward from the preface.  Those who do should realize why SB is so popular and why Ms. Hillenbrand is so worthy of respect as a researcher, an author and a person. With hindsight, this is a wonderful story. I just hope the forthcoming movie will do SB justice but I'm not holding my breath on that score.
4 There's not much I can add that hasn't already been said about this book. I will say that I love books that cover this era ('20s through '40s). It's hard to imagine a time when horse racing was so big. Seabiscuit, and his trainers, all had started their careers with underdog statuses and Hillenbrand puts each story in separate light, bringing each's tale together the way one would blend ingredients in a good cake recipe. I seldom read books a second time, but I can foresee Seabiscuit as a book I'll read again another day.
4 Well written and researched book! I can easily see this as a film - the events captured by Hillenbrand came alive while I read. Those who are not horse lovers or faimilar with racing will find no problem enjoying this book! It seems that jockeys are the forerunners (so to speak) to our supermodels of recent years w/all of their outlandish tactics to keep weight off! That and other portions of the book (including Depression-era details) invite you to read this from start to finish w/out putting the book down. Highly recommended!
2 There was so much hype and publicity surrounding this book, I was excited to get my hands on it and find out was everyone was talking about. I started reading, and I was a little dissapointed that the beginning didn't immedietly grab my attention. I kept reading because I heard from a few people that it's a little slow to start. So here I was reading and reading, and waiting for it to get exciting. Pretty soon I had finished the book, and I hadn't discovered the exciting part.The story of seabiscuit is much better suited to a movie, or a story told around a campfire. It just didn't work as a book. The only thing that ever happens to Seabiscuit is that he runs in race after race- he runs in so many races I was sick of it by the end. Nothing significant ever occurs during or between the races, he either wins or looses, and moves on to the next race. I thought that for sure something would have to happen to make this story a bit my dynamic, but the races just keep on coming.I don't know what the American Public saw in this book, but whatever it was, I missed it. Probably because I was drowning in race after race after pointless race...
5 This book is written with historical accuracy and the author took great pains to get it right..down to the edgy details of fraction times.There were times while I was reading this novel that I found myself scooting towards the edge of my chair, waving my arm and encouraging SEABISCUIT to WIN!IT was very exciting and simply and beautifully written.  Ms Hillenbrand spent four long years composing this novel, which may be her masterpiece work.I encourage all people who love horses and love to read to spend some time parked in front of this compelling book.You will go away dazzled and will have learned a great deal about our nation - pre and post depression.
5 This book is not merely about a horse. It's about an American dream, how 4 unlikely misfits came together to achieve that dream, and how an unlikely hero captured the heart of American racegoers in the 30s.I have loved horse racing from the first time my father took me to Santa Anita almost 20 years ago. I've seen the statues of Seabiscut and George Woolf at that racetrack many times, but never knew their story. I am thankful to Ms Hillenbrand for writing a story so compelling and so well-researched that I came to know all of these characters so well.As a side note, I liked the way Ms Hillenbrand takes the time to explain to the reader about horse racing, its terms, and what it means to the owners, the trainers, and the jockeys. She makes it a world that is simple to understanding, while at the same time never losing the true heart of this book.I cannot recommend this book highly enough. It will make you laugh, it will make you cry, and yeah, it'll even make you cheer!
5 I'm not a horse person and knew almost nothing about horses or racing, but I could not put this book down.  What a gripping tale from the rise of an obscure horse trainer to the grueling trade of being a jockey.  Of course the best characters are the horses themselves:  Seabiscuit of course, the real hero, but all the other ones too like War Admiral.  The central account of the story is the famous race between Seabiscuit and War admiral, but everything leading up to it is spectacular as well.  The author's research was very thorough and her ability to flesh out the characters impressive.  I wasn't bothered by her prose at all as some have been.  I was hooked from page one right to the final pages.  A terrific retelling of an age gone by.
5 This is easily one of the best books I've read in the last several years. It is the story of a remarkable racehorse, his owner, trainer and jockey. Ms. Hillenbrand has done an outstanding job of drawing together the stories of these unique characters to create a timeless tale. It reads like a well crafted novel. Sports Illustrated rated it as one of the great sports books ever written. THIS IS A MUST READ! IT IS A 5 STAR +
5 Even if you're not particularly an admirer of horses or racing, you'll still be entranced by this wonderful book, since the story is terrific, the narrative skills of the author are marvelous, and her prose is wonderful.  The reading includes so much emotional experience, from heartache to thrill, that you might stay up half the night, and shirk your responsibilities, as happened to me.  And although this a very well-researched true story, brimming with essential details, and with an index at the end for reference, you couldn't find anything as gripping were it a pure novel.
5 Up to the time that I became aware of this book, I thought that the Seabiscuit was &quot;just another racehorse with a name more suitable for punchlines by the Three Stooges.  After all, I never saw his name listed among any of the Triple Crown winners or even as a winner of a Triple Crown race.  That's a testament to my personal ignorance however.  I now know however, that as a cultural phenomenon, Seabiscuit compares favorably with Muhammad Ali, Michael Jordan and Babe Ruth.It's not that he won horse races, it's the way he won horse races.  It's the way he overcame challenges.  The individual stories of the people that comprised &quot;Team Biscuit&quot; could have easily drawn the attention of writers with lesser talents, but Laura Hillenbrand puts the spotlight squarely on this wonderful horse; skillfully weaving in the exploits of his owner, trainer and jockeys to illustrate how he won the hearts and minds of a depression-battered nation.There is something for everyone here.  Have you ever wondered about how someone could train a racehorse?  How a human can exploit, while simultaneously protect the competitive heart of an animal?  How a horse can affect the lives of so many?  Seabiscuit is a book that is almost impossible to put down (yes, I know that's a clich&eacute;) but you won't believe how much sleep I happily lost because of this book.  I can't recommend it highly enough!
5 Wonderful story!  Great pictures! Well written too. Great buy, good del time also. But the book Secretariat was better. Buy.
5 I admit I know little about thoroughbred racing.  My lack of knowledge didn't keep me from enjoying this extremely well-written and engaging book.  Laura Hillenbrand has done an exceptional job bringing the racing world of the 30s to life.  I was swept up in the drama and emotion, and loved every minute of the narrative.  I was fascinated by Hillenbrand's insight that as cowboys lost work on the plains, they found work in racing stables.  Ultimately, it's all about the horses and she truly brings Seabiscuit to life.  Congratulations to Laura Hillenbrand.
4 I read this book after reading Unbroken. Seabiscuit is a good book and good story that I would probably would have given 5 stars too if I hadn't have read Unbroken first.I will read anything Ms. Hillenbrand writes from now on.  Her books are unbelievably well researched and written.
5 You don't have to know a thing about horse racing or even care about horses to love this book.  Laura Hillenbrand has written a book so good that it sets the gold standard for all racing histories and simultaneously transcends its subject and becomes a classic portrait of early 20th century America.  This is the story of the miraculous meeting of 4 uniquely self-made men - the exuberant owner, the mystical trainer and two colorful jockeys - and one less than promising racehorse.  Together they lived the greatest adventure in racing history.  Hillenbrand makes the technical minutia of racing interesting to the layman through wonderful anecdotes.  Not only will you learn the physical feats and tactical strategy a jockey must employ during a race, but you will also enjoy Hillenbrand's vivid description of the jockey's journeyman life.  The tale of Seabiscuit's rise from obscurity is filled with so many twists and turns that I don't want say to much about it, but suffice to say, it will keep you on the edge of your seat.  Be sure to read Hillenbrand's &quot;Acknowledgements&quot; at the end of the book.  The story of how she researched the book and the interviews she conducted is fascinating.  I don't care what Hillenbrand's next book is about - judging from how good this one was, I'll buy it sight unseen.
3 It was interesting, well written, etc, and the writer's personal accomplishments in spite of her illnesses are amazing.I had heard of all of the &quot;historical perspective&quot; that I would learn about this era - - didn't see much of that at all in this book. It was ALL about horses and nothing else. The life of Red is a very sad one and the chemistry between Smith &amp; and the horse was really amazing. I just don't know that this book needs to be 300+ pages long.
5 Great book according to my husband.  He can't wait to see how our son enjoys it for his summer reading for school.
5 Laura Hillenbrand is a remarkable writer.  Her research is amazing as she recreates history and the people who made the story so gripping.  I chose this book based partly on my experience with her other book, Unbroken, a masterpiece in my opinion, and I was not disappointed. I heartily recommend Seabiscuit .
5 Seabiscuit was a descendant of Man o War. He didn't inherit any of his famous beauty and bad temper, but he definitely inherited his speed. He wasn't a pretty horse, in fact people apparently often mistook him for a cowpony, but under the care of trainer Tom Smith, ownership of Mr. Howard, and ridden by Red Pollard, the homely little horse became a legend.Ms. Hillenbrand brings you to the racetracks of the twenties and thirties. You see racing through the eyes of the trainers and jockeys of the time. You can almost smell the horses! Her descriptions of the conditions that the jockeys and horses had to deal with were vivid, and at times horrific. But most of all, this is the story of Seabiscuit, and his love of racing. All of his quirks, and he had quite a few, are described lovingly. I now understand why he was so popular that he was mentioned in the press more times than the president. This is a must read.
5 What a storyteller Hillenbrand is!  She knew how to keep her readers hooked, and she also knew when to stop with the cliffhangers and tell a bit more so we wouldn't get frustrated with this incredible tale of a horse, his two jockeys, his trainer and his owner.  Each of these characters gets his own chapter, and the way they come together is magic.  And what research!  The appendix at the end is amazing--like a textbook.  Too bad more history texts aren't written this way.  Students would love history if they were!As amazing as Seabiscuit was, I thought this was really a story about the jockeys who rode him.  Red and Iceman went through horrible ordeals to attain their successes; ordeals I had no idea went on back then.  Thank goodness things have changed!  Or have they?  Today I learned that four horses had to be destroyed at the opening day of Emerald Downs in Auburn, WA.  They didn't say what happened to the jockeys.I heard a story on this book on NPR before I read it, and I turned it off because I didn't want to know what happened.  Even if you did hear that story, read this book.  It's got it all: heroes, heartbreak, and history!  Hillenbrand wrote a gem.
5 I am a horse owner and love and respect this animal immensely, which only added to my enjoyment of this book.  I thought the movie was great, but the book is even better.  The story initially may seem slow - with the introduction of the main characters and their background and history; however, that does not detract from the fact that this is a fantastic book.  Inspirational, heartwarming, and, in my view, a classic.  A book for everyone.  If I could rate this greater than 5 stars, I would.
4 Horse movies, horse stories, I'm bound to be caught up by either.  And I actually watched the associated movie while reading this book.  And enjoyed both of course.  After all, Seabiscuit is such a heartwarming story about courage and never giving up, it kind of embodies the American spirit.Hillenbrand takes the story of Seabiscuit and turns it into a history tale that you'll be glad to enjoy.  Seabiscuit of course is the little racehorse that noone thought would amount to anything, until he was turned around by three very unique men.  Those men being Charles Howard, the owner, who took a handful of change and made himself into a millionaire.  Tom Smith, a cowpoke turned horse trainer who didn't say much, but knew his way around horses.  And Red Polland, the jockey who would connect with Seabiscuit on such a level that he couldn't help but win races.  There were other supporting people of course, like Howard's wife and the other jockey George Woolf and they too played their roles in Seabiscuit's success.Hillenbrand does a great job of telling us about the people in this book.  She found quotes about them and from them and used it to really define how they were in real life.  I can totally see them acting the way she says they did and when you read other accounts of Seabiscuit, it lines up.  Especially Smith and his quiet manner and it was well known that Howard liked the spotlight and publicity.  But then there was Seabiscuit too.  We'll never know what that horse may have been thinking while racing, but I think Hillenbrand does a great job of describing his spirit and what could be going on with him.  She doesn't assign any thought or speech to him of course, but the way she describes his running seems authentic and well done.The history was well researched.  The appendices and explanations at the back show that much.  She spent a lot of time researching for this book and undoubtedly that's why the movie was made off of this one.  She also ties all the people's and the horse's history together so that it weaves as one and isn't too jumbled around.  It does get to be a little too much information in some parts and drags a bit, but this seems to only happen in the beginning of the book and it moves with a much better pace later on.  I also loved the pictures she included of Seabiscuit, the other horses, and even some of the jockeys and other people in Seabiscuit's life.  It really added to the book since you could see exactly what everyone looked like, albeit in black and white.A well researched book about a remarkable animal.  Seabiscuit is definitely one of my favored historical figures even if he is a horse.SeabiscuitCopyright 2001326 pagesReview by M. Reynard 2012
5 Only Laura Hillenbrand could see life through this lens.  A beautiful read written by an equally beautiful spirit, Hillenbrand.As Dickens once said, &#34;it was the worst of times&#34;, and an unlikely candidate for a National hero emerges from a horse given a second chance.
4 Hillenbrand has done a wonderful job of meticulously researching her subject and then telling the story in such colorful detail that it just comes to life.Since the story is now a hit movie, it kind of goes without saying that the story seems made for Hollywood, but the description is apt.  We have several down-and-out people and a down-and-out horse coming together and finding their strengths with one another to conquer long odds after an uphill struggle complete with devastating setbacks.  You couldn't ask for much more in a fictional script and to get it in real life and then have the story told as well as Hillenbrand tells it is a real treat.
5 This story takes us back in time to the 1930's, a time of much turbulence in the world. This work, however,  focuses on one horse and his important people. Together with owner Charles Howard, trainer Tom Smith, and jockey Red Pollard, Seabiscuit makes sports page history.  The story reveals it just as it happened.  We get to know the people and Seabiscuit first, and then we follow this horse's training and racing days. The story is written in such a way that the races seem like actual play-by-plays.  It's often hard not to jump up and yell "Go, Seabiscuit!" as the races are run on the pages of this book!  Well researched and lots of fun, this book is delightful reading for any animal lover or fan of sports history.
5 I could not put this book down.  It made me laugh and it made me cry.  This is an example of excellent storytelling infusing American History with a story of the ultimate underdog.  Don't miss this one!
1 The cover tells it all. You only see the horse's  rump. If the book is called Seabuscuit, put the  horse's FACE on the cover. And no race stats either!?
5 I found this book exciting from beginning to end.  There are those who thought the first section long and boooring, and I disagree.  I honestly wanted to know all I could about the principle figures, and author Laura Hillenbrand obliged.  The people she introduces to us are real, breathing, fleshed-out people with concerns and agendas we can understand, thanks to her detailed expositions.  We can see the extravagant extrovert entrepeneur Charles Howard who becomes Seabiscuit's owner, the quiet, non-smiling trainer Tom Smith (Chris Cooper should be great in the role), the tough but literate jockey who has a life filled with his share of misery ahead, and above all, the unlikely horse who captured the public's imagination and inspired more columns of newsprint in 1938 than did Roosevelt, Churchill, Hitler, or Mussolini.We get an understanding of the times, still depression-era with clouds of war gathering, and why a hero to ease the extreme stress of the time was necessary.  We learn much of the unpretty side of the lives lived by the jockeys.  We get the flavor of bordertown Tiajuana in the days of U.S. prohibition and anti-gambling legislation.But the absolute highlights for me were Ms. Hillenbrand's colorful race descriptions.  I was able to picture the running of each important race and these descriptions were suspenseful.  In fact, Laura Hillenbrand's ability to keep the reader on the edge of one's seat is a welcome treat in non-fiction.Now if you're just not at all interested in horses or horse racing, you're probably not even reading this, and if you are, I'd suggest getting the book from the library.  But for the average person who has even the mildest interest in the topic, this is abolutely a rewarding read.
5 Seabiscuit engrosses the reader on so many different levels.  It is a wonderful story of three men and a little horse that could.  It is also a fascinating picture of America as the automobile comes onto the scene.  It details how the nation, and both common and uncommon Americans were impacted and impacted the events of the great depression era.  It offers us an intimate picture of the life of the jockey and others whose lives revolved around horses and racetracks when both were highly popular.The style of writing makes the book an easy read.  Clearly the author carefully researched her facts, then put them together in such a way that it is hard to put the book down.  I was reminded of a song, Barney, written and sung by Ian Tyson about putting down an old, hard-working and much abused cow pony.  As he did so he reflected upon the seasons of his own life and long gone youth.  Seabiscuit braids together the seasons of life of men, women and the creatures that share our lives.
5 The story of the rise and domination (within horse racing circles and the world at large) of the most celebrated race horse in history.  Chronicling the horse, owner, trainer and jockeys; paying special attention to their remarkable place in history during a time in the late 1930's when the world needed a hero like Seabiscuit.A terrific tale of heart and determination.  The characters are richly drawn and the world of horse racing is told in a way that is fascinating to the non-enthusiast.  The narratives of the races are constructed so well that they will keep your heart racing long after the horses are back in the stable.  Wonderful stuff.
3 I read this on vacation, and I must say, the story of Seabiscuit is definitely the story of an underdog. Hillenbrand does a wonderful job providing readers with the backstory of all of the characters from this real-life drama. She introduces them to us long before their paths intersect, which helps inform the conclusions we draw about their actions later in the book.Also, one can't help but root for the underdog. Seabiscuit, particularly at the beginning of his racing career, was the ultimate long shot. So was his jockey. It's fun to see the two succeed. (However, the book also traces the eventual failure of Red Pollard, which is a rather depressing tale.)Descriptions of the races can get a bit technical, so readers (particularly those with little knowledge of the sport of horseracing) will have to follow them closely to truly understand the action. For me, the book was a little too long. After learning so much about the Pollard character, it was difficult to read about the final chapters of his life.
5 I have owned, bred, trained, shown and loved horses for over 50 years now and I am always on the trail of a good book about horses. THIS ONE IS IT!!! I could not put it down once I started it. Seabiscuit is a true AMERICAN hero and this book proves it. I owned a mare with his bloodline and even though she is gone now I appreciate her so much more having read this book about her grandsire. If you love horses you will love this book.
5 A friend first loaned us this book, which turned out to be one of the best written books we've ever read. We haven't ceased to recommend it to others. Besides purchasing our respective copies, my wife and I bought additional &#34;loaner&#34; copies to share with family and friends. Laura Hillenbrand did an amazing research job, and then went ahead and wrote this masterpiece with the heart. Even reading the acknowledgements at the end of the book is a moving experience. And the special illustrated edition has turned the book into an extraordinary document of a unique era in American history.  This is the kind of book for all of us who love to see &#34;the little guy&#34; make it to the top, because he has a big heart!
4 The story of Seabiscuit is a quintessentially American one of come-from-behind, underdog perserverence and triumph. Having seen the PBS documentary (outstanding), the movie (less so), and, finally, having read the book, it's hard to imagine any non-fiction story containing such a classic mix of dramatic ingredients.Laura Hillenbrand, in Seabiscuit: An American Legend, has presented us with a fast-paced, easily consumed rendition of the legendary Seabiscuit which, while providing excitement and suspense, misses the mark just slightly somehow.  While she should be highly commended for exhuming this heroic Depression-era tale for a modern-day audience, I can't help but wish that her book would have furnished the true glory and drama such a story deserves.  Indeed, as I read, I kept rooting for her to do better.  But, so enamoring is the subject matter, I found it eclipsed her attempt to present it.Don't get me wrong.  Hillenbrand has written what I consider a solid 4-star book.  But, one would think, a story this grand, this enchanting, this utterly wondrous, might to some extent write itself. Seabiscuit: An American Legend fails to inspire a 5-star rating because the horse, the owner, the trainer, and jockey deserve a richer, more eloquent effort.  I've added a quadruped to my short-list of heroes, however, and extend Laura Hillenbrand warm thanks.
5 This is one of the most impressive books I've read recently. What grabbed me most can be summarized by a paragraph in the preface:&quot;They had come from nowhere. The horse, a smallish, mud-colored animal with forelegs that didn't straighten all the way, spent nearly two seasons floundering in the lowest ranks of racing, misunderstood and mishandled. His jockey, Red Pollard, was a tragic-faced young man who had been abandoned as a boy at a makeshift racetrack cut through a Montana hey field. He came to his partnership with Seabiscuit after years as a part-time prizefighter and failing jockey, lugging his saddle through myriad places, getting punched bloody in cow-town boxing rings, sleeping on stall floors. Seabiscuit's trainer, a mysterious, virtually mute mustang breaker named Tom Smith, was a refuge from the vanishing frontier, bearing with him generations of lost wisdom about the secrets of horses. Seabiscuit's owner, a broad, beaming former cavalryman named Charles Howard, had begun his career as a bicycle mechanic before parlaying 21 cents into an automotive empire.&quot;I think this is a fantastic book because the characters are so interesting and likeable. In my opinion, the author has created a fiction out of a non-fiction (in author's words: to recreate history with the texture of a novel). She is an exceptionally talented writer. (&quot;His eyes were wide and shining with the shock of it&quot;-her description of War Admiral's owner, just after losing the race. One of the ending scenes of the book (after the Santa Anita race): &quot;Red Pollard sipped his scotch and reminisced about Seabiscuit and quietly slipped out of history. The smoke from his cigarette curled up from his fingers and slowly faded away.&quot;)No wonder why this story has grabbed her so much, who has been suffering from Chronic Fatigue Syndrome.
5 This is one of the best books I every have read in a long time, it keeps the reader interested in the characters from the first page to last a must read. I highly suggest getting this book!
5 "Seabiscuit: An American Legend" is such a successful book that no customer review can really alter its sales trend. To critique it is almost as pointless as writing a review of "Catcher in the Rye"--whether reviewed favorably or poorly, readers will continue to purchase it. All that I can say is that all of the hype surrounding "Seabiscuit," a horse-racing book that somehow became a bestseller, is justified.A native Marylander, Laura Hillenbrand recently presented this book at a nearby bookseller in Georgetown, a rare appearance made even more remarkable by the fact she suffers from the often misunderstood ailment, chronic fatigue syndrome. Some audience members were amazed by her youthful good looks, which really have nothing to do with her writing ability. At any rate, Hillenbrand recounted how she had poured all of her energy into researching and writing this book with an attention-grabbing narrative style that has you turning pages well into the night. Or in this review, the audio cassette version, narrated by actor Campbell Scott (of "The Spanish Prisoner" fame), which has you making extra long road trips just to keep on listening. It is amazing to think that so many readers who have had nothing to do with horses or horse racing in the past have flocked to this book by the droves.Ms. Hillenbrand has remarkable talent, and in the end she will have you cheering for an underrated, lopsided racehorse you've never met. Now that's something.
5 If you've never watched a horse race this book will still capture you from the get go. I know almost every reviewer has said this, but it's true. If you do watch them, it'll never be the same.Even the extensive notes at the end of the story make fascinating reading. I recommend reading A Reader's Guide before starting just to get familiar with the background, and the author's telling of what she went through to write the book is an inspiration in itself.You'll go back and forth between the stories of the animal and human characters: their defeats and triumphs. From Seabiscuit himself, who starts out as a most unlikely champion to his owner, trainer and the two jockeys who believed in him and loved him. The chapter on the will and dedication of the jockeys is a real eye-opener, especially if like me you thought they just sat on the horse (during a race) and held on. And reading about each of these races as they take place is to experience each second as if you are the rider.I read recently a prophecy of doom and gloom for the book publishing industry, but as long as someone cares enough about a subject to write a book like this, there's really nothing to worry about!
5 Loved this book. Recommend it to everybody, even if you are not a racing fan. Author does a tremendous job at creating the period. Her descriptions of the racing and its complexities were very educational.
5 Not being at all familiar with the world of horseracing, I opened this book skeptical of liking it.  In three days, every page has been read and thoroughly enjoyed.  This is a truly wonderful story and well-deserving of all laudatory words written about it.  This well-rounded story introduces us to several major characters surrounding this amazing animal.  Each story is told magnificently from start to finish.  Along the way, about the ninth chapter, I started to compile a list of words not commonly used and am delighted in learning them (insouciant, obstreperiousness, excoriation, imeriousness, sobriquet, addled, rictus, etc.)  So often what we read today, although entertaining, is created from imaginary circumstances molded and manipulated into sometimes farfetched, but exciting stories.  Here we have real life, packed to the rafters with excitement, a feeling of the undercurrent of a generation ago, skillfully composed into one of the best books I've read.  This is drama set to paper and it's a doozer!
5 I've just finished reading this book for the 3 rd time since it was written. Ms. Hillenbrand is an excellent writer who makes history come alive. Four separate stories come to life and intertwine around the ups and downs of the racing world. Seabiscuit's story is the underdog overcoming all odds. The owner's, trainer's, the jocky's stories all reflect this same theme too.  A must read for those who love horses or history or excellent story telling or action packed novels.
5 Even if you have no interest in horses or horse racing, this book is so wonderful it will grab at your heart and leave it thumping as you ride with the jockeys on the incomparable Seabiscuit. You'll find the horrible existence of the jockeys before there was medical insurance or protective headwear appalling, but there's something magical about these guys and horses- they know their horses as well as a modern fellow would know his car. George Woolf, one of the greatest jockeys who ever lived rode a horse as though he and the animal were one, a centaur. Author Hillenbrand's descriptions of how it must feel to have a 40 mile an hour machine under you will put you right in the saddle. You know Seabiscuit is going to beat War Admiral when the two are matched up for the famous Pimlico race but the author gives a thrilling description of that pivotal event and you almost feel sorry for War Admiral who did the best he could, both horses setting track speed records. But Seabiscuit sort of thumbed his nose at the Admiral, spooking  him, and  pulled away.The humans in the story are no less compelling. Charles Howard the former bicycle repairer who became a millionaire and sentimental owner of Seabiscuit. Tom Smith the trainer,  who virtually never smiled, never said much but knew the soul and heart of a horse and often slept right in the stall with his charges. Seabiscuit was not only small for a thoroughbred, he had knobby knees, a scruffy tail, had a bad temper and given to sulking and acting up. Smith had an instinct. He saw in Seabiscuit what a horse whisperer sees- he saw the power.Smith turned Seabiscuit into a horse of a different color. The two jockeys who rode the Biscuit- George Woolf and Red Pollard, played him like a violin. But the price was high: Red was frightfully injured in accidents on the track and had been blinded in one eye by a rock one of the horses kicked up during a race. (Now of course jockeys wear protective helmets). Red, although his leg had been  shattered, and earlier his chest caved in by a horse that fell on him, rode Seabiscuit to victory in the Santa Anita Handicap. Woolf, who was a diabetic in the days before the disease could be controlled, apparently fainted while riding in a race, slipped from the saddle and fell to the ground. He died the next day.There was romance in being a top jockey but also a horrible reality and enormous danger. The sport of kings took a huge toll in the days before insurance and protective gear. Nowadays a little of the romance is gone but this splendid book will put the romance right in your lap.
5 I saw ads for this and thought, nah, I'm not gonna bother with this one. Hey, I don't even like horses and don't understand those who do. But then I read a piece in the New Yorker by the author - took me reading halfway into the piece to realize she was Seabiscuit's author, and I was HOOKED - not on the book and the horse so much as on this Hillenbrand's personal courage (battling a crippling case of chronic fatigue syndrome for I forget, maybe like 2 decades?) and perseverance - and the sheer beauty of her writing.So. Okay. I read the book. And boy, am I ever glad I did, as it's stellar. Hillenbrand dives into the world of thoroughbred horse racing in this incredible story of Seabiscuit, who, I've gotta admit, I'd never heard of before. Apparently he wasn't a very promising-looking horse, and that's putting it mildly. Nor were the horse's owner, trainer, or jockey very promising. But somehow out of this sure-to-court-disaster scenario, they instead came up with a stupendous and heartwarming winner.And Hillenbrand has written a stupendous and heartwarming book about it.Don't miss it - even if you don't know a horse from a camel designed by a committee.
5 Although I am a huge horse racing fan, I ignored this book for a long time, but I realised that it must be good when somebody with no interest in the sport told me what a fantastic book it is. And so it proved.Seabiscuit, a temperamental horse, began his career with the top trainer of the day. Despite sensing that Seabiscuit had talent, that trainer was unable to get him to do much and his owner sold him cheaply. His new owner moved him to a small stable where the trainer was able to get to know the horse intimately.The new owner, trainer and jockey are all interesting characters and the book goes into a fair amount of detail about them. The owner was an extrovert type who originally made his money selling automobiles in San Francisco in the years following the 1906 earthquake. By contrast, the trainer was an introvert who had worked with horses all his life but had little experience of horse racing. The jockey had been very successful but it was thought his best days were behind him, as dieting and heavy drinking took their toll, and continued to do so. Another jockey often had to substitute for him.Under the new regime, Seabiscuit enjoyed himself and eventually emerged as California's champion. However, in those days the best American racing was on the east coast and their champion was War Admiral. The public demanded a match but a combination of injuries to Seabiscuit, personality clashes and bad weather (Seabiscuit did not like running in rain-softened ground) meant that the match did not happen for a log time. It was certainly worth waiting for when it did.The book continues to end of Seabiscuit's racing career, when he finally wins the race his owner wanted him to win, and also includes an epilogue telling us what happened to the main characters afterwards.This is a fascinating story about overcoming adversity. Horse racing is full of such stories - some of you may remember the story of Bob Champion and Aldaniti, which was made into a film - but Laura's writing style certainly makes the most of this story. While it gives an insight into the world of horse racing as it existed back then, it does not give any more detail than it needs to. All these factors explain why this book appeals to both horse racing fans and also to so many people who have no interest in the sport.
5 Whether you have seen the movie as an apetiser or are learning about Seabiscuit for the first time, this book is a gripping read from start to finish. Fascinating glimpse into the history of racing in the US and how the story of this horse and others gripped the nation. Along with that, the happy and sad lives of the men who turned this into such a great story. Loved it and recommend it as a great read.
5 Not me. At least that's what I thought when I spotted the first review for this book and glanced at it briefly, assuming this was just some oddity, getting attention simply because it was  different.I was wrong. I bought the book after accidentally hearing the author interviewed on TV. Her remarks whetted my appetite. This was no ordinary racehorse, and his story was no ordinary story. If Seabiscuit had indeed attracted more media coverage in his prime than any other single identity -- even surpassing FDR -- there must be something really special about the horse and his achievements. After a couple of hints, the book appeared as a Father's Day gift.It reads like a novel -- a very exciting novel. In fact I could almost not put it down. Seabuscuit's story is not just the story of a champion thoroughbred. It's a cinderella story, an underdog saga, a tale of irrepressible talent and unbelievable accomplishments against great obstacles. The author skillfully interweaves the events of Seabiscuit's life with the lives of his owner, his trainer and the two jockies that rode him to dozens of track records against some of the finest thoroughbreds in the history of American racing. And just when the reader thinks he has experienced the most exciting moment in Seabiscuit's stunning career, the author takes us to an even more shining instant. Reading this book, you will be surprised at how often you find a lump in your throat or a tear in your eye.In the movie they will surely make from this incredible book, the story will undoubtedly focus more on the people than the horse, almost certainly hinging on Red Pollard, the jockey who rode Seabuscuit to most of his legendary wins. I envision Gene Hackman as Charles Howard, the multimillionaire owner who plucked Seabiscuit from obscurity, and either Paul Newman or Robert Redford as Tom Smith, the silent and ingenious horsewhisperer-like trainer responsible for the nurturing of Seabiscuit's indominatable spirit. Red Pollard is my casting dilemma. I can't imagine who might play this eccentric character known to quote often and extensively from the works of Ralph Waldo Emerson and who survived the brutal and dangerous circumstances of a jockey's existence, struggling back from permanently crippling, nearly fatal injuries to share Seabiscuit's greatest glory.But don't wait for the movie. Buy the book.
5 This is wonderfully told and captivates you from beginning to end. The story of this spirited horse and those who surrounded him. I usually do not read non-fiction so this was unusual for me to pick up but I was determined to read it before the movie came out.It was especially interesting about the lives of jockeys and the lives of the three men who meant so much to Seabiscuit---Howard, Smith and Pollard.I highly recommend this to anyone.
4 This is the story of the famous racehorse Seabiscuit, and the three men (owner,trainer and jockey) who's lives were changed as they came together to manage the horse. Laura Hillenbrand is the author of this well written tale, and it is truly a worthwhile read. The movie, starring Jeff Bridges as owner Charles Howard and Toby Maguire as jockey "Red", which was released in 2003, is based on this account. A recommended read, I truly enjoyed this account.
5 If you have the extra money, I would highly recommend you buy the glossy photo edition of this book. This book is an amazing display of excellent journalism and gifted writing. Laura Hillenbrand could have made Seabiscuit a humdrum, dull book about a horse. Instead she made it a fast-paced, best-seller worthy novel about a winning athlete and his struggles throughout his career. There's no excess details here-everything is swift. A few quotes, a few fun stories, and you are quickly onto the next part of the adventure. You can see everything as it happens. Again, I would recommend the special edition, if you have the money, because it gives a more detailed account of what happened. I bought the special edition for my mom, and she loved it. When we bought the movie and this version was included, I picked it up and read the book for myself. It was amazing. Do not be intimidated by the amount of pages-I assure you they'll quickly be turned.
3 Perhaps if I had read Seabiscuit before the hype, I would have thought more of it.  Here is my take on it.Pluses: gripping action writing, characters well developed.Minuses: history is simplified, prose often over-heated.Liked the movie better!
5 I have no interest in horses.  I rarely read non-fiction that is not work related.  This book, however, is such a wonderful and well-written history that I will have to read it again.  The well-worn phrase that &quot;history comes alive&quot; in her prose sounds trite, but it is definitely true.  Give yourself a treat and settle in for this book.  Even if it's not your type of read, you won't be disappointed. (AND SKIP THE MOVIE!!!!!)
5 One of the things that really gets you about Seabiscuit is that it is the type of story that if it were not true, would be considered bad fiction.  It is sentimental and yes even downright sappy at times but the fact that it is true makes it very moving and, at times, uplifting. The story features so many twists and turns that again were it all not true you would not believe it.Laura Hillenbrand is a great writer and makes each of the principal characters, including Seabiscuit, realistic and believable. The story told is one of redemption and success and of people who in almost any other situation would never meet, but forget a unique partnership that is literally one in a million.This book can not be recommended high enough and I would add that it is one of the best sports books of all time!
5 I bought this book around Preakness time here in Maryland after hearing Laura Hillenbrand doing a radio interview. I have never read another book like this. While it is an historical telling, or a biography of the three men, it reads like well crafted fiction. And what is more amazing is that ever word of it is true.(just glance at the voluminous &quot;NOTES&quot; section at the end of the book) The story is about the legendary, and now mostly forgotten, horse &quot;Seabiscuit&quot;. A recounting of the events that brought together the three men responsible for Seabiscuit's raise to fame; gregarious owner Charles Howard, reticent trainer Tom Smith, and roguish jockey &quot;Red' Pollard. Each leading ordinary lives until united by the unassuming horse Seabiscuit. The climax of the story is the race between Seabiscuit and War Admiral son of the great Man 'O War. The author turns painstaking research into pulse pounding storytelling of the races that pitted these two horses against each other. After the historical race there are still sixty pages that the reader will not be able to put down until the end.The reader is treated to a fantastic tale of horse racing in the early part of the 20th century. Nothing is left out; from the bothels of Tijuana to the upper crust of New York's horse racing elite. And although the book tells of the triumph of the three men. Sometime near the and of the story, either unintentionally or intentionally the reader starts to wonder about the fate of the ohter men who labored at this hard life and never had the taste of fleeting fame achieved by Smith, Howard, and Pollard.
5 Seabiscuit was my first and best adult novel. When I got it I kept on procrastinating reading it. I thought that it would be really boring after all and that it would be all dry paragraphs loaded with dates. It was, in fact, quite the contrary. Written in a story-like way, Seabiscuit was a page turner for me, and I'm sure will be the same for anyone else who reads it. It is an educational and fun-filled novel about one of the greatest horses in history. And whether or not you are an equine fanatic, you'll LOVE Seabiscuit.
5 This is an utterly fascinating book. The depth at which this author has gone into detail is just incredible. I also found it interesting that Sara Gruen must have read this prior to writing Water for Elephants (another very wonderful book).
5 Let me say a few things up front: I have never set foot on a racetrack, I have watched the Kentucky Derby maybe twice on TV and I have little interest in jockeys, horse trainers or horses in general.  For those who think this is a book about a racehorse, think again.  It is a wonderful, descriptive work about the underdog, about triumph over adversity, about personality in animals and, most importantly, about a rarely discussed slice of America.With a keen sportswriters eye toward detail as well as broader context, Ms. Hillenbrand has written a vivid description of an amazing animal, the three men around him and an era in American sports and history.  Seabiscuit was a fascinating creature, not only for his deceptive power but for his playful, competitive nature.  Ms. Hillenbrand helps us understand this horse as a person - a person you instinctively root for.  His owner, a self-made success in the automobile industry, displays concern for the horse as if it were a child.  Seabiscuit's trainer embodied the western spirit and had an uncanny bond with the horse - he was a real-life horse whisperer.  Finally, the harrowing, rough and tumble life of a jockey during the 1930's is painted here with unsympathetic accuracy, as we learn about the trials of Red Pollard.  Seabiscuit was the hub of these three lives and their extraordinary accomplishment on the racetrack.The book builds toward two climaxes - the match race against War Admiral (which Ms. Hillenbrand desribes in such wonderful detail) and the ever elusive Santa Anita Handicap.  Although historical, the book has a novel-like suspense that keeps the uninformed reader rapt and engrossed.  This book, which describes the regional split between east and west coast race horses, really describes the potential and scrappy nature of the American west.  Thank you, Ms. Hillenbrand, for such a terrific read.
4 When I was young, I collected newspaper clippings on racehorses, more specifically on Man o' War, so when a friend of a friend recommended this book, I was pleasantly surprised to realize that Seabiscuit was a descendant of my favorite, Man o' War.  I found this a fascinating read, very well written, with interesting characters (aside from the horse himself) that you wanted to know more about.  Good writer.  Ordered her other book, Unbroken, but have not started it yet.
5 My peculiar reading habits do not usually take me to books on the best seller lists.  I don't have an interest in sports, so I don't wind up reading much about them.  I don't know the first thing about horses or horseracing.  So take a real expert's opinion: if you are one of the few readers who has yet to take up _Seabiscuit: An American Legend_ (Random House) by Laura Hillenbrand, I tell you to put down what you are reading right now and take it up.  It is simply a magnificent story, beautifully written, about one of the best athletes in history and the men who eased him into expressing his potential.Seabiscuit didn't look a winner.  His body was low and his knees didn't straighten all the way.  His gait was so peculiar that people mistook it for lameness.  His gallop was such chaos that he could hit his front ankle with a hind hoof.  He had a bloodline, but he lacked the looks, and he lacked the background.  His jockey, Red Pollard, kept with him pocket volumes of Shakespeare and Emerson (whom he called "Old Waldo"), and he had much of the contents memorized, quoting it and spouting jokes.  At fifteen, he hung around the "bush tracks," the lawless races that followed the carnivals.  Even when he graduated to racing at the official tracks, he had no home, for he slept in empty horse stalls wherever the riding circuit took him.  He might get hired, and he might win, but he seldom had money because everyone knew he was a soft touch for a "loan."  Horseracing ripped his body apart; he was blinded in one eye (a dangerous secret he managed to keep), and he had his chest crushed and a leg ripped up in racing accidents.  Perhaps the strangest character in the book is the trainer, the sphinx-like Tom Smith, who had learned horsemanship from the Plains Indians.  It was he who saw Seabiscuit's potential when it was invisible to everyone else, and he who convinced his employer to buy the horse.  Smith used to give sportswriters fits, as he seldom strung any words together for humans, and when he did deign to talk to a reporter, he could deliberately spout the most outrageous lies, such as that all of Seabiscuit's legs had been broken (that one was picked up by the wire services).  The man who took Smith's advice to buy Seabiscuit was Charles Howard, who had come to San Francisco and begun a bicycle repair shop, but started repairing autos when no one else during the turn of the century could do so.  Howard took on the Buick distributorship, making the fortune by which he could play the racing game.  Unlike Smith, Howard loved publicity.  Hillenbrand's description of how the contract for the race between Seabiscuit and War Admiral was arranged between Howard, War Admiral's owner, and the different target tracks is almost as exciting as the race itself.Hillenbrand's book includes quite a bit of American history, especially of the Depression, from which Seabiscuit fandom was a special relief.  She has traced the arcs of the careers of these three remarkable men, and that of one legendary racehorse, with great attention to period detail.  Seabiscuit was lucky to have the men on his team, and now he is lucky to have such a riveting story made of his life to bring his fame back sixty years on.
5 Laura Hillenbrand has written a classic true story not only of American horseracing but also a snapshot of a Country desperately searching for heroes and something to hold onto during the Depression years.This well researched nonfiction historical narrative reads better than any novel I've ever read.  The essence of the story revolves around a rather small unremarkable looking horse that shows everyone that an underdog can indeed triumph.  While the story centers on this heroic horse, the substance of the prose points to three men in search of meaning to their own lives.Ms Hillenbrand crafts and weaves a compelling story which actually brings the jockey Red Pollard, the trainer Tom Smith and the horse's owner Charles Howard together as the holy trinity of a story that's not just about the horse.  This is a historical narrative that gives the very essence of America in the 1930's and tells of a simpler and pure America in which the consuming factors were not just about money.  As historical writing goes this book rates in my top 5.  This book is a true classic tale and should be required reading in all our high schools and colleges.  They don't have enough stars!!!
5 The story of Seabiscuit, the champion racehorse in the late-1930s, is such an improbable cliche that if you didn't know it was true, you'd refuse to buy the book.  A little scrubby horse with a crooked leg and a funny gait who teamed up with a taciturn trainer and a half-blind jockey to win dozens of races and the hearts of millions of fans.  It's not surprising that the book has been made into a movie, it's perfect grist for the big screen.  The book is as good as the story.  Hillebrand, whose personal challenges have been widely reported, has done the research.  In fact, the Acknowledgments and Notes sections are as fun to read as the body of the book.  Hillebrand tracked down sources, both written and oral and put a nearly-lost story back together.  In the process, she clearly fell in love with the horse and his little team.  I imagine she lost some objectivity along the way, but her passion for the subject shines through.  It's a good story, a sweet story, a real-life tear-jerker.
5 Laura Hillenbrand will make Seabiscuit lovers of everyone who reads this book.  Seabiscuit (An American Legend) is a wonderful slice of American sports history that uses the legendary horse of the title to lead the reader through a part of the 1930's rarely glimpsed by most books of history.  The author fills in the details of this horse racing world with colourful anecdotes and touching, telling details.  The historical aspects of this books are all handled with delightful aplomb.The most amazing part of this book, though, is the way in which the author describes the races themselves.  Her writing is fast and breathless, like the horse race being portrayed, and this narrative will grab the reader in a way most history books never could.  For somebody with no interest in horse racing, but bought the book for a love of history, I was surprised at how anxious I became while reading the parts about the races and could not wait until the next one.  This is a very well put together book that will educate and excite in one rollicking package.
5 An extremely well researched and written biography of Seabiscuit, his owner, trainer and jockeys.  Ms Hillenbrand has spent a lifetime researching to write this inspiring and accurate biography of a true American hero.  In the middle of the great depression a racehorse catches the admiration of a suffering America.  The intelligence of a trainer, the brashness of an owner and the brotherhood of two jockeys all work together to develop one of history's greatest athletes.  Much better than the movie.  More details. More drama.  Well worth the read.
5 When Andrew Beyer called this one of the best books ever written about Thoroughbred racing, he was dead on. Hillenbrand takes the shell of fame that conventional history hands us and fills it with the horse and his connections. It takes a fine writer to make the periods between the races as interesting as the races themselves.The finest book on racing I've read since Bill Barich's wonderful _Laughing in the Hills_.
5 In her description of the life of one horse and the people around it Laura Hillenbrand has captured the very soul of America during the Great Depression.Seabiscuit is a uniquely American story. It is a Horatio Alger story. Seabiscuit and those around him rise together from hard times and obscurity to the pinnacle of racing, taking on all comers. It is especially a story about that trait that we Americans prize most: Courage.  Seabiscuit had it, his trainer had it, his jockey had it.  No wonder all of America loved the horse. He was us, or at least what we strive to be.Hillenbrand tells a remarkable story here, her research is exhaustive, her pictures are painted brilliantly.  The love she has for this horse and the people around him comes through on every page. Just an incredible read.
5 This is the classic All-American tale of underdogs who prevail to become champions.  From the owners who experienced tragedy and pain to the jockeys who suffered injuries and illness to a horse who was small and thought to be a be weak to a trainer who was a loner and an enigma this story captures the many elements that worked together to make Seabiscuit one of the most intriguing sports stars of the 20th century.This is truly a book about relationships - with a horse and between people.  The many facets of personality revealed in the story are so very interesting it is simply amazing Laura Hillenbrand was able to capture them so well.Hillenbrand's use of prose is exquisite and truly paints a picture of the many scenes within the reader's eye.  The buildup to the many races of Seabiscuit's career is wonderfully crafted and delivers a ton of excitement.Whether you are a horse racing fan or not, I am convinced that everyone that is interested in the struggle of the underdog will enjoy this story.  It is the fullfillment of the American dream in so many aspects.
5 It is difficult to over praise this exceptional retelling of the career of Seabiscuit, one of the more improbable sports heroes in American history.  The book centers on four individuals:  Charles Howard, who made a fortune in dominating the sales of Buicks in the Western half of the U.S. and who was the flamboyant owner of Seabiscuit; Tom Smith, laconic horseman and the trainer who salvaged the career of Seabiscuit after Howard purchased him; Johnny &quot;Red&quot; Pollard, the Shakespeare-quoting ex-boxer and also-ran jockey who managed to ascend briefly to the top of sport through his unique partnership with Seabiscuit; and Seabiscuit himself.  Nearly as important as these primary players is George Woolf, who played a key role in some of Seabiscuit's greatest victories, including his defeat of War Admiral in the race that truly is considered perhaps the greatest race in the sport's history.  In Hillenbrand's able hands, the story because what it truly was: the quintessential story of the underdog who makes good.  And everyone knows American's love underdogs.  She tells the story so well that the book is almost impossible to set down.  I managed to read it in slightly more than a day and a half, despite Thanksgiving activities.  I'm sure this is not an uncommon experience.The book also serves as a fantastic introduction to the sport of thoroughbred horse racing.  Hillenbrand does a masterful job of explaining many aspects of the sport.  If one knows nothing of the sport before reading this book, they will have a decent overview coming out.  Especially entertaining was the sometimes-jarring chapter that explained the extremes to which jockeys in the thirties would go in maintaining their weight.  But I really want to emphasize that an interest in racing either before or even after reading it really isn't necessary for a complete enjoyment of the book.  It is fundamentally a great piece of story telling.The story of Seabiscuit is also the story of War Admiral, one of the great thoroughbreds in racing history.  In fact, in most polls of sportswriters or racing authorities, War Admiral is usually rated more highly than Seabiscuit in the roster of the sport's greats.  In part this is because of Seabiscuit's somewhat inconsistent career and War Admiral's consistent brilliance.  He was, by any measure, a late bloomer, all his great achievements coming after the age at which War Admiral, a Triple Crown winner, retired.  One important aspect of the story that Hillenbrand neglects to mention is that Seabiscuit truly needed a horse as great as War Admiral to establish his reputation.  As an Eastern horse, War Admiral's stature would not have been especially enhanced by beating the Western Seabiscuit, while Seabiscuit needed the validation that beating War Admiral provided.  One can understand the hesitancy of War Admiral's owner to pit his horse against Seabiscuit:  he had almost nothing to gain by the race, while Seabiscuit had everything.If I have a complaint with the book, it is that it doesn't tie the reader into the specific era in which it takes place to the degree that it could have and should have.  The story has of Seabiscuit possessed a social and historical significance that the book doesn't quite get at.  Jane Leavy in her SANDY KOUFAX: A LEFTY'S LEGACY brings raises far better the greater significance of Koufax in his historical era than Hillenbrand does for Seabiscuit in his.  And that is a shame, since few athletes--human or four-footed--has had a greater impact on his age as Seabiscuit.But this is nitpicking.  Despite this minor lack, this is a brilliantly told and highly entertaining tale.  The story is only in part a story of the successes of Seabiscuit.  It is also very much the tale of the often extraordinary obstacles placed before Seabiscuit and especially Red Pollard in their achieving their successes.
5 This book was wonderful. It had it all,an unlikely hero(several actually) teriffic writing that kept you engrossed even if you don't know a horse's nose from it's tail.And, best of all,it was VERY inspiring,even more so when I read that author suffers from a serious illness and still wrote this beautifully detailed biography. Read &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; and you won't soon forget it..!
5 The author brings the people and the times to life. Funny, sad, suspence. Great read!
5 This  is one of the best books I've read in years. It is a great come-from-behind story, and what a structure! As a writer, I admire it enormously.Seabiscuit and his trainer Tom Smith and jockey Red Pollard are so interesting and they come to typify the American spirit and the spirit of horseracing so much.The races described in this book are every competitor's dream.No wonder Seabiscuit captured the heart of America in the late 30s. No sports figure today comes close, I don't think.I recommend this book highly. I liked it so much that after I return my library copy, I'm going to buy a copy to keep.
5 If there is a better book, please let me know.If you are looking to decide on this book based on reviews, take a glimpse at those stars. These many people can't be wrong.I deliberately bought a hardcover copy so that I can give some money to the author. It's that good.
5 my dad used to take my brother and me to arlington park in chicago, and i still can see him shaking his head with his(innumerable) non-winning tickets..i was never really a horse racing fan, however.but, let me assure any who may read these words---ms.hillebrand has written an ungodly beautiful story.it should be required reading in any history class atany level.parents should read this story of guts, intuition anddetermination to their children.it is what the united states is---a nation birthed bythose who helped this amazing horse reach its supremacy;visionaries with an idea that nothing will derail.you get to the point reading this book that you are socompletely lost and mesmerized by the people and the horse,you never want it to end.i miss seabiscuit and tom smith and red pollard.you will, too.read it, read it, read it! especially those of you who havean influence over young people in the classroom.no, i take that back---read it for an unqualified affirmationthat so many incredible people --and animals-- have made thiscountry the greatest experiment in change and success in thehistory of the world.i would consider it a privilege just to be in the same roomwith laura hillebrand.congratulations, ms. hillebrand, you and every player in yourgreat book are what has made us great.please write more!  you've got the gift...
5 I brought this  book to the beach with me this year.  Not your typical beach read for sure, but I couldn't put it down.  Beautifully written.  I have never thought that much about horses, but I was mesmerized.  At one point, I had to put it down and walk around because I was so moved.  I love the Biscuit!  He is my hero.  And Laura Hillenbrand is a god.
5 I'd never heard of Seabiscuit but something about the book or the horse made me immediately want to read it. And I was mesmerized by it. Seabiscuit was this horse that looked like a cowpony and was incorrigibly lazy. All he wanted to do was laze around and eat. He had an weight problem his whole life. Now that endeared me to him right away! Seabiscuit kicked around for a while, was sold, but one trainer thought there was something about him. They taught him to love to run and compete, and Seabiscuit turned out to be one of the greatest competitors that ever raced. The book isn't only about the horse, but also about his trainer and owner. Sometimes things seem set up in heaven, and that's what it seems like about this threesome: horse, owner, and trainer. Seabiscuit was a Western horse. He wasn't the highest rated horse because he didn't run the Triple Crown. And he didn't win all his races till late in his career he won it all. It's a really American story, and you have to stretch to personages as high as Michael Jordan to find true comparisons. Seabiscuit is one of a kind. You'll never find another book exactly like this one. This is truly a gem. I loved the descriptions of the races so much I made a list inside my front cover so I could go back and find and read them whenever I needed a fix. Seabiscuit is truly a lovable horse. This is a wonderful book.
5 I loved the movie and loved the book even more.  The characters were well developed and the author made you feel a part of the story.
4 if you love horses a good story on the people and the times, a good read and I enjoyed it very much. good details on horse racing and jockeys. becoming my favorite author-her recent best seller. 'Unbroken' is  a page turner.
5 Prior to November 2003, non-fiction only entered my reading choices on sporadic occasions.  In November 2003, a pioneering member of my book club was the first to choose a non-fiction book instead of a novel.  That book was Seabiscuit.Even though I have always loved horses, I had avoided reading Seabiscuit.  I just couldn't believe that all the hype was real.  So many times I had picked up a non-fiction book on a topic that I was really curious about, and either put it down unfinished or forced myself to slog through it.  Despite my interest in the subject matter, the writing would drive me crazy - too technical, too boring, too text-book like.  In fact, as one of those over-achieving students who always completed college reading assignments, I would have to say that many textbooks were actually better reads than the average non-fiction offering on store shelves.Seabiscuit, I was happy to find, was a complete surprise.  The hype was real.  No wonder it had sold so many copies.  It really does read like a novel, and yet it is so deep - Ms. Hillenbrand has really explored her topic thoroughly and passes on all the details to us.  There is a section where she describes the jockeys' experience of riding in a race that is one of the best pieces of prose I have ever, and will ever, read.  I read it over and over. It's so visceral, she really puts you in the saddle, plus the prose is beautiful in and of itself.  Another reason for the success of this novel is her success at placing the events in their historical context.  She not only puts you in the saddle, she takes you back in time.This was one of the universally best-received choices we've read in book club.  Everyone loved it, whether or not they cared at all about horses or sports.  And ever since then, I've given non-fiction more chances, and with better luck, than ever before.  Sometimes I still put one down unfinished, but now that I know how they can be, I try more often.I highly recommend Seabiscuit to any of the following people:anyone who has the slightest interest in horses or sports,anyone who thinks jockeys have an easy job,anyone interested in American history,anyone with no interest in horses who just loves good writing,anyone who thinks non-fiction is dull and would welcome a surprise,and EVERYONE ELSE!  :o)
5 This book was enchanting! I read through it in one swoop, enjoying every minute of it and marvelling at the story. Sure, the story of Seabiscuit himself is very familiar to me, as an extremely avid racing fan, but I learned a million more facts that I never thought I'd know. Not only does Laura Hillenbrand show the trials and tribulations of Seabiscuit and his jockey, but she delves deep into the whole of racing in the 1930's and society as it was in relation to racing. I felt as though, by the end, I knew Seabiscuit as well as I know my own horse...and that I knew everyone associated with him. The writing was never boring...I could never use that word in association with this book. It was truly enchanting, and sometimes so amazing that it was hard to believe it was all true. I recommended this book to all of my friends, even those who aren't in to horses, and they all loved it. If you haven't read this, you're missing an awesome book.
5 I recently reread "Seabiscuit" and was once again entranced and amazed at what a fantastic story it is. It's hard to fathom now, but this Depression-era racehorse at one time held the nation captivated in a way that today's famous athletes can only dream of. In five hectic, whirlwind years, the improbable coming together and subsequent actions of Team Seabiscuit -- a mixture of hardy and talented but underachieving dreamers -- produced historic results and an avid nationwide following that the world would never forget.Except, somehow, the world did forget about Seabiscuit after his meteoric rise to fame in the 1930s. Why? Perhaps it was the onslaught of World War II in the following decade and the inescapable passage of time that blankets nearly everything in its path. Whatever the reasons, author Laura Hillenbrand deserves loads of credit for resurrecting Seabiscuit's tale, and for bringing to vivid life the immediate cast of characters that surrounded this astounding horse. And if you want some action in your narrative, Hillenbrand doesn't disappoint. The descriptive, dramatic way that she describes each important race makes it seem as if you're right there ... and as if the world will end if your favorite horse doesn't win.It's a colorful bunch of guys and one interesting horse that make this nonfiction book -- pardon the clich&eacute; -- read like a fast-moving novel. My favorite is Red Pollard, the fearless, injury-prone jockey who primarily rode Seabiscuit throughout the horse's competitive years. A poet and romantic at heart, Pollard was also a tough, aggressive alcoholic who didn't back down from either a verbal or physical spar. He secretly lost his vision in one eye, broke his back, nearly destroyed his leg and yet still raced horses until the unbelievable age of 46.Meanwhile, Seabiscuit's owner, Charles Howard, and his trainer, Tom Smith, were polar opposites who somehow carried on together and thrived. Howard was a self-made millionaire who craved the public spotlight and got along famously with the press. Smith, the Lone Plainsman, was a loner who desired the company of horses most -- and his talent as a trainer was unrivaled, if peculiar. Rounding out Team Seabiscuit was the horse's sometimes-jockey George Woolf and Howard's wife, Marcela, who also expended a great amount of worry, love and energy into America's favorite horse.This unlikely cast of characters somehow entered into each other's lives eons ago and made history, at a time when America desperately needed, and likely craved, a form of escapism. Hillenbrand's book effortlessly takes you back in time. You'll learn about the rugged lifestyle of a typical jockey back then; how the gruff Smith beautifully trained horses in his special way; the feel of an important race atop a gliding horse that accelerates like a race car at the mere flick of a whip; and the rise of celebrity in America as the Biscuit's name gets bigger and bigger across the U.S. The injuries, the victories, the close losses, the plain hard work that goes into tending a No. 1 athlete like Seabiscuit -- it's all here in this unforgettable book that stands the test of time, just like Seabiscuit has.
5 This book was so good, that after reading only a few pages, I was already in a panic knowing that there was only another 380 or so pages left. I wish it never ended.  Suffice it to say that Seabiscuit is way cool, and a million times better than Secretariat.
5 With the fabulous writing style that only Hillenbrand brings to historical material, this amazing American story practically leaps off the page.  I typically read several books at a time, but I pushed all others aside to finish this book once I got enthralled and captured by the story.  Great read!  Makes you feel like you were actually there in the crowd, or seated by the radio, during this critical and little told story, an amazing snippet of the fabric of American history.
5 I love this horse, so I had to read the book again.  I saw the movie, but it didn't come close to the book in details about Seabiscuit's life and the lives of the jockeys.  The horse is multifaceted, being willful, focused and a comedian all rolled up into one unlikely racehorse.  He was one of a kind, and they way the owner, jockey and horse all came together was nothing less than a miracle.  It's a great read!!
4 It's a well written history of Seabiscuit but after a while it lost my interest. For someone with more passion about horses and race horses in particular, this would be quite a page turner.
5 Who doesn't love a book where the main character is the underdog who proves that packaging is not always an indicator of performance?  Seabisquit had the heart of a competitor.  It took a group of three men to showcase that heart.  This story details the lives of all four of the main characters and how their lives intertwined to create a legacy.  This book is an example of why I prefer non-fiction to fiction.  This true story inspires.
5 This was my first horse novel of any kind. I love horses &amp; racing, and this novel opened my eyes to the pitfalls &amp; glories of jockey, horse, trainer and owner. It is amazing how all were so passionate, &amp; even more amazing how these obscure, talented individuals (&amp; horse)came together. They played their parts in raising the countrys' spirit in a time of need, and gave  their all though many obstacles; thus, bringing out the best in themselves &amp; Seabiscuit-who was phenominal! So many emotions...by the end of the novel I loved them all and didn't want it to end. This is one of my favorite novels of all time, and one of the few I can think of that I'd LOVE to read more than once! A must read!! Preferably before seeing the movie.Laura Hillenbrand wrote a superb account of this true story! She is so talented...I hope she writes another novel.
5 Seabiscuit is the story not only of a horse but of a small group of people whose lives intertwined primarily because of that horse. The author creates richly vivid biographical portrayals of each of these people, crafting one story at a time a series of vignettes that mesh to comprise a mosaic of real people in a real world usually overlooked and obscure. She not only illuminates that world but brings it energetically to life. It is so inspiring and well written that it is difficult to put down this book. Even the acknowledgements, which I invariably skip, is full of poignant revelations. And the centerpiece of the story is a magnificent racehorse, who became, once molded by the people who loved him, one of the greatest of any era. Read this book! It is uplifting and will leave a lump in your throat when you finish. It is one of the rare tomes that the reader wishes would go on longer than it does.
5 For all horse lovers and others, an in depth story about the racing world, life of jockeys and horses.
5 I actually wish I'd read this book before I saw the movie. The story was captivating and rare enough that reading about it first would have been a treat to savor for weeks. In my opinion, this was one of the few cases in which the movie was almost as good as the book.In any case, Hillenbrand has done an exemplary job at putting together the ultimate unlikely hero story. Perhaps the greatest charm of the story is the forlorn and tawdry little group that came together with a cantankerous, runty piece of horseflesh to form a team that would take the sport of horse racing by storm. The greatest novels throw crisis after crisis at the protagonist until the reader is frantic with fascination to discover how the hero will prevail. This is one the rare true stories in which the real life obstacles become so mountainous that the reader is almost overwhelmed.You don't have to like true adventure and you don't even have to like animals. The story is so powerful, it will still captivate you and enchant you. Do yourself a favor and pick up this book. It's a keeper.
5 Let me join the crowd and say with I think just about everyone else that this is a truly wonderful book. The author captures the spirit of a certain time in America. She writes with sympathy and great verve about the characters including Seabiscuit. Her description of the race- scenes is the best I have ever seen. The book grips you and holds you. And the book too has a kind of grit and integrity, the same kind the major players show. It is the determination and guts of the underdog the one who fights back, the one who meets a thousand adversities and does not give up. The tragic element of the book is of course in the real ending of what happens to Red Pollard. And in the fact that even the greatest moment of victory cannot be sustained and that life has to go on in many ways.I do know a bit about horse-racing as I worked in Saratoga in my teenage years. But I do not know that much. This book opened the world of horseracing to me and made it more appealing than I had imagined it could be.Its just a great read and I recommend it very very highly.There was Man of War and there came Native Dancer and Nashua but there was only one Seabiscuit
3 I really wanted to love this book as much as I loved "Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption", alas such was not the case. It may be bad timing as I've had lots of big things going on lately and have had trouble focusing on anything for more than .2 seconds, but I never got into this story. There again, my lackluster feelings may be attributable to the fact that I know nothing (nor care) about horse racing and its history. Regardless, Laura Hillenbrand is a wonderful writer with a gift of crafting nonfiction narrative in a way that comes alive and flows seamlessly from page to page. I'll buy and read anything she writes in the future. If/when that day comes, I hope that the subject matter will interest me more than Seabiscuit did.Also, I've never seen the movie so maybe I'll watch it one of these days and see if I feel more inclined to pick it up (and hopefully enjoy) again.
5 The true story of Seabiscuit reads better than ninety per cent of the novels published today. Thoroughly engrossing and often exhilarating, this book works from start to finish. I thought the recent movie, although a respectable effort, never rose to the levels of interest and excitement that Hillenbrand created in the book. If you aren't moved by Seabiscuit, I suggest you check for a pulse.
4 Who'd have thought that a book about a crooked-legged race horse  could be such a riveting page-turner!Called &quot;Seabiscuit&quot;, our &quot;runty&quot; horse was a neurotic, pathologically lazy also-ran in the louche world of horse racing. Yet, over a course of four years, its three unusual but ardent supporters (the spendthrift owner, a laconic trainer and a half-blind jockey) survived a phenomenal run of bad fortune, conspiracy, and severe injury to transform Seabiscuit from a written off liability into a national sports icon.If you are unsure about the theme, about 5 pages into the book I guarantee you'll be over all such misgivings because the undercurrent of this story has a wide universal appeal -- triumph over adversity, undying love, trust, passion.I reluctantly pull off one star because of the sports-journalist stylization of some of the prose, e.g., while describing the jockey -- &quot;Red Pollard was sinking downward through his life with the pendulous motion of a leaf falling through still air&quot;. A bit of such surface coating could have been polished to make the book somewhat leaner than its whopping 400 pages.But a great book it still is, and a top recommendation from me for best friends this year.
5 Spectacular.  No .No matter whether you are a "horse person" or not, this is one of the best researched books I have ever read.  It's just sad it has to end.
5 As with most books that have been made into movies, the Hollywood version does not do justice to this true story. So please, if you have watched the movie and liked it, go ahead and read the book because I am sure you will love it. For those who haven't watched the movie, I would suggest watching it first before reading this book, else a relatively well made movie might be disappointing to you.Seabiscuit is a story of heart over body, will over limitations. Its the story of an unlikely horse, Seabiscuit, and his 3 minders; his owner Charles Howard, his trainer Tom Smith and his jockey Red Pollard. All four, horse and men, were down and out and all four came together to form the greatest ever horse racing team. This story tells you how Seabiscuit captured the imagination of the nation (USA) during the Depression years, giving hope to the people; the underdog who came back to win, and in style.The book also tells us more of the horse and his personality. He was a prankster and used to tease and insult his training partners, racing.. letting the other horse catch up and then leaving him behind again and again with his incredible speed. Most horses refused to train with him after a single session. One also learns of the extremely tough conditions that the jockeys had to endure and get a peek into their world of agony, pain and uncertainty.Laura Hillenbrand has done a great job in narrating the story of Seabiscuit and the 3 men in his life and his epic battle with War Admiral to be crowned the greatest racing horse in the US. Highly recommended even if you have watched the movie.
5 I facilitate a book club for residents at a retirement home, and this was one of our favorites out of nearly 50 books.  Members felt like they were taken into the story and kept moving with it.  They didn't expect to be so drawn into "a book about a horse."  They didn't expect to feel such a bond with a horse jockey, either.  Our discussion of this book was one of our liveliest sessions.Because they loved the book so much, we also watched the movie together and loved it, too.
5 Seabiscuit was an unlikely race horse who was trained by the unconventional wisdom of Tom Smith. Smith discovered Seabiscuit when no one else believed in him. He found talented jockey Red Pollard to ride him. The combination became a living legend. All other trainers and owners overlooked the potential of Seabiscuit because he did not look as fine as the other horses. He was short and stocky with an uneven stride, yet when trained under Smith his true colors came out. In 1938, he became the horse of the year and no one could stop him. This is the story of Seabiscuit's life and success in racing and those who led him and kept him at the top of his game for years.This is one of the most moving stories that I have read! You don't want to miss it.
5 Laura Hillenbrand has presented an intense, beautiful story full of love for ones fellow human being, love for a very special horse, and love to the max for the sport of horse racing and all that career entails.The book, "Seabiscuit", is an interesting study in psychology, including not only interactions between people, but equally important, those exchanges taking place between animal and human.Understanding the bond, the intense understanding, between Seabiscuit and man may or may not be easier if you are a pet owner. My pet, which is a cat and obviously nothing like a horse, certainly has her selective ways of communicating and mind reading. Because of my experience, I just kind of expect the animal to human bond.While I have never been to a horse race, and until I read this book had very limited knowledge related to horse racing, after reading "Seabiscuit" I am looking forward to my first experience at the track. That's how good Hillenbrand has presenting this story."Seabiscuit" ranks toward the top of my list for all time best reads. One minute it is heart breaking, and the next minute warms the heart to the soul. The book is exciting and informative and a page turner.Wow! What a biography!
5 Hillenbrand gives us a story that brings together a great cast of characters, then sets it in motion in a way that is incredibly cinematic. The structure of the book is set up like a movie.  Even each paragraph is organized in such a way as if it is a short scene in a movie: start with a close up, then pan out.  The end is amazing and has a double wind up that even Hollywood would think was too much, but that really happened.Reading the section at the end on Hillenbrand herself was inspiring too, as she wrote this book while suffering from chronic illness. The physical release that the jockeys seek is something that appeals to her as well, it seems.
5 I loved both this writen version of Seabiscuit which told you more of the horse and deplored the awful life of jockeys in the day.  I also love the crafted story in the movie that Ms. Hillenbrand covered in the book but shortened and visual in the movie with a good soundtrack is stunning.
5 This was the first book I ever read on horse racing.  I bought it after seeing the PBS Seabiscuit documentary in which Lauren Hillenbrand appeared.  This book taught me so much about the racing business and the people who make it go.  I was also angered by the treatment the jockeys get as well as the lack of recognition they receive for their athletic skills.  I have come to love horse racing partly as a result of this book, but I would hope its popularity would spur some sort of reforms in the racing business.Still, Seabiscuit:  An American Legend is a thoroughly researched, engaging book, detailing the life and times of a charismatic, champion athlete and his people.
5 I am a bookworm and I voted , The Unbroken, the best book I read last year. I saw the movie, Seabiscuit and after reading Unbroken, I wanted to read the book. I have to say that , Seabiscuit , is even better then Unbroken. I am awe of Hillenbrand talent. She worked seven years writing Seabiscuit - four years of research and three years of writing it. I don't know how she organize her materials and then to write such a classic.The story is interesting in itself. I mean a horse that looked and acted like a loser, a jockey that was blind in one eye and practically homeless, a trainer that had zero personality and a owner who lost his precious son and had an emptiness that wasn't filled. Together they made history, not once( by beating War Admiral) but twice after Seabiscuit got injured to make a comeback )and win the Santa Anita. And the character lives were not easy. They faced every struggle, bad luck and just circumstances out of their control- but they believe in Seabiscuit, or rather Seabiscuit heart. He had a heart of a champion and they never gave up hope no matter what obstacles showed up.My takeaways from the novel are two: one is what a story , I mean during the depth of depression, right before the war, a small bow legged horse wins the hearts of Americans. Secondly, Hillenbrand is so freaking talented, although its non-fiction and narrative, it reads like a suspense novel. Everyone know the ending but how Seabiscuit got there and all the trouble and Hillenbrand weaves the story in a lyrical and almost poetic style. I am in awe of her.I say it now, Laura Hillenbrand is the best American writer today- end of discussion.Do I recommend the book, what do you think? Do yourself a favor and read it even if you saw the movie, and you know the ending.
5 I read this book when it first hit the book stores. But with all the attention Secretariat has garnered recently, I thought it was worth another look.Seabiscuit doesn't disappoint on any level. The story was extremely well written and keeps the reader on the saddle and inside the head of the famous thoroughbred. Lauren Hillenbrand complied massive amounts of racing data yet managed to bring all the elements into a beautiful story.Set in the backdrop of America's Depression, Seabiscuit won the hearts of his fans before he won his big race. Many life lessons surface as one turns each page. Although, Seabiscuit started with great bloodlines, but was cast aside by those he couldn't see his potential. Eventually, a trainer down on his luck, put his confidence behind the throwaway horse. He found the right backing from a an owner who had suffered a personal tragedy and needed a come-from-behind win in his own life. Throw in a maverick jockey and the rest is history. Hollywood couldn't have made up a better storyline. However, since the events are now part of history, it only makes this story more wonderful.Seabiscuit held celebrity status in his day and holds classic status now.By the way, Seabiscuit the movie, is a feast for the eyes and closely follows the book. I highly recommend both the book and the movie.
5 This book reminded me of reading Memoirs of a Geisha.  I have no interest in geishas or horseracing, but read and thoroughly enjoyed both books.  Look forward to the movie.
5 I finally got around to reading this book after hearing about the upcoming movie. I wish I hadn't waited! The author's vividly visual writing style, dedication and obvious love of the sport and her characters make this one of the best nonfiction books ever. And the amount of research done by the author is astounding; the acknowledgements section reveals a Seabiscuit-worthy effort.As an aside, I grew up reading many of the popular Black Stallion series. I read about half the reviews here and I'm surprised no one noticed that the Black Stallion's accomplishments in the later novels seem to have been based upon Seabiscuit's (both won races of any length with any weight on their backs; both ran well into &quot;retirement age&quot;).That said, the story of Seabiscuit is better than fiction, made all the more sweet because it's a true story.
5 It is one of the most exciting books I have ever read...and oh - do I read!  Hillenbrand is an extraordinary writer.
5 Laura Hillenbrand is a wordsmith of the top rank.  She has written a great book about a horse who has largely been forgotten except by veteran racing fans:  Seabiscuit.  Seabiscuit, a descendent of the legendary Man O' War, had a rather modest racing career at the beginning having started from the claiming ranks. Thanks to a great trainer, he galloped his way up to the stakes level after having literally dozens of races under his girth.  Seabiscuit was not the only colorful character in this claimer-to-champion saga. His trainer Tom Smith was a controversial character who loathed publicity and yet at the same time encouraged it.  For example, Hillenbrand's stories of Smith's attempts to thwart the media and racing timers from reporting Seabiscuit's workouts (because Smith feared the weights assigned by the track would be so great as to hamper the horse's considerable ability) are hilarious.  Seabiscuit's regular jockey, Red Pollard, was a man who loved to quote Shakespeare but also had to cover up a disability that may have contributed to one of Seabiscuit's most famous losses:  Pollard was blind in one eye.  Like most jockeys he battled a weight problem.  (In one chapter, Hillenbrand writes brilliantly and humorously of the struggle of jockeys like Pollard to make the unnaturally low weights required of racing.) Finally, Seabiscuit's millionaire owner, Charles Howard, was perhaps the least colorful of the horse's connections, but he lost faith in neither Smith nor Pollard.  He was the glue who held this unlikely hodgepodge together.Hillenbrand slowly but very entertainingly works the Seabiscuit story to the legendary 1938 match race with yet another descendent of Man O' War, 1937 Triple Crown winner War Admiral.  She doesn't ignore the Admiral's connections either.  Sam Riddle comes to life, as do the horse's infamous temper tantrums on the racetrack.  There are constant difficulties in getting the two great horses together on the same track on the same day, including jockey Pollard's injuries (vividly described by Hillenbrand), Seabiscuit's injuries, and other delays.  When the horses finally do get together (with the underdog Seabiscuit clobbering the Admiral), Hillenbrand writes with such vividness that you feel you are right there at the track witnessing the race.  (She was fortunate enough to have obtained rare footage of this race and several other Seabiscuit races.)After the climax of this famous race, Hillenbrand continues the Seabiscuit saga to the deaths of the principals.  On the last page she writes of Howard having buried Seabiscuit to a secret site at his ranch where he had an oak sapling planted where the great horse was buried.  She writes:  &quot;He told only his sons the location of the grave and let the oak stand as the only marker.  Somewhere in the high country that was once Ridgewood, the tree lives on, watching over the bones of Howard's beloved Seabiscuit.&quot;What a great writer.  What a read.
5 I never thought I'd fall in love with a dead horse.  But such is the skill of Ms. Hildenbrand and the charm of Seabiscuit-what can I say? This charming book, beautifully written and carefully researched, is far more than a horse story.  It is America in the midst of a grim depression that looked for diversions from the stark realities of surviving.  It is a biography of the three men who had faith in Seabiscuit: his owner, his trainer and his jockey.Seabiscuit was an unlikely champion.  He was small, short-legged, knobby-kneed,with a rough coat.  He was trained in California, which, at the time, was considered a very low class place to be for a thoroughbred.  The power and glory were in the hands of the Eastern Establishment.  Seabiscuit had one thing going for him.  Once his interest was engaged, he was the fastest horse in the world.  Thoroughbreds are noted for their foul dispositions and though Seabiscuit liked to taunt and tease the competition, he was a well-mannered and affectionate fellow.  He did enjoy a good snooze and hated to get up in the morning, and he loved to eat.  When put on an enforced diet, he would scream his displeasure.  He adored the camera and when he heard the click or pop of flashbulbs, he immediately fanned his tail, batted his eyes and faced front and forward, which I presume he thought was his best camera angle.  Seabiscuit was made to order for Americans who love to love the underdog.The author devotes an entire chapter to Seabiscuit's famed match race with War Admiral, the champion East coast thoroughbred.  War Admiral was a magnificent horse with speed, fire, and a ferocious temper.  It took years to arrange this match and protracted negotiations went on right up to the starting gate.  Ms. Hildenbrand's recounting of this Race of the Century (and it truly was!) is a masterpiece in nail-biting suspense.  I never knew I could hold my breath for an entire chapter.This is my Book of the Year.  Highly recommended.
5 This was an amazing book to read whether you are horse racing fan or not you have to read this book it was definitely a fast paced it took all little more then a day to read.Starst with history of the man who would buy seabiscuit Charles Howard.Mr. Howard came to san francisco with just 21 cents to his name and opens a bicycle repair shop which would end up being a wise decision being that around this time horseless carriages were coming out and they had nobody to fix them in the frico area so they came to mr. howard's shop and he tinkered with them and become very good at fixing them which led to howard getting the first buick dealership in the west.Mr. howard proved to be a shrewd business man which made him very wealthy. One thing i found really interesting about the automobile was that at that time they would do a grand total of 7 and half miles an hour with a little work they got up to 65 miles this of course racing but they had to stop the racing because of all the deaths from the wrecks.Mr. Howards was developing his love for horseracing it brought him together with Tom Smith and he eventually would bring seabiscuit to the attention of Mr.Howard . Tom had a different and it seemed unorthodox way of training horses but it brought closer to them and it proved a winning way.With the riding of the jockey red pollard the training of tom smith and the draw of charles howard seabiscuit mania took of around the country and thw world.The things the jockeys put themselves through to make weight should make you shudder like swallowing a tapeworm laxatives and basically living on 600 calories a day.With descriptions about seabiscuit the way he raced other horses blowing the field away only to let them back in the race to blow them away again like he was taunting and then breaking their heart and spirit.The love affair the nation had with seabiscuit with examples were at a track expecting 15000 and get 40 or 50000 they would have trains just for seabiscuit fans.This book brought many different emotions but it was page turnerespecially when they were trying to set up the match race with war admiral and then when finally happened i could not read the pages fast enough to find out what happens.DEFINITELY READ THIS BOOK THEN TELL YOUR FRIENDS TO READ IT TOO
1 Gave this one a whirl because everybody I spoke to said, &quot;Oh, even if you're not a horse person, you'll like it!&quot; Well, they lied.It's somewhat interesting, but Hillenbrand goes into so much petty detail of each of the character's lives, detailing what they eat for breakfast for example... The horse doesn't even turn up till about a quarter of the way through the book!If you're not a horse person, my advice to you is - see the movie!
5 First of all, I had no idea I was going to be reading a non-fiction book. With only the idea of the movie in my head, I didn't realize the actual book was a factual account of this amazing horse and the people involved in his life. I was thoroughly entertained with American History and the sport of horse racing/training throughout the entire book. A must read if you are a "living" history junkie.
5 After reading the incomparable biography Unbroken by Laura Hillenbrand, I knew that I had to read some of her earlier work. Seabiscuit did not disappoint. Ms. Hillenbrand spent years researching the history of the famous and highly celebrated horse, Seabiscuit's owner Charles Howard, his trainer Tom Smith, as well as his jockeys Red Pollard and George Woolf. Every detail of how the perfect marriage between horse and his handlers came to be is laid out in brilliant storytelling. Once Seabiscuit starts to become the champion that everyone know knows and loves, the narrative gets very interesting. You read about all of the up and down cycles between the men behind Seabiscuit and the horse himself. It's an exciting ride to the very last page full of drama, heroics, pain and celebration. It's an incredible and true journey decpicted with great care and attention to detail.
4 As someone who isn't a big fan of non-fiction, I actually enjoyed this book. There are some dry spells as the author gets into the nitty gritty of racing but an interesting read about a singleHorse that captured the attention and hearts of an entire nation.
5 This was my Book Club's monthly selection. We had previously read another book by Laura Hillenbrand (Unbroken) and enjoyed it. I enjoyed this book because I learned about this amazing horse and what horse racing was like in the 1930's.  It  tends to be wordy because she includes a lot of facts from her research but overall, it was a good read and lead to a good discussion. I recommend this book!
5 Seabiscut is a true example of the american Dream come to life. This horse was believed to be over the hill and worthless, and he went on to defeat Triple Crown Champion War Admiral.Writer Laura Hillenbrand did an outstaning job on this book and her historical accounts make the reader think he or she was right there when it happened.I kept looking at the book cover to remind myself this was not a newspaper or magazine I was reading about current events.This story should be mandatory reading in high school and college, as it reflects real life events and it shows the courage of the heart.Well done, and a Big Applause from us.The movie that came out Seabiscut is based on this book.Best Regards to allMC -TheStickRules.Com
5 Seabiscuit is the truest American story to ever happen. It's the American dream. The underdog becoming the biggest thing ever. The horse who enchanted America. I loved this story, you will too. Buy it and you'll see why.
5 Second time that I have read the book and came away with a deeprespect for the genius of the jockey, Red Pollard. Horses many timesare almost equal in their ability to run but its the jockey who seizesthe opening when it presents itself, knows when to take the lead orhold off knowing that a horse will do everything in its power to beatthe horse ahead or alongside of him or her. Red Pollard had to relyon his innate ability because of the injury he had and he proved howgreat he was even with the handicap he had. The author also had to overcome the debilitating sickness she had and the story she woveabout the horse, the jockey, the trainer and the owner keeps yourinterest from beginning to end.Tom Bragen  Bayonne, New Jersey
5 It has been a long time since a book kept me up late into the morning of a work day.  This book is a rare combination of excellent writing directed at an excellent story.  Thanks, Laura!  I will read your next books, whatever the story, which puts you on a very short list.
5 I know nothing abut horses and racing and that whole world.  But this book is wonderful.  It made me wish the &#34;biscuit&#34; was still with us so I could go give him a carrot.Such a great book.  Read and enjoy !  You won't be disappointed.
5 This review is for cynics like myself who distrust all forms of hype, whether applied to books, movies, or tv shows, and who think the English language has been diminished by the overuse of superlatives like "super" and "great." I first came across this book in one of the monthly brochures from the History Book Club, where it was featured. My initial reacion was, "Oh, come on, a whole book about a horse!? Give me a break. HBC must be getting desperate for new titles." Even after the glowing reviews in NY Times and other places, I was still skeptical. I was looking for a new "late-night read" when my local bookstore offered the paperback ed., prominently displayed in stacks by the front door, at 20% discount. Usually picky about even my late night reading, I thought, "What the hell, I'll take a chance." Well, that chance has turned into one of the most enjoyable reading experiences I've had in the last few years (and I read constantly). I reserve evaluations such as "great" for novels like Moby Dick, but this is certainly an excellent book. I look for two things in any book, fiction or nonfiction, literary or popular genre: language and story, with language being more important. To give some context, I prefer literary novelists like W.G. Sebald to John Irving, and genre writers like Tony Hillerman to John Grisham because they are, among other things, much better stylists. So, let's start with language: Hillenbrand is no journalistic hack trying to make a quick buck. In the interview at back of paperback ed., she counts Austen, Tolstoy, and Hemingway among her literary influences, and it shows. This person knows how to put together a graceful sentence, line after line. She makes the smallest, behind-the-scenes details sound interesting. Her descriptions of horses remind me of Cormac McCarthy. As for sheer storytelling ability, Hillenbrand is also excellent at structuring and pacing a narrative. By the time you get to the famous match race with War Admiral, you can hardly stand the suspense. For pure dramatic excitement, this chapter was one of the most captivating I've read in any genre. But in the end, this book is really about character, human and animal; you need not be a sports fan, much less a horseracing ran, to enjoy it. It's filled with sentiment, but never sentimental. This is one of those rare examples where the reality matches the well deserved hype. However, I don't recommend reading it in bed late at night on a weekday. It will keep you up even after you've put it aside.
5 Seabiscuit: The Little Horse With a Big HeartIn her story of Seabiscuit, Laura Hillenbrand has opened a unique window into the world of horse racing. The main characters are a quiet horse trainer named Tom Smith, the flamboyant horse owner Charles Howard, a horse named Seabiscuit and jockey's Red Pollard and George Wolfe.The owner and trainer first hooked up at the Aqua Caliente Race Track in Mexico. Smith and Howard were as opposite as night and day, but they made accommodations for each other's differences and their relationship flourished. Once Smith worked the stable's horses into racing condition they moved the operation north to Santa Anita and into Barn #38.Their first season together was successful and near the end of the Santa Anita season Howard decided to move his stable to a small track in Michigan called the Detroit Fairgrounds. Smith was sent farther east to look for some mature horses to augment their juvenile stable.  On June 29th at Boston's Suffolk Downs a horse stopped in front of Tom Smith and for a long moment the two eyed one another. Fate? The horse continued in the post parade, but Seabiscuit had gotten Smith's attention. It wasn't his build, he had a rectangular body with short legs, but Smith looked at the program and saw that the horse was a descendent of the great Man O' War and was sired by Hard Tack. Seabiscuit reflected none of the beauty and breadth of his forebears, but carried all the nasty, mean and unruly traits of the others.Tom Smith wanted that horse and Charles Howard made arrangements. Seabiscuit was taken to the Howard barn, but the former owners had worn the horse out. Seabiscuit was exhausted from a hard racing campaign. The horse was only three years old and had already run as many races as most horses would accumulate in a full career. What Tom Smith wanted was time to rest the horse, and give himself a chance to figure out the horses problems and how best to deal with them. Seabiscuit had been abused by a number of jockey's and it would take some time to turn the horse's attitude around.In November of 1936 Howard's stable of horses were in the San Francisco Bay area of California, the idea was to enter Seabiscuit in the Santa Anita handicap on February 27th of the next year.Tom Smith had finally found a way to settle the horse down and got Seabiscuit interested in what he was born to do - run. They ran him in two prep races at Bay Meadows and won them both. Red Pollard was aboard in both wins. Then it was on to Southern California for two more prep races prior to the Santa Anita Handicap.The big cap was run before 60, 000 raucous and cheering race fans. Pollard rode a perfect race weaving his way through the field and got the lead in the stretch - but the jockey let the horse relax around the eighth pole. No one knows for sure, but chances are due to Pollard's right blind eye he probably didn't see Rosemont flying down the middle of the track. Seabiscuit was overtaken and couldn't regain the momentum to win. He lost in a photo finish but won the hearts of Americans all over the depression-plagued land.  There was something about that little horse that gave hope to millions who had little more than hope to cling to during those hard times.Hillenbrand has fashioned a great horse story and readers will come away with knowledge that they could have only learned from a legend.Tom Barnes author of `Doc Holliday's Road to Tombstone,' `The Goring Collection,' `The Hurricane Hunters and Lost in the Bermuda Triangle.'
5 This masterfully written book tells the enchanting story of a undersized horse named Seabiscuit and his racing career that held the attention of an entire nation.This book wonderfully describes the time period when the &quot;Sport of Kings&quot; was the number one attended sport in the country, and the hopes of many blue-collar, down-on-their-luck underdogs had a true working class hero in Seabiscuit, his owner Charles Howard, trainer Tom Smith, and jockey Red Pollard.I used to joke that horses were only good for glue and violin bows, but now thanks to this book I have a greater appreciation for these magnificant horses and the sport of horse racing.
5 Wow, what an interesting story of this great horse and the lives of a jockey. Well worth the time for the read.  Good history and the rise of industry.
5 Memorable characters, not the least of which is the horse.  How the different lives intertwine is mystical, magical.  Suspenseful, nail-biting recounting of the Big Race.  I read it years ago but remember it as a great reading experience and have gifted several copies because I wanted to share it.  It's a book I know I'll read and enjoy again.  I'll read anything by this author - she's that good.  (Skip the movie - it was awful!)
5 This is the best book I have read in a long, long while.  Let me start by saying that before I read this book I didn't know anything about horses or racing, and I really didn't care either. However, this book made me care.  The storytelling is wonderful with rich characters (all real) all around.  This is a page turner that inspires you and fills you with emotion at every corner as you root for Seabiscuit and those around him.
5 I'm one of those racing fans that the tracks just hate. I love watching the beauty of the horses running, & then I worry about the horses that don't win. I never bet or get into the money or snobbery aspect of racing which is probably why I saw the movie & didn't bother to read the book until recently. I liked the movie, but I purely LOVED the book! It was one of those books that you try to stretch out as long as you can, yet you can't wait to get back to reading, & then miss it like heck when you do finish.For starters, Laura Hillenbrand's writing is remarkable. Even though I thought I knew the story-and there was so much more to it-it still held my attention from the very first page to the last. Her choice of words was particularly descriptive. The train didn't puff into the station; it groaned. In the match race between Seabiscuit & War Admiral, War Admiral "scratched & tore at the track" & Seabiscuit "drove over the track, his forelegs pulling the homestretch under his body & flinging it back behind him." These are perfect action words. Her description of trainer, Tom Smith is pure poetry: "He had a colorless translucence about him that made him seem as if he were in the earliest stages of progressive invisibility." Reading the author's descriptions of the races isn't like watching the race. It is more like viewing it from the back of the horse, & all the excitement is that much more heightened."Seabiscuit" engages your heart from the start--for the characters & certainly for the horses. And when Red Pollard is severely hurt-which he is again & again, when Seabiscuit is injured at Santa Anita while under George Woolf & later when Woolf is killed, your heart your heart cries. Many times I had to remind myself that these events were unfolding more than 60 years ago because Hillenbrand makes them seem so immediate. Last, but certainly not least, is the inspiration of the story. What was it that made Red Pollard get back on a horse after nearly dying twice. (I do wish she had mentioned what happened to Modern Youth, the horse Red was thrown from in the barn.) Where did they get the stamina to continue? Whenever I think I can't go on, I'll think of these people. Some reviewers say even those who aren't into horse racing will like this book. I'm not sure I agree, but reading this book might just make a racing fan out of you.
5 Several pages into, SEABISCUIT, I absolutely fell in love with the book.  I learned so much about the history of racing, about Howard Shore, Tom Smith, George Woolf, and Red Pollard. Granted the book is a bit slow to read at first and the story splits back and forth between four different lives. However, everything comes together to tell the fascinating story of how Seabiscuit became the most loved horse in America.I enjoyed the way the start of the book deals with the lives of four different creatures: one chapter is about Howard Shore, another Tom Smith, another Red Pollard, and another Seabiscuit. I found it fascinating how these four very different lives came together to form such a meaningful story. To me, it illustrates the ways that Providence works.The book is also a piece of non-fiction, but the story almost reads like a novel. Descriptions of events are very detailed, vivid, and real. Looking over the sources at the end of the book, I do not doubt the research Ms. Hillenbrand put forth and find the tone to be a testament to her skills as a writer.SEABISCUIT is a grand story about a grand horse.  There will be some who simply won't like the book, but you shouldn't let that keep you from reading it yourself. &quot;So long, Charley.&quot;
2 Saw the movie years ago, and thought it so boring. Read the book a few days ago, and was even worse!Why did this book do so well? There was just no staying-power.I am sure that Seabiscuit was an icon in his days, but this book just did not highlight his glory to justice.Definitely a book more dear to those who know more about horses than I do.
5 I purchased this book on a whim after reading all of the fantastic reviews on the book's jacket cover.  The book exceeded my already high expectations.  If you are reading this, you probably already know that the story follows the unlikely career of a knobby-kneed horse named Seabiscuit.  Laura Hillenbrand does an excellent job of conveying the passion and excitement this horse engendered in 1930's America.  She also vividly details Seabiscuit's ongoing rivalry with War Admiral, a far more heralded horse.Even more interesting than the Seabiscuit's exploits, however, is the transformation in the lives of the people surrounding Seabiscuit.  The horse's rider (Red Pollard) and trainer (Tom Smith) each get a second chance in their respective careers and Seabiscuit is their ticket to doing something truly &quot;great.&quot;  Tom Howard, a San Francisco auto baron who purchased Seabiscuit for a pittance, finds that he truly loves his horse - win or lose.  Each of their stories transcend the time and place in which the novel is set.This book is an A+
5 Universal Pictures will open its "Seabiscuit" movie, based on Hillenbrand's book, on July 25, two days from this writing.  If the movie captures the book's drama, excitement, detail, pace, and above all, its heart, then it will triumph.Hillenbrand sets the tone of Depression-ravaged 1930's America perfectly: a nation struggling to regain a lost hope and eager for a hero.  That the hero happened to be an undersized horse with outsized knees and crooked legs makes the story unusual, but all the more interesting for its improbability.Seabiscuit was the force around which a trio of unusual figures came together with a common, almost mystical purpose.  Seabiscuit owner Charles Howard, automobile seller extraordinaire who developed a passion for horse racing, brought together Tom Smith, an empathic mustang breaker from the Old West who makes Robert Redford's "Horse Whisperer" seem mute by comparison, with jockey Red Pollard, a half-blind, half-crippled ex-prize fighter whose career was going nowhere.  This ragtag group took an underperforming, physically underwhelming thoroughbred, the unlikely scion of the great Man O'War, and through years of training, disappointments and failures, drew out the unconquerable heart of a champion, fulfilling the promise which Smith had originally sensed in Seabiscuit.  The public response overwhelmed all the news of the day, and a legend was born out of the most unlikely of beginnings.Hillenbrand writes with clarity and purpose, imbuing all her figures with an immediate presence which transcends history.  She has been justly praised from not only the sports and racing worlds, but also by such standards as The New York Times and Washington Post.  After reading her book and leaving it feeling ennobled, edified, and entertained, I can only add to the chorus of praise and give my strongest recommendation to all readers who appreciate a compelling story well told.
5 _Seabiscuit_ is the story of losers who became winners. Charles Howard, who became Seabiscuit's owner, arrived in California in 1903 with 21 cents in his pocket. Tom Smith, the trainer, once appeared to be an out-of-luck frontiersman nearing the end of his road. Red Pollard, the jockey, had been a boy abandoned at a makeshift racetrack in Montana. And Seabiscuit... Seabiscuit was an undersized crooked legged horse whose first two years as a racehorse brought more thumpings than winnings.By the latter years of the Depression, Seabiscuit had become a cultural icon whose adulation &quot;transcended sport.&quot; His last race was witnessed by a crowd comparable to the Super Bowl. There were Seabiscuit wallets and hats. He was featured weekly in Time, Life, the New Yorker, etc.And that's why _Seabiscuit_ is an American tale, a story for and about every American. It's the story of folks who had nothing... and made something.
5 This is a book I could not put down!  The &quot;coincidences&quot; of all the characters coming together in the book seemed more like destinies intertwined by greater forces out there.  This was an unlikely trio that captured the hearts and imaginations of millions of people and live on in history.  The way the author wrote almost put you right there, feeling every emotion of triumph and heartbreak.  A must read for anybody who roots for the underdog and loves horses the way I do!
5 I loved the book.  THe jockeys sure didn't have it easy back then.  Hope things are better for them now.  I felt like I actually knew  the owners and trainers and jockeys  and all the ins and outs of horse racing.  Now I know why a horse gets scratched before races.  Any number of reason could cause it.  Now I can't wait to see how California Chrome does in the Preakness
5 Laura Hillenbrand has written a marvelous book. I read in an interview that Ms. Hillenbrand gave that with this book, she sought to "recreate history with the texture of a novel."  With this book, she definitely accomplished her goal.  Seabiscuit is the story of an unlikely racehorse who becomes one of the greatest athletes of all time. I was captivated from start to finish!To me, reading this book felt like floating in a tube down a river. The story flows easily around every turn, but there are still rapids to get your heart racing and the pages turning! Ms. Hillenbrand developed each character with the richness and complexities of fine wine. I fell in love with each one for many different reasons. She takes the vivid stories of three of the most unlikely misfits and weaves them together to make a tapestry. The sum of parts becomes something that is greater than each individually. In the end, Seabiscuit is a story about character and heart and belief. Each character believed in the ability of the other to overcome and excel.  It is definitely the story of true, American Legends.
5 We carry our boundaries around with us. Many of them are simply the limits of our experience.  Great books help us transcend those boundaries.  By that test, Seabiscuit is a great book and Laura Hillenbrand is a great writer.The story that she tells, by now, is well known.  We have the short, funny looking horse whose potential is recognized and realized by an unlikely trio of men, each of whom is distinct and each of whom is damaged in some way.Tom Smith is the silent cowboy watching the world he loved slip away into history, holding on by doing the one thing he can do well-work with horses.  Red Pollard is the jockey who's not having a lot of success.  He's a little too big and a little too battered.  Charles Howard is the successful businessman who had lost a son.The trio, with occasional help from jockey George Woolf, rides with Seabiscuit to heights of popularity and interest that exceed even the President.  Along the way there is triumph and despair, winning and losing, good luck and bad, all the stuff of a gripping yarn.  Along the way you learn a lot, too.You learn about horse racing.  Laura Hillenbrand knows a lot about horses and horse racing, but she wears that knowledge lightly.  If you, like me, knew next to nothing about horses and racing before picking up this book, by the end you will know a lot more.  And you will have learned it painlessly.Hillenbrand is exceptional at wrapping her teaching in stories.  She explains and defines only as much as necessary and lets the stories do the rest.  She can convey technical details without damaging the pace or passion of the story.Like most good true stories this one has lots of lessons, but they're yours to fashion.  There are no &quot;author's message&quot; passages that tell you what the lesson should be.  But there are stories that grip you and pull you forward.This is more than just a book that will keep you up reading late into the night.  It is a book that is so engaging and powerful that when it is over, you will not want it to end.  When the Most Beautiful Woman in the World finished the book, at about 2 AM, she kept reading all the way through the acknowledgements in their tiny type until there was absolutely no more she could read.
5 My favorite part of this book is that it is all encompassing.  Beginning at the turn of the century, the birth of the car and the changing landscape of America.America is emerging as an industrial might and Charles Howard is an innovator, as part of the "future" of the America.  I think the author did an honorable job, sharing this tale.It was more than a horse.  As the depression set in and people suffered, they relied on this horse as a hero.  Hillenbrand draws a nice parallel between the odd team of Horse, Jockey, trainer and owner, with the struggles of the average American.It was well balanced and gave an accurate depiction of the times.I don't think you'll be disappointed.
5 During a recent vacation, in a bed a breakfast, I came upon the Seabiscuit movie. Despite letting the movie drone on in the background while I worked a wordprocessor, I found the experience dulling to say the least. Oddly, in my travels hundreds of miles southward in that very same week at another B&B, I came across the book "Seabiscuit" all alone on bookshelf. I needed no prodding to take on the book, as fate had thrown the memory of this little horse in my face twice in three days. I read the first third of the book before we left a day later and then got the book at the library as soon as I got home. The book is a wonderful slice of history that only made me yearn for more. The racing descriptions are as rich and vivid as if you were perched in front of the radio as millions did in the late 30's. The history of famous named racing tracks around the country all of sudden meant something to me. Tracks like Del Mar and Santa Anita which I had visited several times as just bland afternoon entertainment were now destination points to take in and understand their place in history. Drama, tragedy, persistence, Love - you name it this book has it. The story flows seamlessly from beginning to end and is one of the most satisfying real life fairy tail (pun intended)reads you will encounter in some time, regardless of your interest in horses or horseracing. Take the time to let the memory of the legendary "Biscuit" speak to you too. You will be glad you did.
2 I got about a third of the way through this book, and I'm pitching it to read something more interesting. I wanted to love it based upon the fact that I read Hillenbrand's &#34;Unbroken&#34; first and absolutely loved it. This one was a disappointment. It's slow moving and provides a lot of detail on so many different subjects that it lacks a clear thread that really draws it all together. It often goes off on tangents about other horses or jockeys that it seems more like a &#34;history of horseracing in America&#34; rather than truly a story about Seabiscuit and the people close to him. I love history and narrative non-fiction, but this just lacked cohesion and momentum to keep it all together and focused.
5 Written like a heartfelt fiction novel, author Laura Hillenrand takes us back to an era when America&#65533;s most popular cultural icon had four legs and drew more newspaper coverage than Roosevelt, Hitler, Mussolini, or any other newsmaker.Racehorse owner Charles Howard, an automobile baron, hired trainer Tom Smith and sent him searching for &#65533;a bargain animal whose talent had been overlooked,&#65533; Smith searched numerous racetracks unable to find what he was looking for. On June 29, 1936, at Suffolk Downs in Massachusetts, the horse found him. The horse&#65533;s name was Seabiscuit, a 3-year-old cold with crooked forelegs, knobby knees and a lazy disposition. He was often mistaken for lameness. But Smith saw something no one else saw. This horse had heart. Jockey Red Pollard, a failed boxer, was down in his luck until he joined Team Seabiscuit. Individually, this horse and these men wouldn&#65533;t amount to much. Together, their unlikely alliance would make history.Throughout this wonderful story we learn of the dangerous life of the jockey, their weight loss regimens, Red Pollard&#65533;s handicap and his critical injuries. We see Charles Howard&#65533;s rise to success in California and his friendship with the elite, including Bing Crosby. Also, there&#65533;s Tom Smith&#65533;s gift of understanding and training the most difficult horses.In the Winter of 1937, &#65533;America was in the seventh year of the most catastrophic decade in its history.&#65533; &#65533;America was desperate to lose itself in anything that offered affirmation.&#65533; &#65533;With the relegalization of wagering, no sport was growing faster than Thoroughbred racing.&#65533; &#65533;In six years, Seabiscuit had won 33 races and set 13 track records.&#65533; He earned world record prize money as well. Finally in 1938 &#65533;the Biscuit&#65533; was named Horse of the Year.
5 The eloquently stated reviews already written I'll agree to wholeheartedly with one additional commentary.  The synchronicity that Laura Hillenbrand should write THIS story having battled her own adversity is remarkable.I'll be anxious to see what she has planned for the future and I'm looking forward to seeing the film that is supposed to be in production.
5 A POPSPICK.  My favorite book of the year and I have never seen a horse race.  Big nasty beasts they are who can pulverize your buns just ambling around a dude ranch.  But this author can tell a story.  I think this is the only book that I have ever read that I want to get the audio.  In fact I'm inspired to Santa Anita to see where some of history was made.  A great story well told.
5 I was so annoyed after reading "Water for Elephants" that my wife recommended this book. Wow. Really wow. The writing was like eating a great dessert, page after page.There are so many best sellers out there now that are terrible it's refreshing to read someone who can really tell a great story.Kudos to the author. Thanks for renewing my faith in the craft.Read this book.
5 The author did an unbelievable amount of research to write this book. Check the list at the end of the book.How the owner, trainer, horse and jockey all came together is an absorbing story, and has a great deal of general history too.  The author is a master of describing a horse race. Some of her race descriptions are almost like seeing the race. This book is a masterpiece of writing as it shows the dedication and drive of all the people involved and especially the heart and gameness of Seabiscuit. There is a good insight into the life of jockeys as well as their mounts. No horse lover should miss this book. I stayed up late to finish it in one read.
5 Undoubtably the best book I've read this year. I'm not a race fan and had almost no prior knowledge of the horse. In fact had the book not been loaned to me, to read, by a friend who loves horses and has her own named Charley I would not have read the book. Sometimes wonders explode from within the pages of books. This was one of those times. I sat entranced, enthralled with Laura Hillenbrand's narrative. I could hardly bear to put it down. An exciting history of the horse, the players, the sport and the emotional background of the time.
5 This is such a well crafted book - well researched - and well told. I really enjoyed this one.
5 If you like to read good books, I bet you will like this one.  It is extremely well written and every detail plays a role in this compelling story.  The characters, both human and equine, the places and times, and the races themselves, are brought vividly to life.  I am no race fan and doubt I ever will be,  but if I ever again see a horse race, it will be with a new sense of appreciation and history.  My original copy has been passed around a lot and is now lost in the shuffle.  I will just have to replace it because this book I will definitely read again.
5 I don't know what else to add to the other great reviews other than it was my favorite book of last year. It was a page turner from start to finish. I love it when I come across a book where I don't want it to end! Beautifully written with rich, fascinating details of Seabiscuit and the eccentric men who made him a champion. Laura Hillenbrand obviously loved her subject and did a great job in bringing everyone's story to life for many generations who have probably never heard of this horse.
5 I immediataly became hooked on this book! The first few pages were a little slow, but once i got passed that I was unable to put the book down!This is a Cinderella story in which four creatures, united for a brief period of time (1936-47), spark the imagination of an entire country. Hillenbrand combines the horse's biography with a social history of 1930s and 1940s America and incisive portraits of the team around Seabiscuit. Charlie Howard, a car dealer, bought the crooked-legged, scruffy little horse; Tom Smith, a man who rarely spoke to people but who communicated perfectly with horses, became its trainer; and Red Pollard, a half-blind jockey, rode Seabiscuit to fame. Hillenbrand's extensive research compares favorably with that of Alexander MacKay-Smith's in Speed and the Thoroughbred (Derrydale, 2000). This story of trust, optimism, and perseverance in overcoming obstacles.I highly recommend Seabiscut, An American Ledgend. Big Truck
5 Seabiscuit is a stunning acheivement. Despite the hype that a blockbuster movie and multiple years on the bestseller lists give a book, Seabiscuit managed to surpass even my most ambitious expectations. The story of course revolves around an unattractive horse who belies low expectations to capture most of the greatest awards in racing and  the hearts of Americans during the last years of the depression. With the help of Tom Smith, the strong, slient trainer who devoted years of his life to Seabiscuit's development, the financial support of auto magnet Charles Howard who seemed to love the horse like a favored child, and jockies Red Pollard and Charlie Woolf, no one in racing, even the fabled War Admiral or the track stewards who saddled Seabuscuit with absurd weights in handicap races, no horse could stop the Biscuit when he was at his best (which was most of the time between his third and seventh years).Aside from the stories of the characters, which are terrific, this book establishes itself as the best sports history book I've read because of the quality of writing and research. Hillenbrand lets her emotions come through very well and the action of the book is so well written that it gives the readers a perfect mental image that is so gripping it will leave you with goosebumps. I don't know the first thing about horse racing or even like watching it, but her race descriptions are outstanding. They were so good and personal that I often thought she may be embellishing and adding her own dramatic creations, but if you look at the end notes of the book, her research was exhaustive and everything she says is documented in her sources (which doesn't always make them true, but that isn't her fault).Finally, this book extends much further then horse racing to analyze depression-era society. It is a great cultural history and it is so seemlessly written into the book that you don't realize all you've actually learned until analyzing what you've read after finishing it.I would recommend this book to everyone no matter what your reading preferences may be. It is a fast read and can be fun as a beach book, but would not be out of place as a book for class. An excellent selection.
4 The further I read the more frustrated I became at police blunder after police blunder occured. How many more more women died as a direct result of this. Bilton has written an excellent account of events.
5 This is the first book I've read about this horrific serial killer and I found it gripping and harrowing reading.  It focuses on the investigation into the murders and attempted murders rather than on Sutcliffe himself.  It is of course easy to see with hindsight that there were many mistakes made during the investigation but it is also clear that at least some of those same mistakes could have been avoided at the time.Sutcliffe was interviewed many times during the course of the investigation and more than one of the police officers who spoke to him believed there was something about him which needed looking into.  One took the trouble to write a detailed report about him which was totally ignored by the senior detectives in charge of the enquiry.  It was disastrous that George Oldfield - in charge of the enquiry - became wholly fixated on the Ripper being from Sunderland because of the hoax tape and letters from `Wearside Jack'.Doubts about the authenticity of the letters and tape were raised at the time and dismissed out of hand.  In defence of the investigation team they were drowning under information - hundreds of thousands of pieces of it.  As little as ten years later there would have been the computer technology available to make sense of all this information and to pick out the likely suspects. At the time it was all kept on paper and as always happens with paper it can be misfiled, mislaid or destroyed.It was a recipe for disaster to have new index cards made out for information which related to someone who was already listed in the system.  Anyone with a modicum of office experience should have realised that this policy doubled and trebled the likelihood of a vital piece of information being lost or misplaced.  However, even if everything had been filed in the right place, the strongly held belief of the senior detectives that they were looking for someone with a Sunderland accent could have led to them underestimating the evidence which they did have against Sutcliffe.When Sutcliffe was finally caught you would have thought everyone would have made sure every detail was attended to but that wasn't the case.  Sutcliffe was not searched and he was not asked to hand over his clothes.  If he had been then it would have been clear from the start that these were pre-planned and organised attacks and not spur of the moment events.  Everyone was in a rush to get him into court in front of a magistrate and the detectives questioning him were sleep deprived otherwise they might have dealt with things in a different fashion.When the case came to court it was only thanks to the judge that a trial actually took place.  The prosecution had agreed with the defence that they would accept a plea of guilty of manslaughter because of the defendant's mental state so that there didn't need to be a trial.  The judge took a different view and told the barristers concerned that Sutcliffe's mental state was a matter for the jury to decide on.  Sutcliffe was found guilty of murder by a majority verdict.But the story doesn't end there and this book covers the subsequent investigation into the police handling of the case, the transfer of Sutcliffe to Broadmoor, his appeal against the length of his sentence and the prosecution of the author of the tape and letters which so drastically mislead the detectives in charge of the Yorkshire Ripper case.  It also reports briefly on the lives of the victims who survived.The book contains comprehensive notes on the text and a bibliography as well as an appendix containing Sutcliffe's statement when he was arrested in 1981.  If you want a comprehensive book about this case then you could do worse than start with this one.  It is detailed and well written and provides some interesting insights into the thoughts of those involved in tracking down Peter Sutcliffe - one of the most notorious murderers of the twentieth century.
5 I remember the time of the Yorkshire Ripper. I was 12 yrs to 17 yrs old and at school we felt a kind of juvinile morbid delight every time there was a new killing. I remember seeing Sutcliffs photo for the first time and thinking how he looked just like the photofits I'd seen on the telly and wasn't it strange that someone who looked so like the photofits wasn't caught for so long. Also I remember the taped voice and really BELIEVING that it was the voice of the Ripper.It was strange how for some people The Yorkshire Ripper cast his shadow over the whole of England not just the Northeast. It was facinating reading this book and seeing all the behind the scenes incompetence from the upper echelons of the West Yorkshire Police. At one stage they tried looking at over fifty thousand vehicles for tyres that matched trackmarks left at murder scenes but the top brass never prioritised the search. The upper brass cancelled the search after thirty thousand cars had been checked- many of them women owners etc. who could have been checked later. A Detective Constable called Laptew handed a report in which virtually fingered Sutcliff but, because he got his bosses back up at the same time, the report was filed and ignored and then "lost" when there was an enquiry. The incompetence of the upper ranks of the police was beyond belief. For me, this is what made this a great book. I felt very sad reading about these poor desparate women and their deaths and still have a kind of morbid fascination (I think we all do)for the killings but the overiding factor in the book is the police manhunt and their incompetence though the author is very kind to them- he probably made promises to get his research. The police manhunt takes place in a different world than today with no computers etc. so no national pooling of information or experience. You just get the feeling that although the book says that Hoban, Oldfield and Holland are good coppers, they reached their exalted positions through politics rather than brilliance.I read this book in just a few days.A fascinating read.
5 I searched this out after seeing a Channel Four documentary on the &#34;Yorkshire Ripper,&#34; Peter Sutciliffe.  Or course the book is far more detailed and nuanced.  A sterling piece of research and riveting as all get-out. It seems that the USA has not the monopoly on crazed psychopaths although we are close to it.  Of course most serial killers apprehended in the USA trace their heritage to the British Isles but I do not know if genetics plays much of a role in this sort of crime.  For that we must look at the Royals.
3 My son likes the book, but says there is too much regarding the trial and not enough info about the life and character of the Ripper.
4 Wicked Beyond Belief by Michael Bolton is an expose of The Yorkshire Ripper through the eyes of the police and investigators who worked on this biggest manhunt in British History. Anyone aspiring to become a police officer or an investigator should read this book. It is crammed pack with investigative methods and forensic procedures. Not only was The Yorkshire Ripper one of the worlds most chilling mass murderers, but he got away with murdering and attacking women over a period that lasted ten years because of bad policing.The case of The Yorkshire Ripper is a three act story. It is about a serial killer who brought the middle of England to a stand still at night, the citizens gripped in fear for years on end and afraid to go out alone. It is also equally, if not more so, about the establishment of a single Yorkshire police body that combined the talents of different police squads from the towns where the Ripper was at work. It is also about the mistakes that where made during the Rippers legal hearing which led to his convicted and "diminished responsibility" on the grounds of insanity.The Yorkshire Ripper terrorized Leeds, Manchester, Brandford, Halifax and Huddersfield. He may have murdered more than thirteen women and attacked scores of others. The total number of murders and assaults will never been known. The Yorkshire Ripper picked up prostitutes, hit them with a hammer over the head and left them to die, or as in most cases - he mutilated their bodies using special killing instruments that he shaped from screwdrivers which he always drove around with. He did not take any souvenirs but he did mutilate the woman in a sexual way. This led many detectives working on the case to believe that he was mainly only interested in killing prostitutes and so a huge manhunt began which involved questioning prostitutes, setting up monitors in the red light districts and trying to trace a car that matched the killers tire prints. The Yorkshire Ripper was not long before he started to turn on teenage girls, female doctors, secretaries, school teachers and women walking home alone at night.Trouble for the investigators was brewing since the beginning. The fact that the murders had taken place over various different police jurisdictions meant that the crimes where not linked until at least three women where murdered, but there was also scores of other near-fatal attacks that where never connected. They had the killers name already in their database of suspects to go through and several photofits of the suspect from witnesses. The Yorkshire Rippers car was also on a list of another 140,000 vehicles to be checked. Later as the evidence against the Ripper began to mount up they eventually zeroed in on their man on no less than seven different occasions. Unfortunately bad management and organization in the incident room left the prime suspects file go unnoticed for years. Hundreds of thousands of homes, vehicles and businesses where searched and suspects vetted.  A punters 5 became the center of the enquiry and a letter and voice tape recording from the Ripper drove a media blitz upon the people of Yorkshire. LOOK AT HIS HANDWRITING! LISTEN TO HIS VOICE!Read about detectives cracking under the stress and having heart attacks - learn what new victims emerged after the trial - listen to detectives talk about their conversations with the Ripper during routine interviews before he was captured - read about how his friends fingered him out to the investigators only to be ignored - Learn about the never-mentioned-before "KILLING UNIFORM" that the Ripper wore while stalking his pray. Read about how this demonic device never found its way into the courtroom as damning evidence which suggested that the Rippers claims of insanity where a hoax and that he planned his sexual murders meticulously.The book is slow to start because it goes into a lot of detail about the areas where the attacks took place and the investigators, including their family background. So it is very slow to start, but around 250 pages in it really starts to get cracking. There is still much that the detectives on the case are not talking about and the Yorkshire Ripper himself has also told a lot of lies. However the end of the book does give the whole chain of events from the Rippers own mouth so you get that side of the story too. Overall a very good book but it is long slog to get through the detectives backgrounds before the case begins.
4 Michael Bilton, Wicked Beyond Belief: The Hunt for the Yorkshire Ripper (Harper, 2003)Michael Bilton writes in his preface to Wicked Beyond Belief that "I have no intention of pillorying anyone for mistakes made." Intentional or no, however, this fascinating police procedural excels in its quest to create a piece of nonfiction that could never be marketed as a novel; there's no way the reading public could get through it and say "this is believable." The only way it's possible is to get through this book and realize that it is, in fact, a piece of nonfiction. Truth is stranger, etc.Peter William Sutcliffe, the Yorkshire Ripper, was convicted of thirteen counts of murder, and seven of attempted murder, in 1981. There are placed in Britain where the mere mention of his name sends shivers up the spines of folks old enough to have been around who were living in Ripper territory. Many cases of murder and attempted murder, still unsolved in the area, are believed to be Ripper attacks. While Bilton touches briefly on the things no one's still sure he did in the last chapter, Wicked Beyond Belief covers the time period from the discovery of the first body in 1975 to Sutcliffe's 1981 conviction. Anyone looking at those dates has to wonder: how did a serial killer, especially one who took so few pains to conceal his identity, manage to operate for so long? The answer is police inefficiency. No matter how you dress it up, Peter Sutcliffe remained at large for five years because, for the most part, Peter wasn't talking to Paul. This is not a book about Peter Sutcliffe, per se; those with more prurient tastes, while they will find some description to revel in here, are gently steered towards David Yallop's Deliver Us from Evil. This is a book about the police who attempted to catch him, and how small errors and inefficiencies, with more than a few bits of luck and coincidence, turned into the biggest cockup in British police history.Through the book's almost-five-hundred pages, you will find yourself wondering again and again how certain things could have been missed, why person X wasn't doing thing Y, and why, most of all, one of the biggest manhunts in human history was so woefully underfunded. Bilton addresses all these questions and more, though even twenty years on, it is impossible to actually answer them all. You will find yourself sympathizing with some of the police and finding others to be incompetent morons who should never have been allowed near an investigation. You will likely find yourself wondering why the public didn't take matters into their own hands and simply lynch every white guy of the requisite age who had a beard. It is only that we know how the story ends that makes this tale readable; had this book been written with the Yorkshire Ripper still at large, it might have caused a revolution.This, of course, is exactly what one should expect of a true crime book. Bilton devliers. ****
4 I read David Peace's four novels based on the notorious Yorkshire Ripper case. The use of  fiction allowed him to speculate, but his elliptical style and shifting point of view made it difficult to sort out what happened. The novels are reminiscent in style to those of James Ellroy, who did a hallucinatory trilogy set in LA and the Cold War. I bought Wicket Beyond Belief to see if I could get a better factual handle on this mass murderer who escaped detection for far too long. The reality is somewhat mundane, the real criminal less interesting than the fictional, but it was useful in setting forth the police blunders and carried the story through the killer's incarceration and deterioration in prison. You will not feel much sympathy for him.
5 This is an engrossing book, but potential readers should be alerted that the author does NOT delve into the psychology of the killer here. He immediately states that he regarded Peter Sutcliffe as a worthless monster, and that he did not care to dignify him by interviewing him or by granting him any more personal attention than the press has already given him. So if your reason for reading true crime is to gain a deeper insight into the making of a killer, this might not be the book for you.Although, like me, you might find yourself becoming just as interested in the real theme of this book - which is the anatomy of an investigation. Bilton follows along with this ever ramifying real-life procedural as one mutilated corpse after another turns up in the Bradford-Leeds-Manchester area of England in the 1970's. This narrative becomes a lesson in how NOT to conduct an investigation, or, in a larger sense, how NOT to approach any vital project that might fall your way.In the era before DNA and a lot of computer capacity, the police had to try to scope out suspects in the old-fashioned way, by gumshoeing door to door, tracking auto registrations, tire tracks, and (one of the most fascinating clues they followed) the origins of a newly-issued 5-pound bank note found on one of the dead women.However, it soon becomes apparent that the police are doing a snow-job on themselves. They get lost in a blizzard of paperwork, and become unable to see the forest for the trees. As you read along, you'll probably find yourself being challenged to consider how you might have worked your way clear of this paper chase if you'd been on the case, and how you might have saved lives by finding the killer sooner.Another lesson to be drawn from this years-long failure to find the killer is the importance of listening with undivided attention and with an open mind to what your colleagues of proven capability are telling you. One of the most interesting, heart-breaking chapters in this book recounts how a detective suggested, with good reasons, who the killer might be to one of his supervisors, but was summarily dismissed because the supervisor was having a bad day, or was just generally bent on carrying the investigation in another direction. As a consequence, three more women died.This book seems to have been written with the assumption that it would be bought mostly by English readers. There is a fair amount of Brit slang here, including terms that even I, an Anglophile, hadn't encountered before. He "clocked one of his snouts." He "knew the wide boys, the spivs." You'll become all too familiar with the term "punter." In most cases though, you can guess the meaning by the context.Then it might have been helpful to both American and English readers to have included a section outlining the chain of command in the British system of detection. It gets a little confusing trying to keep track of the official hierarchy and of who was responsible to report to whom. It's also a little difficult to understand why it was not deemed appropriate to bring Scotland Yard into the investigation in any consistent way. The investigation was left to the recently consolidated Yorkshire force, but this still involved significant fragmentation of police resources, and a consequent lack of communication. Bilton explains some of the historic roots of this system and how it's been amended in recent years, but it still might have been helpful to have an Appendix that explained all the different British police acronyms (DCS, SIO, ACC, etc.) and their place in the scheme of things.There is an Appendix containing a transcript of Sutcliffe's initial interviews with police. Bilton points out how a certain lack of attentiveness was dogging the investigation even through these interviews - and up to the present day. In an exclusive revelation made here, Bilton describes the way in which Sutcliffe's appearance positively demonstrated that his killings had been motivated by a calculated drive for sexual satisfaction - rather than by an attempt to appease the heavenly "voices" he claims to have heard. However, once again, this clue to Sutcliffe's real state of mind got lost in the shuffle, and has contributed to him being kept in the cushier settings of a mental hospital rather than in prison.This is overall a finely researched, excellent account. You might come to appreciate this relatively unusual approach that focuses, not on the twisted developmental psychology of the perpetrator, but on the psychology that led an investigation astray.
4 This book would have been perfect. I am slowly getting through the text by absorbing the information. The author, Michael Bilton, does allow us an in-depth look at being a Yorkshire policemen when they didn't have computers or databases during the crime spree. What bothers me is that we don't know who Peter Sutcliffe is as a person? What makes him tick? Now I believe Bilton does a servive in painting an honest portrait of policemen and women who served the Yorkshire community during this crime spree. Much like the Green River Killer who killed for years before being caught, I think the police are their own worst critics by blaming themselves for not catching him sooner rather than later. They did everything possible and there were mistakes but they are human too. Yes, the police can be both the enemy and your greatest ally but they did work under a different time and they should be grateful that they did catch Sutcliffe before there were more victims. I kept looking for Sutcliffe's picture until I realized it was on the cover. I wished there was one photo for each victim (living or deceased) to help us understand them. Sadly, most women even in the Green River case were mostly prostitutes and runaways. Sutcliffe had this insatiable anger and hatred of women and attacked them viciously. There is no excuse for his behavior but we have to know his upbringing in order to understand what can prevent future criminals. So I think this book is very good but you have to digest it slowly. There is a lot of information about so many people but he does a nice job in giving a chronology, a map, and helps us with an index.
5 My 4th and 5th class is reading Dr.seuss books. I enjoy Mr.Brown Can Moo!Can You because all the noises Mr.brown can do he could:moo, buzz, pop, klopp, clock-a-doodle-doo, hoo, dibble dopp, choo choo, whisper, blurp,s lurp,tick tock, knock,sizzle, grum, pip, boom, splatt, can you can do all the things that Mr.brown can do? I recommend this book to parents and teachers because they can use it to teach noises and sounds to their kids or students. Older kids can learn how to write better like if the teacher asks you to write descriptions about what you hear outside this book can give you ideas. All kids will enjoy these sounds.
5 We bought this book when our son was 6 months old.  We still read it even now that he is 2 1/2. The board book is small and great for travel to Grandma's house.
5 I was surprised to find out these books are longer than the little books I bought.  My great granddaughter loves this book and makes all the sounds.
5 It's hard to find board books that strike the right balance.  Many are so simple there's just nothing to them -- you don't really get to settle in for a nice reading session.  But abridged versions of longer picture books often lose the magic of the original.Congratulations to the folks who trimmed &quot;Mr. Brown&quot; down to size.  It has a wonderful, natural rhythm -- even zippier than the original!  And my baby daughter LOVED hearing us make all the silly noises.  When she was 9 months old she'd already started imitating this book, wagging her finger bag and forth and going &quot;tick, tock&quot; like a clock.  Fun for all!
5 What a great way to introduce our kids to Dr. Seuss.  It can be interactive or not-so, great for toddlers or babies listening to someone else make the noises.  My 2 year old has loved this book since we introduced it to her around 19 months.  She can remember most of the sounds almost exactly-it's awesome!
5 This is one of my 7 month old's favorite books.  The noises that are in the book just make him laugh and laugh.  I wasn't familiar with this Dr. Seuss but very glad that we stumbled upon it.  Highly recommended!
3 Dr. Seuss' original book is a wonderful, rhythmic book.  That book is suggested for children four to eight years old.  It is NOT the same as the  Bright and Early Board Book which will pull the same reviews here on  Amazon.com as the original book!The board book is an abridged version of  the Dr. Seuss favorite.  It is not a bad book (my son has fun with the  board book which he received as a gift and likes to hear grandma make the  sounds Mr. Brown makes).  However, it is in no way as detailed as the  original (no gum-chewing hippo for example) and the rhythm doesn't quite  &quot;work&quot; in some places (&quot;...He can sound like a bee. Mr Brown  can buzz.  How about you?  Can you buzz? ...&quot;).If I could separate  my reviews I would give the Bright and Early Board book Two Stars and the  Dr. Seuss original Four Stars.  Perhaps if I didn't know that the board  book was abridged I'd give it a higher score, but if you wish to make the  better purchase, I'd suggest you go with the original.
5 Everyone and their mother knows who Dr. Suess is.  I mean, his name is synonymous with `children's story' and rightfully so.  That said, this little treasure was not one that I was familiar with as a child, but it has quickly become my favorite.When my daughter was still learning to talk I would read this to her nearly everyday.  She adored the pictures and thought that the quick rhyming on the part of her daddy was pretty hilarious.  Soon she started to copy every sound I was making and then she began to memorize every sound, associated with each object and she would spit them out before I would.Now, at nearly three, she has memorized this entire book and reads it to me.This little gem is funny, witty and entertaining.  The artwork is what's to be expected from Dr. Suess; unique, strange and oddly vintage in character.  The tongue-twisting poetic nature of the dialog is fun and surprisingly easy to spit out.Easily one of my favorites from the master of children's literature!
5 My daughter is 5 months and 2 weeks old. She likes it when I read this "noise" book to her. It not only grabs her attention but also makes her laugh. I guess it's because of the sounds as well as the exaggeration of my facial expression (you'll need it to make some of the sounds in this book).As a comparison, we also have Sandra Boynton'sMoo Baa La La La(which is a lovely book). I can see my daughter is interested when I mimic the animal voices from Moo Baa La La La, but seldom does she laugh like when I read this "Moo!" book.The only downside is that a few sounds are a bit challenging; for example, eek eek of the squeaky shoe, grum grum of the chewing gum, and splatt splatt of the lightning. I can never make them right. But I don't think my daughter mind it, as least for now. :)
5 This was a gift for my great-grandchild's 2nd birthday.  He asks for it to be read everyday.  We are very pleased.
4 I bought it for a secret book club for kids, so I bought it for someone. I hope they liked it.
4 2 yr old loves the rhythmn of the words, good illustration, typical Seuss excellent value
5 I don't think there's one Dr. Seuss book that I can't recall being read to me when I was  somewhere in the under-10 age.  Mr. Brown Can Moo, Can You? stands out in particular.  How could a child forget the first time mom makes those delightful noises to go with the pictures in a book?  It's the stuff of high comedy and intense interest to three-year-olds everywhere.Mr. Brown is a funny little man dressed to the nines (in dapper brown of course) who can imitate all sorts of noises like a wiz.  You'd better be prepared to go beyond barnyard animal sounds, too - lightening cracks, goldfish kisses, and a hippo chewing gum (which is GRUM GRUM, for those of you who don't know!). The book prompts children to try and match Mr. Brown's sounds in a nice, low-pressure way.I'm not sure if this book has ever received official recognition for its educational value to young children, but as far as I'm concerned MBCMCY is a wonderful tool for teaching kids to be better observers, listeners, and responders to their surroundings.  Better yet, it introduces parents to the fine art of interactive reading.-(...)
5 I bought this as a baby shower gift.  I've been reading it for years to my grandchilren.  As babies, they imitated the sounds.  As toddlers, they recited the list.
5 I read this book to my son and wanted to continue the tradition with my grandson. Such a darling book. My little munchkin just loves it!
5 I love this book.  My son is 18 mo. and we are exploring both animals and our home looking for things that make noise.  This book is the perfect compliment to what we are already doing.
5 While written with deceptive simplicity, Dr. Seuss's Mr. Brown Can Moo is disturbingly laced with grotesque imagery, sadism and gritty dialogue.His character is only gently pompous, yet he forthrightly attacks the reader's abilities until you WILL acknowledge your own flaws. Can you, indeed, moo? According to the author, not as well as Mr. Brown. The boasting Brown turns up his nose at you and refuses to subject himself to your inferiority by never once opening his eyes during his disorienting recital. "Dibble dibble dibble dopp," drops from his lips in a filthy stream as easily as a grocery list.In the end you will find yourself with an invitation to enter into the heart of darkness and challenge Mr. Brown at his own game. A torrent of difficult sounds to imitate. What will you feel? The anguish of defeat? Depending on your view Mr. Brown Can Moo is either a gripping narrative about innocence and hope lost or of emotional survival. An understated, unforgettable read for ages 2 and older.
5 Our son loves this book, and has for quite some time. He has learned different sounds because of it to, and loves to interact with us when we're reading it. Love Dr. Seuss!
4 I liked the idea of having Dr. Seuss as a board book and this book is ok, but it doesn't do justice to the full book. I may just spring for the full book because this one is so incomplete.
5 My earliest memory of reading is this book. I was two and I'dsneak in off the playground during recess to read it. It's very easy,brightly colored and good-natured.We didn't have the board booksback then, but these things are great! You don't want to drop them inthe bathtub to soak, but other than that, you can spill, bend, step,chew, and other wise &quot;man&quot;-handle these books withoutcausing serious damage. Some children feel more comfortable with booksif they don't have to worry about wrecking them.
5 This is an excellent children's book. My daughters absolutely love the tale of Mr. Brown and all of his noises. The traditional Dr. Seuss illustrations bring me back to my own childhood, and I'm happy my girls will share some of those same  memories. It's also a nice introduction into rhyming and onomatopoeia.
5 My son got this book from grandma when he was a little over a year old.  It was an automatic favorite!  It starts with "Oh the wonderful sounds Mr. Brown can do.  He can sound like a cow.  He can go moo moo."  It has pictures that are engaging for their simplicity and a rhyme that is flowing but varied so it doen't get boring.  My son loved learning the noises and now he says them along with me when I read.  I've even caught him looking at this book and saying the noises to himself.  He's now 2 and we still read this one often (and I have it memorized).  I highly recommend this book.  I just don't know how you couldn't like it!
3 I think this is cute for learning sounds, but my 13 month old will not sit and listen to it no matter what I try.
5 This little board book is so much fun -- my three month old is mesmerized by it.  It's appropriately subtitled as "Dr. Seuss's Book of Wonderful Noises" -- and it certainly runs through the range of noises.  This book goes beyond the introductory cows go moo into a much broader range of sounds -- bees buzzing, corks popping, horses klopping, rain dibble dibble dopping.  There is also reference to a soft whisper, so the reader can use a range of dynamics.  The illustrations are classic Seuss - Mr. Brown is an odd little fellow with a tall brown hat, a spriggly mustache under his nose, and a haughty chin-in-the-air demeanor.  The animals range from the semi-realistic to floppy-footed bizarre.  Overall, this book is a delight that should keep any little one entertained for a few minutes.
5 I love all the small Dr Seuss board books. my baby likes the rhymes and the pictures. the stories are short enough to keep her attending at 8 months but not so short that there is nothing to it. it's just the right size for her little hands to hold. I wish there were more as we already have them all! the ABC book is great.
5 My husband and I collected several books in anticipation of our son's birth, and among them many Dr. Suess volumes. We were so excited to discover that our son loved this one! From the earliest age he latched onto it as a favorite and would bring it to us to read. The board version is slightly more condensed than the original which turns out to be handy for little attention spans. Get it...its worth every penny.
5 I have seen multiple reviewers expressing a preference for the original version. I have to say that my preference is for the board book by a wide margin. First, I don't like the use of the word &#34;go&#34; in the original. &#34;Go&#34; is not the right verb. The board book uses the verb &#34;sound&#34;. &#34;He can sound like a cow.&#34; rather than &#34;He can go like a cow.&#34; etc. Second point, the board book seems to have taken extra special care to ensure a flow throughout the book. It's very lyrical. The original, which does contain a few extra whimsical sounds (like a hippo chewing gum) has a more broken overall flow with lots of pages repeating previous words. The board book saves all of this until the last page, with a nice little rhyme to tie it all together. For little ones who don't have a sentimental attachment to the original, I'd pick this version every time.
5 This book is a Seuss classic and is perfect for babies as young as 4 months.  The sounds are funny and you can interact with your child who will  be fascinated by the noises you make when reading the story.  Since the  first words for many children are animal sounds, this book helps promote  early speech.  It makes a wonderful gift and is small enough that your  child can &quot;read&quot; it him/herself.  Highly recommended!
5 Excellent!  It's Dr. Seuss!
5 This was one of my favorite books as a kid.  I remember reading it with my mom all the time!For a new book about animals, please check outThe Bunny Rabbit In The Flower Garden
4 I really like to read this book to my little one - he just loves all the sounds it makes and it's a challenge for the adult to get all those sounds out to enhance the story.  I think some of these books are written for the adults to have fun as well and this one is no exception.  My little one has fun trying to make all the sounds with me and it just makes for a very good and memorable time. Don't pass this one by, it's a classic.
2 I bought this book for my 18-month old.  The illustrations and colors are not too engaging to me, and my daughter is actually scared of the book! Perhaps the story is too packed with sound effects to be read aloud.  It actually sounds a bit annoying. The book is now tucked away in a closet somewhere.
5 Our son (1 year old) LOVES this book -- he loves hearing Mommy make all kinds of sounds, and now I've got the book memorized and it's fun to recite for him while he's getting ready for a bath, getting a diaper change, etc.  Definitely a GOOD Dr. Seuss book...it actually makes SENSE...
5 We've been reading this to our baby for the past couple of months (he's almost 7 mos. old) and he loves it. It's just the right length and he's captivated by the colorful, cute illustrations and by his parents making silly sounds.
4 I grew up with Dr Suess books so I couldn't wait to share them with my own children.  The books are illustrated simply, the text is easy to read and creatively laid out and the silly rhymes make me and my children laugh.What I've noticed from reading them Dr Suess books (they are 1 and 2.5 years) that it has really helped my 2.5 year old with increasing her vocabularly, saying words properly and recognising sounds that a letter or group of letters make.  A wonderful series of books to read aloud to your children.
5 I love to read my daycare kids books with rhythm and rhyme. This book is terrific and adorable and never seems to get old no matter how many times I read it. I love to get my kids involved in books. This book truly makes it easy. We giggle through the whole thing. FUN FUN read.
5 I just dug my old copy of Mr. Brown Can Moo out of my fathers basement from the 1970's for MY 2 year old son.  What memories it brings back and my son loves it too.  When I heard my father reading it to my son the other day, I could hear my father reading it to me 32 years ago.
5 This is one of those books that I can't get away with just reading once a night to my kids. They ask me to reread it over and over again.My three year-old and my 18-month old love the rhymes and the pictures.  It's their current favorite.  They love making the noises as I read.I think this is a must have book for the preschool and toddler crowd. It encourages interaction and is just plain fun to read.
5 This book deserves many more than five stars for its great ability to engage your child with books at a very young age!  With this head start, you can expect to help nurture a lifelong love of books and reading.Dr. Seuss must have known that children respond more to noises than to words.  So this book emphasizes noises.  It also provides a wonderful opportunity to act.  The facial expressions, gestures, and body movements you make will create a strong impression.  Soon your baby will begin to imitate the sounds.  Imitating the word syllables and words is seldom far behind.&quot;Oh, the wonderful thingsMr. Brown can do!He can go like a cowHe can go Moo Moo&quot;Sections all start off like that.  Then they end with the encouragement to imitate:&quot;Mr. Brown can do it.How about you?&quot;You can point to your child then, and repeat the sound with a nice smile.Here are the animals or objects, and the sounds they make that are in the book:bee -- &quot;Buzz Buzz&quot;cork -- &quot;Pop Pop&quot;horse feet -- &quot;Klopp Klopp Klopp&quot;squeaky shoe -- &quot;Eek Eek&quot;rooster -- &quot;Cock a Doodle Doo&quot;owl -- &quot;Hoo Hoo Hoo Hoo&quot;rain -- &quot;Dibble Dibble Dibble Dopp&quot;train -- &quot;Choo Choo Choo Choo&quot;butterfly -- &quot;Whisper Whisper&quot;horn -- &quot;Blurp Blurp Blurp Blurp&quot;big cat drinking -- &quot;Slurp Slurp Slurp Slurp&quot;clock -- &quot;Tick Tock&quot;hand on a door -- &quot;Knock Knock&quot;egg in frying pan -- &quot;Sizzle Sizzle&quot;hippopotamus chewing gum -- &quot;Grum Grum&quot;goldfish kiss -- &quot;Pip!&quot;thunder -- &quot;Boom Boom Boom&quot;lightning -- &quot;Splatt Splatt Splatt&quot;The sounds are repeated as partial and total lists in several places.  These repetitions can be made very humorous in your reading and cause gales of baby giggles.Except for the lists, there is a beautiful large illustration to help your baby or child tie the sound to an animal or object.A good way to enhance your baby's enjoyment of the book is to notice what sounds your baby seems to like already.  For example, most babies like low, comfort sounds (in the moo moo range).  You can add those sounds and your own drawings (or photographs) to go with them.  You could have a refrigerator go Hum Hum Hum, or a car go Wrooom Wrooom.  Your own ideas will be better than mine, I'm sure.Have a wonderful time being a parent, and be sure to take the time to enjoy the pleasures of books like this one with your baby!
5 I have been reading this book to my son since birth every night. He loves it. He is now 4 months old and loves to help turn the sturdy board book pages. The different noises that Mr. Brown makes are very intriging to babies and it gives them something to try to imitate. He also likes looking at the colorful illustrations in this book. It is one that we will be reading/reciting for years!
5 Dr. Seuss is one of the greatest authors of all time. I work with little kids and I just love reading this book to them. the y always wanted me to read it numerous times. It's great. I recommend it especially if you have little kids.
5 Admittedly, since my childhood I've been predisposed to like anything with the words "Dr. Seuss" on the cover - but maybe that's because he's so good. And now I get to pass that love on to my little one! This book has a fantastic natural cadence and fun sounds that are just what a baby needs to start acquiring those vital pre-reading skills. And, that same rhythm and fun are perhaps just what a parent needs to be inspired to read to their child. In short, "Oh the wonderful sounds Mr. Brown can do. Why don't you try to do them, too?"
5 Cute book.  My daughter loves animal noises and this book fits the bill.  Easy to read and I love that it is boardbook for her to chew on.
3 This is the truncated, or abridged BOARD-BOOK version. You got to love some of the sounds in the original book. It is a great one for kids, because they like mimicking the sounds too. This one has much of the text removed for the smaller size, I guess.
5 I've never read the non-board book version, but other reviewers have said that the board book leaves out some content.  I believe that because it doesn't seem to flow quite as well as other Dr. Seuss books do, but considering that the board book format is much better suited for very young children than other book formats, I feel like that's an acceptable compromise.  This book has enough pages to make it a legitimate "story" unlike some other board books that only have say...3 pages.The one year old it was purchased for seemed to enjoy it.
5 I purchased this book for my two year old daughter at Christmas.  It has since become a favorite at our house.  We have fun making the noises toghether.  In fact, she can now repeat all of the noises and can even apply them to other pictures.  The rhythem of the book is easy and fun.  A great choice for parents.
5 My three-month-old loves this book. She always gets bored halfway through Cat in the Hat, but this one holds her rapt attention. It perhaps requires a bit of a dramatic flair to get through, but that's probably true of all Dr Seuss's books.
5 A fun, interactive book to read with your child. Ask your child if they can make the same sounds as Mr. Brown and see what sounds they make. Make sure to buy the full version.
5 This was a book I  used as a mother and teacher for my two older children 50, and 40...plus granddaughter 29, and the younger grandchildren as they came along...Basic and such fun for us all !!! Thru the years, these Dr. Seuss books are scattered here and there throughout the family in several states....I have a friend now...A retired principle whose name is MR.  BROWN..: )  I purchased this for him as he was not familiar  with this one. with his name.: )The book though paper back is in excellent condition and I had fun reading it again...Sure he will too!  The price was right though shipping pushed it up a bit...I'm happy with everything...Even the time it took in receiving it....Thank you.
5 Not for a single second have Grandpa and I regretted our lives becoming much less "peaceful" when I began babysitting our older grandson almost 6 years ago, followed by his younger brother 4 years later... we love all of the "wonderful noises" that these two have filled our home with!  (I do have to admit that as a mother who worked outside of the home while my own sons were youngsters, I may not have had the same appreciation for those noises at the end of a long day as I do now, when I know those "noises" are going home at night!)  When our younger grandson's first Christmas rolled around, he was just 9 months old - since we'd already accumulated an overload of toddler toys for our older grandson that he would inherit, Grandpa & I decided to make his gifts the beginning of a complete collection of Dr. Seuss books.  It's really worked out well, because the older one (4 year age difference) was able to immediately enjoy the "Beginner Books" series (age 4-8) , and our younger grandchild (now 22 months) has graduated from board books to this hardcover "Bright and Early Books" series, cleverly labeled as being "for Beginning Beginners" (age 3 & under).There are a dozen Dr. Seuss books in this series, and ""Mr. Brown Can Moo!  Can You? was the third.  Of course, learning to immitate sounds and mimic our words is how our little ones learn to communicate and eventually speak, and that's exactly what Mr. Brown does in this colorful book full of Dr. Seuss's terrific use of repetition, rhyme and rhythm.  In many places throughout the book the narrator of "the story" encourages the youngster to try imitating the various animal and inanimate object sounds as well.  As the book goes on, it occasionally compiles all of the sounds learned so far, and the final page can be hilarious if you really "get into it" with your little one!  "Moo Moo/Buzz Buzz/Pop Pop Pop/Eek Eek/Hoo Hoo/Klopp Klopp Klopp/Dibble Dibble/Dopp Dopp/Cock-a-Doodle Doo/Grum Grum/Grum Grum/Choo Choo Choo/Boom Boom/Splatt Splatt/Tick Tick Tock/Sizzle Sizzle/Blurp Blurp/Knock Knock Knock... A Slurp and a Whisper and a Fish Kiss, too.  Mr. Brown can do it.  How about YOU?"  What a great way to start talking with kids about the gift of our sense of hearing!In case you're interested, the other books in the series are:  "The Foot Book", "The Eye Book", "In A People House", "Marvin K. Mooney Will You Please Go Now!", "The Shape of Me and Other Stuff", "The Pop-Up Mice of Mr. Brice", "There's a Wocket in My Pocket!", "Great Day for Up", "Would You Rather Be a Bullfrog?", "Hooper Humperdink...?  Not Him!", and "The Tooth Book".
5 My sons who are grown loved it. Now my grandson does. It is a classic and the sounds are fun to make and have the 2-4 year old repeat them.  Great preschool book.  I highly recommend it.
5 Welcome to the wonderful world of whimsical, wacky writing, and crazy, colorful caricatures - "He can sound like a clock, he can TICK, he can TOCK.  He can sound like a hand on a door KNOCK, KNOCK."  "Dr. Seuss's Mr. Brown Can Moo!  Can You?" is an inspired introduction to sounds through rhyme and alliteration.  The text, format, and images have been adapted from the original to accommodate board book standards; yet, the prose still flows.I am flabbergasted by the lack of enthusiasm for the revised board book editions of Dr. Seuss's (and others) beginner books published by Random House.  I am thrilled to have the opportunity to offer my infant son a CLASSIC narrative, by means of a board book, even in its ADAPTED form.  These magical miniatures are entertaining for little babies, who enjoy the positive interaction of cooperative play through reading.  The objectives of these small books are to appeal to newborns, and very young children with short attention spans who are not attentive enough for the full text versions, they are NOT meant to replace the originals.  Moreover, these pocketsize gems are fashioned for effortless travel to the market, on a plane, in the car, or on a train.  Hee, hee.I own a lot of Dr. Seuss's first editions, in addition to a few of the board book volumes, and agree that the original "Bright and Early and the Beginner Books" are just that - ORIGINAL.  They are more amusing, entertaining, and educational, but are in fact more appropriate for older children, 3 years and older.  I believe introducing infants to creative works, such as these, only encourages listening and learning from an earlier age.  In summary, if your child is two or older purchase an original version, otherwise think of introducing your infant to the shorter, travel-anywhere format, and procure the original at a later date?  The marvelous, magical magician, who was Dr. Seuss is worth it!  Birth and up.
5 My almost 2 year old loves this book, and reads along with me, copying all the sounds. Definitely a worth-while book to get!
5 Young children will absolute love it when they're parents make various sounds of animals that Mr. Brown can make, and they will love to try to make the sounds themselves while having a great time. Perfect for young children.
5 This was for my grand niece.  She is just learning to read.  Can not go wrong with Dr. Seuss.  Teach your child to love books.
5 Mr. Brown Can Moo! Can You? by Dr. SeussIllustrated very colorful children's book showing you what Mr. Brown can do.He can act and sound like so many silly combinations of animals it's truly a joy to read this becauseit will leave you laughing so hard... Great for a rainy day.
5 This is an edited version of the original book.  It's still great.  The board book is perfect for my toddler who loves to make the noises that mr brown makes
5 This is one that my 15 month old granddaughter pulls down from her bookshelf first, every time she comes over. It's fun, interactive (in the sense that you and the child get to make the various animal noises, from &#34;Mooooo!&#34; to a soft &#34;whisper, whisper, like a butterfly&#34;) and like all the best Seuss, the goofy pictures and swingy rhymes pull you along. Whimsical and amusing, even the 100th time, which is saying something.
5 As long as you don't mind acting a little silly when reading this book, kids will love it.  It has lots of animal and object noises and is quite fun.
5 My kiddo loves to make the noises in this book as I read it, and I enjoy the game myself. lots of fun.
5 Mr. Brown Can Moo!Can You?Dr. SeussThis is a book of sounds.  It helps beginning readers learn to sound out words.  When I was working on words with my oldest daughter, I soon found the my second daughter was also reading the words.Before you know it the children have learned all the sounds along with Mr. Brown.I highly recommend this book for young readers.Jill Ammon Vanderwood, authorThrough the RugThrough The Rug: Follow That Dog (Through the Rug)
5 Like many Seuss books, this &quot;Mr Brown Can Moo ...&quot; is pretty fun.  The illustrations are very basic, which is great because it lets you  -- and eventually your child -- focus on making the many sounds Mr Brown  can do.  At the end of the book is a &quot;review&quot; page.  Because the  sounds are in different colors and fonts, your child can easily identify  which one he/she wants you to say.Also recommended are &quot;The Shape  of Me and Other Stuff [...]&quot; for the visual representation and  &quot;One Fish, Two Fish&quot; because it's got a wide variety of cute  stories you and your child will enjoy.
5 Awesome and must have for any child.  There is nothing more memorable that reading a Dr Seuss book to a child.JJ
5 I got this book for a great grandchild for Christmas.  I have always liked Dr. Seuss and was not let down in this one.  I am so glad I got it and she liked it too
5 I grew up outside of the US and we didn't have Dr. Seuss books - at least they may have existed but they weren't used in our schools and we didn't have them at home. Therefore I have never seen the long version of this and am not disappointed by the abridgement. Since most very young children don't have a long attention span anyway I suspect at least some of the disappointed reviews are the result of parents getting nostalgic for a childhood favourite rather than their own child not enjoying the book. My 15 month old loves it, when we have play time it's the first book she brings me to have read to her. You can make a huge game out of this book if you get really immersed in doing the sounds and actions for your child, you can make it very entertaining and educational at the same time.
5 I just bought this for our 1 year old nephew because my 2.5 year old loves when I read this to him.  Little ones will enjoy the sounds made throughout the story.  The story is &#34;off the wall&#34; but that's what makes it so entertaining for kids.  You can find this sized board book in your local stores, but you won't find it at this great price!  Definitely worth a couple of dollars from Amazon.  The size of this book is perfect for little hands too.
5 Who doesn't love Dr. Seuss?  This is a great one about various sounds.  My daughter loves hearing me read, then repeating the sounds back.  This is a small board book, and we don't have the original standard sized version, so I'm not sure if it's a condensed version of the original story as some of them are.
5 This is my son's all-time favorite book. He loved it from a few months of age through about 3 years old. Would recommend to anyone with little kids! A really fun read!
4 My toddler LOVES this book...she always says &#34;where Mr Brown go?&#34;.  However, this board book is a shorter version than the full book.  For younger kids that's good for their attention span, but there are a lot more rhymes in the full book.
5 Very fun book.  I would say kids from the age of 4 to 6, maybe 7 get a kick out of it.  This book keeps getting passed around in my family, it's cute.
5 Not only does my 12-month old son want me to read this book over and over and over again, but I truly enjoy reading this book.  It's sing-song manner is spriteful and uplifting.  I have even memorized this book and find myself subconsciously reciting it at work.  The words jumping out of the page &quot;Boom, Boom, Boom&quot; or &quot;Dibble Dibble Dop&quot; give me the freedom of expressing myself in a more outlandish manner when reading the book, making it much more fun.  I recommend this book to any parent who wants a book that is fun to read.
5 Mr. Brown can moo, whisper, buzz, and boom . . . and that's just for starters.  There are about a dozen different sounds to make along with Mr. Brown and all the sounds bear a pretty close resemblance to the originals (bees buzz, cows moo, thunder booms, etc.) with a few creative interpretations.  Okay, so your child may be the only one saying &quot;dibble-dibble-dibble dopp-dopp-dopp&quot; for rain, instead of maybe &quot;pitter-patter.  The pictures are simple - pretty much just Mr. Brown and each animal or item - no extraneous background drawings.  My 2-year old daughter's favorite part of the book is the last page, where they list all the sounds in the book.  Moo moo,  buzz buzz, pop pop, klopp, and so on. She likes to try and repeat them with me really fast.  Try adding some action along with the words, put all the tips of your fingers together to make a bee, rap on the book for a knock, put a finger to your lips for a whisper, etc.  Oh, never mind reading all the reviews.  It's a good book! Just buy it !
5 My boy loves this book. He has had it since he was just two months old, but he never seems to grow tired of it (he is 18 months old now). He loves the different noises, and anticipates some that he know he can do really well, like the "knock knock" sound.
5 Cute book!  My 15 month old really enjoys listening to this one and is learning some of the "sound effects".  Fun for parents and babies - excellent newborn gift!
5 This book is so funny and very popular in my house. It's nice because I live with my parents, and each reads the book differently to my daughter with all these wonderful sounds. Rhyming is great for language development. Highly recommend.
5 It's fun to make the sounds listed in the books and get your child to join in.
5 I have the boardbook version of Mr. Brown Can Moo, Can You.  My 9 mo old son loves it, he enjoys watching me make all of the different noises.  Of course, most of the Dr. Seuss books are very entertaining for kids.
5 My 8 mo old daughter LOVES this book. I have never seen her react to any of her books like she does to this one. She laughs and giggles the entire time as the noises are wonderful and the pictures are great too. I am sure we will read this book over and over again!
5 Of all the Dr. Seuss early books, this one was loved most by my daughter when she was very young (about 3 months old) and she still loves it at over a year in age.  Unfortunately, I think she hid it somewhere.  Anyway, the book is fun to read and really holds a baby's attention.  Some of her first giggling was during the "cock-a-doodle-doo" while I would read this book to her.  It is a definite must for any baby's book collection.
5 Good condensed version of a fun Dr. Seuss book. The flow of the book isn't as smooth as the full size one, but still a good book to have for babies who love to laugh at funny noises.
5 Oh the wonderful things Mr. Brown can do.  Love reading this poetic treat to my grandkids. It is fast and adorable to recite to them. You make all the animal noises and watch them smile and join right in.
5 My baby loves the bright colors and silly words. Can't wait until she is old enough to make the sounds with me. These books are a great, portable size and sturdy enough I don't have to worry about her grabbing at the pages as we read.
5 Mr. Brown Can Moo! Can You? is going to be a lot of fun for your child to read--or to use as a tool for them as they learn to read. This is a great book for children learning to read independently; the illustrations are grand and the words are relatively simple. The book also teaches, in a fun way, some important words for child to increase their vocabulary at the same time. Great!The book has a page near the very beginning on which the child can write their name to personalize this and draw them into the lessons of this book. Just don't tell them they're going to be learning anything--if they think this is all a game they'll gobble up the information faster than anything!The short story introduces a character named Mr. Brown who can go "moo" just like a cow can. We get a picture of a cow and the sound put together with the picture is very educational. The child is also prompted to make the sound "moo" themselves. This way they learn about a cow interactively in a creative, fun way that they're sure to love.The book then goes on to use pictures of Mr. Brown and various other creatures so that the child can see these creatures and learn the sounds that each one makes. The child, for example, is asked to make the sound of a bee on a page where Mr. Brown is making the sound "buzz;" and the child is also encouraged to make the sounds of a cork opening up (pop) and horse feet sounds (klopp klopp). Every few pages there is a "refresher page" that recaps the lessons of the last several pages so that the child can informally review what they've just learned.The hardcover is strong enough to resist any accidental damage your young child may try to do to it; and the quality of the paper is excellent.Overall, this is an excellent book for introducing children to animals and wildlife. They see the pictures and make the sounds of each creature as they see Mr. Brown (the informal leader) do the same. I highly recommend this book for children just learning to read who also need to be introduced to animals and wildlife.
5 We introduced our nine-month-old son to Dr. Seuss with this book. He's a year old now and is still loving it -- this is one of the few books that will hold his attention from the first page to the last. He loves hearing all of the sound words (we're still trying to get him to say "onomatopoeia"!) and laughs like crazy when "Mr. Brown can BUZZ!" I'd recommend this book to anyone!
5 I just read this book with my 7 year old son.  He loved the book and all the sounds in it!A must read!
5 I love this board book!  Although I grew up with Dr. Seuss, I wasn't familiar with this book until I bought it for my children.  I enjoy having it in the board book, since it is shorter and therefore more appropriate for smaller kids (and more durable, too).  My kids are 2 and 4 years old and this is a favorite book for both of them.  Beginning readers can start by reading just the sound words, which are set apart visually on each page.  So my younger child can repeat all the sounds and my older child can read them himself -- what a great book!
5 To those reviewers bashing the board book version, I say: get over it!  The board book version makes it possible to hold a squirming infant and read and turn the pages at the same time.  Accordingly, the baby is exposed to the process of reading at a time when it would otherwise be prohibitive.  My five month old loves this book, clearly tries to mimic the sounds of Mr. Brown, and smiles beyond belief as I loudly moo, whoo, buzz, and tick-tock.  I think above all else, Suess would want youngsters exposed to his works as early as possible, abridged or otherwise.
4 This book was pretty good. Maybe it is because we have lots of animal books, or maybe it was the small size but this did not make it as a favorite in our house. Although my son did enjoy this book from 12 months - 15 months- hence 4 stars.
3 This is a great book for an older child.  It's interactive with the noises/sounds but for an infant it's just too advanced .
5 This is a really cute book.  If you read this to your kid a lot, they start to recognize the words, the colors, and sounds.
4 I love this book but was sad to see teeth marks all over it. This is the only reason why  I gave it four stars. But because we love reading Dr. Seuss and the book was delivered quickly, it got 4 stars.
5 This is one of our kiddo's favorite!  Got for a baby shower but ended up giving it at a different shower because someone else got the same book!
5 I love Dr. Seuss, and I think this is one of his best. The text is a very catchy rhyme, the illustrations (like all Dr. Seuss books) are silly and fun. It's a great book for learning all kinds of sounds. Tons of books focus on animal sounds, but this one has animal sounds as well as other sounds your little one may hear often (such as the Knock Knock of a door or the Tick Tock of a clock). My daughter is 20 months old now, and she started enjoying this book from the time she was an infant. This book is fun enough for me to read that I don't mind reading it over and over, and she certainly wants to hear it a lot!
5 My little girl loved this book so much that I buy copies for all the new babies I know!
5 My son cannot hear this book enough (he is 2).  So I would say that this book has passed the standard of the toughest critic (and the only opinion that matters), my son.
5 Our children and grandchildren all loved this book, even after the target age.  And fun for parents who have to read the same books over and over!
5 Who doesn't love to moo? Children love this story and the wonderful sounds Mr. Brown introduces.  My students enjoyed the sounds and rhyme that Mr. Brown introduces.
5 This is a great board book! It is a wonderful book, and they did a great job adapting it for a board book.  Bit shorter but still fun!
4 I gave this a 4 star because we haven't read the book yet but being that its a Dr. Suess book it should be good
4 The rhyming and pictures are great for an interested 2 year old.  My grandson stays interested while I'm reading it to him.
5 From just about the time they are born, children love nothing more than making funny noises and having funny noises made to them.  This is the perfect book for that.Read it, make the noises, and watch your child burst into giggles at himself and you.
5 I'm not sure who loves this book more, my daughter, my husband or me. It's just so much fun to read, both with little babies, and now even more fun with a toddler who tries to mimic all the silly sounds. This is a must-have for the book shelf! Just a note-- there's also a board book version, which, while still great, is much shorter than the original. I suggest getting either just the original, or both, but not just the board book. You'll miss out on some fun!
5 Like almost all of the Dr. Seuss books we own, this is a very cute book and great for reading aloud. The rhymes are nice and it's fun listening to my daughter try to imitate all of the different sounds from the book.
5 What else can you say, What else can you say, another great book as always from Dr. Seuss. Great addition for our little ones collection.
5 My 10 month old baby girl loves to read, &#34;Mr. Brown Can Moo, Can You?&#34;  We love Dr. Suess books, and this is a great board book.  Very colorful, and short enough to keep the littles attention!  Highly recommend it!
5 I am a speech pathologist so of course my granddaughter has to have this book! It is a Christmas present
5 ...is connected to this book. When she was a baby into early toddlerhood, I read this book alot....really exagerating the noises...her  favorite was the thunder but really with all the noises, she got such a kick.....I have a picture framed of her when she was about 9 mos. old - I am reading the book making some stupid hand motion and she is just CACKLING with laughter....I suggest to parents who buy the book not just to read it but to make the sounds interesting....when it says "Knock knock", rap gently on their heads....When it says Pop pop, make hand motions to the popping....babys and toddlers will be entranced....as she got older, like 18 mos.,  I paused and she 'd make the  corresponding noise!I had the board book form....great for smaller hands btw....
5 Great little board book; purchased as part of a bridal shower gift.
1 The board book version is a watered down mishmash of the original.  All the fun of Dr. Suess's original rhymes and rhythms is lost making this nothing more than an expensive chew toy for your infant.  Buy the original  and keep some scotch tape handy!
5 This is one of the most fun books to read aloud ever!There isn't really any "plot"; the main character is the titular Mr. Brown, who has not only the ability to make a great many noises, but the will to go around doing so.Kids love the idea of a grown-up going around making animal noises, and many will join in the fun as you read it with them. Learning takes place without boredom!As with so many of Seuss's works, there is some deep pedagogical stuff going on beneath the playful surface. Take the word "Moo" in the title. Children who know that cows go "moo" don't have to be told that two o's together make an "oooooo" sound; many will see the cow, see the letter M followed by some letters, and unconsciously figure out that this is the sound "Moo"!You can ignore all that if you like. It's a fun book that many children will enjoy having re-read to them until they can read it themselves, and what could be better?
5 My children and I love this book. I bought this recent copy to give as a gift. I enjoy playing with the different noises; there is ample opportunity to be a cow, a rumble of thunder, or patter of rain. Readers can be creative with the text. And, children love the fun sounds. I hope the hardcover is durable...Appears to be just like the old copy we have.
4 Great book....Lots of fun making all the sounds and looking at all the pictures with my 2 year old granddaughter! Dr. Suess is the best!
5 ...excellent shape.  Brought back lots of memories, along with ALLthe other books bought with this one. Great books 4sure...
5 Review by Sherry North, Author, Because You Are My BabyThis is the rare kind of read-aloud book that transforms the child from passive listener into active participant. As Mr. Brown makes his wide variety of animal noises and other sound effects, both parent and child can't resist joining in. My 4-year-old and I enjoy competing to see who can sound more like an owl, a clock or thunder.
5 What a fun guy! My children would like to meet Mr. Brown! We've been repeating the lines of this book for years and years! During any thunderstorm someone will say,"Boom! Boom! Boom! Mr. Brown's a wonder!..." They love the "dip dops" and the "pips"! They love to try to repeat all of the sounds when they're listed in rhyme. The illustrations are captivating and the words run together like a charm! You'll be reading and re-reading this book, and then your beginning readers will read it to you!
5 You can't go wrong when you purchase a Dr Seuss book  I would recommend this book for the sounds alone.
5 I'm so thankful that good Dr. Seuss books come in board book form. This is a small board book but it's perfect for toddlers.
5 for my sister in law, she is collecting these books for her little one. It Arrived before the estimated date, and in amazing condition. I really appreciate it, and it is very helpful and very convenient. Thank you.
4 Mr. Brown is a hit here with the grandchildren.  Dr. Seuss did it again - another one to the collection
5 I ordered a whole bunch of these, as we inherited two 1 year-old grandbabies, and have 3 more due over the next several months. These are classic Seuss books, and the sturdy cardboard will hold up against 5 kids, and can be wiped off!
5 My daughter is 18mo. old and we have been reading this one for some time now.  Yes, it is a board book version, but it is excellent for the age group being targeted. (babies and toddlers)  She loves to make the different sounds and is fascinated when adults make the different sounds.  This is a wonderful book.  It is the perfect size and weight for little ones to be able to hold and look through.
5 Another fun book by Dr. Seuss. The sounds are easy for my 1 year old to learn and immitate. She memorized them all by the simple and silly pictures that capture her attention. It encourages kids to try and do the sounds too. Dr. Seuss is always a good choice!
4 My son recently picked this book out to read. It states that it is for the age level 2-5, but I can say that my 6 year old son needed some help with several of the words even though it is marketed for beginners. It has lots of rhyming and repetitive words, which is great for beginners.  He enjoyed making all the funny sounds with Mr. Brown.  We have read this book together several times.
4 &quot;Oh, the wonderful sounds Mr. Brown can do&quot; and now you can, too! Can you immitate the sound of a cork or horse feet? Your little one will love to hear you bring these wonderful sounds to life. But don't worry, Mr. Brown is very helpful and soon you'll be able to sound like a cow, too. &quot;Moo Moo&quot;
5 I love this book.  My 12 month old daughter loves all the sounds that we make when you read this book.  It's so cute.
5 There are fun sounds to make as you read along with your child together.Like other Dr Seuss books kids also learn to rhyme. Would definitely recommend.
4 This book is a quick (rhyming) runthough of the wonderful sounds Mr. Brown can do, starting with the prosaic (moo, moo, choo choo) to the obscure and absurd (a "goldfish kiss" (pip!) and a "hippopotomus chewing gum" (grum, grum, grum), those are just two examples).This book is short, which makes it great for early readers and for toddlers learning to talk, as well as for those hurry-through-bedtime days.It's also really interactive, so it's terrific for group storytimes, especially with more active little kids who don't just want to sit down quietly. Every page ends with the narrator asking if you can make that noise too - and trust me, they can.
5 I grew up with this one and now I'm giving it to my grandson.  He loves it because he can hold it without tearing the pages.  Perfect.
5 My kids love this book.  They will read it with us.  They make the sounds before the page.  They want us to read it over and over again. I know the book by heart with out looking.  That's how many time I have read it.  Great book.. We give it 5 stars!!
5 Seriously, how could you go wrong with classic Seuss?  Unlike the butchered board books, the hardcovers are just like I remember them.
5 Tons of fun. There's an art to confessing in public, and many of these essays are small masterpieces of the form. It begins with the editor explaining how she was mooned by Manchester United fans while giving a reading, and goes on from there. One author's grandmother interrupts the local premier of "Gone With the Wind" with her own version of more local events. Another has too much to drink and does an "ape dance" on a fellow poet's installation. One is given a book to sign and sees that he's not the author but shares the same name, and signs it anyway. Then there's the unfortunate speaker refered to in the title of my review. These essays share a playful informality that leads to some unusual turns of phrase: TV presenters who are "...so handsome they're ugly". A breakfast of "...sad toasted things, sorry boiled items, heartbroken sausages swimming in gray juice". A poorly timed regurgitation is "...an acid indigo porridge of red wine, Jameson's and aubergine curry". A forced watching of a lengthy adult film that "must have been the director's cut". A speech from "an intellectual with ferociously witty eyebrows". Lots of laughs for the casual reader, and even more for aspiring writers and those who have been on book tours.
4 As MORTIFICATION's introduction points out, there is something unique about the humiliation writers endure having to do with the odd intersection of "high mindedness and low income." And there is something uniquely fascinating about reading various tales of writers being laid low by misfortune herein.The bite-sized chapters are varied in quality, but most go down easily and with a painful smile. I must say that I was surprised many of the more successful writers have the most disappointing efforts in this volume. Are they too successful to devote their full attention to a two-page reminiscence? Anyway, these offenders range from the so-so (Jonathan Lethem), to the tossed-off (Michael Ondaatje), to the downright crummy (Chuck Palahniuk).But the book's few low points are redeemed by other writers (lots of poets and Scots) who detail their mortification with elan and humor. These include Jonathan Coe, Julian Barnes (I laughed out loud at both of theirs), and Rick Moody (at one of his readings, there was only one attendee who "hadn't expelled me from her uterus.") Other writers I wasn't familiar with who distinguished themselves were Elizabeth McCracken and Michael Holroyd. Great stuff.
4 This is an interesting and funny compendium of accounts by fiction and poetry writers who detail their humiliating experiences as authors. After reading the book one wonders at the lengths to which novelists or poets are willing to go to promote their books.There seem to be two main events that cause the mortification of novelists and poets:1. Book readings. The worst possible thing that can happen at a reading is that nobody shows up for the reading. Or is it? How about when you are told that your book stunk.  Or  there is another author reading with you, and afterwards his book signing line stretches off toward the horizon while in front of you there is nothing but silent open space from here to the Andromeda galaxy.I learned a curious thing about poets. Many of those represented in this book seem to have a drinking problem. Many recount experiences where they mounted the podium in a very inebriated condition, and surprisingly their drunkenness often isn't the humiliating problem. That they are besotted with drink doesn't seem to bother them in the least.2. Media Interviews. The author typically arises at an early hour and is whisked off to a radio station for a 6AM interview. The interviewer typically has never heard of the author or his book, and has no interest in either. Questions posed are about what the author thought of his mother, or are generally of the "what is your favorite color" type of solicitation.Some of these confessions of mortification are hilarious. One writer was put up for the night by an elderly couple who owned two very large, very hyperactive Boxer dogs. They continually leapt on him and the other guests throughout the evening, their enthusiasm being so great that they frequently lost control of their bladders. They prowled about under the dining table for the entire meal, and you can guess what all they got into there.What mystified me most was that some of the contributors to the book seemed to have misunderstood the assignment. Their responses, in my opinion, had nothing to do with humbling experiences resulting from their trade of writing. The final episode, for instance, recounts the writer's experience being caught in the bathroom indulging in a certain solitary pleasure. Hmmm. A couple of respondents seemed to feel that this was a splendid opportunity to write some experimental literature.All in all a fun read if you are a book lover, and are curious about the lives of those who write them. I am acquainted with about half the authors (such as Margaret Atwood, Carl Hiaasen, William Trevor, Paul Muldoon, Charles Simic, Billy Collins, and Margaret Drabble). The rest were new to me, but no less enjoyable.
4 An enjoyable book to read one afternoon.  Series of short experiences by a wide range of writers.  The stories mix from the funny to the dull.  However, the collection of writing styles is more interesting then some of the stories.  The book provides a nice way to experience some authors and find some new favorites.
4 "I'm not going to buy a book, but you looked so lonely there, I thought I'd come and talk to you."Thus concludes writer John Banville's contribution to MORTIFCATION, in which he tells of a last-minute book signing engagement in Miami, during which he was approached by a potential customer, who is quoted above. This single incident perhaps best reflects the insecurities of the seventy writer-contributors to this volume, which is mostly about their humiliations suffered at various book signings, book fairs, and readings.MORTIFICATION is essentially a collection of very personal very short stories. Like any anthology, it's difficult to generally rate because the individual chapters vary so widely in content, style, and appeal. Here, they range from 1 star to perhaps 4.5, with the majority at or above 3.My least favorite came from John Burnside, who categorized mortification into Mild and Persistent forms, and a Virulent Strain. His definitions for the three were perhaps based on personal experience, but they didn't have that ring, so he may have missed the point of the book.Personally, I most enjoyed those stories of humiliation submitted by David Harsent and Andrew Motion. The former, a poet, relates attending a bookshop reading with three other writers of the genre. Harsent attends so drunk that he falls asleep on stage, then loudly projectile vomits in the shop loo within the audience's hearing. Motion's gaffe occurred while a lecturer of English at the University of Hull. Andrew organizes a university poetry reading, and takes upon himself the task of picking up at the train station one of the invited writers, whom he hopes to recognize based solely on a photograph. In short, he picks up the wrong woman, who compounds the debacle by playing along with the error in order to get a free lunch.Editor Robin Robertson saves for last the profound mortification - profound certainly on anyone's list - of Niall Griffiths, who relates waking up with a raging erection brought on by partaking too freely in powdered stimulants the night before. The humiliation lies not in the tumescent condition itself, but what happens when Griffiths relieves the situation to a woman's magazine article entitled "You Too Can Have A Bum Like Kylie's", complete with photos. The "Kylie" is presumably the gorgeous Australian actress/singer Kylie Minogue. In any case, Niall definitely states that he was scarred for life.The lesson learned in MORTIFICATION is that writers have feelings like the rest of us mortals. Perhaps I should leave off writing book reviews for fear of offending vulnerable sensitivities. .......... Nah!
4 In a must-read compilation, Editor Robin Robertson has selected an impressive group of writers, sharing in a public dissemination of the humiliations that serve to remind us of our humanity, with or without the trappings of success. I could not put down this unique anthology. Story after story reveals the writers' foibles and missteps, usually tinged with humor rather than regret. A pithy addition to an already enjoyable read, each excerpt is prefaced by an apt quotation.Since Margaret Atwood offers the first story, I began at the beginning. I found myself compulsively turning pages, stopping frequently to smile at the absurd image of a writer's state of mortification. Bernard Maclafferty's piece is so visually ripe that I can sympathize with his means of escape...the red wine offered by his host. On the other hand, demon rum is frequently the primary contributor to the unraveling of events, certainly setting the stage for complications.The book reading/signing is a common venue for humiliation, where victims are subjected to an assortment of difficulties, from flawed PA systems to rude spectators to an audience in the single digits. Simon Armitage, with time to spare before catching his train home after one such disappointing evening, finds a copy of one of his earlier works in the trash, signed in his own handwriting, &quot;To Mum and Dad.&quot;Beneath it all, there is real experience, albeit "character building".  This is the same blind courage that propels a novelist, poet or musician toward the creativity that encourages him to stand at the mercy of an audience of one or many. Who can deny the the need for applause a reading may occasion, even with the realization that Murphy's Law prevails? Luan Gaines/2004
5 This book was hilarious, and, like other reviewers, I could not put it down. I especially enjoyed Chuck Pahalunuik's (sp?) tale of a post-Fight Club reading that went whacko in San Francisco. Enjoy!
4 Just a couple clunkers in this fulfilling plane-ride read. Mostly Brit authors tout the other side of achieving (varying degrees of) literary fame. One of my favorites was the essay about the children's book writer, who'd read one book in her life.Terrific gift for any writer, poet, publisher or editor (or wannabe) you know.
4 Another pathetic story about a South American playboy possessed of a very big ..... (fill in the blank, please). This guy managed to wed very wealthy women who all competed for his .... (fill in the blank). Very, very sad... but, funny to read.,
3 A jumped-up gigolo, Porfirio Rubirosa is a man of limited interest, and of not the slightest historical significance.  Some would argue that, rather like Harold Ryan of "Happy Birthday, Wanda June", Rubirosa lived for a living.  And there's truth to that.  One can't help feeling a twinge of envy for his life of ease and pleasure and plenty.  But it was an existence marked by restlessness, ennui, gross and empty materialism, and the insatiable craving for base sensation.  And it was just so pointless.  But he did indeed live in a genuinely glamorous time -- unlike ours, a time of decadence and degeneracy and depravity, a slob culture, which continues to suffer from the woe and wreck and ruin of the vulgarity-drenched 1960s.  As author Shawn Levy correctly observes, "...he had died at just the right time:  Nothing would have been more ridiculous than a Rubirosa, all swank and elegant and bubbling with romantic innuendo, in the hippie era of free love and antifashion."  Indeed, it's rather incredible (albeit gratifying) to realize that Rubirosa love-interest and ultimate symbol of 1950s chic, Zsa Zsa Gabor, is still with us!As for the book itself...it appears to be reasonably well researched, and the writing and editing are good enough.  I have to say, though, that Levy's jejune archness, his compulsive need to wink at the reader, is bizarre and annoying.  To mention one of seemingly innumerable examples:  "[Rubirosa]...was done up in his wedding day best:  black suit, light gray shirt with a subtle black stripe, black-and-white check tie.  (Rosanno [sic] Brazzi eat your heart out.)"  Are such coy and cute parenthetical asides really necessary?  A rhetorical question, to be sure.All in all, an entertaining, if not particularly absorbing, read.
5 A page turner; couldn't put it down. Someone needs to seriously make this a movie !
4 I just finished The Last Playboy on my winter vacation, I found it to be a fabulous read. The writing is clear and pretty even, although Levy does sometimes dip into gossip-like quips from time to time that aren't useful. The material appears to be well researched and presented clearly, with facts labeled as such, speculation and insights also clearly labeled. I do not know if there are any errors, but I don't think this should be taken as an authoritative bio by any means.Few people live such thrilling lives, and Levy takes you along for the ride. You can almost sense the author's face as Rubirosa himself changes as he grows older and more depraved at times. There's a sensitivity that is found in some of the best biographies, and insights that are to be expected.If you're looking for a good, fast read about the fabulous lifestyle of a playboy, this is one you should be reading. Someone should definitely look at making a movie about this guy and his times.
4 I had heard from my parents about a international playboy named "Rubi" who I now learn was Portiro Rubirosa of the Dominican Republic.  He loved the ladies and they in turn loved him and many married him (ones with money). I liked Shawn Levy's writing - smooth, interesting and flows like a storyteller in your backyard. Rubi lived hard playing polo, night-clubbing to dawn, traveling the world over, and finally ended it all at age 56 when he killed himself in a sports car accident. He was a memorable product of his time and place, and now-a-days would be hounded by tabloids and photographers but that might be okay, he did love the glitz and gossip...and the wealthy women.
5 'The Last Playboy' gives an in depth look at the exciting party life of Porfirio Rubirosa. In his day he was perhaps the world's premiere ladies' man --- a Cassanova of modern times. Married to two of the richest women in the world along with 3 other women during his life this didn't stop him from dating such Hollywood starlets as Zsa Zsa Gabor & Ava Gardner among hundreds of other women. His polo playing, jet setting, drinking, womanizing and car racing were offset only by his work for Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo as a diplomat whose daughter he also married. Mega bucks from many of these women fueled his non-stop party lifestyle until he wrapped his Ferrari around a tree near his home in France at the age of 56. This book also details his friendships with the Kennedy's, Frank Sinatra and other luminaries of that era. This is a high-flying page turner of a biography that really delivers the goods.
5 I am a former foreign student in the Dominican Republic where I got to learn the name "Rubirosa", linked to large peppermils in chique restaurants on the Malecon and the pubs of the then (80's) newly renovated Colonial Center. I also heard his name in equestrian circles with acclaim for his introduction of the sport of Polo to the now largest Polo playing country in the Caribbean.Curiously the new generation in the Dominican Republic and elsewhere know little of him but when an older generation is asked about him, a smile is the first thing to apear on their lips before an anecdote or a recall of one of his memorable deeds (or scandal) is to be told. Most of the time these stories are connected to fast times,headlines and the high life, despite lacking a fortune, commercial enterprise of significance or a scientific mind.Nevertheless making headlines by his own merits and decisions (marriages) and of those around him.This book is an improvement over previous biographies made in the 70's and 80's, among others Palbo Clase Hijo's book, that I bought 20 years ago as a present for an uncle who was a contemporary and admirer of Rubi.This book is great fun to read and brings very well into perspective the details of Dominican political life under Trujillo's dictatorship and the international impact that it brought upon the region and Rubi's pivotal role in the softening of the ugly face of the regime. Reason for his love-hate relationship with the Trujillo family and the political 'intelligentsia' around them, such as Joaquin Balaguer (6-time president).In this aspect Rubi had historical impact and records do not offer much reliable evidence to give credit to it, but in high stakes of international politics, personal relations, phone calls and small favors to key persons (intermediaries) can change history.I recommend this book to anyone who admires celebrities and light subjects for entertaining reading. They can make comparisons on the life of celebrities between today and yeasteryear (not much has changed!).Many a bachelor would like to have, at least for  a some time, the kind of life experience that Rubi got out of his relatively short stay on this earth and a hell of a time it was!The book does justice, historically, to a man that lived life intensively and with great love and loyalty to his friends, a great party companion, which made him an important and long-time confidant, intimate friend and acquaintance of many of those with economic and political power on both sides of the Atlantic and also the Magreb.These characteristics are not highlighted too much in the book but can be interpreted to through the lines and is part of the things to be learned from the book and the life of Rubirosa.This is what makes the great difference between Rbirosa and many other born-rich playboys that bought most of their goodies and many a 'friend' with the funds of their pockets.On the contrary, most socialites and even wives had Rubi's company at their expense!I definitely recommend reading and keeping or as a gift.Randall Croes
4 How do you get interested in a current day unknown, Rubirosa, Playboy of the 40s/50s, namesake of large pepper shakers in Paris?  Mine started with a short story from the legendary Robert Evans 2nd biography:  The Fat Lady Sings. Always liked his style so if he knew and admired Rubirosa given his ego, there must be something here. Reading a book and using the web to look at old photos peaked my interest that this book satisfied.This is a well written autobiography with massive info, particularly impressive given most people with knowledge were dead and rumors, not truth, dominated. I wouldn't call it a fast read although it didn't take long, but I would call it incredibly informative about a life and culture that has past with the times. As said at the end of the book, how would a man of impeccable taste and clothing haven enjoyed the hippie movement of the late 60s?  He wouldn't. A Playboy's death was the appropriate route: win an important polo tournament, drink till dawn, and leave a young corpse.Not groundbreaking but an important part of pop culture from the 40s/50s and worth the read.
5 I loved this book! It's enchanting and charming. It sucks you in, to a point that you don't want to put it down. The movie has nothing on this book! :) -AC
5 I think Ella Enchanted is a very wonderful fairy tale.  It's probably my favorite book ever.  This book is kind of sad at the beginning, but it's perfect for those who like fairy tales.  You go, Ella!
5 We listened to this audio book without having read the book or seen the movie previously.  I didn't even know it was the Cinderella story until the middle of the story.Ella is the type of princess any mother might like her daughter to be.  She is a great problem solver, a thinker, and yet she has a sense of humor.  I love that she is always HERSELF, never putting on airs (unless the "gift" of obedience forces her to), etc.The reader in this audio book really enhances the experience.  We felt it was Ella herself telling the story.  This audio book made a long boring drive quite bearable.  Much thanks to the author and the reader.
5 This book takes place in an enchanted world with ogres, fairies, and elves in a place called Ferrell.  The main character is a 13-year-old girl named Ella. When she was just a baby, a stupid fairy named Lucinda caste a spell on Ella so that she has to obey every command someone gives her.  Ella's father makes her go to finishing school with her two mean. ugly stepsisters, Hattie and Olive. Ella goes on a journey to find Lucinda, so she can un-cast the spell.  Along the way, she has some incredible adventures that include staying in an elf's cottage and being captured by ogres. This book is an exciting page-turner. Once you pick it up, you will never put it down. If you like adventure, comedy, and romance all in the same story, you should read this book. I would give this fairy tale twist a five out of five!Julia, Curry, and Olivia
5 One of the things that have always bothered me about the old cinderella stories it's that the character have no depth whatsoever. The prince barely has a line!That's why I was so happy when I found this book, I love fairy tales and this book it's one of the best I've read. Ella has a personality on her own, so does Char, the prince. The obstacules they face are believable - yeah, in the middle of a fairy tale you find yourself believing even when you're sorrounded by ogres and fairies and centaurs -Ella has never have a voice on herself. As a baby, a fairy by the name of Lucinda gave her a "Gift": Obedience. Order Ella to do something and she will do it, no matter what. It's a secret her mother, Mandy - cook and fairy good mother extraordinaire! - and Ella herself work hard to keep.Then Ella faces the loss of her mother and things start to go not so well. But she does meet Prince Char, who it's fond of her. And well, you know the story. Though in this retealing you will find more than one surprise.And the Ending leaves you with a warm fuzzy feeling inside.Go with Ella as she try to find her own voice and the power to make her own choices.
5 In this twist on Cinderella, Ella was put under a curse a birth that makes her always obedient.  No matter what the command is, she must obey it.  Now her mother has just died, and her father is marrying the odious Dame Olga, and sending Ella away to finishing school, despite prostests from both her and Prince Charmont, whom she befriended at the funeral, that she doesn't need to be "finished."  The other girls at school makes life horrible for her there, so she runs away.  At home, Dame Olga and her new stepsisters, Hattie and Olive, never tire of ordering Ella about, since her father is away on business, and Ella must live as a servant in her own house.  But unless the curse is broken, there is nothing she can do about it.  This was one of my favorite books eight years ago, and I still enjoy it today.
5 Ella's been cursed ever since she were born, when she is sixteen,her life start to change. Prince Char had fall in love with her ever since they met in her mothers fineral. But Ella didn't feel it the first time, but not until she start writting letter to him, they loved each other, but do you think her wicked sister will let her, or can she break the curse herself?The answers in your hand, just read it, this book are great!
5 I loved this book when I first found it in middle school, and I love it now in my 20s.
5 Much better than the movie. If you liked the movie or cinderella stories, I highly recomend it. Its pretty much cinderella with a twist I've never seen before.
5 A lifelong fairy tale fan, I thought I knew what to expect when I picked up Ella Enchanted, but even I was often startled over how Gail Carson Levine manages to make this story stand on its own, while also incorporating the traditional details with logical circumstances (for a fantasy).  You forget that the old story elements - like the pumpkin, the glass slipper, and the fairy godmother - until you are actually reading about them and remember that you already knew that they were coming up.  She takes the less attractive or believable aspects of the age-old tale and turns them gently and sensibly on their heads.  I particularly admired Ella's rebelliousness against her forced obedience, and how she and her Prince fall in love corresponding in intelligent, involved letters.If you ever wondered why Cinderella put up with all the abuse her stepmother and stepsisters heaped on her, this is the book to satisfy your curiosity.  A wacky fairy gives her the "gift" of obedience and Ella is forced to follow every imperative addressed to her.  She learns quite a bit about the preciousness of free will and how to maintain her own independence.  As soon as she is able, she begins a search to reverse her situation.  This is no sitting-pretty damsel-in-distress.  On her adventure, she encounters elves, ogres, giants, and her Prince.Levine creates a marvelous fantasy world that shows how priceless choice is.  Appreciation for life's simple pleasures takes center stage here.  In most fairy tales, it's more convenient to overlook weaknesses in heroes/heroines because we know the story will stop being a fairy tale if we question it.  Ella Enchanted confronts the all-important "why"s of the story and is still a pure pleasure to read.  This book's got it all - Ella is a spirited, charismatic character, the descriptive elements are crisp, the situations are clever and often very funny, and the romance isn't contrived at all (a true coup in re-telling fairy tales).  I finished reading it and immediately wanted to begin again on page one.  That's a rare feeling and this is a rare book - make sure you read this one and pass it on!
5 I love Gail Carson Levine's re-imagining of the tale of Cinderella. The characters were well developed and the writing is as good as I have come to expect of this author. This book will give anyone who loves fairy tales a wonderful afternoon!
5 I love this book! I have read it at least four times, and every time I read it I can't put it down until I finish. A good book will arise emotions in you, and in this one I could feel the love! A great book for any age! Adults and children will love it!Ella has a "gift" given to her by a fairy, who meant well, but ended up cursing Ella instead. She has to do any order she is give, which has made her into a stubborn girl. She could be told to kill someone or kill herself-and she would have to do it. She was in danger at every moment! When her mean stepsister Hattie figures out the curse she makes Ella hand over every one of her valuables, and when she is sent with Hattie and Olive to finishing school, they are so full of orders that Ella finally runs away. What Ella ends up with is an adventure with danger at every turn, and when she is ordered something terrible, can she undo the curse and save a certain someones life?
5 In the happy land of Frell a young girl is born... and enchanted with a spell at birth!  She must be obedient.  For ecample if I told her to cut off her head, she would do it.  She has to live with the dreaded curse  without telling anyone that doesn't know.  Although the typical Cinderella  story, it has many humorous twists.  Ella's mother dies and she is sent off  to Finishing School to be &quot;finished.&quot;  She is charming, spunky,  funny, and friends with the prince.  Does she live happily ever after... or  put Kyrria and Frell in danger?  Find out in gail Carson Levine's devine  story of love and courage.
5 This is my fourth favorite book of all time. It is so good!! Ella is a girl who had a gift given to her as a baby. The fairy Lucinda thought it would be a good idea to make Ella obediant. That was a mistake. Now, Ella must do whatever someone tells her.The fanatsy is this book is GREAT!!!! It's all easy to understand, and really original.My only complaint: Why didn't this book win the Newbery Award?
5 Ella Enchanted has to be one of my favorite fantasy novels. It has plenty of action and adventure to keep you turning the pages into the wee hours of the morning. I literally could not put this book down. I read it when I was ten, and just a little bit ago again, and it hasn't lost a bit of it's magic. If you're looking for a great action packed fantasy book, check it out. You won't regret it.
5 I knew nothing about this book except that it had been made into a movie (that I have yet to see).  It took me a good way through it to figure out that it was actually a version of a much older fairy tale--which greatly impressed me.  Ella is completely herself and both unable and unwilling to depend upon such things as magic, ulitmately, to rescue herself.  This is a fantastic book for young girls (and young boys if they are willing)  but it certainly illustrates the power of one determined young girl.
5 What a wonderful book. I loved the creativity Levine put into this classic tale of Cinderella.Ella is placed under a spell where she is forced to obey any direct command. But, with Ella's spunky personality, she may have to obey orders, but her defiant personality shines through in such a way that I was left laughing for joy. For example, her step sister orders her to give up her mother's necklace. By way of the spell, Ella must comply, but in the process, she stomps on the cruel girl's toe and twists her heel for additional effect. I particularly enjoyed the refinement school where Ella is sent to learn the proper behavior of a lady.By the way, I like the book waaaaaay more than the movie. To me, there was no comparison. The book was so much more fun.
5 Ella Enchanted is a wonderful book.  If you are a parent, and are thinking of buying this for your kids, read it for yourself as well, you won't be dissapointed. It follows a long tradition of classic children's literature  that can be read by all ages, including works by Lloyd Alexander and  Patricia C. Wrede. This had to be one of the best reworkings of Cinderella  that I had ever read.  I didn't even recongize it until nearly the end.  But it gives you a good reason for everything, why Ella is a servant, ect.  ect.  it even tells you why her feet were so small in the first place! So  Please buy this gem of a book.  I promise you won't be dissapointed.
5 Oh My Goddess!!!Once I read the first sentence of the book, I couldn't pause for a moment to stop reading it.I'm totaly in for this book. It's a retold story of Cinderella which Ella of Frell(the main character) has a gift of obedience which a foolish Fairy gave to her that turns out to be a curse for if anyone orders her to hop on one foot for a day and a half, or chopping off her hown head she would surely follow and do it. Now, she struggles on a quest with princes, ogres, giants, wicked stepsisters, and fairy grandmothers to break her curse and live a life free. I recommend this book to everyone. Even adults would surely enjoy reading this book!
4 Imagine what it would be like if you had to do anything and everything anybody ever told you to do. No matter how silly and no matter how much you might not want to. Ella of Frell is in just such a predicament in &quot;Ella Enchanted&quot;. She was the recipient of the &quot;gift&quot; of obedience, irresistable and unquestioning obedience, from the foolish fairy Lucinda when she was a baby. Such a curse would be a burden even in benevolent surroundings and if kept secret, but after Ella's mother dies, her father sends her off to finishing school. Can she keep her secret from Hattie and Olive, the two disagreeable daughters of her father's friend, Dame Olga? If they discovered her secret, life could become miserable. And it's not an easy secret to keep in a boarding school. Worse yet, suppose her father decided to marry Dame Olga, making Hattie and Olive her stepsisters.  Is there any way for Ella to escape such a mess and to avoid hurting her dearest friend, Prince Charmont?Gail Carson Levine has taken the old Cinderella fairy tale and given it a whole new depth and dimension. Cinderella becomes Ella, a very real young women with some serious issues to resolve. She also has to deal with giants, elves, and some hungry ogres who would love to have her for lunch. In the course of dealing with all this, Ella shows real courage, resilience, wit, and more than a little determination.  This engaging book has won a bunch of awards, and deservedly so. Neither my daughter or I found it as engrossing as Harry Potter (our joint standard for five stars in this genre), but &quot;Ella Enchanted&quot; is still a very good story for most older children and young teens. We rate it 4+ stars and definitely recommend it.
5 From the very first page, Ella Enchanted had be hooked. Just after her birth, Ella receives a "gift" from a well-intentioned fairy. The gift is the gift of obedience; if someone gives Ella a command, she HAS to comply, or she begins to feel ill.Ella Enchanted is easily one of my favorite young adult novels, and one I quickly recommend.
4 This quick read gives a new take on the Cinderella story by casting Ella, a spunk girl who was given the "gift" of obedience at birth, into the role of the abused stepsister. There have been TONS of retellings of fairy tales in recent years, so this story definitely felt less fresh for me than it probably would have when it first came out in 1997. Nonetheless, it was funny at times, and Ella is a realistically rebellious teenage girl. I would definitely recommend this book to girls who enjoy tales of princesses and fairy tales, especially those who are just transitioning into longer chapter books from beginning readers or Magic Treehouse type books. If they like this, I would be sure to check out Princess Academy by Shannon Hale for a similar princess story with an equally spunky heroine.
5 Alright, I am a fifteen year old girl who has read this book atleast twelve times. It is the very best book. It starts out with a girl, but no ordinary girl. Ella is cursed by air-headed Lucinda who believes the gift of obedience is a welcomed one. But having to do what everyone says doesn't keep Ella from being feisty, it only edges her on. Once her mother dies by the first chapter, your hooked on this book. Ella battles evil step sisters, orges, and an evil step-mother. All she wishes is to be with her love, Prince Charmont. This retelling is the best. There is no room to improve. Ella is a clumsy girl with brains and the guts to use them. She solves her own problems and delightfully enchants everyone she meets, even the reader. No person, whatever age, should go with out reading this book. I mean no one!
5 _Ella Enchanted_ is a wonderful retelling of Cinderella.  Ella is a girl cursed at birth to always be obedient (quite dangerous in a world of ogres and horrid stepsisters).  The book follows Ella through her quest to find the fairy who bespelled her, through her friendship/romance with Prince Char, and her resourcefulness and courage in breaking the spell.
5 I read this book in the 6th grade and when the movie came out i told myself to read it again before I saw the film. I finally got around to reading it and i finished it in 3 days i could not stop. I didn't remember any of the events that had happened so it was like reading it for the first time. It may seem like a classic love story but it is far beyond that. Ella is a clumsey girl that was given the gift/curse of obedience when she was born by a careless fairy named Lucinda. As Ella grew older her and her family began to realize how dangerous the curse could be. Ella having to follow every command given to her starts to fight it off but the more she ignores it then the more the curse retaliates with a stomache or dizziness. When she meets Prince Char and falls for him she realizes that to keep him out of possible danger she needs this curse to be lifted. Ella sets out on an exciting adventure to find the ignorent fairy that gave it to her. This is a great page-turner that will leave you happy for days. I recommend reading it before viewing the movie.
5 When Ella was a baby, a foolish fairy bestowed upon her the blessing/curse of obedience -- whatever anyone tells her to do, she must do.  This leads to uncomfortable and even dangerous situations as the adventurous young girl meets hungry ogres and nasty stepsisters!  But good things happen to Ella, too.  She loves her mother, has a trusted elder who watches after her, she has a talent for languages, and she has befriended the prince.My one problem is that the first part of the story is heavily populated with elves, fairies, giants and even a pet centaur, but these elements are unceremoniously dropped, not to be mentioned again.  In all other respects, however, this is a wonderful update of the classic fairy tale, with elements from that story adapted with ingenuity and humor.  Well done!
5 This is one of my favorite childhood books and I fondly remember first listening to it on tape (amazing) and then buying a copy in paperback that I swiftly wore out with re-readings. I am thrilled that I can now read it on my kindle as well. Please do not judge this book by the film (they are completely different stories). Levine provides readers with a strong, relatable, and likable protagonist. This is not your average Cinderella story! The relationship between Char and Ella is drawn out, the characters are flawed and believable...I just love this story.I will say that when I began reading (listening) to the story as a child, I didn't know anything about it except my teacher recommended it. I didn't realize it was a Cinderella story until halfway through when the glass slippers appeared. It is truly its own story. I highly recommend it to anyone, especially if you're looking for a story with pro-feminist ideas and well-developed characters.
5 Ella of Frell has been given a gift, but it sure feels like a curse.  An elusive fairy named Lucinda has bestowed upon Ella the gift of obedience.  A nice, courteous gesture, right?  Only Ella has to obey anyone and everyone, no matter who they are or what they command her.`Ella' contains all the usual fantasy elements and characters - princes, magic, wicked stepsisters, giants, and more.  But this tale is far from ordinary, thanks to Levine's outstanding storytelling.  Reading `Ella' reminds us how hard it is for teens to do the right thing and please everybody in the process.  `Ella Enchanted' is a well-written, funny, and touching book for all ages.  If you enjoy the fantasy genre, and especially if you like Harry Potter, you'll love Ella.232 pages
5 Beatrix Cottonpants is, herself, a bit flummoxed that she did not read Gail Carson Levine's Ella Enchanted earlier. It has fairy gifts that go terribly wrong. It has evil step-persons. It has a prince who is around --and interested in Ella -- for much of the book, while she's awake, alive and speaking. Which is not something you can say about all fairy princes.Ella of Frell is cursed, given the "gift" of obedience by an overenthusiastic nitwit of a fairy before she was old enough to protest. Obedience means, of course, that Ella must do whatever she is told, as long as it is issued as a command - not doing so causes physical symptoms. To make things worse, a stint in finishing school has Ella under the thumb of a mean ambitious girl who figures out that she can order Ella around. A journey to find Lucinda, the fairy who cursed her, leads to adventures and daring escapes, and finally the remarriage of her father puts Ella into the Cinderella story, as Ella becomes the unwilling servant of her stepmother and stepsisters.Ella herself is strong and determined, but human enough that readers will be able to relate to her. Her relations are horrible in just the right way, and the exploration of what it really means to be obedient is spot on. There could, of course, be some deliberation on whether Ella's obedience is a metaphor for what is expected of women in society, or perhaps just an extrapolation of Cinderella's willingness to obey her family's every whim. The world is well drawn, too. Outside Frell, Ella engages ogres, gnomes, giants, and more, all distinct entities. Wonderful book for fairy tale fans, and readers who love strong funny girls.Cross-posted from [...]
4 The book was great.  I enjoyed reading it. I would highly recommend it to any teenager that likes to read.
5 I loved it, adored it, just read it for the second time and loved it even more!What a brilliant way to make a strong and passionate Cinderella -- and thus get the prince to fall in love with her.Unable to disobey any order, Ella of Frell must use her wits and talent to get out of a lot of sticky situations -- from the tyranny of her stepsister Hattie to the horror of man-eating ogres.  But Ella finds a way past them all -- with occasional help from the kind and generous Prince Charmont.An absolutely charming tale of strength and love.
5 Ella Enchanted is an enchanting book about the main character Ella of Frell. At birth she was given the gift of Obedience by the fairy Luinda. But as the years go by this, "gift of obedience," becomes a terrible curse. If you give Ella an order even if you don't mean to she has to obey. Weather its cutting off her head or hopping on one foot all day. And she meets the charming prince Prince Charmont. This book has many allusions to the Cinderella tale. Cause this book is sort of a retelling of Cinderella. There are glass slippers and Ella has a fairy God mother and she has a wicked stepmother and stepsisters and a charming prince. But its a whole different retelling. Because it also explains why Ella (Cinderella) is so obedient is because shes under a curse. But whats awesome is that Ella doesn't except that shes under a curse. She trys to find Lucinda and break it herself and not wait for a man to help her. Don't get me wrong I like the whole knight in shining armor rescuing me idea too. But at the same time its up to the girls to do somehting about their predicaments as well. If you're expecting something similar to the movie Ella Enchanted don't. Cause both the movie and the book is totally different from each other except for the plot and the name of most of the characters. But read the book before you watch the movie.
1 I was going to buy this book, but before I did I decided to check out the customer reviews and saw that they were all glowingly positive. This kind of customer unanimity can only come from puppet accounts. I will not support this seller's shady business practices.
5 I've actually already read the paper version of it at least thirty five times no jk. My aunt bought it for me for my birthday when I was 9 and now 5 yrs later, I've read it so much the pages are endlessly taped, tattered, and the cover is barely on it. That's how much I liked it - I nvr read a bk twice in a row bc i remem it too good but i read this one three times in a row. You'll love it!! It's like a twisted version of cinderella with magical creatures and fairies.
5 I can't say enough wonderful things about this book. I've always had a problem with the whole Cinderella tale.  Even when I was a little girl she made me so angry. Why didn't she stand up for herself? Why didn't she run away? Why didn't she just crack her evil stepsisters in the mouth, they were evil, right?  The whole message of wait around and take abuse until some man comes along to rescue you is so weak and I sure never wanted to pass that along to my little girl.The twist of this story with the curse was brilliant. It gives a reason for the obedience so you can understand and feel for her.  Also, independence and rebellion are celebrated in this story, which is a nice change from the old format. The romance (it wouldn't be a fairy tale without one, would it?) is so sweet and believable. I highly recommend this book. If you've seen the movie, don't let that put you off, they are two very different stories. Frankly, I don't see why the film kept the name of the novel instead of just saying "inspired by".I really didn't want this book to end. Finally a Cinderella without a martyr complex.
5 Harry Potter turned me on to the world of young adult fiction and the more I read, the more I find that the best writers out there aren't writing for adults, they're writing for young people.  This book has the excellent characterization typical of such high quality youth novels.  The underlying themes about friendship, loyalty, and self sacrifice are lovely.As the mother of a young daughter, it thrills me to find a book with such a clear depiction of a young woman believing in herself and using her brain to get her ahead.  I've loved this book for years before I even had a daughter and it makes me very happy to know that it is one I will be able to gladly share with her. Truly a wonderful book.
5 This book is the best. It has love, adventure, morals, and magic. The characters are lovable, except for the step family! You will root for Ella the whole time. This book is appropriate for 7 and up, in my opinion. The book is in great condition and came fast as well. Buy it!
4 I was between reading two serious books and decided to take a short break with something light-hearted and fun. "Ella Enchanted" certainly fit the bill. Cinderella was my favorite fairy tale as a child, so I really enjoyed seeing a slightly different twist on my favorite classic. This is a fun read whether you're 8 or 80 years old!
5 Yeah, it's a kid's book. So what? I've recently been finding that much of children's fantasy is actually enjoyable by everyone, and this was no exception.Ella Enchanted is a retelling of Cinderella, although you might not figure that out in the first two-thirds of the book; it's only there that the story starts to compare. A fairy, Lucinda, who never follows the rules laid out for the fairy community, bestows a "gift" on Ella: she will always be obedient. She can bend commands so that her rebellious nature can play with them, but she must always follow them in some way, even if they weren't meant as commands. (An example: While running through the halls, she bumps into someone. The woman says, "Oh, go bump into someone else." Ella sighs, knowing she then has to go bump into someone else.)Her father is a merchant, not home much; her mother dies when she is a child. When her father sends her off to finishing school, that's where the real adventure begins...This book is wonderfully written, and I couldn't put it down. I don't remember the last time I read a book start to finish in one day. Just go and read this; you'll be glad you did. :)
3 I was inspired by the upcoming film to check out "Ella Enchanted."  I understand that the director is the same person who mutilated "The Princess Diaries" adaptation, so figured there might be some similarity between the two books.  There is--sort of.  Both are told in first person.  Both have clever teenaged girls as main characters.  But there the similarity pretty much ends."Ella Enchanted" is an enjoyable read, but it falls flat in many ways.  The characters are themselves rather flat; Ella is only interesting b/c she's the narrator.  Other characters, like Char and Areida, are simply "there."  It's difficult to buy the romance b/w Ella and Char, simply b/c the author pretty much sprung it on us; there's no real build-up.  The plot itself is a little flat; it also has several threads that are never picked up and finished.  Things happen that seem to make little sense, narratively speaking.However, that said, I won't argue with the glowing reviews given by previous young readers.  I admit I'm twenty-three years old and might not be "enchanted" by the same aspects of a young adult novel as a younger reader might be.  But if you're like me--an older reader who enjoys reading children's and young adult literature--you might not want to expect too much from "Ella Enchanted."  It's a cute novel, and you'll probably want to read it before seeing the film, but it nowhere approaches other similar efforts like "The Princess Diaries," "I Capture the Castle," and "Beauty."  (The last is another retold fairytale by Robin McKinley--highly recommended, as are the other two).
5 I read this book for a class I took on fairy tales and really really loved it.  This is a fantastic read for children and young teens and a great way to give young people a different, more empowering fairy tale heroine story.The book follows the daughter of a travelling salesman, Ella, who is under a curse from an unpredictable, showy, fairy that 'blesses' people with her poorly thought out birth or marriage greetings.  Ella is blessed with the task of obedience, meaning whenever someone gives her a direct command, she must respond to it - although she can find loopholes to get out of doing what people ask her to.The plot of the story mirrors Cinderella, but also gives explanations for all those things you were ever wondering about the original Cinderella story.  After her mother's death, Ella's father realizes he is quite poor and needs to either marry Ella off, or get married himself before other people figure it out as well.  He charms a widowed woman with two daughters and they make plans to get married - meanwhile, Ella is sent off to charm school with her stepsisters, one of which figures out Ella's condition.  Ella realizes she needs to find a way to not only break the spell, but find a way to save her father from his marriage by entering into a relationship with someone she already has romantic feelings for - the local prince, Char.Plenty of excitement and drama unfolds as Ella escapes charm school and is united with all sorts of magical beings, Char himself, and the workings of her family.  Again, a great telling that adds a bit of logical (if you can suspend your disbelief in the magical setting) sense to this classic fairy tale!
5 This is a very excellent book!! I love the part when Ella is being a different girl, ( Lela ) and Char sit falls in love with her. Sorry if it's a spoiler alert. But I just love this book. I give it 5 stars without a doubt. I very much encourage you to read this book. I personally think it is great.
5 Everyone knows the stpry of Ella Enchanted, especially since the movie has come out. But apart from the maigc and the fairies in the book, for me the sense in the book is the "fight" of a girl against obedience. A "virtue" installed in many girls still today, stopping them from doing or saying what they trully think and believe in. I recommend this book as good discussion material for a girl's book club to make reader's (girls) aware of this "virtue", which is not one anymore. Today, there is obedience in a negative way and obedience in being polite and well behaved and especially girls need to learn about that fine line between those two.
5 Ella Enchanted by Gail Carson Levine has been out for many years and even a movie has been made which I have watched as well. But, I haven't read this book until now. It was a delightful book, cute and funny. I haven't watched the movie in quite some time, but from memory, there are lots of differences. Ella Enchanted is a re-telling of Cinderella (Cinder ella get it? took me almost the end of the book to see that.) The story of Cinderella never tells why Cinderella does everything her step sisters and step mother tells her too, I mean why didn't she just run away from it all? But, Ella Enchanted gives a reason to why Ella stays and does all of their bidding. Ella Enchanted even has the glass slippers and pumpkin stagecoach which I don't think the movie had. I think the movie strayed more from the Cinderella aspect of it and went more toward Ella's obedience.When Ella was a baby, she was gifted obedience and must do whatever anyone has order of her. Ella didn't let this gift bring her down. She was defiant to her gift, if her cook told her to bring her almonds Ella would bring her two. She would find ways to defy the gift. When Ella's mother dies things go down hill for her but she meets Prince Char and starts a relationship with him. It is a cute story between her and Char. But, after a while, Ella's father must remarry and Ella moves in with her Stepmother and stepsisters who make things awful for her when her father leaves.I am glad that I finally read this book. It is a really cute retelling.
5 As a baby Ella was "blessed" with the gift of obedience. As she grows older Ella takes her gift in stride and finds all sorts of ways around having to do everything anyone ever orders her to do.  After being left in the care of an overbearing stepmother and to very mean stepsisters, Ella sets out to find the fairy who blessed her and have it removed.This is a very cute and well written rendition of story of Cinderella. It perfectly balances the coming of age girls experience with plenty of wit and humor throughout. As an award winner I would recommend this to any girl who is looking something fun to read.
5 When my best friend lent me this book from America I didn't think much of it.But when I read it I abosolutely loved it! It made me happy and made me cry! I loved it! A must read.
1 normally the book is better than the movie but in this case the movie is better! the most exciting part is when she is captured by ogers,&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230; and it still was pretty boring.
5 Ella of Frell received a fairy gift as a baby, the gift of obedience.Anything she is ordered to do, she must do, as result of the gift. If she is ordered to jump into an ogre's pot, she will. If she is ordered to kill the prince that she loves, then she must.Ella Enchanted is the story of Ella's journey to find a way to break her curse, to find the fairy who gave her the "gift," and most of all, to find herself. Filled with ogres, elves, a stepmother and stepsisters who just might be of the evil variety, or at least the self-indulging kind, and a prince who might just be charming, this book puts a new spin on the old Cinderella tale.This is a classic book in the retelling of fairytales genre, humorous and containing a strong heroine. Ella is kind-hearted and independent, fighting against her curse in every way she can think of. Ella will delight readers of all ages and surprise them as they discover everything that leads up to the famous ball and glass slippers.Now in its third edition, Ella Enchanted has just been re-released again as a hardcover. The new cover (above) features a real girl and shining gold trim, which matches the other re-releases of Levine's books. All the books have been re-done in honor of her newest book, Fairest. Personally, I like my beat-up copy that comes from the movie release, with Anne Hathaway on the cover. She makes an excellent Ella, and her picture tends to attract an older reader. Even though Ella is fifteen for the majority of the book, the two non-movie covers feature girls who look about twelve. Personally I find this misleading, and I originally avoided the book because it seemed to young for me.
4 The best thing about this novel is that you can read it through in about three-four hours if you have the time to do so.  I first heard the book's story in audio form (I'd seen the movie), and wanted to go through it with my own eyes and mind.  I liked reading it on my own mostly because there were details that I missed on my first escape into Kyrria (missed that in the movie, eh?) that I was finally able to fully appreciate.(Cinder-)Ella's story in this book is a bit different from the movie version with Anne Hathaway.  It really is more evident that this is a Cinderella re-telling when you read the novel.  So, here are a few things to whet your appetite if you like.--mini!SPOILERS--1.  Ella goes to boarding school with her stepsisters.  This is where she meets Areida (they're roomies).2.  Ella is Char's penpal for a great while--this is how they get to know each other because she doesn't spend a lot of time travelling.3.  Ella is made into a servant in her own home.4.  There are three (count 'em, THREE) balls for Char, and Ella goes in masked disguise to each one.5.  Char's parents are alive.So, if that doesn't set you in the mood to read it, I'm not sure what else I can tell you to convince you... unless you are under a curse of obedience like lovely Ella.  If so, you simply must purchase this book if you haven't already.
4 Not to give away my age, but I owned this book when I was younger and lent it to a friend and never got it back. I finally gave into my desire to own it again and purchased it from amazon. I'm so happy that I did. This book definitely holds up even after all these years. It's this kind of writing that helped me fall in love with the idea of being a writer. I've read some of Gail Carson Levine's other books and enjoyed them to varying degrees. I remember reading The Wish and thinking, even as a child, that it was incredibly bland. But Ella Enchanted is truly one of her gems.It is heartfelt and well-written with a truly wonderful heroine. Now that I'm older I do see more of the problems. The writing is a lot simpler than I remember but I suppose that it needs to be for the reading level of the target audience so I won't count that as a negative. As with most young adult novels, it is on the shorter side. This leads to some awkward pacing and a lack of development. There's not really enough of her friend Areida or her adventures. The romance with Char is underdeveloped though conveyed skillfully enough that by the end I was very invested in the outcome. The ending and epilogue after the dramatic conclusion also come across as a little rushed. Still, I think it's a wonderful story for young girls and a truly inspiring heroine for them to identify with. For older readers, it's a pleasant diversion. The strength of the story is Ella and the way Levine writes the scenes that are meant to have a big emotional impact. I understand when people say the story meanders a bit and how it could be boring for some people. Levine doesn't do a great job with descriptions despite the complexity of the world she's imagined. It's difficult to really picture anything in your head based on the descriptions she gives. She's not a world-builder like the big name fantasy writers. She's more interested in the characters and the main plot arc for the heroine.I would recommend this book for a reader or parent looking for a strong, believable female protagonist. It's not a great fantasy novel and it's a little underdeveloped but the individual scenes are well written and the emotion, lesson, and strong character arc are there. I'd also recommend getting the new version as there are great extras including information about the languages Levine developed for the various creatures in the world of Ella Enchanted. I don't remember these being included in the first edition.
1 This was an entertaining enough retelling of Cinderella, but I was overall really disappointed. I thought that it would be more of a girls empowerment kind of story, (and there was a bit of that in it) but overall it was actually alarming how much it played into stereotypes. For example, the main antagonists in the book are overweight, unattractive, and barely literate, despite their best efforts. Ella, on the other hand, is thin, petite, beautiful, and has a natural ability to learn languages (she apparently never has to put much effort into her language education, she's just naturally inclined). I'm not saying her step sisters are angels, but Ella shows no effort to pity or empathize with them - right from the get go she dislikes them, apparently because they're overweight and not very clever. This book makes no effort to teach the importance of empathy. Additionally Ella spends 90% of her time thinking about a boy. Again, just disappointing.If I had a daughter I wouldn't let her read this book - she might come away with sadly old-fashioned ideas of what a female heroine should look like on the outside and the inside alike.
3 It was entertaining enough to pass the time but don't expect it to be too memorable.
5 This book is the kind of book that you can just pick up it anywhere and know where you are. It is a classic that takes in teens and even many adults that thought they were too old for fairytales.It is about a girl named Ella that has a spell that was put apon her when she was very young. The spell makes her do whatever someone tells her to do. If you say could you help me out she has a choice but i demand like help me out now is something she has to do. She meets Char the prince and he is fasanated by her. Her father comes home and makes her go to finishing scholl with horrible girls that starve her because they figured out that she alway does something some1 demands and she only survives because the potion her fairy godmother gave her. She also goes off to find the fairy that put the spell on her when she was yound and alot of other things happen that i won't tell or it will ruin it for you, but this book is a book that you need to get. It is a book that is well worth the price and will be a treasure to have in your library.
5 VERY different from the movie. If you saw the movie you will be very surprised at how different they both are. Recommended to any elementary and middle school student.
5 If you think that this book is like the movie, you are more wrong than the gift of obedience. Also, I learned that her name was Ella OF Frell, not Ella Efrell. I don't want to spoil anything, so if you want more, READ THE BOOK. DON'T WATCH THE MOVIE.
5 This book hits it's mark of pre-teen to early teenage girls perfectly.  The retelling of the famous rags-to-riches story of Cinderella is known world wide, but Levine's retelling gives this age-old tale new life and endures it to an entirely new generation.
5 I love this retelling of Cinderella.  It expands the fairy and magic theme and this works really well.  I also enjoyed the development of the relationship and characters of Ella and the prince.  Wonderful and entertaining.
5 well i have not read the book but i have watched the movie. i am very picky about movies but this one exedid my expectations. i have 8 words for you, GET THE MOV  IE OR THE BOOK NOW.
5 I love fairy tales, and have since I was a little girl. My favorite has always been Cinderella. When I read this book, I was &quot;enchanted.&quot; Haven't you always wondered why Cinderella kept being so nice to her stepmother and stepsisters? This story explains it all. I loved the character of Ella. She's not your typical princess, who waits to be rescued. She's independant and brave. My daughter got this for me for Christmas because she knew how much I loved it. It's a great one to read aloud as a family.
5 "Ella Enchanted" caught my attention from the moment it came out, and it's had a special place on my bookshelf ever since. I've always been interested in Cinderella stories, so when I saw "Ella Enchated" in the store, I knew I had to buy it. And buy it I did. I read through it in a matter of hours."Ella Enchanted" is a re-telling of the Cinderalla story set in a fantasy world of trolls and ogres and fairies that can do magic (but usually they don't). It follows the basic plot line of Cinderella: a girl is forced to do what her stepmother and stepsisters say until she can marry her prince. But from there out, Levine takes the story into her own world and puts her own spin on things.If you've seen the move but haven't read this book, be warned: the scriptwriters for the movie drastically changed things. They kept the same basic principle, but changed the story almost entirely, and made the movie much more frivolous than the book. I encourage you to read this book, but don't start it expecting it to mirror the movie, or vice-versa.
5 Because I don't have kids, I found Ella Enchanted by conducting a search on Amazon for the subject "Children's Literature" sorted by "Average Customer Review" and it came right to the top.And rightly so.  This is an original and entertaining revision of the Cinderella story.  Ella is cursed at birth with having to obey any direct order given to her.  It's hilarious how she finds loopholes and ways to get around the orders.  Clever girl!  I also loved the details with the giants, elves, gnomes, and orges.  This story was a real pleasure to read and is highly recommended.  Thanks Amazon for helping me find this book!Now on to Gail Carson Levine's backlist....
5 I will always love this book. I just realized that I lost my copy, so this was a replacement. I was sad that the original cover art was on the more expensive copy, but this will do just fine.
5 I just loved this book.  As an adult, I thought for sure these types of books would be too juvenile for an adult to like - but I was so wrong.  It is beautifully written and you just want to keep reading to find out if her curse is finally ever lifted?  Cute, cute story.  Can't wait for my daughter to read it.  I also enjoyed The Princess Academy and other books by Shannon Hale, which is similar in style....
5 A great, GREAT book! It's the sort of novel you can curl up with when it's snowing outside and read in one sitting. Perfect! This is a version of Cinderella, wherein Ella (get the name change?) lives with her wicked stepsisters and dreams of meeting a handsome, smart Prince Charming to take her away. Alas, Ella was also given the "gift"--by another name a curse--that makes her obey any order given her. (Boy, there's a plot detail ripe for abuse in other hands, eh?) How this all untangles to its conclusion makes for a magical story that I loved more than the original or any other novel of its kind I have ever read. Pure enchantment for pre-teen girls or anyone who seeks a delightful happy story.
4 I was enraptured by the book in the very opening.  The very thought that Ella, cursed at birth by a fairy named Lucinda, must be obedient and obey every single command, trivial or not, seemed very alarming to me.  If someone told her to go jump off a bridge, she must because she cannot resist the order.  Throughout the book, Ella is showered with ugly commands by odious people, and I felt the pain with her as she searches for Lucinda to break the curse.  In her journey, she is sustained by a friend she meets at finishing school and the cute Prince Charmont (Char) who grows fond of Ella.My favorite part of the book is the correspondence between Char and fifteen-year-old Ella.  The moments they share together are very sweet, and she loves him so much that she wants to protect him from her horrible curse.I have one complaint, though.  I like how Levine ends the book, but I felt the last twenty pages or so were very rushed.  One minute, Lucinda is depicted as odious, and the next, almost everything is better.  The resolution happened within two paragraphs, and I just wished that Levine elaborated a little more.  Other than that, a very enchanting book!
3 Ella of Frell was cursed atbirth with obedience: she has to follow any directorder given to her by anyone. The book detailsher mishaps, as well as her quest to break thecurse and find true love. This was way too girlyfor me. Very much a Cinderella story (completewith wicked step-relatives and a pumpkin coach)with a new twist, kind-of-amusing twist. A younggirl might thoroughly enjoy this. Maybe? But perhaps the real problem was the squeaky narrator; just didn't do it for me.
4 At Ella's birth, a fairy begifts her with the ability to always obey. It turns out to be more of a curse than a gift, however, when Ella's friends learn of her compliance and use it to make Ella their servant.Some interesting questions after reading this story:  Is compliance always good? When is it better to be able to make decisions for one's self? How important is the ability to choose to obey or refuse to obey?
5 I love this book. Of all the books I have read, I love this one the most.I have read a fairy tale version of cinderella but I like this one the most. It goes in to have she met the prince and everything.
5 I loved this book! Although the narrator sounded a little too young to play Ella, I thought she did a wonderful job of bringing life to the story. My kids even enjoyed listening to the book even though they are much younger than the target audience.I am an official sucker for fairy tales, but it's no wonder when I read books like this. It was such a cute story.  If you like fairy tale retellings, you will enjoy this. It is for middle grade and young YA and is perfectly clean.Content: clean
5 Romance, although also could be fantasy.  Upper elementary to middle school.  Reading level is supposed to be grade four, but it seems higher to me.  232 pages.I read quite a bit of this book before I started to enjoy it, but because the librarian recommended it, I stuck with it.  The book is the back story of Cinderella, although the reader doesn't realize it until near the end.  Instantly, the story of Cinderella--which I never really liked--has a profound truth I now see:  When we walk in another's shoes, our perceptions change.  Honor book.  No illustrations.
5 Ella Enchanted is an enticing book about a young girl who has been cursed. She's forced to obey all commands.She meets the prince and they fall in love. When he asks her to marry him she's forced to decide whether to marry  the prince,or save the kingdom. I thought that it was a very good book,  filled with excitement, romance, and suspense.
5 My sister brought this book home from the library one day from my summer reading list a couple of years back and told me to give it a try. I wasn't into books at that time and started reading it with a notion thinking I wouldn't like it. Boy was I wrong! When I started it I couldn't stop reading it. In fact I kept on renewing the book untill I read the book at least ten times. Then, afraid I would wear out the library's copy, I wanted to order my own copy in hardcover so I could read it another twenty times. Finally my sister came home with another book for me to read. I was so into 'Elle Enchanted' I didn't want to leave it behind to start a new book. But I tryed Patrica C. Wrede's 'Dealing with Dragons, Searching for Dragons, Calling on Dragons, Talking to Dragons- Enchanrted forest chronicles' anyhow. I loved these ones also! So if your stuck on what books to read after this one I highly reccomend these ones! Anyways, back to the subject. All I want to say is this is a wonderfully done novel. Gail Carson Levine adds a new and exciting twist to the Cinderella story. If you are a YA reader don't be discouraged by the 9-12 age level. I know tons of teens and adults who read and liked this book. If you treasured this book check out Gail Carson Levine's 'The Princess Tales Series' and her latest book 'The Two Princesses of Bammare'. This is a must read for any fantasy books fan!
4 It was such a great fairy tale ,so good that it barely left my hand. Gail Carson Levine has astonished me yet again.
5 Wow.  When I started this, I was certainly not expecting what I got.  This book took the over-told story of Cinderella, and gave it so many wonderful twists and changes that you almost forget that's the story you're reading until a detail from the classic pops up, fitting in perfectly.  It is a great story, with a happy ending that isn't phony.  If you like fantasy that marches to a remixed beat of a drum you've heard, you'll love this.  I did.  It is on a shelf of cherished favorites.
5 So this is pretty much one of my favorite books and I will honestly say that it has changed my life for the good. In fact, it inspired me to my current way of writing. The weird thing is that the first time I saw this book, I really did not want to read it.But a book that originally began as Ms. Levine's writing class project has proved to be something truly wonderful in a world of far too many Cinderella retalings.The idea here is that the reason Ella (our Cinderella) obeyed her evil stepfamily is because, well, she had to, due to a curse that made her literally obedient to everything command given her.Despite this, she is a spunky heroine that you cannot help but love and does her best to make the best of her world, with the help of a fussy fairy godmother and the friendship of a handsome prince.I like the movie allright, but it is so different from the book that is cannot properly do this justice. It seems all sweet and fluffy, but each time I read it I am blown away by its emotional power.Cute and girly, but still worth its Newberry Honor.
4 I bought this book because I was a big fan of the movie. Though it's pretty different from the movie (and truth be told, is probably a better movie than a book), it's still a quality book and excellent for young girls. It has a good message to young women (and to all children) about believing in yourself and having the knowledge that you can do anything you sset your mind to. I recommend this for a young girl.
5 A charming retelling of the Cinderella story, &quot;Ella Enchanted&quot; explains several of the more touchy points of that legend in a fun, intelligent, suspenseful and romantic way that makes the book a real page-turner. Why, for example, did Cinderella never just up and leave her rotten situation? Ms. Levine posits that unbeknownst to the brother Grimm, little baby Ella was under a curse to always obey - everything from &quot;Eat your peas&quot; to &quot;Jump off a bridge.&quot; The romantic element, promising love based on looks, Ms. Levine rectifies by acquainting Prince Charmont and Ella early on. Also incorporating intelligent language, good worldbuilding, a bestiary of mythical animals, and two fairy godmothers, Ella Enchanted is a sweet romp through Fairy Tales' most common story. A delightful read for every age!
4 In this retelling of the Cinderella story, a girl named Ella works to remove a curse of obedience placed on her since birth.  The story contains remarkable characters of every shape and kind.  Speaking as one who's a fan of any book with a strong female at the story's helm, I couldn't help but be impressed that Levine made certain that her heroine, Ella, never become defined solely by her curse.  All in all this novella is well written, if a bit too reliant on stereotypes.  One such example involves the girls that eventually become Ella's step-sisters.  You know that they are evil because they are fat and stupid.  I had little difficulty disliking them when they were cruel, but at the same time it was hard not to object to the constant references to their eating.  Apparently such gluttony is a sign of pure wickedness.  Sorry, but aren't there ways to display evil in slightly more malicious ways?  All in all I liked the story's moral and Ella's unique method of breaking the curse.  Now with a potentially popular movie on the way, expect to be hearing a lot more about this little story as girls everywhere discover it.
5 Obedience. Fifteen-year-old Ella never would have had this problem if that fool of a fairy Lucinda hadn't given her the gift of obedience at birth. Gift, more like a curse. Ella grew-up in the land of Frell, having to obey everything that anyone told her. She had no choice, for if she tried to fight the curse, she would make herself sick. Her Mother took excellent care of her, but her Father, Sir Peter of Frell, well, he was fairly nonexistent. Then of course there's Prince Charmont, whom she makes fast friends with. Of course, when Ella's Mother passes away, Sir Peter suddenly realizes that he has a daughter, and sends her to finishing school with two horrible wenches, Hattie, and Olive, who, unfortunately, have found out that Ella must obey everything that they say. Now Ella is searching for a way to escape from finishing school, break the curse, and live happily ever after with Prince Charmont, but all of that is easier to say, than do.I decided to pick up ELLA ENCHANTED when I heard about the movie starring Anne Hathaway. I was not in any way, shape, or form, disappointed in my decision to purchase this novel. Gail Carson Levine has created a classic novel in ELLA ENCHANTED, that will go down in history. She has put a new spin on the classic tale of CINDERELLA. A new spin that makes the story even more interesting than the original. Ella is an exciting character, whom is spirited, independent, and intelligent. It's a pleasure to get to read about all of the adventures she encounters, whether with royalty, ogres, trolls, wicked stepsisters, fairies, etc. Fans of the original tale of CINDERELLA will relish in the new twists and turns that Gail Carson Levine has spun into ELLA ENCHANTED. A must-have book for all ages.Erika Sorocco
5 This book is a different way of telling the story of Cinderella. This is fun to read. The rest of the reviews I read about the book seem to agree with me. It's such a good book, that I actually bought another one after the girls in my entire freshman batch read it to pieces (literally). =)
5 I remember reading this back in school and loving it, so I was really excited to see they had it adapted for the kindles! It was wonderful, brought back a lot of memories and love for the retold version of Cinderella. I had no problems with it at all, so five stars and high recommendations! Great for kids and adults, I read it both as a kid and again now that I&#8217;m an adult, and I still love it.
5 This is a great book, really enjoyed reading it.  Themovie didn't do it justice.  I look forword to reading more books by Levine.
5 She just turned 13, and read this book in a day!  Then she told me the entire story..very creative idea, twisting a well known fairy tale. Now she wants to read all of Gail Carson Levine's books.  It's also on the Accelerated Reader list at school, so she can test on it as well.  I'm glad I trusted the reviews and bought it for her.  Thanks!
5 I have read this book at least 20 times and at one point had the entire 1st chapter memorized!! It is original yet classic. You will never find a book like it. I love this book so much that I'm speechless in how to describe how wonderful it is!!!!!!!
5 I actually saw the movie before I read the book and I loved the movie, but it's vastly different from the book. It was interesting to see the differences. I can see why some of the changes were made for the movie, but both are great in their own right.I liked the treatment of Lucinda in the book better than in the movie. In the movie, Lucinda never learned or understood what she did to people, but in the book she did when Mandy tricked her into experiencing what she put Ella through.I also liked that Ella had to find the inner-strength to break the curse, opposed to having an easy quick fix of undoing it. To be honest, Ella would have probably in more trouble if Lucinda had reversed the spell, so even if she wanted to obey at times, she would then be under a curse to never obey.I also like that the prince was treated as a real person and given a real personality. Rewatching Disney's Cinderella as an adult, I was shocked how truly vapid the prince was. He had no personality. He was just a stereotypical pretty boy.It was also nice reading the progression of Ella and Char's relationship, instead of her going to a ball and just falling in love with him.This is a great book, which I'll definitely read again.
5 I really liked this book!! Gail Carson Levine is very talented, and she did a great job developing the characters and making them believable. This is weird for me to say, since "Ella Enchanted" IS a fantasy. Well written, thoroughly entertaining, and WAY better than the movie, this book is a favorite of mine.
5 Ever see the Disney version of Cinderlla...yeah. Most people have. Ella Enchanted is the story of Cinderalla the way it should be...funny, magical, adventurous, and altogether, enchanting. I've read this book countless times, and everytime I read it I remember why I love it so much...Ella is an excellent character, with a headstrong personality and humorous approach to life, despite her curse of being ever obedient...Prince Char is the perfect prince...who slides down stair rails and "rescues" maidens from ogres...I highly recommend this book to fantasy readers of all ages :)
5 I love the whole thing! Nothing bad to say! Totally my favorite book all time! I read it again and again!
4 Classic children's story that could be read at any age. It is a great coming of age and love story.
5 Ella Enchanted. That has to be THE best book I have ever read! (And it's one of the few "I" books [books that are told by the main character] that I have enjoyed)The book opens with Ella taking about her "blessing" of obedience. Even if she was ordered to cook herself, Ella must do it, she had no choice. After her mother's death Ella's father sends her off to finishing school so that she won't embarass him in front of other people, but not before she makes friends with Prince Charmont, the heir to the throne. As this retold story  of Cinderella unflods, it turns out to be an astonishing book. It happens to be my favorite book, maybe it'll turn out to be your's too!
5 Ella Enchanted is about a girl who is cursed with the &#34; gift &#34; of obedience.  Her life is hard since she has to fulfill everyones command, even if it means killing herself! She is trying to find the fairy who placed the spell on her and beg her to take it away. However, with ogres, wicked stepsisters, and a greedy father, her plans go awry.  Especially when she falls in love with a prince... This is a clever twist on Cinderella with a young protagonist you will feel sympathy for.  I am still enchanted by Levine's masterpiece and look forward to rereading it for the 10th time.  Would recommend to kids 4th grade and up and to fairy tale lovers.HawkbeakWindclan deputy
5 Ella Enchanted by Gail Carson Levine is a retelling of the Cinderella story complete with wicked stepmother and stepsisters, a fairy godmother, and a lost glass slipper. The twist that makes it not like the Cinderella story we are used to is that at birth Ella was given the &#8220;gift&#8221; of obedience from a fairy. This &#8220;gift&#8221; makes it so she must obey every command (though she can ignore it if it is phrased as a request and sometimes the difference isn&#8217;t extremely obvious). If she fights obeying she gets physically sick.Ella Enchanted is the typical fairy tale. Ella was not born poor (though bad business deals by her father do make her end up poor) and at her mother&#8217;s funeral she meets the prince. They fall in love, but her &#8220;gift&#8221; stands in the way of happiness. Ultimately, there is a happily ever after for Ella, but getting there isn&#8217;t easy. It&#8217;s a fun, sweet read, even for an adult (and, as is typical, the book is WAY better than the movie!).
5 Ella Enchanted is itself an excellent book - and my daughters and I loved it so much that they choose it as their listening for our long summer vacation drive. We've now listened to the tapes twice through! The reading is lively and spirited, the young reader's voice could indeed be Ella - which is important as the story is in first person. I'm so glad they had a young performer read this!  It was fun to hear her interpretations of the different languages of the various races and countries in the story, also. You can't go wrong with this purchase.
5 I read this book well before the movie can out and could not put it down. To me this is another cause as that the book is much better than the movie and I would go as far as to say skip the movie altogether. There is something to be said about letting your imagination just take over while you get wrapped up into a good book. It is the classic fairy tale of Cinderella with a twist. I would definitely recommend this book and consider it to be a classroom library must have.
5 Gail Carson Levine's title character is full of live and humor. The amazing adventures that she get into lead to a thrilling conclusion where Ella shows her love and heroism. It's obvious why this is a medal winning book!
4 Rarely does one find a children's book that is as potentially appealing to adults as it is to children. 'Ella Enchanted' kept me up at night till the wee hours of the morning--I wanted to see what would happen!The  first-person narrative is immediately endearing, capturing the personality  of the main character in just a few lines. All the major characters are  drawn and handled with care. My personal favorite was Ella's father--so  heartless, yet so likable at the same time. Such a complex character rarely  makes an appearance even in adult fiction.The romance between Ella and  Char made me laugh and sigh by turns. While a deep romance featuring a  fifteen-year-old girl is not exactly believable, if one succeeds in  suspending disbelief there is a beautiful depiction of the relationship,  yet without ever becoming overdone or sappy.I also liked the way Levine  draws on elements from the original fairy tale while giving them a new  twist--such as the obedience spell.The only problem I had with this  book were the occasional logical gaps that detracted somewhat from the  plot's believability. Yet this is a minor detail, and one that I would  probably not have noticed at age nine--which is, after all, the ideal age  to read this book. But a teenager or an adult who is interested in fairy  tale re-tellings should enjoy this hilarious new spin on 'Cinderella'.
5 Being a fan of the Harry Potter series, I picked this book up because it sounded interesting and a friend of mine had also recommended it.  Here, you have a great story, reminiscent of Cinderella, in which Ella must find her way through life, even though she has a horrible curse (labeled a &quot;gift&quot;) of obedience.  The fun starts when her evil stepsisters figure out that she MUST obey whatever they command her to do.  Poor Ella!  This book contains elves, ogres, evil stepsisters, and more.  It really is a great book and I found that I read it quickly...not wanting to put it down for even a few minutes (I read it in one afternoon).  If you want to read a great book and have some time on your hands, Ella Enchanted is for you!
5 I first read this book when I was 12 years old (when it first came out!). I'm 24, and this is still one of my favorite books.  Obviously, it is an easy read, but it has such beautiful imagination and is so great to escape into.  I try to read this book at least once a year.  I'm not going to delve into a synopsis, there are many other reviews that can tell you what it is about.  It is a spin on Cinderella, but to me, it is different enough to be considered it's own fairy tale.  Other reviewers have mentioned the ending as being predictable and boring.  If you know the end of Cinderella, you know the end of this book.  To me, what made the book was the struggle Ella had at the end.  This was a beautifully written book and if I have kids, I would want to introduce them to the magic that is Ella Enchanted.
5 {Ella Enchanted} had been recommended by some young ladies in a store.  I am certain that it was greatly enjoyed.  I have heard from many friends that Ella Enchanted is very popular.
5 Ella of Frell has to be one of the smartest, wittiest, strongest female leads ever created, (besides Elizabeth Bennet-Pride and Prejudice). And Prince Char has to be one of the cutest, most charming, kindest princes ever to step foot out of his castle. This book had me laughing, crying, and sighing all over the place. I think I've read it a million times. The writing is BE-utiful, and the pages will turn by themselves. My FAVORITE book growing up, it's a timeless story with excellent voice. A MUST READ!Post Script- I HATED the MOVIE. This book was not done justice. I'm still fuming over it.
5 I love this book!  Ella Enchanted is much better than the classic Cinderella, because Ella Enchanted has more challenges and adventures.Ella is cursed to be obedient, having to obey all commands. Even when Ella is cursed, she still tries to disobey, but when she does, she gets dizzy and sick. In Ella Enchanted, there is a stepmother with her ugly daughters. The step-family tortures her and her father is no hope because he cares more about money.Ella tries to break her spell with the help of her fairy Godmother, who is a superb cook. As she tries to break the spell, she meets ogres, elves, giants and exotic creatures. With each creature there is an adventure that follows. While all this is going on, she's falling in love with Prince Charmont.I think this is really a wonderful book and that all fairy-tale lovers should read this book because this is really creative and good!
3 I felt like the author said to herself: "I'm going to really revamp the Cinderella classic! I'm gonna give the girl a backstory like you wouldn't believe! and it's going to be cute, and funny, and there will be all kinds of mythical creatures in it! It's going to be wholly other-worldly! And she's going to go on this awesome journey that's going to be epic and life changing!"All that ended halfway through the book: The journey, the special creatures, the seemingly important gifts and details, the developmental steps... all gone. And then the author thought to herself, "Oh wait...this is supposed to be Cinderella. Um..let's see...her father remarries...her stepfamily hates her...turns her into a slave...glass slippers...the prince has a ball...glass slippers...they get married...The end!"So really the book is two stories. The totally awesome cool story that the author started with...and the cliche, not-at-all-revamped Cinderella story that she ended with.And for Goodness Sakes! WHAT WAS WITH THE ELVES GIFTS?! She made it seem so damn important that we should know about these gifts and all the way through the novel Ella is hiding them and they're special and they're everything her father ever wanted...What happens to them?!We don't know!She kept them in a bag for the rest of her life!AND THE NECKLACE?! I thought for sure that was going to be the key to everything! It was special and important when it was introduced. it was an heirloom. It was gnome-made (gnomes are magic). It's stolen from her. She wants it back. She contemplates getting it back...Then for the next hundred pages, it's never mentioned, but suddenly at the end of the book, *poof* she has it back. All is well. The End.GAH!I still enjoyed the book, but good grief, make a tighter story, Lady!by the way:Prince CharmingPrince Charmonte...hmmm....I don't like that kind of blaring twist on cliches.
4 "Ella Enchanted," is an interesting tale of a girl named Ella. Ella of Frell was cursed with the gift of obedience at her birth. She is complied to obey all given order's to her without having any ability to deny theses demands. Ella embarks on a quest to attempt to break this curse put upon her and live happily ever after. The tale gives our audience a sense of courage and determination. The story being based off of Cinderella, makes for an interesting twist to this story. If you love fairy tale plot lines, I would highly recommend this book for you. For me, it brought back all the wonderful memories I've had reading fairy tale books as a child. The author does a fantastic job in making the reader feel as if they are apart of the story.
5 I first read this book several years ago and fell in love with it.  I heard the movie is coming out in August, so I figured I would read it again to refresh my memory.  I really didn't expect to like it very much now because I'm older and thought it would be too young for me.  Boy, was I WRONG!  I think I liked it even better the second time!  As soon as I started reading, I was drawn in again for a wonderful ride.  Even though I knew how it would end, my memories had faded so that the twists and turns surprised me once more.  In short, this one of the best books I've ever read.  It's great for all ages.  Read it to your children!  Read it to your friends!  Read it to your dog!  And most of all, recommend it to others!
5 She really did. This is one of my absolute favorite books. I first read it as a kid when it came out, and fell in love, completely and totally. Re-reading it today brought back so many memories. I felt an even deeper appreciation for the depth of the character development and plot twists. This is definitely one of my top ten recommended books. However, there is one nagging plot gap that's bothering me today: why doesn't Ella have someone order her not to follow anymore orders? I know the story wouldn't exist if if were that easy, but I just felt that should have been addressed somewhere. Other than that, this is the perfect childhood book that can be re-read for years to come.
4 Ella Enchanted is a retelling of Cinderella, only with a twist.  Ever since birth, Ella has been cursed with a foolish fairy's "gift" of obedience.  As she gets older she learns that she can is in danger.  Not only can she be taken advantage of and used to hurt other people, but she can be used to kill even herself.  Sadly, Ella's kind and gentle mother falls sick and dies.  At her mother's funeral, Ella meets Prince Char, and they immediately become good friends.  Then Ella's father sends her to finishing school with two mean girls, Hattie and Olive.  Hattie, who discovered Ella's obedience, takes advantage whenever she can.  But Ella runs away to find the fairy Lucinda, who bestowed on Ella the gift of obedience.  But Ella cannot convince Lucinda to lift the curse.  Instead she orders Ella to be happy to follow everyones orders.  So Ella returns home to find that her father would soon be engaged to Olga, Hattie and Olive's mother.  During her enslavement to her evil stepmother and stepsisters, Ella realizes her love for Prince Char.  But after he proposes, she knows she cannot marry him, for fear that the lands' enemies might order Ella to kill him.  So Ella send him a letter saying she married an rich old man.  Even after that, Ella is still heartbroken over Char, so she goes to the the balls that were arranged for Char to find a wife so she can see Char again.  Ella disguises herself as Lela and never takes her mask off.  But in the end, Ella must conquer her curse not only for herself, by herself, but to be with the one she loves most.
4 &quot;Ella Enchanted&quot; is a truly enjoyable, quick read. The characters are wonderfully realistic, especially Ella herself and Prince Char. The book takes several Fantasy/Fairy Tale cliches and turns them on thier ears. No one acts quite the way they should, the plot never goes the  way you expect it to, and nothing is quite conventional. Great book!  Fast-paced and full of wonderful ideas! I am reminded of the Oz books,  Babbit's &quot;The Search For Delicious&quot;, and so on.
5 This is one of the best fairy tale retellings I've come across.  It's intelligent, witty, and fun, but it has enough depth not to be forgotten.  I think Ella herself is possibly the best part of this book.  She has such a strong personality and voice, and her sense of humor makes her especially likeable from the very beginning, as though she has a perpetual smile quivering on her lips and an eyebrow always good-naturedly raised at the fantastical world around her.  She also has the ability to feel deep emotions like love, in which she can be self-sacrificing but always remains human (with a bit of a feisty edge).The only part I thought could be a little longer, or a little more fleshed out, was the ending.  A few things after the ball happened a bit too fast for my taste.  I considered giving the book only four stars because of this, but I reconsidered.  Ella Enchanted is wonderfully enjoyable, and such an overall good book doesn't deserve to lose any stars.
5 Well, this book is so magical and so funny. It tells about integrityand true friends. It is really great book! READ IT!  END
5 Gail Carson Levine did a bang-up job on this book! It starts out when Ella's mother is alive-which is different from other versions. She meets Prince Charmont (or Char) at her mother's funeral. Gail makes the book lively with her stepmother, awful stepsisters, the cook Mandy (a fairy), and the awful Lucinda, who granted Ella with a gift of obedience at birth- that's often her downfall. Gail Carson Levine really used her imagination in this book. Ella is multi-lingual- and can speak with ogres, elfs, etc. It's an enjoyable book, and it deserved every bit of that Newberry Honor it won!
5 All books have a binding, pages, words...but Ella Enchanted is one of those rare books with life.I first saw the book on a boring day at the public library. Little fourth-grade me was intrigued by the dust jacket, buried my nose in the book, and read it all the way through.Five years later, I still visit Kyrria once in a while to check on Ella and Prince Charmont. I feel Ella's pain when she is cursed to obey and share in her joy when she and Prince Charmont slide down the royal stair rail. The always-repulsive stepsisters Hattie and Olive are stuffing themselves with jewels and quail eggs.  And the creatures--giants, ogres, and centaurs--leap from the pages to greet me.Ella's world is alive to me.  Do you know what that means to a ninth-grader?  To love a book is to share a book, so discover Ella today!!
5 This book is a lot different than the movie, but I think it is better.  It is a great book to read.
5 I love this book. It is one of my favorite books of all time. Everyone should read this book. The book is easy to read and a lot of fun. This is the author's best book.
5 This is what young adults should be reading! Not that trashy, empty stuff with main characters too pathetic to call heroines. This was an adorable book and a unique take on Cinderella.Ella was cursed at birth--she has to follow any orders given her. When people find out about the curse, they quickly learn to use it to their advantage. She's either rebellious by nature or because she needed to rebel against the curse to prevent feeling like a puppet, but her refreshing sass shines throughout the book.It had many of the elements that other YA fiction has these days: magic, adventure, and young love. But it contained so much that those other books don't: a coherent story, a creative world, actual character development, and a strong, willful heroine. Ella thinks for herself, she looks out for herself, and she cares about doing the right thing.This is a high caliber book written for high caliber young people.
5 I read this when I was in elementary school and I have read is at as adult and love it just as much! This is a Perfect romantic witty fairy tale that everyone needs to read!
5 This story is so well writen I simply couldn't put it down! I love Ella Enchanted and Recomend it to any one who loves to let their imagination soar to new lands and fantastic People and places!
5 When my mom got me this book I didn't think that I would like it. But I was wrong! This was such a good book that I had to re-read it and I rarely re-read books. If you haven't bought this book, then BUY IT!
5 Once you start you just can't stop. Beautifully written ad impressive. It deffently makes more scence then the orginal. But do not be fooled. His is nothing like the movie. Other then the names and curse the story line is completely differeny. Much better then the movie and must be read.
5 This is my favorite re-telling of the tale of Cinderella. I have read this book more times than I can count!!! Whoever thought Ella would be cursed with obedience? This amazing story is for anyone who loves fairy tales. Gail Carson Levine has made the old story into a classic again. There is romance, adventure, jealousy, and magic. In fact, this book is a work of magic. Entirely captivating!!! I recommend this book so highly. But don't watch the movie "based" on it. It was a terrible disappoitment. However, the book does anything BUT disappoint!!!!! :)
4 This is really quite an enchanting book. I really liked how seriously the author took the story of Cinderella and then delved deeper and added a twist to create a delightful turn on the classic tale.The &quot;twist&quot; is that Ella is &quot;cursed&quot; with the spell of always having to obey direct commands. It's quite delightful to see the clever ways she gets around this curse, and sometimes when she cannot get around it the results are hilarious.The book gets a little cumbersome about halfway through, voyaging through a forest of fantasy creatures and removing its attention just a little bit from the character development of Ella. While it helps advance the story, I found myself losing interest at that part, and my 10-year-old son (who broke down and read this &quot;girl's&quot; book at my insistance) decided not to finish the book when he got to the same spot. But I trudged through and then found myself enjoying the book at the end. It's not that long.I'd recommend this book for girls in 4th grade and up, and it's not below the interest level of an imaginative adult. If you liked the movie &quot;Ever After&quot; then you'll probably like this book.
5 The beginning of this marvelous adventure tells about the curse of the 'fool of a fairy Lucinda'.  Around the end it turns like Cinderella, only 100 times better.
5 Embellishing on the original tale of Cinderella, Gail Levine has written an imaginative and touching story - a classic in its own right.  While the  traditional fairytale focuses on the magical rags-to-riches transformation  of a scullery maid into a princess, Levine's heroine is very real in both  her defeats and her triumphs. Ella is a wonderful character whose  unwavering sense of humor and refusal to succumb make her an endearing  heroine whom the reader eagerly follows through her journeys. The  friendship that she shares with Prince Char, her struggles to break the  curse placed on her at birth, the pain and the joy that she feels at each  turn of events are drawn with a clarity and poignant charm that make this a  unique story all its own.  There is, of course, glass slippers, a ball, the  pumpkin coach - but this story goes far beyond the original to become  something more.  It is not just about one magical night that makes a  servant into a princess; it is about the life of a girl who is more than  what she seems and has only to realize it for herself to make her wishes  come true.Ella Enchanted is a wonderful story for readers of all ages,  and there is an amazing depth to this tale that cannot help but make you  think. Despite the omnipresent existence of magic and the whimsical  creatures that include everything from gnomes and elves to giants and  ogres, the focus of the story is very real.  We are, each of us, a little  bit like Ella - struggling to be who we are while everything around us  tries to make us otherwise.  I strongly recommend this book to anyone who  loves fairytales and children's books - especially to anyone who loves the  story of Cinderella.
4 I bought this book to read to my daughters because they liked the movie so much - and ended up getting sucked into it myself! What a great spin on the Cinderella story.I was surprised at how different the book is from the movie - it follows the Cinderella story where the movie really doesn't - but both were excellent in their own ways. I often find that a book is so much better than its movie counterpart - especially when the moviemakers take too much dramatic license. HOWEVER, with Ella Enchanted this was not the case. I'm not sure the movie could have pulled off the Cinderella stuff the way the book did. But the movie managed to maintain the feel and premise of the book despite the numerous changes.This actually made it kind of refreshing when reading the book. I had an idea what was going to happen but was pleasantly surprised (only a little confused) when it was different. And I always love the retelling of a good fairy tale. Book and movie are both keepers!
5 I read this book when I was in 4th grade, many many many years ago. But I still remember the tale like it was yesterday. This was the first book that I absolutely, unequivocably fell in love with. I don't know how many times I went to my school library to check out this book but every single time, I cried and I cheered. This book is a wonderful WONDERFUL book for young girls and I would recommend it to any child.
4 Reading this book to my grandchild was interesting. She loved a lot of parts which probably boys are not interested in.
5 Hahah, I wasn't aware that this is a retelling of Cinderella until halfway through the book. I enjoyed it even more after that because this makes Cinderella more human than ever (why she would be that obedient, why she would marry a prince she'd met for only what, three times? etc. etc. I especially love the explanation about her father's going away and leaving her with her stepmother). In this book, Cinderella is intelligent, sarcastic, and spunky without being too obnoxiously so.The only problematic thing I find is the way Char seems willing to marry Ella even when he thinks she's "Lela." Oh, this girl reminds me of the girl I was in love with, so let's marry her. There are also some untied businesses. For example, I feel that Edmund deserves one more mention before the conclusion.But overall, a very nice and funny book. :D
5 This Cinderella story is far more imaginative than the movie.  Told in first person, and full of wit, this is enjoyable and funny, which was lost in the movie.
5 Best take on "Cinderella" or any other fairy tale out there. Puts a new twist on the story, but stays true to the original.
4 I came to this book in the odd position of having seen the movie first.  I must say, I was quite surprised.  Aside from the names of the characters and the curse of obedience, little was the same.  When I started reading, my mind was trying to make comparisons... but the stories were so different that I had to stop.  The two plots are so dissimilar, they can't really be compared.The book features a spunky heroine who can more than look after herself, even in the face of a curse that makes her obey any order that's given to her.  I enjoyed reading about her adventures and her blossoming friendship with Prince Char.  Since this story is loosely based on Cinderella, of course we all know that Ella will live happily ever after.  But how she gets there is in turns entertaining, frustrating, romantic, and clever.  And yes, there are glass slippers in this version of the story.My only real complaint was with the climax and the way Ella finally broke the curse.  It seemed a little overly convenient to me, and I didn't really understand why she hadn't done it sooner.  In that respect, the movie version of this event made more sense to me.So, even though the way Ella broke the curse wasn't my cup of tea, I quite liked the rest of the book.  The climax may have fallen a little flat... but getting there was more than half the fun.
5 Ella Enchanted is a beautifully rewritten Cinderella story about a young girl called Ella who is cursed with the gift of obedience. This book is really something special and perhaps my most favorite retelling of the popular Cinderella fairy tale. In this book I was able to meet gnomes, ogres, fairies, a handsome prince and so much more. The world and characters were described fantastically and I well kinda fell in love with it all. I'd recommend this for ages 8 and up and to all who enjoy reading fantasy.
4 I liked this book. I really wanted to read it after I saw the movie, which was good as well.
4 This book was good and I could definitely make connections to Cinderella. I also think it teaches many lessons and good qualities.
5 This is probably one of my all-time favorite books, and I've read it so often that the poor paperback is worn and torn. Yes, it's a book written for 12 year olds, and I've been reading it since I was 10 for the past 15 years. Despite the fact that I have read this over and over again, I still get choked up at the end. This is a book that I will definitely read to my children someday, over and over again, until they can read it back to me.Actually, it's been a couple of years since I've read this... it's time to add it back to my reading pile again!
5 Ella Enchanted is my favorite book!!  I love the story because I like how Ella has spunk!  Cinderella is great but Ella Enchanted is better because so many girls can relate to her.  She is funny, brave, and a rebel even though she can't rebel when given a command.  After you read the first page you get the sense of Ella's chracter.  Gail Carson Levine is one of my favorite authors.  This story is perfect and if I could give it ten stars I would!!
5 This book is very unique. I really like this story and i think many other people of all ages could too! The story is about Ella, who was supposedly "gifted" with the curse to always obey direct orders.
4 Carson Levine has retold the tale of Cinderella in a wonderful young-adults novel named Ella Enchanted.Ella was cursed at birth to be always obedient,it was always fun to wonder what Ella would have to do next.(I wonder if you could order her NOT to be obedient therefore breaking the spell?Ok,maybe not)She is forced to live with  a horrible stepmother and 2 wicked stepsisters,one who has figured out Ella's curse,and enjoys lording over her.For some time Ella even had to starve as this wicked and ugly girl would tell her,"Don't eat that,Ella." every meal time!!What will finally break Ella's life-long curse,the thorn in her side???Be enchanted by this story and find out.
5 This book was one of the most exciting books I've read in a long time.  The author has an amazing style of drawing you into the characters.  You get to know them and you actually FEEL their pain.  The main character Ella has a "gift" of obedience (i.e. a CURSE) from a "well-meaning" fairy... she MUST obey any order given to her.  Throughout the book you hurt right along with Ella as she struggles to overcome the curse.. but can't--therefore making her liable to playing the pawn to anyone's orders--the poor girl would even walk into a fire and kill herself if someone ordered it. You'll be ready to rip the book apart during times when her enemies use her.. and you'll cry with distress and anger at the torment the poor girl is put through. Its a wonderful twist on the classic Cinderella story!  Its a definate MUST read for everyone who loves classic fairy tales!  Get this book now!
5 A charming re-imagining of Cinderella, and very well written. Ella is a great heroine - smart, witty, and full of gumption. I would happily recommend this book to just about anyone!
5 This is one of my favorite books of all time. The heroine, Ella, is spunky, sarcastic, brave, adventurous, rebellious and wants desperately to be freed from a horrible curse of obedience. It is this curse that places her at the mercy of her evil stepsisters and stepmother, and her greedy father. This wonderful retelling creates another world for readers and will take you away. It is a light read and you will read it over and over. I find myself thinking about it every day. I love it soo much and you will too !! 5 stars.
4 This book wasn't bad but it certainly wasn't the best. This book was a bit too much "Cinderella". And since the main character was Ella I thought it was kind of neat. The beginning though, was extremely boring I had to push myself to get past the few chapters. However, once you get past the few chapters its not bad at all.But Gail Carson Levine has written better. Try: "The Two Princesses of Bamarre" if you liked this book. "The Two Princesses of Bamarre" isn't as boring at the beginning and is also a "fairy tale type" of novel and has so much more to offer.Overall: Read. But try "The Two Princesses of Bamarre" as it is much better.
5 I bought this because my students were reading the book. They usually like to read it themselves, but we only had one week to read it. They absolutely loved listening to the cds. The reader did a fantastic job of distinguishing the voices. The only disappointment my students had was that she was not Ella in the movie. They also hated the movie because the reader made the story so real to them, they actually asked me to turn off the movie because it ruined their memories! My highest recommendation!
5 Anyone who's familiar with my book reviews on Amazon will know how utterly critical I can be. I'm a nit-picker. I can't help but write long reviews that point out all the books' faults in great detail. But I really can't fault this. It's brilliant. Gail Carson Levine is a master storyteller, and no one does fairytales like her..although many have tried to emulate her, none really succeed.This is the best retelling of the Cinderella tale that I've ever read, and I've read a LOT of them! In fact, this is actually much better than the original. The characters in it really come alive; they're three dimensional and believable, and best of all, the prince really is charming, not just handsome. I fell in love with every character, good or bad. But I especially loved Ella. In spite of her curse, which might have left most people feeling bereft and used and angry and afraid to leave the house, she still loved and lived her life, and cared deeply for those around her. She was truly inspiring, a brave heroine and ideal role model.Even though this is a kids/teens book, I assure you, adults will still love it, and absolutely should read it. Remember, you're never too old for a good story, and this is REALLY good. If you're trying to find the magic in your life, if you're still looking for your own happy ending (or even if you've already found it) then this will definitely appeal to you.This book actually bears very little resemblance to the movie 'Ella Enchanted' so even if you've seen the movie, you should still read the book. And if you haven't seen the movie yet, you should, because like this book, it's brilliant.
5 Ok just let me start it off this way. This book is NOTHING like the movie, but that doesn't make it any less of the best book ever!!!!!!!! I love this book so much and if you love fantasy love stories, then this is definitely the book for you. No matter what age people will love it!!! Why are you still reading this? You should be reading Ella Enchanted
1 I never read the book. I simply thought it was too boring and read the first few chapters and skipped through the chapters to the end.
5 This clarification of the classic fairy tale is simply astonishing. I first went into the book expecting to expect... if that makes any sense. Yet, the book caught me, and most importantly my children, by delightful surprise. There is more to it than Prince Char (aka Prince Charming) and Ella (aka Cinderella). There are gnomes, ogres, centaurs and giants in addition to fairies. Then there are attention-grabbing languages, new and unusual customs, and quite different schooling as well as the fairy tale balls and many other fascinating things. This book isn't just a fairy tale. It's an in depth account of the life of Ella. Granted, we all know the ending, but by reading this, you`ll understand even more how she got there. Finally, there is a moral lesson to be learned on giving. A truly good book.
5 Ella is a beautifully believable expansion of the simple old Cinderella fairy tale. Did you ever wonder why Cinderella ended up scrubbing the floors in her rich dad's home? Why didn't she just run away? Now you will  understand.This Ella has an engaging personality and plenty of spunk.  But a foolish fairy has given her the &quot;gift&quot; of obedience. Can  you imagine being forced to follow any order?A fascinating adventure  comes to life in intricate and engrossing detail.  We my daughter and I, both loved it.
5 I read this book in 6th grade and I was absolutely captivated by the characters, the story and the author's very magical style of writing. I recommend this book for young girls who want more than is offered in picture perfect fairy-tales but love the magic of the genre. This book allows an imaginative fairy-tale plot to be coupled with a headstrong and independent heroine. Girls will enjoy reading this with their parents or alone. This book is also a rainy day read for adults who need a little magic in their lives. &quot;Ella Enchanted&quot; is a simple fairy-tale story that offers up modern-day issues and a different kind of heroine.
5 "Ella Enchanted" by Gail Carson Levine is extremely well written, is humorous, and an altogether new Cinderella story!Ella is cursed with a 'gift' from the foolish fairy Lucinda. It is the gift of obedience which means that she would have to obey any command, even if it was a command to kill herself. With the help of her friends, Prince Char and Mandy, her nurse and cook (and something else), she struggles through a quest to find Lucinda to make her take her 'gift' away. She also has to tolerate her mean stepsisters Hattie and Olivia and their mother Dame Olga. But when her curse gets in the way of her love for Char, she has to find a way to break the curse all on her own.This book was wonderfully written! All the characters has such a nice and interesting personalities that you can't help but love every one of them, even Hattie and Olive, the stepsisters. The romance between Char and Ella is very cute, as my friend says. The story is very intriguing and you just have to finish reading it.Another book I like written by Gail Carson Levine is "The Two Princess of Bamarre," which has a bit of a darker tone, but is still very interesting.
5 It's true, it is, and I have no problem admitting it. I love this book. It never gets old. My copy of it is falling apart. Parts of it are memorized. Whenever someone asks me what a good book is to read, my automatic response is "Ella Enchanted" (not when my brother asked, though...) As I move on from high school to college, I do try to be dignified in my book selection, but I will never feel shame for this book. It's sublime. It's the quintessential fairy tale: funny, touching, magical and adventurous, with real, lovable characters. (except for the ones you're not supposed to love...)
4 I really like the movie and wanted to read the book.  I thought the book was better and I am glad that I read it.  It makes me want to see the movie again.
5 I agree i was excited about the movie, but it wasnt very good!i hated the movie.I urge you to forget about the movie and read this book if you havent already.the book is great.Ella enchanted is a classic cindrella story with twists to make it different. and of course with every fairy tale a happy ending is waiting at the end!
5 I picked this book up because I saw the movie that is based on this book a while back.  First, I need to say that the movie was only very loosely based on this book - I recognized bits and pieces, but I was surprised at how much was changed.  Even many character personalities were changed.  It was a bit odd, at times, but I found that I enjoyed the book a great deal more than the movie.  Ella was cursed at birth to always do what anyone tells her to do.  In response, Ella tries to either delay her reaction to an order or to carry out the order in a way that the person who gave it never intended.  This allows Ella to live a fairly tolerable life.  However, after a girl at finishing school discovers Ella's curse, her life becomes much more miserable.  Ella tries to find a way to break her curse, but her life gets even worse when her father marries a horrible woman with two equally horrible daughters.  One of these daughters is, unfortunately, the girl from finishing school.The book is a bit darker than the movie ever was, and I was constantly wondering what new and horrible order others would give Ella.  The Char of this book seemed a much more likely future king than the Char of the movie, and I grew to like this one more than the other.  The author handled the emotion of the story perfectly, and I even cried a little about some of the things that Ella had to do.  This is the kind of book that I was always combing the shelves of the library for when I was younger: it's an interesting young adult book that doesn't insult the intelligence of its readers.
5 The spell that Ella was put under gave the book a nice twist, and this was a novel that I immensely enjoyed. Reading about Ella dealing with her gift/curse and the ways she found around was a delight. I stumbled across it in highschool, and reread it in college. The reading level is a bit under highschool level, but it was a enjoyable read nonetheless, and would be a great gift for a girl, and still a enjoyable however quick read for an adult.
4 Overall: B for Adults/A+ for young adultsGeared towards young readers, this is a wonderful reinvention of Cinderella--complete with glass slippers, fairy godmothers and a prince. That being said, Ella is far from the meek Cinderella. At birth, she is afflicted with a curse that keeps her constantly obedient to anyone's demands. Despite this, she manages to fight ogres, befriend a prince and keep her evil stepsisters at bay. I loved that Ella is an updated role model for young girls; she presents an independent personality and the ending emphasizes how believing in and being yourself is incredibly valuable.This was a quick read (GoodReads says 240 pages in paperback) and it felt like the proper length. Since the intended audience is fairly young (I'd say 9-12 though GoodReads puts it at 9-14), the text is uncomplicated but not too simplistic.Audiobook Details:The reader, Eden Riegel, sounds quite young but does an above average job with the reading. She does voice intonation, though the different voices are not as clearly identifiable as other readers and some even sound quite similar to each other. The reading contains some background music in parts and this is probably my least favorite feature since it reminded me of midi music from the mid-90's. The first few times the music played, I kept looking around the room to see if one of my kids' toys was going off.Run time--5 hours, 34 minutes
5 A couple of years ago, my daughter watched the movie "Ella Enchanted". She liked this spin of the Cinderella tale and I liked the fact that the while the young lady lived happily ever after in the end, she had to work a bit for that happiness. It seemed a bit more real life to me. I didn't know the movie was based on a Newberry Honor book.A few weeks ago, my son saw the book on DVD at the local library and we checked it out. Right away I knew there was a lot more to the book than had been in the movie. I believe the movie runs about 1 1/2 hours. The book was listed as being 5 hours and 42 minutes long.It was fantastic! We were enchanted from the beginning when we meet Ella and her mother and learn of the fairy curse which makes Ella be obedient to all who order her. We went through the sadness of Ella's mother dying and then we were taken on a magical journey complete with ogres, fairies, elves, handsome princes, centaurs and more. Ella tried time and time again to break her curse. She tracked down Lucinda who had given her this 'gift' but Lucinda only told her to be happy to be obedient. Ella made a huge sacrifice, but in the end it was her love and sacrifice that overcame the curse.I was a little disappointed when Ella ended up with glass slippers, was attending three royal balls and had to be home before midnight when the coach would turn back into a pumpkin, but the ending overcame this well worn section and we were immensely satisfied with how things turned out. I recommend this book either to read yourself or to listen to. If you haven't seen the movie already, it is very, very different from the book and of the two stories, I like the book best.
4 I will say this, I cheated because I saw the movie first. There was lots more detail in the book but there usually is.
5 Ella EnchantedElla Enchanted is a great book. It has an exciting plot with some heart breaking moments. Ella has a curse of obedince, and seeks out to break it. She gets ordered around by other people and has to obey. This book has surprises all around it from front to back, and only few times you can perdict what happens next. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes excitement and action in a book. If you didn't like the movie, don't be disencouraged, because you can't go wrong with this book!
5 We are not expert book critics and were not the New York Times, but we do know when a book is good.  Were are four fifth grade girls from Bedford Middle School in Westport CT. in the USA.  We thought that Ella Enchanted was a very inspiring book.  We had fun envisioning the place of Frell, Kyrria, and Bast.  We loved how it was in a Fairy Tale manor.  It was sad enough to make you cry and happy enough to make you smile.  It was also a page turner and was very exciting.  We liked this book very much and we thought it was one of the best books we have ever read.  We recommend this book to people of all ages, young or old, boys or girls.  We think that every one will love this book!
5 There I was. Probably the only one in the movie theater above the age of thirteen, but I didn't care. It was my twenty-second birthday, and I was going to watch the movie I wanted to see - even if I was alone. It was my birthday gift to myself, watching Ella Enchanted. I was interested in this movie, even though it was directed toward the average age of ten, because I had read the book at sixteen. At that time I was working in a library and had discovered that I had missed out on all sorts of literature when a younger child because I rarely read. Before working in the library, the only thing I would read would be the Sunday comics and only the books required in school. So when I found reading pleasurable, I wanted to make up for lost time.I was introduced to Gail Carson Levine's books by the library's young adult book club. Ella Enchanted was a modern Cinderella story. I had always loved the story of Cinderella, and when I read Ella Enchanted, I loved it. But at the same time I took wonder in loving this book. There was a part of me at sixteen that wondered why I loved this story.The story was about Ella, a girl cursed by her fairy godmother with obedience. Any time Ella was ordered to do something, she had to do it. Ella kept this curse a secret. Eventually Ella's mother dies, and since her traveling salesman father is rarely home, Ella only has her maid to raise her. One day Ella's father gets the idea to marry into money, but, unfortunately, he picks out a wicked lady with two equally wicked daughters. When her fairy godmother shows up at the wedding, she gives the happy couple the gift of love forever, which only serves to mess up Ella's life even further. Ella's father feels that the only way for him to live a happy life is to stay away from home thereby leaving Ella utterly alone in a full house. Ella's curse eventually becomes a particularly complicated problem for her when she is ordered by her stepsisters to give up her money and other possessions. Ella decides her only way out is to find her fairy godmother.Ella sets out to find this fairy, so she can take back the curse. Ella, in the meantime, meets up with Prince Char on her adventure, falling in love with him. But when the prince's evil uncle figures out Ella's curse, he orders Ella to kill the Prince. Ella tries to stay away, but the curse is too strong. Eventually Ella finds a way out of her spell, while at the same time saving the life of the prince and redeeming herself from being thought a murderer. The story ends happily ever after.Why did I love the story of Ella Enchanted when I read it? My first instinct is to say that the magic in this story was exciting, and it gave me a chance to fantasize about magical places and creatures. I imagined that somehow I could have power like Ella's and was intrigued by the relationship between Prince Char and Ella.At the time I read Ella Enchanted, I wondered, what was the connection between this modern Cinderella to the original? The first story of Cinderella I was introduced to was the Disney movie. As a young child I loved the music where the mice make Cinderella's dress, and I thought the little mice were funny, especially Gus. It was a story with the only bad characters being the stepmother, stepsisters, and one fat cat. While Cinderella's life revolved around pleasing her stepfamily, the mice struggled with the evil cat.My young mind loved this story because of the great struggle that Cinderella has and how she triumphs at the end. I did not take into consideration all the messages that were in the story at the time. Disney's Cinderella, which came out in 1957, has many moral lessons, which correspond to the thoughts of that time.Everyone must reach a stage where they leave the nest. In our society, it is expected that eventually children will leave home for a life of their own. When I watched Disney's Cinderella, the idea of being taken away from a bad place that was home to a fancy, rich, good place was particularly attractive to me. Home for me could not be compared to Cinderella's home. I did not have evil parents or stepsisters. I think that what I really wanted to escape from was my boring, everyday life. Everyday seemed the same with school and chores. The thought of going to a palace where I would not have to be in school, or to be told what to do, was attractive. That was what moving to a palace was to me in my very young years.Why must the princess move away in order to get her happily ever after? It's the formula of all fairytales, but why? I believe there is something in us that innately knows that we must first break away from our maternal bonds in order to become our true selves. In both versions of Cinderella, the mother dies. Perhaps that is an easy way to separate the child from the home. If both parents are still alive, and the child is happy at home, the child may never have the desire to leave. If the child still wants to be home, how can moving away be a happily ever after? Cinderella must then have a crappy home life in order to give the audience satisfaction when she leaves the home.In the movie, Cinderella is the perfect example of humility, kindness (shown through her animal friends), and goodness. When I was a young, I thought Cinderella was the best child a person could ask for. She was always pleasant, even though her stepmother and stepsisters were mean. Cinderella endures all the ordering around that she is given. Even when her dreams are dashed, as in the scene where the two stepsisters rip up her dress for the ball, she still never talks back to her family. Instead she runs away crying. There is an obvious lesson in the story of Cinderella teaching children to be good, even if they have an evil parent (or parents). It teaches that things will get better, no matter how horrid the situation. However, this does not take into account the many children that are being physically, sexually, and mentally abused by their parents. How could Disney give the message "just be good," as if it has something to do with how these children are treated later in life?Cinderella is the model of good behavior, and the stepsisters are a model for bad behavior. Both the stepsisters and Cinderella want to go to the ball and meet the prince, only the stepsisters are cruel, selfish, and untalented. In the Disney version both stepsisters receive music lessons. One sister sings off key while the other plays the flute terribly. At the same time, Cinderella is outside singing beautifully while washing the floor. This is telling children that if you are good inside, it will show outside. This is why Cinderella is talented and beautiful, and why the stepsisters are ugly and awkward. Unfortunately, this movie does not allow the people watching it to get over the exterior lesson, that is to say, that the inside equals the outside. It is a much better idea to teach society to look past people's exteriors and look for the goodness inside. As a child I only thought of Cinderella as a very pretty person. Instead of wanting to be like Cinderella by her goodness, I wanted to be pretty on the outside first, and that is not the same as being well-mannered and honest.In this Disney version of the Cinderella story, the obstacles that Cinderella has to overcome are small. The first obstacle Cinderella faces is getting to the ball. There is no action taken by Cinderella that has to do with overcoming any of the obstacles she faces. The fairy godmother whisks up a spell and, voila, a dress and carriage appear to take Cinderella to the ball. The next problem takes place when Cinderella is locked away in the attic. The prince's menservants attempt to ask all women in town to try on the glass slipper left behind from the ball. Cinderella's only chance is to try on the slipper. Two of Cinderella's pet mice sneak into the pocket of the wicked stepmother, while Cinderella cries to herself. It's not a heroic part of the movie for Cinderella. The mice rescue her. Although if Cinderella had not been nice to the mice, and let them out of the cages, then these two would not have gotten the key away. The message revealed, when Cinderella never takes action to change her situation, is that her power is in her kindness towards others.This movie has a love interest for Cinderella, Prince Charming. The prince has a minimal part because he is more of an idea than a person. The Prince is a symbol of the good life. He has everything that Cinderella needs and wants. He is there to take Cinderella away to a life different from her own. He is the reward for which Cinderella had so patiently worked for. In a way, to be able to work toward the goal of a life filled with comforts is very much the American dream. It's something that can be attractive to anyone anywhere, to have something a little better than the way your parents had it.When Cinderella meets the prince, they both fall in love right away and dance all night. The ball ends and he does not forget her. He searches for her with that fateful glass slipper. I always loved the particular scene in which the prince dances with Cinderella and they both sing in perfect harmony.So this is love, MmmmmmSo this is loveSo this is what makes life divineI'm all aglow, MmmmmmAnd now I knowThe key to all heaven is mineMy heart has wings, MmmmmmAnd I can flyI'll touch ev'ry star in the skySo this is the miracle that I've been dreaming ofMmmmmmMmmmmmSo this is love!Now that I have reevaluated this scene, I know that what the prince and Cinderella have is not love. It's too quick. What they have in this particular scene is infatuation. I think it is important to teach this to young girls, because too many people do not know the difference between love and the "in love" feeling that comes with infatuation.The updated version for Cinderella has better messages for today's young generation. Ella Enchanted still takes the original story line and twists it up. Like the first Cinderella, I still felt a yearning to get away from ordinary life when I read the book. This time I was older and knew more. Just because you are a queen, does not mean that life will be perfect. The idea of magical creatures in fancy places was much more intriguing, then just getting away from my boring life.The bonds between Ella and her mom are severed, and since her father is away from home all the time, Ella has a reason to leave home. When Ella runs away from her cruel stepfamily, she alone takes action to try to change her situation. She is trying to change her life for herself instead of waiting till her fairy godmother can change her life for her. Ella too has a bad home life, but she is also given a curse to go with her bad family ties. She must do more than just run away from home. In addition, Ella must break the spell in order to achieve maximum happiness. Then the audience can become happy for her when she has the chance at a better life.Ella is also an example of morality in this modern story. Ella wants the same things as her stepsisters. But this new story gives a reason for Ella's obedience. The author allows Ella to not want to do what she is told; she is stubborn, but is always good. She is never selfish, like her stepsisters. The movie has a quote that says, "Ella's curse made her obedient, but her heart made her kind." This story makes a difference between obedience and goodness, which Disney does not. Just doing what you are told is one thing, but being kind to others and taking action in the face of moral dilemmas is a very different thing. Also, the movie makes a point of showing Ella's loving and respectful relationship with both parents and her maid. The curse is used to show that free will is good, not as an excuse to rebel.The movie does not used beauty as a source of inner goodness like the Disney version. Both Ella and the oldest stepsister, Hattie, are pretty. The reason that the Prince likes Ella more than Hattie is because of the two sisters' attitudes. Hattie makes it very obvious that she is a big fan of Prince Char, and even is the president of his fan club. Because of Hattie's overzealous nature, Prince Char is totally freaked out. Ella, on the other hand, is not a fan of Prince Char and is upset at the fact that he does not take more interest in the politics of the Realm. This is a much more appropriate start to the couple's relationship.In Ella Enchanted, it is a little more obvious that the youngest stepsister, Olive, is very dumb and almost bordering on the edge of retarded. In this way this modern story almost excuses the younger stepsister from her behavior toward Ella because she was not intelligent enough to understand everything. Throughout Ella Enchanted, Olive follows her sister's lead, and does what Hattie tells her to do blindly. It almost appears that Olive is a good Cinderella opposite; doing everything she is told, and not thinking for herself. It portrays a bad example of obedience. I wondered why at the end of the film, that revenge is not taken on Olive? Perhaps it is good that one of the two stepsisters is not evil, but is the representation of extremely stupid appropriate?When Ella has to overcome obstacles, things are slightly different. One particular example shows a similar scene to Disney's Cinderella when Cinderella is locked away in the attic. Ella is sitting in prison for attempting to kill the prince and is rescued by some friends. But this is not the pivotal part of the modern story, unlike the Disney version. The most exciting part is when Ella breaks the spell that holds her in submission. She has to do this by herself, and it is by pure willpower alone that she can do this. It's a lesson to little girls that they can do things that seem impossible. There is also the obstacle at the end of the modern tale in which Ella has to save the prince from his evil uncle. Its empowering girls with the idea that they can be the rescuer, and do not always have to be helpless, which I like.While Cinderella's prince is the reward for her goodness, the prince in the modern tale plays a different roll. He is a person, and we learn more about his character. He is good, smart, handsome, and humble. He is the dashing figure from girls' deepest fantasies, the perfect guy. The only thing close to a flaw that the prince has is a naive love for his uncle who killed his father to become King. The prince is no longer the symbol of a reward for Ella's hard life. After breaking the spell for herself, Ella's true struggle is overcome. Therefore, saving the prince's life, and marrying him is like a nice extra bonus. The power of Ella's love for the prince breaks the spell, so the love story needs to be there in order to have something powerful enough to force Ella into a tough situation. The real reward for Ella is love, and the prince is just a symbol of the perfect man.Ella Enchanted has developed the relationship between the prince and Ella much more, but does not seem much better at creating a long-lasting relationship. The Prince has only known Ella for two days when they fall in love. There is a song that Ella sings right before the couple's first kiss.Can anybody find somebody to love?Each morning I get up I die a littleCan't barely stand on my feet.Take a look in the mirrorAnd I, see what you're doing to me.I've spent all my years believing in you, but I just can't get no relief.Won't somebody, somebody, can anybody find me, somebody to love.This song shows that Ella is just looking for somebody to love. Ella is trying to fill the void of a dead mother, and a father who is always away on business. The prince and Ella only develop a surface relationship. I think that many young people start relationships like this one, even though they have the potential to develop into something more real. But in stories like Cinderella, the development of a relationship should be worked into the storyline.Regrettably both versions end with marriage, and I think that it is just a little too soon. Cinderella stories give reason for this quick relationship with true love. This idea is being inflicted upon young minds as a truth rather than fiction, which might ruin their relationships later in life. If Ella had just saved the life of the prince and then not married him, the story would still be very good. Sorry to say that in Ella Enchanted, she and the prince have already said "I love you," and it is hard to separate from my mind the possibility of love without coupling it with marriage. I would not be happy to see Ella live with the prince before marriage. Maybe Prince Char should never have asked Ella to marry him. Then the story could end with a girlfriend/boyfriend relationship.After revisiting the Disney's version of this basic story, I feel let down. The way the story works in subtle ways to keep girls in check gives me the creeps. Why does the once elating conclusion seem empty and false after reevaluating the movie? Is it the quick way the couple gets together? Or perhaps it's the cynic inside me that says, "I give it a week."Ella Enchanted is better at giving an uplifting, empowering message to girls. It gives more romance and a deeper meaning of self-accomplishment than the old Cinderella. Yet it still inflicts some of the old values of true love. Is the story of Cinderella too old-fashioned to be able to reflect today's values? With all its history, I think that it is a story that should be kept. Maybe someday girls will figure out why it is so fascinating and repair it suitably.
5 Feminists often denounce traditional fairy tales because they perpetuate the ideals of a patriarchal society by encouraging girls to behave like proper princesses and wait for charming princes to take charge and save the day. In response to these traditional fairy tales, many authors have tried to reclaim the realm of fairy tales for girls. These retellings feature active protagonists who are not scared of taking charge and do not need princes to save them. One example of this new fairy tale genre is the 1998 children's novel "Ella Enchanted" by Gail Carson Levine, which takes an untraditional approach to retelling the story of Cinderella. The novel addresses several specific feminist issues, specifically negotiating and fighting the burden of obedience, the importance of female friendships and, of course, learning to save yourself.The story is set in an imaginary, medieval-esque kingdom called Frell. A roaming fairy named Lucinda gives Ella the gift/curse of obedience at Ella's birth. As a result, Ella has to do everything she is told, no matter what harm it might cause to herself or others. (In the novel, the severity of Ella's curse in constantly underscored with passages explaining how little control Ella has over her own life: "If someone told me to hop on one foot for a day and a half, I'd have to do it. And hopping on one foot wasn't the worst order I could be given. If you commanded me to cut off my own head, I'd have to do it.") As the plot moves forward Ella is compelled to leave home to try and find Lucinda and ask her to lift the curse. Along the way she also falls in love with Prince Char. For varying reasons, depending on the version, Lucinda refuses to lift the curse. Further difficulties arise as Ella continues her quest.That's the main body of the story. The Cinderella element is relevant mainly to the last quarter of the novel where actual elements from that story (the slipper, the ball) appear in the story, although the evil step-sisters and fairy godmother are present throughout the narrative.There are several reasons that I love this novel and recommend it to everyone. The first is that it's an imaginative retelling of Cinderella which makes the story exciting for readers familiar with the original version without making it too abtruse for readers who have never heard of Cinderella. Also, the book is full of great role models for girls. All of the female characters are strong, self-aware women--things seen far too rarely in the fairy tale genre. The novel is narrated in Ella's voice. This makes it easy to see how strong Ella is as a character (especially at the end of the novel).The other great thing about this book is that it all seems authentic, never over the top or under-written. In addition to creating immensely likable main characters, Levine creates a compelling world within the pages of "Ella Enchanted" vivid with details ranging from Elvish and Gnomish languages to customs at a Giant's wedding. The story is an immensely entertaining page-turner that will (even better) leave readers feeling satisfied when they reach the final scene where Levine ties everything together, artfully blending empowerment with a happy-ever-after ending fit for a traditional fairy tale.
4 The only thing I knew about Ella enchanted was from the movie (of which I am only slightly ashamed to admit that I actually like in all its cheesiness and campiness). I had no idea the book would be so different, or I should say, that the movie was so different from its original source.Cursed with the gift of obedience at birth by a quite stubborn and clueless fairy, Ella had always coped with her curse, until the day she found herself with two mean step-sisters and ordered to do something she could not bring herself to do. Fleeing, Ella embarks on a quest to find the fairy that bestowed her the "gift" of obedience to ask her to take it away. In the process she finds friends and a strength she didn't know she had.Ella was a great heroine. Blessed with a knack for languages, she untangles herself from perilous situations with grace, wit and strength. I thought Ella Enchanted was a nice story, a great retelling of, probably, the most retold fairy tale of all time. I read it in one evening and was delighted and amused.
5 Ella is a young girl who was given a gift by a fairy named Lucinda . The gift was oedience . Ella had to obey every given command . But it had to be a direct command, such as "put on your shawl" or "go to bed now". A wish or request had no effect on her. if any one found out about the spell she would be in danger . So ever since Ella was born she's been in danger .  SO Ella gose out to find Lucinda to take the spell back .  Dose Ella ever find Lucinda or is she stuck with the spell forever. READ THE BOOK.
4 Ella's not like normal girls, and it's not becasue she's a strong feisty girl. It's becasue she was cursed with the &quot;gift&quot; of obedience.  What ever she is asked to do, she must do it. And when she's sent to live  with her evil stepmother and stepsisters they quite enjoy her gift. This  book is filled with mystery, magic and handsom princess. And it's a good  example of a well- written up-graded fairy tale. If yo llike fantasy I  think you should read this book. Mother Goose would be proud.
5 I know many of you have already seen the movie. I know I was a big fan of the movie with Anne Hathaway... and that cute guy that played Prince Charmont. But do not let that deter you from reading this gem of a story. The movie only gives you a glimpse (and a small one at that) as to what is really between the covers of Ella Enchanted.Although geared for younger readers, I was taken by this un-traditional retelling of Cinderella, and can definitely say that it can be enjoyed by older readers as well. I loved the fantasy elements which were clever and sometimes even downright funny. Ella is a great heroine - she is witty, strong-willed, determined and resourceful.But what I truly enjoyed about this story is how women in general are portrayed. In your average fairytale you normally find your princess who is in some sort of peril and in need of a prince who rides in at the nick of time and saves the day. That is not the case here. All women are portrayed as strong, independent, opinionated - no matter if it was the sweet Ella, the deliciously evil stepsisters, Lucinda the fairy with her creative "gifts", or even Mandy, Ella's cook/fairy godmother.All in all, this was a very enjoyable story and one that can be enjoyed whether big or small, young or old. This is a fantastic retelling of a wonderful fairytale and one that I highly recommend
5 I used to HATE reading, so my mom got this book for me within the first month it came out. For a few weeks it sat on my bookshelf-untouched. But when I finally picked it up and opened it I was captiveated by the story. After the first chapter, I couldn't put it down. My mom was thrilled.Ella is a teenager who is telling you a story. The story of her everyday life. But unlike us, she has a fairy god mother, evil stepsisters, a heartless father, a prince to deal with, and a step mother that smells like spoiled milk!! This book took me to her world in every way possiable. I often felt like I WAS Ella. I cried, laughed, pouted, thought, and felt her every emotion.This book is witty, sweet, happy. My mother got this book for me in hardcover-thank God. It's been to many places with me. It's fallen into a steamy bathtub, traveled on MANY airplane flights, been to camp, and every big car trip I've been on. I'm now 14. When I got it I was 9. It's been read so many times that soon I'll have to get a new copy of the book. I thank Gail Carson Levine for getting me hooked onto reading.I recommend this book to EVERYONE. Even adults. And most definatly young girls and young teenagers. Enjoy!!!!!!!!!!!
5 One of my absolute favorites. I could read this book over and over again! This book is a fun twist on the Cinderella story that keeps me up all night reading, even the second time around. Every young girl should read this!
5 This is one of the great fairy tales alternative stories available out there, and this ones is based on the famous Cinderella tale with a twist. This is written in a post modern style of writing, making it easier to actually connect to the characters and much more enjoyable for the young adults to above ages to actually enjoy for what used to be just a children's fairy tale. The first time I'd picked this book up, I can't seem to put it down. It's humorous and a page turner.The main character is Ella of Frell, who had been given the 'gift' of obedience (more of a curse) by a fairy named Lucinda, giving her no choice but to obey anybody who orders her around ever since she was a baby. The only ones other than her mother who knows about it is Mandy, their cook who is also Ella's fairy godmother, who has this thing againt doing any Big magic, which irked Ella most of the time due to her 'gift'.When her mother died, her father remarried to Dame Olga who has two selfish idiotic daughters, Hattie and Olive, who sort of figure out they could take advantage of Ella's little flaw, though very clueless why she's easily to be made as their own personal slave. Then there's Prince Char, the heir of the kingdom. Both Ella and Char enjoyed each other's company many times they are together and apart. But of course the 'gift' had come to its worse moments in this book for Ella in the sense of relationship with others. She tried whatever it takes to track Lucinda to take 'gift' back.Oh, if you're expecting it to be just like the movie, forget it. You be surprised of how different they are from each other in plot wise. But nevertheless, I've enjoyed both version.
3 The premise of "Ella Enchanted", as you can read from the jacket or any of the other reviews here, goes like this: a young girl named Ella gets an unfortunate gift from a nice but incompetent fairy named Lucinda.  Ella is magically forced to follow any command that anyone gives her.  We then follow poor Ella as her mother dies, she gets sent off to finishing school, runs away, has a series of misadventures, returns home, gets sent off again, and finally marries the Prince and lives happily ever after.Now in my mind, this book is a missed opportunity.  Thinking about the idea behind this book, you could probably come up with plenty of good jokes that could be made with it.  "Ella Enchanted" does have a few funny moments, such as when a parrot keeps interrupting Ella's attempts to bake a cake, but on the whole it's not enough.  Much of the book is spent watching Ella get tormented by evil stepsister Hattie.  And while it's all done competently and Ella's revenge at the end is perfectly satisfactory, I found the book as a whole to be less uplifting than it might be.  So in short, "Ella Enchanted" is readable, but not destined to become a children's classic by any measure.
5 I'm a really big reader, but it is still rare when a book gets me like this one did. I don't really know what it was, but from the beginning, I was hooked and kept reading and reading until I finished. There was even a moment our two where I noticed myself shaking from the pure joy of this read. Ella Enchanted is exciting, with nearly every chapter ending in cliffhanger. It is funny, Ella's curse of obediance and her extraordinary wit providing most of the laughs. It is dark at times, which any great fantasy must be. And that darkness is overshadowed by Ella's humor, love, and indomitable will. Ella Enchanted is one of the most truly enchanting reads I have ever had, and I know that every time I am the least bit down, I will be able to pick this one up a feel fine.
5 People say that it isn't exactly like cinderella, but who cares! the difference is what makes it interesting. Its a great story for those who love fairyland and love stories. It is also great for any age, its short and meant for younger readers but it's still great. I couldn't put it down! but if you can't make the stretch to believe in fairies or you think love makes a heroin weak, this isn't the book for you. But for everyone else, read it!
5 Overall Review:  Ella Enchanted is one of my favorite fairy tale retellings of all time.  It's a perfect fantasy: A `damsel in distress', a prince, an indifferent parent, fairies (including a fairy godmother!), man-eating ogres, future-telling gnomes, fun-loving giants, talented elves, an evil step-mother (of course!!), evil and greedy stepsisters... Put all those characters together and add some spur of the moment travels, finishing school, a few balls, and, above all, a curse, and you have a recipe for something unforgettable!The writing for this novel is accessible to any age.  From young children to adults, everyone can find something to love.  The characters are individuals with such sparkle!  Ella's gift with languages is uncanny and so much fun as she converses with the different species she meets along her way to find the fairy Lucinda and, hopefully, break her curse!  The stepsisters are not just nasty--they have personality, even if those personalities are cunning and evil...and a bit daft.  There are wonderful moments of humor--as Ella tries to find new ways to thwart the commands she is given, but especially when a wig is stolen!  The relationship between Ella and Prince Char is so sweet--from her desire to make him laugh, to the exchanging of letters while he is away in Ayortha, to their final encounter, it's enough to make you sigh with pleasure.  Ella Enchanted is a timeless Gem!  Overall rating is 5 out of 5 stars!Content Review:PROFANITY: NONEVIOLENCE: A few mild instancesSEXUAL CONTENT: NONEMATURE THEMES: MildRECOMMENDED AGE GROUP: 9+There is no profanity or sexual content (there is a strain of romance throughout, and two characters kiss, but it is very sweet).  The violence centers around the ogres, mostly.  They eat living creatures.  A horse is eaten.  A character is caught by ogres and they talk about which parts they're going to eat (the character is not eaten).  Ogres chase down a carriage so they can eat the people inside (again, they're not eaten).  Ogres try to eat a human and a gnome.  One character dies because of illness.  A character always thinks of the worst things that could happen because of a curse (many of them involve death and sadness).  Some characters are very cruel to another character (making them become a servant and forcing them to work extremely hard).  A few of the themes are overcoming curses (obstacles/difficulties), loss of loved ones, and dealing with difficult people/life situations.  I read this book aloud to my children and they loved every minute!  Ella Enchanted is a Squeaky Clean Read for ages 9+!This review was written by EmilyA Squeaky Clean Reads Book ReviewerTo see more fantastic books reviewed with content in mind, visit us at squeakycleanreads.com!
5 This book "Ella Enchanted" was awesome. It just got better & better. Ella, a headstrong cooks helper, has a curse of obedience, meant as a gift. She must do whatever it is people order her to do.Her mother dies, and Ella must go to finishing school. She runs away and nearly gets eaten by ogres. As you see, this book has a bit of a fairy  tale whirlwind to it. After defeating the wicked stepmother and step sisters, Ella gets her Prince Charming and lives happily ever after
5 I have to say I'm not on for fairytales but this book was good. The plot was very well written and the ending was truly wonderful. Not many of these kinda stories now days.The plot of the story is about Ella who is trying to escape a curse. She is always obedient. When her mother dies she meets the Prince and they soon become friends but Ella's father sends her to finishing shcool. While at finishing school Ella befriends another young girl but her soon to be step-sister Hattie starts bossing her around. She finds away to escape so she can find Lucinda the fairy who put the curse on her. Imagine her suprise when Lucinda won't reverse the curse. After her father married Hattie's mother Ella becomes a maid. Then it gets even more complicated when Ella finds out the Prince has fallen for her. She must find away to turn him away so she won't hurt him with her curse. So what happens when she find out that the Prince is hosting 3 ball to find a bride? Can she ever break the curse and be with her Prince?This is one fairytale that everyone should read. All of the character's even the minor ones seem to grow as the book progresses.
5 My 10-year-old son brought this book home from the school library, and we enjoyed reading it together (so it's not just for girls).  I thought it was a great retelling of Cinderella and included the one thing no other storyteller has covered:  &quot;Why was Cinderella such a WIMP?&quot;  Levine's possible explanation (a fairy's &quot;gift&quot; of obedience) is imaginative and well thought out.  She also surrounded her characters with a wonderful world to inhabit.  Although it was definitely written for younger readers, I enjoyed it, too.  This is a book that needs to be in every fairy-tale-loving little girl's library.  It's a wonderful counterpoint to wimpy &quot;someday my prince will come&quot; fare.  Ella is a strong female character.  I wish there were more of them.
4 I wouldn't have thought to buy this book if I hadn't heard an interview with the author on the radio.  She read from "Ella Enchanted" and I was hooked.  I should say I am *not* the target audience-I'm an over-30 woman who illustrates for children myself, and I still reread my favorite stories from my childhood, rarely picking up new YA novels-because usually from a skimming in the bookstore I don't find ones well-written enough to bother buying.  This one is happily different.  It's not perfect, but it IS well above average in its writing quality, the author has a way with characters that takes it out of the two-dimensional realm of all too many fantasies, and she's got a great, often very original imagination.  Somehow she manages to paint both a fantasy world and the inner life of a very frustrated, willful teen girl equally well.  I'm sure this is and will continue to be many girls' "favourite book".That said, I'll add one caveat: I have to agree with another reviewer who mentioned their disappointment with the portrayal of the "ugly stepsisters":  basically, to fully get across their inherent meanness and "ugliness", they're depicted as not only stupid(really, in the case of the younger one, borderline "developmentally disabled"), but-horror of horrors!-FAT.  That is to say, "piggish" in every sense of the word.  There are scenes of Ella, the heroine, nauseated at the sight of these two wolfing down food, dribbling it on their double chins and staining their clothes by their pure gluttony.  All well and good, maybe-but this is supposed to be very much a "modern" fairy tale, in the sense of turning the cliches on their heads, and it's a real shame that Ms. Levine's imagination failed her here.  She might have chosen to play AGAINST the "Grimm's fairy tale" type, and have the stepsisters be ugly only on the INSIDE-certainly it's unfortunate in a book for young girls to equate obesity with stupidity and greed and everything ugly.  Same goes for the portrait of the stepmother.  Actually, in my experience, this sort of status-conscious, elitist person is always rail-thin(to the point of anorexia), hardly "plump"-but that's much more grotesque to Levine, apparently.Otherwise, a swell book.
4 This book is better than the recent movie.  You weep, you laugh, you cheer!  The characters have spunk, and the land in which they live is magical.  Enough adventure to draw you in; enough injustice to make you angry; and enough self-reflection to make you grow.  A good lesson about obedience, attitude, and giving.
5 Ella, rebellious and smart, is cursed from birth with the &quot;gift&quot; of obeidience, by a fairy who doesn't understand the cruelness of the things she does. Levine enterweaves the classic story of Cinderella, an adventure that leaves the reader hanging for more, and words that slip easily into teh reader's mind and are as tasty as Ella's fairy tonic. A good read, and a classic in the frazzled-fairytales genre.
4 This is an interesting "twist" on the traditional tale of Cinderella.  Comparing this story to the movie, I have to say that Disney did well in transferring this story to the silver screen, but the book is still better.  I own a copy of the movie and now the book as well, and I recommend both of them.
5 This book really stood out to me because of the way Gail Carson took one of my favorite books (sorry for my spelling)And turned it to a new romantic, advertising, creative, book and as said in the title it's a real page turner the book is mainly about a girl who was cursed (by accident) she was forced to obay every command she received. Now I know that you parents would live a girl that will listen to every order but there's a reason they call it a curse, let's say if someone told her to give them all her money she would have to, or how bout cut of her head she would have to do it. So you see she's in grave danger every time she's around someone. Her life gets tough enough when here mother dies, but that's just the beginning, so with help from her fairy god mother and her best friend Prince Charmont (Char) she learns new things and trys to find a way brake the curse... Will she brake the curse or will she have to spend the rest of her life obaying orders and doing commands?
5 I picked this up on a whim. I recently saw the film and discovered the book in the library.I enjoyed the book a lot more then the movie. The movie was very enjoyable too.Ella is almost 15 when her mother dies, and Dame Olga and her two daughters come into Ella's life. One of the stepsisters discovers the curse Ella suffers, and uses it against her. In an attempt to get rid of the curse,Ella runs away and goes in search of the fairy Lucinda, who gave her the "gift" of obedience. Twists and turns(but not too many).Altogether a good book for the kids and their parents.  Not sickly sweet like so many books out there.
5 Do not be fooled by the movie. the movie should not even be named Ella Enchanted. This book has romance, but not anything too mushy. Ella and Char play with each other, not knowing their feeling. It's like a dance where they laugh and play games. You be pulled into the sorry emotionally and by the end you'll be telling the book what to do. Enchanting and wonderful. Read it and it will become part of your library.
5 I bought this edition of Ella Enchanted for my Kindle because I needed an easy way to always have my comfort book on hand. This has been one of my favorite books since I was 8, and at 22, it is still just as enchanting and fun. Ella is such a strong main character and I always loved that she wasn't perfect. She was clumsy and spirited, and she made mistakes, but she was also strong, brave, and not afraid of hard work. She was good character to look up to. I also loved the slow love story between herself and Char. I never liked how princesses seemed to fall in love in a day. I felt that this was much more realistic. I feel as if I could gush forever about his book, but I'll just say that this is a must read and you won't regret this purchase.
5 I like to read the books I buy for my grandkids.  I really enjoyed Ella Enchanted very much and felt it was a good choice as a birthday gift.  The book was for my 4th grade grand daughter who is an avid reader.  Her mother told me that when she was done she closed the book with a satisfied smile and said "They got married!".  I'd not realized it had been made into a movie.  Having seen the movie didn't change my grand daughter's enjoyment in the least.
4 I must say that overall I was quaintly pleased with this bittersweet fairy tale.A fairy put a spell on Ella at birth, making her obey any command given to her. The book follows Ella through the ups and downs of her life after the death of her mother and her quest to break her awful curse. The story starts out original and unpredictable, however it gradually comes to resemble another well-known fairy tale until at the very end it is entirely revealed to be that certain traditional fairy tale (not to give anything away for those who haven't read it yet - I will say that you can figure it out by looking at the names of the characters and take into account the involvment of fairies or fairy godmothers - or just read the publisher's description of it here on Amazon).While I liked the character-driven story (in fact, some of my favorite parts were its dialogue and especially the interactions between Ella and Prince Char), I was a little disappointed that by the end it was that particular traditional storyline. Even though Ella is much more fleshed out with such a realistic personality as compared to the classic story heroine, part of me wishes this book could have been completely original and never tied into the traditional story at all. I feel that it could have had so much more potential and originality if the last 20 or so pages hadn't, essentially, been a cop-out. Its strengths definitely lie within its characters and its weakness lies in the ending. Overall a very good book and I can personally accept the ending in order to enjoy the rest of the book.
5 Retold fairytales, in which the characters and plots of traditional stories are explored in more depth, or told from an unexpected point-of-view, are a dime a dozen these days. But one stands out from the rest, and that is Gail Carson Levine's "Ella Enchanted", which takes the story of Cinderella and not only provides impetus for many of the nonsensical elements of the original tale, but builds a rich imaginary world around it and makes the titular character one of the best heroines to ever appear in YA novel.If you secretly always thought Cinderella was a bit of a pushover, sitting and crying by the fireplace when she could have been raiding her stepsisters' wardrobes and hitchhiking to the ball, then you'll be pleased to find that Levine gives us a perfect acceptable reason as to why her Ella is so slavishly obedient to her step-family: she's under a spell. When just a baby, an idiotic fairy called Lucinda blessed her with the "gift" of obedience, in which Ella is forced to obey every command she hears.A wish or a request has no effect on her, but a direct order, no matter how terrible it is, must be obeyed. Any attempts at disregarding it results in frightening nausea and dizziness. Levine takes this conceit and heightens the dramatic effect to its full potency. Ella's life is monopolized by her constant internal battle between obedience and defiance: "It was a tiresome game, but I had to play it or feel like a complete puppet." Because she's naturally willful, she makes an art out of finding loopholes in the commands she receives. When someone demands that she fetch almonds from the pantry for a cake, she responds by bringing back just two. When someone orders her to take off their smelly shoes, she counteracts by throwing them out the window directly afterwards. Although there are moments of comedy involved in her plight, Levine never shies away from the fact that Ella is under a terrible curse; such as the horror that comes with the command to: "be happy to be blessed with such a lovely quality."Ella nurses the dream of one day being free of the spell, but until then, we're with her as she struggles with her self-control, hoping that one day she'll either get Lucinda to remove the spell, or come across a command that's too heinous to obey. But what command could possibly be terrible enough for her to withstand the pain and break the spell through sheer force of will?Ella herself is a fantastic character, and tells her own story in first-person narrative (difficult to pull off without the narrator sounding too self-involved, but here it doesn't falter for a second). Ella is not perfect by any means, but she's intelligent and witty, gifted at languages, kind-hearted, and endearingly stubborn when it comes to dealing with her curse, clinging to her dignity even as she's forced into doing the most embarrassing things. One general thing does get on my nerves though, and that's the oft-repeated character trait among YA heroines: crippling clumsiness. Sure, we're all klutzy at that age, but the way the authors of YA novels write teenage girls, you'd think they couldn't perform the most basic physical tasks without skirting death itself. But where most YA fairytales/romances are dominated by the swooning damsel staring at the dreamy hero, Levine never looses sight of the fact that this story is all Ella's, culminating in a vindication of free will and inner strength.Like most fairytale heroines, Ella looses her mother; unlike most fairytale heroines, we the reader actually get a sense of the love between mother and daughter, and the pain that Ella feels when she looses her. Eleanor of Frell may only be around for one chapter, but in that time Levine makes us almost as sorry as Ella is to see her go. As the story goes on, the tale veers closer and closer to the familiar fairytale, and Levine finds amusing ways to insert the traditional Cinderella tropes, such as the glass slippers, the pumpkin carriage, and even the fact that Ella has small feet!Olga, Hattie and Olive (the evil stepmother and stepsisters, respectively) are rather cartoonish villains, being gluttonous, avaricious, and idiotic. Furthermore, Hattie snores, has smelly feet, is overweight, and hides a secret that exposes her to further ridicule. In short, they are grotesque, and although a part of me wishes that there was more to their characters, the greater part doesn't really care because it makes Ella's victory over them all the sweeter. And Levine compensates for this ugly-side of womankind by adding the characters of Mandy (Ella's fairy godmother) and Areida (a friend that she makes at school) as the more benevolent reflections of snotty Olga and vindictive Hattie.There are some hilarious one-liners, and Levine is a wonderful humourist, very much in keeping with J.K. Rowling's ability to dryly poke fun at the ridiculous. When Ella arrives at finishing school (where all the chamber-pots look like decorative cabbages) she is told: "it's never too late to start being finished." When Hattie pens a letter to her mother concerning Ella's disappearance, she writes: "I hope she has come to no harm and has not been eaten by ogres or captured by bandits or caught fire or fallen into bad company, as I so often imagine." And my personal favourite:"What a clever daughter I have." Olga beamed at Hattie."As clever as she is beautiful," I said.They both began to answer me, and then stopped, confused."Hattie isn't pretty," said Olive.The centerpiece of the story though, belongs to the love that blossoms between Prince Charmont (usually known as "Char") and Ella. Basically, Char and Ella make up the best YA romance...ever. There, I said it. But it's true. Whereas other authors-that-shall-remain-nameless rely on strangling their lovers with the red string (that is, trying to convince us that their characters are in love because the author *says* that they're in love) Levine takes the time to build a relationship between Ella and Char that's based on more than just physical attraction, and it's all the more powerful for it. In the YA genre, in which love stories between a hero and heroine are about as deep as a paddling pool, these two are a godsend.Char and Ella learn about each other before they fall in love. They acknowledge each other's flaws as well as their strengths. They play silly games and share jokes. They converse via letters over an extended period of time, which include such reflective lines as this: "I trust you to see the good in me, but the bad I must make sure you don't overlook." They love the big things about each other, like their kindness and honesty, but also the silly little things, like each other's freckles and a mutual enjoyment of sliding down banisters.And because it is a love that is based on friendship, respect, compatibility and intelligence, it makes the heartbreak twice as painful, and the declaration twice as rewarding. Just think, two people actually becoming *friends* before they become lovers! Who'd have thought?!The book was adapted into a rather awful movie not too long ago, which obliterated all the reasons why this book is so special, and replaced it with a story that relied too much on the popularity of "Shrek" (complete with a contemporary soundtrack, anachronistic elements and crude comedy) than the charm of Levine's story. Avoid it if you can, and hope that in later years it'll either be more faithfully adapted, or left well enough alone.As you can see, I've got nothing but good things to say about "Ella Enchanted," though admittedly it may not appeal to the average boy-reader, being essentially a rather feminine coming-of-age tale in a fairytale kingdom full of fairies and elves. But for everyone else, this is a wonderful book, with a spritely, loveable lead, and a mature and healthy understanding of romantic relationships (and I'm pointing this out, because it's unfortunately so very, very rare). If your eight-to-twelve year old daughter holds up Ella of Frell as her literary role-model, then you've got yourself an awesome kid.
5 A family friend gave me this book when I was about eleven and I am SO glad she did. I wasn't very interested in it, but I was bored, so I picked it up and began. I devoured it. I didn't stop till I had reached the end. I have read it over and over and over. I have it practically memorized. Gail Carson Levine is now my absolute favorite author of all time. Her books are the best. Read this book, you will not regret it.
4 Ella Enchanted, by Gail Carson Levine, is a well written Fantasy children's book. It has unreal creatures such as ogres and fairies, and deals with magic and curses.  Ella Enchanted starts out with Ella, a 15 year old girl with a curse, a curse of obediance. No matter what someone tells her, she must do it, or her head  will ache and other symptoms show until she finally does it. She helps out her fairy godmother, Mandy in the kitchen most of the time. After her mother's death however, her busy father sends her off to finishing school, and under horrible circumstances. She must travel with two girls, who both boss her around and take all of her food. Once she gets there, she appears to be a monstrocity of a lady. She must go through a lot of finishing and a quest to try to break her irking curse in this Newberry Honor book.  This book was pretty good. It was likeable, and although the ending was pretty good, it wasn't good enough to score a five for me. This book would be good for boys and girls in third to seventh grade
5 This is one of my absolute favorite books of all time. It's one of my comfort books--I can always pick it up and become lost in it when I want to read my troubles away.Though the reading level is such that younger readers can read it comfortably, it is not so patronizing that older readers are bored by it. Add to that an interesting, thought-provoking and clever twist on one of the Grimm Brothers most well-known fairytales, this is a novel I'd reccomend to anyone and everyone!(If you liked this book, Once Upon a Marigold is a novel with a similar world and mood you might enjoy. If you like re-tellings of fairy tales, Beauty by McKinley and The Goose Girl by Hale are other good books to try.)
5 Ella Enchanted is one of those few times when the spinoff is actually better than the original.  Much better.  Everything's topsy-turvy: Ella's  dad is alive and as crooked and greedy as ever; the fairy godmother, Mandy,  is an old, peppery, plain woman who cooks for Ella's family; Ella, with her  stepsisters, are sent to a lady's prep school; and the stepfamily, though  mean and wicked, is hilariously funny and stupid.  The book is set in a  different kingdom, where ogres, dwarves, giants, and vain, unwittingly  mischievous fairies roam free.  In fact, it's due to one of these fairies,  Lucinda, that Ella is in trouble.  Ella was cursed (not blessed) by a spell  of Lucinda's that makes her obey any command given to her.  It's a weakness  that her mean stepfamily use to their advantage, but sadder still, it's a  curse that keeps Ella from the person she loves, Prince Charmont (a.k.a.  Char.  Because of these conflicts, Ella sets on a journey to track down  the troublesome Lucinda, right old wrongs, and maybe try to live happily  ever after.
5 In this children's classic, Ella has the gift,or curse, to be obedient. Always. If she were told to cut her head off with an axe she would have to obey.  Though very much based on Cinderella (hint: Wicked Stepmother and Stepsisters, Prince Char, Kinda like Charming, and obviosly Ella, though her name is Eleanor)This book is hilarious and sometimes suspensful. It is very much beyond me why Out Of The Dust beat this for the Newbery.  :~(
5 REally good book! Really Enjoyed it. I am very happy to have it in my kindle :) I will most likely re read it soon.
5 I loved this book, almost everyone I've heard of who has read it has loved it along with me. But you know how sometimes, you feel like a book is yours, not really anyone elses? That's how I feel about Ella Enchanted.I don't like telling the plot of a book in reviews, I think it is kinda beside the point. But I do write them to tell people what are good books and what aren't, and I'm here to tell you This book is EXTRORDINARY!!!!!!The thing is, why are people so harsh on the beginning? From the first page I was hooked, I don't understand how some people think that a fairies curse to &quot;Be always Obidient&quot; could not capture their interest immediately. I, myself couldn't wait to hear Ellas fate, her complex character and bubbly spirit making her a first class-friend.Hello to the people who think that it is too similer to Cinderella, DUH, that's deliberate. It IS Cinderella (Ella-The main character, the prince's name is Char-you know &quot;Prince Charming!?) Whoever didn't figure this out is, I think Brain-washed. An amazing peice of Fiction, I am very happy to give it five stars. :-)
3 I'm not explaining any part of this book because if you buy it, you'll  read it.  But since everyone thinks this book is so great, I'm telling you  that it's just a retelling of Cinderella.  And clearly not one of Levine's  best books.  Some parts were interesting but I didn't like the retelling.  It's totally opposite of the classic story and she just takes it apart and  tries to add more adventure.
5 This book was made for younger teens and my reading level is higher in college but I still fell in love with it's story.  It gives a very cute twist to the extremely popular story of Cinderalla by giving the leading lady more characteristics and spunk.  You can actually see a relationship growing between Ella and the Prince. You can see her mourn more for her mother than in other ones which makes it more believeable to me.
5 This is a very creative book with a heroine who isn't just doing a Disney princess faint over a man. Unlike many of the YA/children's books being published more recently, it is actually well-written and not painful to read aloud to a kid. In college all my friends and I reminisced over reading this book in late elementary through middle/high school.
5 A wonderfully charming book. I truly enjoyed getting to know the main character, Ella, because she was so easy to relate to. Her spirit and rebellion made her very likeable. I laughed at her quick wit, cried at her hardships, and thoroughly enjoyed everything in between!
2 I read this book when I was in elementary school, before the movie came out. I really, really didn't like it. It was confusing and the plot just wasn't that interesting. I think the movie might have clarified the book a bit for some readers. I remember trying to figure out what was going on because of the modern slang terms mixed with the Middle English. I didn't like the ending either. For a modern fairytale, the girl getting the prince is a tad bit boring.
5 I was thoroughly enchanted by this book.  The story is engaging and the heroine is very clever.  Even the mean parts of the book were still pretty fun. It was very nice to find a book with a female protagonist who was able  to think for herself.
5 A librarian friend gave me the original hardback Ella Enchanted as a gift when I turned 14 - a LONG time ago!  It's been a constant presence on my bookshelf ever since, and it is the one I go back to and read regularly when I'm in need of an instant mood boost.  Ella is one of the most endearing personalities I've ever read, and her relationship with Prince Charming develops so naturally it feels truly real.  The magical fantasy world has so many human details and vivid characters that it's easy to believe in everything from trolls to centaurs - to tiny-footed fairies.  This is definitely a must-read for ladies of any age who love romance, adventure, and a spunky heroine.On that note, I found the movie EXTREMELY dissapointing.  Those who hadn't read and loved the book might think it's not bad, but frankly I could barely finish the thing, knowing it had changed so much about the beloved book.  Anne Hathaway is gorgeous and part of the original Ella's charm is that she isn't a beauty, only smart, determined, loyal, and courageous.  Not to mention many charming parts of the story are lost in Hollywood's version.  I suggest you skip the movie entirely and do what I do - reach for Ella Enchanted time after time to lose yourself in a great story.
5 The author has made a wonderful fantastical land and retold the story of Cinderella in a truly unique way. I didn't even know it was a retelling of Cinderella until a while into the book, and then when I did everything clicked into place. Each character has a really strong voice and way of acting that are described through details. It makes it wonderful. I also love that the author made up languages for the different peoples and beasts, like the ogre language that is slippery and smooth.I always enjoy reading a novel where it is obvious the author worked hard to make her story the best it could be.
5 Wow!! I didn't think that so many people had reviewed this book!! Anyway, i read this book about 3 weeks after it came out.  I got it as a present.  I read it, and i thought it was fantastic, and i told all of my friends, and they thought it was great too, so this is speaking for all of us!! I loved this book because, number one, i love fairy tales, and fantasy is my favorite!  number two, i thought it was great how Ms. Levine sort of &quot;explained&quot; all of the left out details of the real fairy tale.  Like, who was her fairy godmother, anyway? and, why did Ella's stepmother and stepsisters hate her so much? and, i also love how Ms. Levine added her own little, well, huge twist on the story with the curse!  I also loved how Ms. Levine added many more adventures and made Ella a couragous person.  In the real fairy tale, Ella is beautiful, nothing happens, she dances with a prince, talks to mice, blah blah blah.  Kind of boring.  But, anyway, overall, i thought this was an amazing book, that should be read by all fantasy lovers!!!
5 I just wanted to add that the picture on the front cover is wrong!! At the top of page 4 of this book, Ella is described to have black hair.  Thought you just might be interested in knowing that!
5 This was a great book! I liked this book because it was very adventurous, and written in a great way. I also have this book at home. When I started reading this book, I couldn't put it down! You could be any age to read this book. If you like fairytales, then this is the book for you. I think that Ella was a very couragous character, and she shows us that we can do anything if we put our mind to it. Ella is given a horrible gift as a baby. She must obay people's orders, even if that puts her in danger of dying. Now Ella goes on a journey to find the fairy who did this. Will the fairy help her? Or will Ella help herself? Get this book, and start the adventure now!
5 Ella, a young women who lives in medieval times, is put under a curse.  &quot;I can't believe it, I'm put under a curse that I have to follow all  orders,&quot; cried Ella. Ella feels like she is being pushed around with  orders. She can't take it anymore , the curse must be broken. She has to  fight against herself and break the curse.  Ella Enchanted is a breath  taking, phenomenal, fiction book.This book is easier to understand if  you're older because it has challenging words. I wouldn't suggest this book  to anyone under 10 years old.Ella Enchanted explains everything. This book  is a kind of book I could not put down. I recommend it to anyone over 10  years.
5 This book is much more than just a Cinderella retelling.Unlike the adapted movie, this is something that is classical yet with a quirky twist.Ella, the main character, has a blessing bestowed by the fairy Lucinda. The blessing is the wonderful gift of obedience. When her mother dies, her father sends her to finishing school with two horrid girls. Ella's father ends up marring the two girl's mother, making them Ella's stepsister. Mum-Olga,Ella's stepmother, makes her work. Ella sneaks to the three balls held by the royal family. Ella has been friends with the prince.( That's a big difference) And, of course, you know the last phrase..........And they all live happily ever after. And they do!This book is wonderful. I have no other way of describing it. I have read it 9 times!
5 I first read this book when I was in 5th grade and I am now in 11th grade and I still read this book. I have read it so many times that I lost count. Ella Enchanted is a story of a girl who is given the curse of obedience and struggles to overcome the spell that dictates everything she does. She must do every thing that anyone asks. It is a lot like Cinderella but at the same time so different and so much better. This book is so wonderful and I recommend it to anyone who loves a good adventure story with a dash of romance.
5 I can relate to Ella and so many of the other characters! A delightful book for all ages! (I'm 21 now!)
5 What a story teller! How could a well known and remembered Cinderella story become like Ella Enchanted? Hillarious and entertaining :))I laughed at the characters and the dialogs most of the time specially Ella's comments which are witty and yet not too sarcastic. Also I love Prince Char character. Not just a flat prince charming :)Worth every minute of it plus a movie coming up in town. I'm off to watch.
5 Yes - for sure. If you have stumbled across this book stumble no more add it to the cart. I recently picked up this book for my daughter and she devoured it. She loves to read and this is one of her favorites.There are many detailed reviews below here - but don't read them :) Buy the book and be more surprised. Look at it this way: with 1000 5 star reviews and a dozen 1's there is a great chance you will approve. If not you will have a great reason to offer comments and contemplate why you did not enjoy this (why your child did not) and this is also fair.Statistically speaking 0 you will not go wrong.
5 As an avid and enthusiastic devotee of fairy tales, whether in their most  traditional and earthy garb or dolled up in modern drag, or even  Disney-fied, this writer has encountered innumerable takes on the  Cinderella story.  This one is particularly precious, because it answers a  lot of formerly grand leap assumptions.  For example, why did an otherwise  spirited young lass tolerate subservience at the hands of her stepfamily  for so very long?  Perhaps she was under a curse.  All of those tales  about a fairy or other magical sort bestowing gifts upon children at birth,  eventually leading to trouble are echoed here.  And what was Cindy's  father's problem?  Talk about absentee daddies!  Turns out, there a reason  for that too.  Levine is a charming writer with a whimsical sense of  humor.  Her characters are well and fully drawn and particularly her  heroine, her prince, and the fairies (there are two major ones here and a  sprinkling of others) do not soon leave the reader after the book is  closed. This will not fail to tantalize and delight fans of Donna Jo  Napoli, Robin McKinley, and even the Harry Potter crowd.  CONFESSIONS OF  AN UGLY STEPSISTER by Gregory McGuire is a similar, but directed at a  slightly more sophisticated audience, but is also tons of fun.
4 It is a very touching story showing a young girl suffer through out her life, caused by a fairy godmother gift.I liked the characters very much, especially Ella, she's very brave, young, and funny. And most of all  she's innocent.I held one star, because in the last chapters, the  author, turned out to be mimicking some events. But it is still a good  story.Have fun!
5 This book is truly amazing.  It captures adventure, romance, and fantasy all into one great book!  This book is truly enchanting.
5 Ok, first of all...the people who make bad comments of about this book, and the people who are being sexist, better back off. Also, the people who are making rude comments about the author better check themselves b/c if this was such as bad book why is there over 600 good reviews for this book huh? And why did this book recieve over ten awards? Answer me that!Basically, this is a book about a girl named Ella. Since birth she was cursed to obey all her commands ( sure it gets annoyinghow she cant say NO, but thats just the way it is..) She falls in love with the handsome Prince Char, but before she can marry him, she must find Lucinda and end the curse...I HIGHLY recoment this book to anybody, any age...Lemme just say ages 7-100..haha. This has got to be one of the best books I have personally read. I recomended this to a friend, and after she spent the whole night reading it, she came to me and thanked me so much for recomending it. See for yourself!
5 I, like many parents was thrilled when my son fell in love with &quot;Harry Potter&quot;, and reading at the same time and I wanted to keep the magic (an unavoidable pun) going.  We have discovered a number of charming fantasy books that keep the joy of reading alive and the concept of &quot;fantasy&quot; in perspective.  &quot;Ella Enchanted&quot; is a delightful, refreshing version of Cinderella.  There are subtle connections to the familiar fairy tale that I find ingenious.Ella is not Harry.  I confess that I am one of the many adults who love Harry Potter.  However, for parents who are bothered by the some of the darker sides of Harry Potter, especially where their younger children are concerned, Ella Enchanted is much gentler.  It is an excellent example of pure, enjoyable fantasy.
5 My 8 year old granddaughter was very happy to receive this book on her birthday. It was recommended to me by her mother.
5 This book is like yet unlike the story of Cinderella.For one thing you don't actualy realize it is the Cinderella stoy until the part where the father decides to marry Dame Olga who has two daughters (Hatty and Olive)or maby at the discovery of the glass slipers.In the begining Ella is cursed with obediance by the well meaning\medeling fairy Lucinda.Later when Ella's mother dies,the life the girl knew collapses around her as she is sent to finishing school,where her future step sister Hatty manipulates her.Yet one good thing does come out of her Mother's death,for at the funeral Ella meets Prince Char,who first becomes a friend,then something more.If you are a fantasy lover I promise you will love this book.
5 Ella Enchanted puts a whole new perpective on being obedient!  i won't spoil the story, but its a good read for sure!
4 it's about this girl called ella who has a curse (although its refered to as a "gift") of obedience. if someone orders her to do something, anything, she has to do it immediently. you follow her on a quest to find the fairy who gave her this gift and get her to remove it.i fell instandly in love with this retelling of cinderella. the characters are remarkable, especially ella and her step family which im sure you'll enjoy depising as much as i did. its a love story and they dont normally impress me much but although i rolled my eyes at the fairytale ending i was smiling too. something like 3 years later and this is still one of my favorite books to kick back and read when i'm in need of a happy ending!
4 This was beautiful and moving - simply one of the best retellings of Cinderella I have ever read (the other one being Jim C. Hines' The Stepsister Scheme). Ella has been cursed by a fairy with the 'gift' of obedience - she develops severe physical symptoms if she does not obey any order, even if the order harms her or anyone else. Her beloved mother dies, and her father then marries the manipulative Dame Olga. Dame Olga and her two daughters then proceed to make Ella's life hell and impose degrading orders on her - forcing her to give her up her possessions (even the possessions left to her by her mother), starving her, isolating her from her loved ones and forcing her to work to the point of exhaustion.But Ella doesn't take her awful fate lying down, and fights to find a way to break her curse. Along the way, she outwits dangerous ogres, attends a wonderul giants' wedding and falls in love with the sweet and hilarious Prince Char. The story is a bit short, but the characterisation and plotting was perfect. Ella is a likeable and resourceful heroine, and the story beautifully discusses the importance of being allowed to make your own choices. Ella Enchanted also delves into the darker side of orders unthinkingly given or forced onto vulnerable people, including children. The story portrays family and child abuse (including financial and emotional abuse) unflinchingly (this is a Cinderella retelling, after all). While the story is graphic and confronting, the ending is heartwarming and happy, without feeling contrived. I loved this story. It made me laugh, cry and smile so much. I'd warmly recommend it for anyone.
5 It's a classic.  I've read Ella Enchanted numerous times and it never gets old.  The author seems to have come from another time.  She truly has talent with fairytales.  The characters completely admiral, but none so as Ella herself.  What's the worst curse one can be bestowed with?  It might possibly be the one Ella has.  No matter what, if she is told to do something she has to do it.  She can dodge if you ask her, but hardly anyone does.  When she is told never to tell of her curse, things could get bad.  Finally after her father marries an awful woman with awful daughters, Ella makes a stand.  She's going to find the fairy that put the curse on her if it's the last thing she does.  This book truly is one of my very favorites.  I recommend this to all ages and all genders.
5 Ever wonder how Cinderella came to be in the deplorable condition she starts her story? If so you should read this book. I enjoyed it quite a bit. Highly recommend to anyone who love imaginative tales.
4 Ella Enchanted, is about the beautiful princess Ella who is daughter of the king,and had a curse put on her by her fairy godmother, Fairy Lucinda that she would attain and become obediant, this curse was extremely dangerous as Ella had to listen and do everything that anyone told her, no matter what it was.Ella grew up in a magical state with constant visits from princes, especially her childhood friend Prince Char from other kingdoms who wished to marry her, but when her darling mother died, Ella was in tragedy, her mother had been the real queen and had abducted her place to her husband who was really meant to be a duke, therefore Ella and her father lost all their money making them broke.Her father then married a rather wicked lady who had two ugly and uninteresting children, Olga and Hatty, he did this because he needed money to survive and this family was an incredibly rich one.When everyone found out about their lack of money Ella's stepmother grew very angry and plotted on Ella, she soon found out all about her weakness and asked Ella to give all her precious jewells to her.Hatty and Olga were also extremely cruel and asked her all kinds of questions and asked for all her neckalces and her mother's beautiful necklace.Ella grew sader each day, especially when her father neglected her and let her leave with her two step sisters into the cruel life of boarding school.He also let her stepmother leave at her home during the special ball Prince, Char was giving to choose his bride.As you can see Ella had a rather neglected childhood.But just like Cinderella, Ella's fairy godmother came and helped her arrive punctually at the ball.When Char saw Ella he fell in love at once and danced seven times with her.Ella made up that she was Princess Llea from a distant kingdom, in a faraway town.Char was smitten and at once fell in love with this free-spirited and unique princess.The very next day, Char came to Ella's house and asked for her hand, Olga and Hatty seeing this as a powerful advantage try to force Ella to marry him and Ella struggles to overcome her weakness and in the end......................The end of this fiery classic was so good you have to read it!
4 SO delightful. Gail Carson Levine's heroine is so fully real, it's such a great find to come across a young adult's novel (and a fairy tale, no less) with a strong female character to whom it is so easy to relate. Very humorous at times, this novel is terribly sweet...without ever turning saccharine. I LOVED that Ella is also a terribly cunning linguist. Yay! An intelligent young woman. What fun! Anyone who knows a young girl, should recommend this story to them.
5 Ella Enchanted has been the rage of children's books for a few years now, and will certainly be there for quite a while...in this re-telling of the Cinderella tale, Ella is born a fussy little baby, and when then the  fairies come to bestow their blessing on the baby one fairy laid a curse  instead of a blessing.Lucinda, the fairy gave Ella the gift of  obedience, so when ever Ella was given a command, she was forced to obey,  even if it was not in her best interest.  Ella was a model child, as you  can imagine, but once her peers figured out Ella must obey them, Ella  becomes tormented.Of course there's lots more to the story...but that's  for you to find out...I can't wait to read it to my daughter when she  gets a little older...and the theme (It's worth all the effort it takes to  be who you really are) is priceless.
4 So, call me sappy.This is an excellent re-telling of an age-old tale.  Strong female characters and excellent writing.  The prince has a brain (so many princes just don't - it's so sad.) and the fairy godmother has an unusual moral compass.  Other characters are humorous and intriguing - orgres that eat humans and ponies, fairies that are a bit mad...  all make this story interesting AND funny.The happy ending adds to my pleasure!
1 We loved Anne Hathaway in the movie Ella Enchanted.  Enjoyed all the modern medieval-modern inclusions... the wooden bicycle, the wooden escalators at the shopping mall.  Loved Eric Idle's narrator rhymes.  The screenwriters took a great idea from a dull book and made it fabulous -- The performing elves, the Ogre of leisure forced to poach for humans in the woods and Anne belting out Queen's "Somebody to Love" (It'll give you goose bumps!!),  just to name a few jewels in the movie.  So after loving the movie, we sought out the book at the library.  YAWN!!!! SNORE!!!  Do yourself a favor and skip the book and rent the movie instead!! You'll enjoy every minute of it.  And I must mention the wicked stepmother, Joanna Lumley, from Absolutely Fabulous, or Ab Fab to fans of the British TV show, is stylishly wicked.  Love the "bat ox" scene with Eric Idle.
5 I'm 17 years old...and All I have to say is if you have never read this...then you shoulD! This book had me up all night. I even took it to school to read it! I loved it!! THe Original Cinderlla had NOTHING on EllA!
4 Ella of Frell is fifteen years old and lives with her father, Sir Peter, and mother Lady Eleanor, their cook Mandy, and other servants in the kingdom of Kyrria, ruled over by King Jerrold and Queen Daria, who are the parents of Prince Charmont (Char).  At her birth, the foolish fairy Lucinda gave Ella the gift of obedience, but it turns out to be a curse because she must automatically obey every order given to her regardless of what it is, whether hopping on one foot for a day or even chopping off her own head.  After Lady Eleanor dies, Sir Peter marries the odious Dame Olga, who has two equally odious daughters, Hattie and Olive.  Then her father promptly leaves on a business trip.  In the meantime, Ella and Char have fallen in love, but Ella knows that she can't marry him while under the curse, so she goes on a quest, encountering ogres and giants, in order to break the spell.  Will she succeed?  Or will the Prince find another bride?Ella Enchanted, which was a Newbery honor book in 1998, is Levine's take on the traditional Cinderella story, giving her own explanation of how the heroine came to have a wicked stepmother and stepsisters, ended up becoming a servant, and is finally chosen by the Prince.  One could see the book as making fun of the traditional vows of brides to "love, honor, and obey" their husbands.  Or one could view it simply as showing that obedience doesn't, or shouldn't, necessarily reduce a person to mere chattel slavery.  Each reader will have to decide that for himself.  There are references to drinking wine, brandy, and ale.  And, of course, whenever you have princely balls, you are going to have mention of dancing.  In 2006, Levine went on to write Fairest, a retelling of the Snow White story, set in the same world as Ella Enchanted.The plot of Ella is presented in an interesting way, though it will probably appeal much more to little "princesses" rather than little "princes."  It is easy to read, and I basically enjoyed it, but like several others, I thought the book really couldn't decide whether it wanted to be a hip "modern day fairy tale" or a traditional medieval-type story. It seems to bounce back and forth almost willy-nilly between the two moods.  While it is not a bad book, I have to wonder why it was chosen for a Newbery Honor award.  The reason is probably that, as one reviewer called it an "examination of traditional female roles in fairy tales," it presents "a spunky, intelligent female lead" that is quite in tune with the modern feminist ideal.  A movie was made in 2004 that was very loosely based on the book, and some people expressed the opinion that the film was less disjointed and confusing than the novel, though it is quite different in many respects.
4 A fun, whimsical take on the Cinderella story, Levine breathes fresh life into the familiar characters, giving them depth and a new world to live in.  This breezy read takes us to the fanciful kingdom of Frell, where it is not unusual to fall prey to silver-tongued ogres or to attend a giant's wedding.  Elves live among the trees, Gnomes can see into the future and Fairies in disguise show up for weddings and births.Ella our heroine is a character worth admiring.  She is strong, competent and independent, all of the characteristics that attracts Prince Char to begin with (and even her self-centered absentee father can't, help but admire her for it to).  Prince Char, future ruler of Frell, is tired of fawning courtiers and stuffy manners.  He finds Ella very refreshing and sees the value in her authenticity and intelligence.There is no love at first sight in this book - thank goodness.  Instead, Ella and Char have a very balanced relationship and I appreciate how in creating a strong character in Ella Levine doesn't fall into the trap -that a lot of writers or TV shows do- of making Char weak or an object of ridicule who needs Ella to take care of him and save him from his own incompetence.  Their relationship is what it should be, filled with mutual respect and admiration, the forgiveness of each other faults and the willingness to put another's need before your own.While I'm usually not into the idea of happily-ever-after (yeah, I will resist the urge to go on an unrealistic expectations rant) Levine is a very gifted story teller and I look forward to when I can share Ella's story with my girls.For the full review and others visit whymsylikesbooks dot blogspot dot com
5 This is a really GREAT book, probably my favorite ever! It is the one that turned me on to fairy tales and fantasy! Ella was very funny and I really identified with her and her problems! Ella Enchanted is a good book for younger kids, but teenagers who still like happy endings and fairies will love it too! It is absolutely histerical in some spots, you will know them when you find them. Go and read this book if you haven't yet, it definitely a keeper!
4 Ella of Frell has never really known her father.  She and her mother are best friends living a happy life with their Cook, Mandy, for company.  But Ella is not your typical girl.  She was given the gift of obedience as a baby from a fairy who never gives good gifts, even when she has the best of intentions.  This gift means Ella must obey any and all orders - whether it be to sweep the floor, hop like a rabbit, or cut off her own head!After Ella's mother dies, Ella must deal with her grief alone - for not only is her mother gone, but her father is sending her to finishing school with the two most horrid girls in the world - Hattie and Olive.  She wishes she could stay in Frell, enjoying the menagerie and her new friend Prince Charmont, but her father, who knows nothing of her curse, has ordered her to go.But Ella is not one to shy from adventure, or to bend the rules of her obedience charm.  Ogres, elves, stepsisters, and possible true love wait in her future.  If only she could find the fairy who gave her the curse in the first place...___________________________________My thoughts -At first, it was hard not to compare this book to the movie, which I've seen about ten times.  I still watch it every so often with my sisters to laugh and relive childhood memories, as silly as the movie is.  I wanted the book to be different but...the same.  Same characters, same order of events, same climax and turnout.I got something completely different, and was at first surprised by this.  I wasn't sure how much I liked it - it lacked the action and intensity I was expecting.But I soon got over this and found myself in a fluffy, light, floating fairy-tale that involves more silly magic and character development than action.  And then I was hit with the climax - and I went to my sister, who had already read the book, laughing and giggling and bursting about the story with her, while she tried to get me to stop hugging her with joy... ;)In any case, I was so happy, by the end, to find how different and how much better this was from the movie, which I don't know if I'll ever watch again.  How could they have ruined such a beautiful story?!Character notes -I really loved all these characters.  They were three-dimensional and full of life and so different from each other.  I admired Ella (even though I thought she cried a lot), despised Hattie, and said, "Poar Olive" every once in a while to get a good laugh.  Yes, I meant "poar".)Prince Char, where to begin?  He started as a boy, and grew into a man, lovable, tender, and loving.  He lived up to my standards and definitely deserved this story's heroine!Story notes -Like I said before, I wasn't too happy with the lack of action and suspense...but it was hard to stay disappointed.  I found myself enjoying the story just as much as I'd been hoping, just in a different way.  It focused on Ella and how she came to be a woman, so whether this involved taming ogres or sewing for finishing school, it became an adventure.  A few of the scenes weren't as well written or executed as the others, but the turnout of those scenes always made up for it.My favorite scenes involved the love letters.  Love letters always add the most touching and tender side to a story.  I'm so glad this story had many!!Summing it up -Lively - like skipping by a lake in the cool spring breeze.  I'm so glad to have gotten to know Ella, her friends, and even her enemies.  I want to read more of Levine's novels now!Nothing for the parents - 11+
5 I'm not quite finished with it, but I've found every page thus far to be a marvel.  Chevalier's polished lack of self-consciousness and sentimentality makes this book as fresh and crisp as the aprons in which young Griet takes pride in spotlessly maintaining.Vermeer's household becomes its own self-contained, small nation, with rich details of its geography and features, delicious fly-on-the-wall vistas of political maneuvering, speechless reverence for its beauty and royalty, and the brutality and instability of life among its poor.  Griet herself is a masterpiece -- a keenly street-smart heroine carefully painted using only the media of the time -- mercifully absent of the sullen, contemptuous self-obsession and insatiable needs for attention exhibited by contemporary teens in our culture.I can't wait to rent the movie!  I look forward to seeing Scarlet Johansson animate Griet.
5 If you like stories about women and their experiences throughout history, you will find &quot;Earring&quot; a fasinating glimpse into the past. I liked the how subtle the relationship was between Vermeer and Griet. I loved the underlying issue of her and her hair, as well as the Protestant/Catholic rift of the time. A great, great story!!!
4 Sixteen year old Griet needs to work. Since her fathers accident costing his eyes and her brothers apprenticeships took him away from home, she will have to go away to work and bring home money for her family. She is hired by a wealhy Delft family the Vermeers to clean their house for wages and work every except Sunday. With a heavy heart, she packs her bags and leaves for her new home.The Vermeers have an unusual household. The head, Johannes Vermeer is a struggling artist to his 12 children (with #13 on the way) and spends his days up in his attic painting beautiful works of art. Catharinna, makes sure her husband is not disturbed and that none of the children bother him. But when events unfold and Griets sexual interests start to bloom, art may be the only thing that will save her this time.Full of beautiful writings of Delft and people who live in it, Girl With a Pearl Earring is a luminous portrait of the power of art and the magical effect it has on people.
4 Okay...I'm not quite finished with this novel, but so far I can appreciate the intent of the author, which is to apply to literature the style of Jan Vermeer's paintings.  The story is very simplistic, very unlike Memoirs of a Geisha.  The plot is almost non-existant.  But what makes this novel worth reading is that you can peer into another place and another time.  The author also creates a very forthright, believable protagonist.  As someone who was raised Catholic, I'm also intrigued by that crucifixion painting in the bedroom.
5 I have to admit it took me a while to get into this book, but once you get sucked in that's it there's no going back. I think that this book is so alluring because the characters are so rich and you just understand everything and you can relate to these very realistic characters. My sister has the movie and I hope it can live up to the book!
3 When I read the reviews for this book, I was expecting a magnificient plot with intricate revelations about the artist's little known life. However, when I started reading this book, that was not the case.The pace was  quite slow. At times it seemed ardous to read more than 6 pages at a  sitting. The author took a long time to open us to the characters. She  didn't reveal anything substantial about the artist's life. But I do  commend her attempting to describe the painting process of Vermeer's  work.I did enjoy the confusion of feelings Griet had with her master and  Pieter the Son. How she was torn of her position and desires.All in all,  it was a nice leisure read. And my advice is to not expect so much from  this novel, I think it partly ruined my experience.
3 Tracy Chevalier has come up with a very creative and ingenious plot and a very readable novel.  It is easy to understand how she may have been inspired by this particular Vermeer painting and its subject, to tell her story, promise of which was captured for eternity by the most famous of the Dutch Masters.The delivery is less brilliant, and dialogues seem less than authentic at times.  Sure, there are glimpses of the 17th century Dutch daily life, business of art of painting, grind of keeping a medieval house functioning and the fragility of human life, but one does not exactly get transported to the time and place while reading this novel.Still, it was a pleasant book, worth the read
4 Johannes Vermeer, one of the famous Dutch painting masters from the seventeenth century, in the middle of his career created a portrait of a girl with a pearl earring, in a turban, often called "The Dutch Mona Lisa". The girl from the painting looks at us with mysterious expression, sometimes appears sad, sometimes hiding a smile... What is her story?Tracy Chevalier created one possible version in her novel "Girl with a Pearl Earring" where some historical facts mix with fiction to create the beautiful story, vivid and colorful, reminiscent of Vermeer's paintings... The atmosphere of the book is incredible, unique, as if it were an account of an eye-witness and not the figment of the author's imagination.Griet, a sixteen-year old daughter of a glass blower from Delft, disabled after a work-related accident, , from an impoverished, but hard- working family, inherited her father's artistic sensitivity. She starts a job as a servant at Vermeer's house and the painter becomes intrigued seeing her vegetable compositions. When Vermeer notices Griet, her life changes - she becomes his aide and, finally, a model for the famous portrait. She get a chance, but at the same time enters the different world, full of obstacles unfamiliar for her, and she needs to be careful. Their fascination with each other cannot last long...In Holland of the 1600s the social order is strictly defined. The Protestants are completely separate from Catholics, the poor from the rich, the masters from the servants. This is why Griet and Vermeer do not even think about a romantic relationship, despite their similar view of the world. Johannes has to paint to feed his ever-growing family and satisfy his possessive, jealous wife, Catharina, who except being the mother of his children does not have much in common with him, and his mother-in-law, the greedy and conniving Maria Thinks, who manages very well to get more and more orders for his paintings. The portrait of a servant and the growing, although mainly spiritual, intimacy of the artist with Griet cause tension in the family and after a while Griet's dismissal seems inevitable and many intrigues and repressions from Vermeer's family members and friends make her leave. Such ending is obvious for all involved parties and any regrets remain unspoken... Griet marries Pieter, the cheerful butcher's son, and moves on. Only much later, the surprising gift reminds her of the time at the painter's home.The characters are full of life: Vermeer, a full-blown artist; Griet, girl who in other reality could change her destiny; Catharina, a woman who does not see beyond her traditional role; Maria Thinks, clever and resourceful; and many other minor protagonists, sketched skillfully and with precision. It is easy to imagine the clothes, simple, ascetic surroundings, streets of Delft - the prose is very descriptive and full of details."Girl with a Pearl Earring" is an enjoyable book, but it is also one of the rare examples, where the film based on a novel exceeds it - the 2004 screening by Peter Webber with Scarlett Johansson and Colin Firth is a great movie.
4 On one level "Girl with a Pearl Earring" is an underwritten novel set in a seventeenth century Dutch town where Griet, a teen-age maid, becomes star-struck when she is noticed by the famous painter, Vermeer. Tracy Chevalier builds her story slowly with interesting little details of life in Holland in the sixteen hundreds and before we quite realize it we are swept away.So what is this book all about anyway? There is only one small sex scene, no great world-changing events, and little action as we have come to think of it in current fiction. Then why are readers buying it in droves, lining up on library waiting lists, and staying awake until the wee hours when they have it in hand? Because, perhaps, it speaks, on almost every page, to a longing which all of us feel but cannot quite articulate.Let's call it a search for a kind of perfection and the impossibility of its achievement. In this sense, Tracy Chevalier's story is about lost possibilities. Who can resist them whether in the literature of love or war or art? I once knew, in college, a pert and lovely young woman who set out on a quest for the perfect happiness. She never achieved it and her uncompromising search deprived her of a certain measure of happiness. Now I feel compelled to try and capture her yearning by writing her story. In a way, that is also what this book is about, the seductive power of longing.Vermeer achieves perfection, or something very near it, in his work. But it is at the high price of alienation from family and financial depravity. Griet, too, comes close in a different way, but is given only a fleeting glance of the perfection she desires. And Vermeer, motivated to perfect his work out of longing for Griet, or the idea of her, is likewise deprived.So why, to paraphrase F. Scott Fitzgerald, do we beat on against the tide, seeking a kind of perfection we can never achieve? Because, perhaps, we hope for a miracle. Like the one which transformed Tracy Chavalier's banal little story into a few golden moments.
5 I read this book years ago, and still pick it up every so often. It is simply beautiful. I love all of Tracy Chevalier's work, but this is the one that really stands out to me. It is a MUST read for anybody that is a fan of Vermeer, art, the Netherlands or just a historical fiction lover. I have also checked out the film and of course, was disappointed. Colin Firth alone, makes it worth checking out...but do so after you have read this book.
4 This is such an enchanting novel, showing both the naiveness of a young girl, and a look into the life of a famous painter. Even if it is fictional. You can really feel the perils of society in that time period, and the struggles Griet deals with.Although wary at first, after 20 or so pages I was transported into the realm of the book and was very pleased with how good the story was.
4 The best way to read this novel is with a book of Vermeer's artwork by your side! I enjoyed thumbing through it and looking at his paintings while simultaneously reading &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring.&quot;This is the most fun I have had with historical fiction, and because not much is known about Vermeer, I appreciated Tracy Chevalier's efforts. I especially loved the descriptions of Griet making the paint for Vermeer, the scenes in the streets of Delft, family life in the 1600's, and the creative process of Vermeer.This is a great gift for Vermeer fans or historical fiction readers.
5 As a rich, hand dipped chocholate is not a meal, as a single canvas is not art, this book is neither a historical journey nor a page-turning melodrama; although it contains elements of each. Like a single sweet confection, or a well loved picture, it is a tantalizing glimpse into a dreamed-of past, full of promise and color.The reader may well be left wishing for more; more length, more detail, more knowledge of the people and their time. Wisely, the author leaves us hungry for more, knowing that to fulfill those wishes and expectations, would be like a painter writing an explanation of his work ... it would defeat the purpose of the canvas.Try this little sweetness for an afternoon, you will be surprised and delighted at Chevalier's power to move you. Sometimes, less is plenty.
3 I picked up this book on request from my godmother, and read it over two or three days. Although not bad, it's not extremely memorable either.This book imagines the story of the anonymous Girl With A Pearl Earring in Vermeer's famous painting of the same name. In the book, the girl is Griet, a newly hired maid in Vermeer's household. Griet is a well-drawn, sympathetic character whose emotions are clearly defined. Her struggles between Vermeer and Pieter, the butcher's son, as well as her more subsumed longing for a better and higher life, are easy to relate to. However, this book does not delve into the many layers of human emotion within Vermeer. Although probably written in partial to demonstrate his enigmatical existence, it is a bit of a letdown.Overall, this is a nice, simple book that does not require you to think; it merely requires you to lose yourself in 17th-century Holland for a few days.
5 I read this back-to-back with Girl in Hyacinth Blue by Susan Vreeland.  I loved Vreeland's book and loved this as well, but do not confuse the two; they are very different books written in different styles.  All they have in common is a Vermeer painting.Girl With a Pearl Earrings presents a fictional account of how this particular Vermeer came to be.  Griet, a young maid of little means, lives with Vermeer's ever-growing family.  A bond of sorts develops between artist and maid, and she becomes the subject of his painting, which goes against conventions, social mores and the wishes of Vermeers wife.There are many surprising little incidents and twists to the story, which I hesitate to outline here.  But suffice to say I found the resolution of the story to be extremely satisifying on Griet's behalf.  Chevalier so clearly depicts Delft in her writing that I can easily envision it in my own mind.  I felt the story was well developed and had a very tight, well-rounded plot.  The majority of the characters are either likable or dislikable...particularly one child, Cornelia, Catharina Vermeer and Pieter the son.I recommend this as well as Vreeland's book.  I also would not discourage reading them together...one complements the other quite well.
4 Girl with a Pearl Earring is a very interesting book about a slice of life during the 17th-century. It is a fictional account of Griet, a domestic servant and potential subject in Vermeer's painting of the same name. Not much is known about Vermeer or his domestic subjects. During the Dutch Golden Age, painting was not considered an art, but a craftsmanship, a way to make a living. Vermeer is considered one of the masters in the Delft painters' guild and it was quite an honor to serve this master. This book takes you back in time as you experience the way of life in the 1660's.  You will get your hands dirty with Griet as she boils the water for endless loads of laundry, selects the best cuts of meat at the market and as she mixes the paints that Vermeer will use in bringing life to his domestic interiors, portraits and city views. In the actual painting, the subject has a gaze is alert and keen, her lips are parted and she seems about to speak. This would aptly describe Griet as she has a good eye for art and somewhat of a risk taker in stating her opinions.
4 I enjoyed reading this book.  To see the life of a young maid, Griet, and how she came to be the subject of Vermeer's famous painting was an interesting historical fiction novel.  I enjoyed imagining the 17th century lifestyle and seeing how the paintings came to life.  I found myself compelled by Griet's character and anxious to see how her world would change after she became to subject of a famous painter.
5 Girl With a Pearl Earring is the story of Griet, young housemaid in the Vermeer home. Vermeer is a very well-respected painter and his work is highly valuable today, since he only painted 35 known pieces. In this work of fiction, Griet is, basically, Vermeer's young muse. After she moves into the house to assist Vermeer's wife, she slowly is befriended by the painter and becomes his assistant.This book is full of rich characters...from the seemingly aloof Vermeer himself, to the bratty and spiteful daughter Cornelia. One of the highlights of the book is Maria Thins, the grandmother of the house, and one of the few friends Griet can trust. Maria is a quiet conspirator to help Griet in all the problems she has throughout the story.There isn't one point in this book where it becomes unbelievable. The whole story is spectulation as to who the young girl in the painting Girl With the Pearl Earring actually is. This book will pull you into Griet's world and convince you that her life and story took place exactly as written by Chevalier. Overall, this is a rich, warm, and atmospheric work that is deserving of its best-seller status.
5 This is one of those novels that you just must read.  As a fan of the painter Vermeer I found it enjoyable of several levels.  I won't go into detail with the review, as there are more eloquent reviewers here that have given a more than adequate review.  I will say this; if you've seen the movie and liked it, please do yourself a favor and read the book.  But I must warn you, be prepared to fall in love with it.
4 Ever wonder what lies behind the art?  Curious about the person made famous by the piece?  How does the artist, or the model, see the world, people, or fragments of it therein, differently from the rest of us? Tracy Chevalier offers possible answers to questions like these as she explores the world of the painter Vermeer's Girl with a Pearl Earring then creates her novel of the same name.At the age of sixteen, Griet is forced by financial circumstances to work as a maid in the home of Vermeer.  Set in seventeenth century Delft, Holland, the book opens with the scene in which she is hired.  Griet is slicing carrots, leeks and cabbage in her mother's kitchen, and as she slices, she arranges the vegetables in a symmetrical pattern before tossing them into the pot.  Her play with colors and shapes does not escape the artist's notice when Griet's mother brings Vermeer and his wife into the kitchen to see her.  Nervous, Griet tells a small lie. She learns she is to start the next day and will have to live with the Vermeer family in another part of the village.  Not happy about the turn of events, she is a product of the seventeenth century culture, nonetheless, and resigns herself to her station in life.Chevalier paints a vivid picture of the village as Griet walks along the canal through the market square to a section of town she has never visited, Papists' Corner, and to her new employer's home.  On her arrival, she is met by his four daughters (one of whom will become her nemesis) and a small son.  As the older housekeeper shows Griet around and explains her responsibilities, the reader begins to understand the difficulty of simple living during those times and how much work it took to maintain a household.  Griet's biggest duty will be the laundry for the entire family although her most important chore is to clean the master's studio (without moving anything). She will also help with shopping, cooking and cleaning, enough to make the most industrious individual weary.An innocent, unwilling but resigned intruder into the household, Griet endures the focus of jealousy and mischief and sometimes suffers the role of scapegoat with grace as she attempts to maintain a low profile.  She handles the challenges well for a girl of sixteen even though at times her life seems near futile - until she is drawn in to help the painter, her master.She studies his work area carefully, measuring, lifting and cleaning items, then replacing them with precision.  She observes the light in his studio, the windows, and where his model will sit or stand.  Aware of her perception, Vermeer questions her just enough to make her notice even more.  Soon she is helping him mix the paints and drawn further into the world of the artist. Her closeness to the master does not go unnoticed by the household and she treads the fine line of her position precariously.  Reluctantly, she is manipulated into becoming the model and the tension increases as the crux of the matter becomes the pearl earring.An enjoyable aspect of the story is that we can look at an image of the painting at any time and know exactly what our protagonist looks like. Chevalier works in enough art history and technique and local culture to create a believable story. Her antagonists are properly irritating and unlikable enough to make the reader cheer for Griet when things go well.  In a remarkable way, Chevalier interprets the painting itself.  She justifies the sadness in the model's expressive eyes.  Likewise she implies the hopefulness of youth to the smile that plays at the corner of the model's mouth. She explains the unusual head covering with solid, plausible insight into the character.  The pearl comes alive with symbolism and metaphorical purpose. Not only is the novel difficult to put down, the girl wearing the pearl earring lives. Andrea Walker ~ freelance writer, book reviewer
3 Ignoring scholarly confusion about the identity of the sitter for this famous painting, Chevalier invents a housemaid whose intelligence and resourcefulness come into conflict with the meekness expected of those in her station. Perhaps it was the psychologically complex combination of uncertainty and surprise in the portrait that inspired her. The beautiful girl, dressed like neither a lady nor a maid, seems ill at ease and willful at the same time. The novel is a tale of domestic intrigue in 17th-century Delft with a minimum of details bringing the time and place to life. Delft never really rises physically before our eyes, unfortunately, and Vermeer's luminous paintings are described as shockingly mundane lists of the objects and people they depict, without a glimmer of the dialogue between silence and light that is what makes them extraordinary. The closest Chevalier comes is in her description of the figure in another painting: &quot;A window lit her from the left, falling across her face and tracing the delicate curve of her forehead and nose.&quot; (A window fell across her face?) Nothing in the writing hints at why these works of art are special, beyond the fact that everyone says they are. Chevalier isn't really interested in the paintings, or in Vermeer, who is little more than a cipher. Her subject is particular: the imagined story behind a painting. In unadorned language, suitable to her protagonist, she creates a cautious, observant, thoughtful young woman the reader comes to both know and like. Most of the other characters fail to emerge as vivid individuals, with the exception of a senior maid, Tanneke. There are murky references to a possible attraction between the master and the maid which should have been deleted -- Griet, the girl with a pearl earring, rightly concludes that Vermeer was always more interested in the painting than the sitter. Chevalier, the young novelist, should have learned from Griet's wisdom. The novel's flaws notwithstanding, it's an enjoyable read, and Griet's lot in life after she sits for the fateful painting has a satisfying authenticity.
3 but a little thin for a novel. I've heard people rave about this book, and it is a charming little story, quite lovingly written. I understand why some readers have responded so enthusiastically to this and the spate of other novels that have come out recently that involve Dutch painters. Others are &quot;Girl in Hyacinth Blue&quot; about a fictional Vermeer painting, &quot;Johanna&quot;, about the widow of Van Gogh's brother and even &quot;Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister&quot; which includes a character referred to as 'the Master' (really the best of the bunch). It seems a little mean-spirited to criticize this book too harshly because I enjoyed it too, but the story is small, and the characters' concerns are uber-domestic. Even the writing is simplistic, verging on Hemingwayesque, not a plus. I'd give it a B-, and since somebody has probably already optioned the rights to it, I recommend waiting for the movie.
4 A brilliant first novel by Chevalier, &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; is literary fiction at its best.Griet is a delicately crafted character coming-of-age in a difficult time and situation.  She is mysterious, intelligent, and kind...all traits which at times enthrall and at others befuddle her family and friends.17th Century Delft is a place where plagues still happen, maids do not speak before being spoken to, and marriage is a sacrament of financial rather than emotional importance.  It is also a period characterized in Dutch Art History by the representation of genre paintings and landscapes, both of which were subjects seldom selected by Vermeer, who instead concentrated on personal experience.  Chevalier works magic with the elusive personal life of this painter and is able to make the painting &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; come alive to the reader of the book.My only advise to readers is to consult a Name Dictionary or else listen to the audio version...the names are not pronounced as they are spelled and I was quite surprised to hear the difference.I am a reader's advisory librarian and have yet to recommend this book to anyone and hear that it was not enjoyed.  This is truly a magnificent first book by Chevalier.
2 Not bad, if you want to spend the time of a (short) airplane trip and you can't fly with knitting needles anymore, but really!  A servant girl who can tell what is missing from an unfinished portrait -- who knows better than Vermeer what one touch is needed to make a portrait whole?  Forget this, forget &quot;Girl in Hyacinth Blue&quot;, and find &quot;The Flanders Panel&quot;.
2 After all the hype, this is disappointing.  Lawrence Johnson's review below (dated February 8) says it all.If this book aspires to anything, it is sexual coming-of-age for the heroine.  Anticipation and tension lend an erotic air, but the story never really lifts off.  The bits about art and Vermeer's life may be gleaned from artbooks or biographies.It's like superior Mills & Boon romance, with its stereotypes: the downtrodden heroine, the sexy, enigmatic master,  quasi-evil patrons, jealous wives/mothers/daughters.  Unfortunately the narrative is limited to the single perspective of the self-satisfied Griet.  But other viewpoints, such as that of her suitor, the sexy but smelly young butcher Pieter, or her antagonist, the vindictive Cornelia, would have given more light and shade.
4 This was a neat little book.  It was given to me by my aunt who had received it from a friend.  I especially enjoyed it because I was also taking an art history class at the time.  The plot could have been more developed, and the ending elaborated on, but overall I enjoyed it!
5 Congrats to Tracy Chevalier for this vivid characterization of an artist, his motley family, and his reticent model. Highly Recommended.James Conroyd MartinAuthor of Push Not the River& Against a Crimson SkyPush Not the River
2 This slim book does not deserve the praise heaped upon it. How absurd to imagine a young maid, without any background or instruction in art, will explain to the master-painter Vemeer how his paintings might be improved. Griet sees the flaws in the paintings and wonders why Vemeer does not correct them - yeah, that's plausible. Not once is Griet wrong in her criticism/suggestion on how the painting might be improved.Unexplained in this lame plot is why Griet's situation is so precarious - the master instructs her to mix the colors - but if his wife finds out Griet is carrying out his instructions, there will be hell to pay! But why? And why is the other servant so jealous that Griet is mixing the colors?? The extra work doesn't sound fun.One of Vemeer's daughter's torments Griet for no apparent reason (other than to create plot "tension") - oh no! Griet might lose "everything she has" - but what she has is nothing but a low paying, hard working job as a maid. And losing the job is no big deal anyway, she can go marry the butcher's son who lusts after her. (What an anti-romance the courtship of Griet by Pieter is - how dull, how devoid of passion, - their "dates" consist of Pieter groping her body in an alley!)Usually "literature" that is this weak in plot makes up for it with beautiful prose, but the prose in this novel is merely workmanlike. This is no masterpiece. I was glad the book was only 288 pages in the hardcover edition.
5 There are two types of people that shouldn't read this book; 1.  Romantics who studied art history, and 2.  People hoping for a historically detailed account of 17th Century Flanders.  Romantics who love Vermeer's paintings will finish this book disillusioned and sad.  Historians will get very little detail to satisfy  their desire for a complete picture of this period.  On the other hand, those hoping for a good novel with historical references and overtones, or perhaps a glimpse into the process of artists in Vermeer's time, will enjoy Girl with a Pearl Earring very much.GWAPE is mostly historical fiction about a beautiful teenage girl's years spent as a maid in the service of famous painter Vermeer's household.  Griet is a hardworking, intelligent sort who has wonderful work ethics and really just wants to help out her parents, who have fallen on hard times.  During her stay with this family she unexpectedly becomes an apprentice of sorts to the painter after he realizes she has some undeveloped talent (which a girl of her station would never realize, normally).  Although the cover art hints at a juicy affair between the two, this is just a cheap marketing ploy.  The real romance is between Griet and her discovery of art.It's not that author Tracy Chevalier didn't do her research.  The parts of this book that talk of camera obscura, how paints were mixed, the hierarchy of a wealthy household and the social customs of that age speak of a great deal of research and indeed, insight.  Without being any kind of expert myself I'd bet that Chevalier studied these things in great depth.  It's just that life outside of the domestic sphere is sketched in only very sparingly.  One does not get a very fulfilling view of Flanders through this book.The overstory about maid Griet and her "sensual awakening" to the art in light and the objects around her is beautifully done.  I could not ask for a better description.  What troubled me was that every other character in this tale was completely blind to anything but their own prejudices, petty concerns and agendas - including Vermeer himself!  Each person sees Griet either as a commodity or a threat, based on stereotypes or their own insecurities.  To Vermeer she is a "muse" to inspire him, even at the expense of exhausting her with too much work and endangering her position in the household.  To his wife Catharina, Griet is a sneaky young upstart who coveted her man.  To the children and servants Griet is a drudge without a life outside their house.  To Veermeer's patron she is an easy victim for his advances.  Even her own parents see her as nothing more than a means by which they could obtain meat and financial security through her engagement.  Griet's feelings and precarious situation never enter anybody's mind save perhaps Vermeer's mother-in-law's.  Her resulting loneliness and isolation gradually backs her into a corner where she has no other options but to play the game by rules she detests.  Her reward is more slander and work.I have no doubt that the scenario described in this book was a common problem for poor girls in this historical period.  My objection is to its use as a device to manipulate the reader's sympathies.  Do we need another story of yet one more victim of outdated patriarchal evils?Worse, Vermeer is forever ruined for me.  While as an art student I could appreciate his paintings on a purely aesthetic level, now I can't help but think about poor Griet and Chevalier's speculations of the stories behind them.  It leaves a bitter aftertaste.  I can now only think of Vermeer as a self-centered boor who just happpened to be blessed with extraordinary gifts.Yes, GWAPE was well-written, enjoyable even.  Though the last 100 pages I couldn't put it down.  Yet, I will always be sorry now that I read it.-Andrea, aka Merribelle
4 Jan Vermeer is usually overshadowed in the world of Dutch painters by Rembrandt van Rijn and Vincent van Gogh, perhaps because of the scarcity of his paintings.  Vermeer painted a relative few works, most of them quiet, domestic scenes with none of the grandeur of "Night Watch" or vibrancy of "Sunflowers". "Girl With a Pearl Earring", indeed, is probably his most famous work.  In the book of the same title, Tracy Chevalier creates a fictional muse to inspire this mysterious portrait.Griet, the narrator, is a young maid in the home of Vermeer.  She falls quietly in love with her master, who allows her in to clean his studio and mix his paints, introducing her to a world of color and beauty unheard of in the life of a 17th century Protestant servant.  Vermeer, in turn, is fascinated with Griet, perhaps goaded on by a rivalry with his lascivious patron. Eventually, he paints Griet wearing his wife's pearl earrings.  The fallout from this act affects both of their life, and perhaps the history of Dutch Golden Age art, forever.If anything is wrong with this story, it is what it lacks.  Griet as a character remains closed off from the reader for the entire length of the book.  We get almost no insights into her personality, no expressions of emotion, and thus it's impossible to empathize with her.  Vermeer is by turns callous and understanding, which could make for a wonderfully complex character but instead comes off as inconsistent and hastily drawn.  The town of Delft itself gets the shaft - I've been there, and even I couldn't make sense of the layout of the streets and districts, or get any sense of how beautiful the town truly is.The relationship between Griet and Vermeer could have been an intriguing study of class difference and how it affects relationships, how a subtle abuse of power can destroy someone who's helpless to say no, how the abused can love her abuser.  Instead, we get no real sense of why Griet continues to idolize Vermeer, nor why he treats her the way he does.  To Chevalier's credit, she keeps their relationship platonic, with only a few moments of sexual tension.  The relationship between maid and master is volatile enough without throwing gratuitous sex into it, in my opinion.Overall, if you're already interested in art, the Dutch Golden Era, or hopeless love stories, this is a lovely book. I doubt it will win any converts, although the movie might change all of that. (This is one of the few instances where I think the movie might be better than the book, since by definition writing about art is going to be awkward.) Speaking of, my recommendation is to get the edition that has the original painting on the cover, rather than the scene from the movie. When Chevalier starts discussing Griet's sitting for the portrait, it's helpful to have it in front of you.
5 Marvelous descriptions, delightful characterizations, flow of plot and the nice, not quite unexpected twist at the end, more, Tracy, please! Namste, Nancy Davison
5 You don't have to be an art enthusiast, or even know who Veermer is and his importance to painting in order to appreciate this novel. "Girl With A Pear Earring" transcends its focus on painting and the painter himself  and reaches higher levels, when it is about love, duty and rendemption.Sixteen year-old Griet has a simple Dutch life in the middle XVII Century until one day things change forever. She is assigned to work at the Veermer  family's house. At first she is not happy to leave her family to live with strangers and, to make things worse for her, catholics. She does only small things, like going to the market, washing clothes; but her importance increases when she becomes the maid who cleans the room where the painter works. She must clean everything without removing them from their original place. She develops a methode of measuring using hands, arms, and many others parts of her body. With time, she is one of the few people allowed to enter into that room. As we all suspect, she becomes friend of the painter, despite his sense of reservation. This leads them both to events that will change their lives, and many others'.Tracy Chevalier has done a remakable job when writing this novel. It is undeniable that she made a huge ammount of research about not only the painter, but also Dutch life in the XVII Century. She reacreats the set so perfectly that it is impossible not believe that things were the exactly way she describes. The details are impressive: the market, the streets and houses, eveything is exaustive described but that doesn't necessarily mean a boring description. Tracy's writing is alive and colorful.Another point well explored in this novel is Veermer's paintings. While she describes his process of painting, readers can easily picture him setting the scene, preparing to paint, and, even, the painting process itself. Then again, her research about his methods, his material is impressive and very accurate. And Griet is not the only model that comes to life in this novel. Some other paintings done by him in the same period are `explained', and the models become charaters in the novel.The narrative is told by Griet, so she is the character that we know more. She describes her life, family, duty and even a love affair. In her 16 year-old mind, things are seen by a peculiar point of view. Her `text' is easy as it is supposed to be, once she also barely knows how to write. The painter has a very important role in her life. He helps her in her coming of age -- depiste that none of them is aware of it. The painter is a very mysterious character. His family -- mainly wife and kids -- is much more the characterzation than real life people, but I don't think it is a problem, once it is a very young girl who is trying to describe them.As I aforementioned, you don't need to know Veermer, or have seen his paintings, the book is a work of fiction, and can be read as it is. It is a novel about love, courage, fear and rendenption.All in all, reading this book is so enjoyable as seeing the paint. Chevalier's work may not be as close to perfection as Veermer's, but her novel is superb and it amazingly deliveries as a piece of fiction. Anyway, who knows what really happened when Veermer painted "The Girl With A Pearl Earring"?
5 This was a facinating weave of a story around a famous painting, a look in a possible life of a 17th century maid in a Delft household of the famous painter; Vermeer.What I particularly liked was wandering around in the mind of a young woman, raised in the 17th century with her reflections and observations.  She dwelt not only on what she saw, but the significance of those events and views to her.  Especially poignant was her observations on her family home and neighborhood after she had dwelt for sometime in that of Vermeer household.What was surprising was the significance and interpretations of some events based on 17th century thinking.The story centers around the young woman; Griet who is portrayed as being the woman in Vermeer's famous painting; &quot;Girl with a Pearl earring&quot;.  This story shows her family background and the story behind why she has come to be a maid.  You see the story unfold as this Protestant girl ventures in to Papist corner to join her employer's household.  Her interactions with her Master, his wife and Mother as well as his children and other maid, come to show each's personality so clearly.What is most hard to wrap your mind around is how few &quot;rights&quot; a poor person has compared to the wealthy in that day and age.  Griet's sense of position, though she was not subservient, was that blame traveled down the hill of status and had more to do with who you were than what you did.  Her perspective was not one of outrage as mine would be, but of acceptance and awareness of this disparity.  She often had to tread softly and react to events that she was to be blamed with, warily.  Innocence was not enough.The story unfolds how she came to be in one of her Master's paintings and what is interesting is the reaction and concern for this by all the parties in the book.  You see the reaction in the 17th century of a woman displaying her hair, to the significance of earrings and facial expressions.  What was also interesting was her reaction and interest in Vermeer's paintings and the process of them.  I never realized any of this was part of the process.  I can only assume the writer did some research on how paintings were done in those times.It makes for a facinating read.  It gives you an opportunity to step back in time.  It also makes you thankful to live in the 2000s.
3 I'm not a fast reader by any means.  But I managed to tear through this book in 3 days, hour-and-a-half sittings at a time(fast for me, anyway).  I first dismissed this book as a period piece.  It is, but Chevalier keeps the plot fast-paced and doesn't bog the story down with detail.  At the core is the story of a Dutch maid and her working and semi-seunsual relationship with the painter Vermeer.  Not quite as multi-layered as I like from a novel, I was very entertained and had a hard time putting it down.  &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; would be a good start for any book club.  And if you're looking for an excellent follow-up book about a passionate artist try Chaim Potok's &quot;My Name is Asher Lev.&quot;
5 I was completely taken in by this magical novel of another time and another place.  I am astounded by the imagination the author demonstrates by creating this rich and utterly believable story around a piece of artwork, weaving the sparse facts we know about Vermeer's life with knowledge of the people and customs of Delft.  Thank you, Tracy Chevalier, for a look into lives I didn't know I'd been missing.
5 This book is a treasure!  It is a historical fiction, lovely!It is the life o a girl, working in the house of the famouse painter Johannes Vermeer.  The description of the household and of the  town of Delft will take you there.  In fact I was so fascinated with the story that I had to visit Delft for myself, and see what Tracy Chevalier so well described.Griet, a young girl leaves her home to work as a maid in Vermeer household, but endes being his model and assistant as well as his lover...
5 I'll admit I went into this one not expecting to like it - but I loved it!  Chevalier's writing paints vivid pictures that are absolutely beautiful to read.
5 Not being much of a reader of historical fiction I wasn't sure if I was going to like this but it's a very interesting read.The idea of weaving around a story around a famous painting is a great one and Chevalier has conveyed both a sense of place and time very well in the book. The prose is simple but effective. Griet, the narrator, is forced to take a job as a maid to the painter Vermeer's family after her father is blinded in an accident at work. She immediately develops a huge crush on the man of the house and believes that he has some feelings for her. Let's get one thing straight though, Griet is an unreliable narrator and her perceptions of Vermeer can't be trusted. She obsesses over every tiny gesture he makes and word he speaks in a way that was very believable for a teenage girl. She is drawn to him because he is mysterious, powerful and treats her better than everyone else. She also needs something to distract her from her miserable life as a house maid. She fantasises about usurping his horrible wife, and Catharina recognises the threat this attractive young woman poses to her household.Let's get another thing straight - this is no love story (in the same way The Great Gatsby isn't a love story, Baz Luhrmann). It's a study of class relations and power, and the way these things warp people and relationships. Griet's family are at the bottom of the social ladder after her father's accident. The Vermeer's are clearly much better off than Griet's family but they have money problems too and are reliant on the wealthy but sleazy benefactor who buys most of Vermeer's paintings. This is a very distressful situation for Vermeer, especially when the man wants a painting of Griet as an excuse to seduce her, and tries to force himself on her every time he comes to the house. Pieter is a decent man who wants to marry Griet but she resists the life of drudgery and servitude she knows will be hers as a butcher's wife, instead escaping into her fantasies about Vermeer. Marriage was the only escape for a woman back then, and Griet never even considers that she too could be an artist despite her obvious gift because it just wasn't in the realm of possibility. She also resents the power Pieter has over her family who are unable to afford decent cuts of meat without him.In the house Griet is also at the bottom of the heap until Vermeer stands up for her and everyone, including his wife, must start treating her with more deference. Although Vermeer is portrayed as a good man who teaches Griet how to mix paints so she can be his assistant, I don't think he has any real romantic interest in her beyond a slight attraction that he resists. He inadvertently makes Griet's life more miserable by turning Catharina and Taanneke against her because he is obsessed with his art above all else and isn't tuned into the tensions in the house. Because the women are dependent upon Vermeer they are constantly watching, listening and trying to assert themselves over the others. To people with no power the smallest gestures are laced with significance and that's why the earrings represent such a betrayal to Catharina. (You'd think that installing Griet in the attic above his studio where he had access to her at all time would have been much worse for Catharina. Maybe she assumed he was sleeping with her and was willing to turn a blind eye, but allowing the lowly housemaid to wear her earrings was putting them on equal footing, something she couldn't tolerate).In the end, Vermeer's absorption in his art makes him just as selfish in his own way as the philanderer he could have been. This is obvious when he forces the pearl earring through Griet's infected earlobe and then makes her pierce her other ear even though it's not even seen in the painting, remembering that infections could be deadly at this time. (Maybe I just have a dirty mind but I thought the sexual innuendo was a bit clunky in this section. After he's put the final touches on the painting he wipes his palette knife which is covered in white paint. She waits for him to come into the storeroom and touch her when she is getting changed but "now that the painting was finished he no longer wanted me.")The petty jealousies and intrigues were the strongest part of the book for me because Chevalier shows a real understanding of how it would have been in the past when servants were such an intimate part of family life, but at the same time so separate due to their lower status. The weakest parts were the characterisation of Catharina and Cornelia who were too one-dimensional, but to be fair we only see them through Griet's eyes and she is very biased. The whole hair thing didn't make much sense and should have been left out because it seemed ridiculous that Griet would run off and have sex with Pieter just because Vermeer had seen her hair uncovered. Like the other symbolism with the knife the wild hair (representing desire) that she had to keep contained was too clunky.The fact that this book is at its core about money and power is reinforced by the ending when Griet sells the earrings Vermeer left to her, clearing the Vermeer family's debt with Pieter for their meat. She has been brought and sold like a piece of meat and even Vermeer was guilty of treating her like a commodity, while at the same time giving her glimpses into a world of art and beauty she could never be part of, except in her dreams. 4.5 stars
3 Interesting story built around a painting. Nice historical fiction. It was slow-paced yet kept my interest.  Clever idea for a novel.
1 The author, Chevalier, had a good idea of weaving a story around a famous painting, but this book is a big let-down; it was downright boring. Considering that Chevalier has a degree in creative writing, she does a poor job writing this book creatively. The characters are dull and lifeless. What's more, you just don't care about any of the people in this book. The ending is so predictable - I didn't even have to read it. I don't know how anyone can rate this book highly or recommend it, and I can't believe it made it to the New York Times bestseller list.
4 Taken one element at a time, this book has little to recommend it. The plot is very thin. The characters are for the most part either uninteresting or unpleasant. There is no action and little dialog.Yet, somehow these elements combine to make a surprisingly good -- even great -- book.Part of the credit goes to the writing and part to the innovative and imaginative concept. I can just picture the author looking at Vermeer's painting and wondering, who was she? We've all done that. Yet, Tracy Chevalier went a step further and created a possible reality that rings true while never pretending to be anything but imaginings. An incredible accomplishment. I don't think I'll ever be able to look at a Vermeer painting without thinking of this book.
5 Griet is a teenage girl living in the 17th century city of Delft Holland.  Her father can no longer work as a tile maker because he lost his sight and the family is in need of money.  So they find Griet employment as a live-in servant in Vermeer's household.  The scenes are short.  The characters are not deep and the town is narrowly depicted through Griet's life of laundry, shopping and cleaning.The only luminous part of Griet's day is cleaning Vermeer's painting studio.  She must clean, but take care to place every item back precisely where it was.  Griet doesn't mind.  She has had practice cleaning and replacing items in their exact place for her blind father.  But most importantly, she gets an opportunity to look at what Vermeer is painting.  As time goes on, she eventually assists Vermeer with the preparation of paint colors and the more time she spends with him, the more she comes to admire and long for Vermeer and the imaginary world he creates on canvas.In the real world, Griet's family struggles. Her younger sister becomes ill, her brother toils as a tile maker's apprentice, and her parents scarcely make do. The butcher's son is courting Griet and a future as his wife is a realistic match and an improvement from her current situation for both her and her family; a butcher's son would ensure that they do not go hungry.Vermeer produces several paintings in this novel including a portrait of Griet wearing a pearl earring. I recommend being able to take a look at the artworks mentioned in the book. I found myself referring to the 2 on the cover and I looked at the Procuress and others when I was reading about them. The entire book is unsurprising in plot and character, but satisfying nonetheless. It felt as if only the necessary details were left in the novel crafting a sparse and finely formed story that I easily enjoyed. I will certainly be reading more of Tracy Chevalier.
4 Girl with a Pearl Earring is an engaging portrayal of how the author imagined the famous Vermeer painting came to life.  I enjoyed especially the author's abundant use of imagery.  Chevalier creates a word picture herself with so many colors, similes, and metaphors.Some other strong points I appreciated are the insights of the protagonist Griet.  She is very observant as well as sensitive, even though she realizes she is trapped in a world not of her choosing.  How she manages to survive and build another life for herself is touching because she has to overcome personal loss, the jealous Cornelia, intimidating Maria Thins, pouting Tanneke, and tempestuous Catharina, not to mention the sensitive yet insensitive Vermeer himself.Griet is presented as a very strong young girl who is able to hold her own among some ineffective and weak people.  This aloneness of Griet's is what also drew me to the story.That said, I must admit I prefer Girl in Hyacinth Blue, which also centers on Vermeer's art.  Its more intriguing presentation won me over, once I figured out what was going on.  Chevalier and Vreeland have very creatively re-presented a master to us in this new century of continuing crass commercialism and shallow efforts.
5 Well written, well told. Loved every page, every word. I have seen the painting, it is strikingly beautiful. Truly a pearl of a book.
4 This is a good, light book that teaches a good deal about the time period in which it takes place. My only complaint is that I did not grow to feel compassion towards any of the characters. They all seem shallow. However, I found myself turning the pages of this book, compelled to read it to the end. When I put it down I was left satisfied, even if it was not as deep as I'd have liked.
5 Vermeer's portrait of the Girl with a Pearl Earring suggests a subtle unspoken communication between the girl and viewer. This masterpiece tells of knowing glances and unspoken understandings.Chevalier's novel, Girl with a Pearl Earring, is the literary analogy. She describes with exquisite sensitivity, and yet with the minimalism one might expect of Hemmingway, the ambiance of a Dutch society where stoic restraint dictates silence, and where social control is achieved with knowing glances and unspoken understandings. She describes perfectly this country were even the Catholics are Protestant in their severity. And yet one where the deepest affections shine through the austere light.
5 A wonderful book, rich in detail and impeccably researched. With a perfect blend of fact and fiction 17th century Delft comes alive as do the characters. I found it hard to put down. Historical fiction at its best
5 This was the most intriguing book I've read in some time.  I couldn't put it down.  It put me right into the life of the 15th century character.  I thoroughly enjoyed it.  Fresh plot and a little history around the working class as well as the wealthy class attitudes of a distant time.
5 well written, evocative.  I had to do a little reading to be sure but no one knows the source of the painting.  Chevalier has painted a believable story.  The characters and plot COULD have been real.  I enjoyed evrey page.
5 Of all the fiction that has come out recently featuring Vermeer or Vermeer paintings, this was my favorite. I don't know how she did it, but somehow the author's prose seems to be a reflection of the paintings themselves. The charged relationship between the fictional Vermeer and the servant girl (the narrator of the story) was very convincing. It also made clear that the options of women during this era, even those with interest and talent,  were claustrophobically limited. Although I usually don't care for fictionalized versions of historical figures, this book rang very true.
4 I really enjoyed this novel.  It is my first Chevalier, but it will not be my last.  She brings the era and the characters alive - up close and personal.  I appreciated her attention to detail and learning about how the artists or at least Vermeer created and mixed his paints to create such vivid detail.
5 Bought and really enjoyed this book to the fullest. Have recommended this book to many of my friends who love to read!
4 I am not going to pretend to be an art historian here but in terms of literature and how Chevalier portrayed Griet's emotions, this book is an absolute success. It chronicles the tentative but crackling painter-model 'relationship' between Griet and her master, Griet's relationship with her family and an in-depth view of Griet's emotions laid bare.Positive points: The way Chevalier communicates Griet's thoughts into convincing language makes the book worthwhile, even if it might seem hard to get into.The intense description might seem off-putting but is brilliant in allowing the reader to feel part of 17th century Delft in the Netherlands.Griet's character is a shy and enduring one. I felt my emotions run for her as she developed her love for Vermeer.Negative points: While the relationship between Griet and Vermeer is developed, us hopeless romantics will be disappointed because they connect on an emotional and mental level, not on a physical one. This is the only slight niggle I had.I hope the film lives up to the book
5 This book is a fictionalized account of a woman in a Vermeer portrait.  Chevalier recreates the landscape and environment of Delft, Netherlands while exploring Vermeer's relationship to Griet, the family's maid.  The book follows Griet as she enters Vermeer's household first as a maid and later as Vermeer's assistant.  Vermeer asks her to pose for a painting and suggests she put on his wife's pearl earring.The book's style is gentle and depictive, evoking a sensibility of place and time with undercurrents of passion and longing, usually understated but clear.This is a very good novel.
2 Though not a complete waste of time, this book was definitely more hype than substance.  I felt the novel lacked any real constructive qualities.  The narration was lacking, though the story was definitely interesting.  I wish the narration had been executed with a more interesting and informative style. The characters, including the main character seem unrealistic.  The book is interesting if only for the basic plot.  Apart from that, the quality of the text is poor.It is too bad the author didn't spend as much time on her novel as the Vermeer did on his portrait.
5 This book is filled with intrigue and not much sex. Your 8th grader could read it. Fascinating yarn about the painter Vermeer and one of his models. A simple maid, her entire life changes when her father has an accident on the job. Of course, choices for women were very limited in 1640 Netherlands. The characters are fully realized and sometimes diabolical. The other females in the household are all jealous of the poor simple maid, but she learns how to influence the right people.
5 Griet, the fictional character on which Chevalier bases her novel is a likable, relatable teenage girl.  Chevalier's idea for her book is a creative one, inventing a fake muse for a real painting.  She mixes fiction with fact in such a tantalizing way that she makes this book and Griet seem real.  Her vivid descriptions of Holland give the reader a feel for what it was really like during Vermeer's time period.  For readers who like historical fiction, this is a good book to read.
5 chevalier does an excellent job portraying the heroine, greit.  the book remains interesting throughout.  i enjoyed it.  it was an interesting way to view a painting.  i kept flipping to the cover to see greit in order to fully visualize her.  i thought it was very well written and certainly readable without a dull moment throughout.  i found myself fascinated and read whenever i got a spare moment.  girl with a pearl earring is definitely worth anyone's time.
4 It is not a coincidence that I read this touching novel while abroad in Holland. I felt it would've added much to the story, being in the country of it's setting. And so it did! I couldn't put the book down as much I tried. (So much for sleep!) The story revolves around 14-year-old Griet, the daughter of a tile maker in 17th century Holland. When her father is blinded and no longer able to care for his family's needs, Griet must find work to support the family. She obtains employment as a servant in the Vermeer household, with the famous Dutch artist Johanne Vermeer as her employer. The story is beautifully written, as seen through Griet's eyes - the complex family she is thrust into the midst of, the society of the small town of Delft, and life with an obsessive artistic genius. Griet loves being drawn into Vermeer's abstract life and ultimately becomes one of his models - as the &quot;girl with a pearl earring.&quot; A fascinating novel that I would highly recommend to history-related fiction buffs, or anyone who is just plain interested in a personal and touching tale.
1 If you're a writer/painter/musician yourself, how could you help but bridle at the assertion that Vermeer's greatest successes were due to the suggestions of his cleaning lady?  The ultimate &quot;I don't know much about art, but I know what I like&quot; book.  Dully written and offensive in the extreme.
4 The author met her goal for me by creating a good story in an era foreign to us all. I thought the way of life then was expressed quite well and a touch of the differences between protestant and catholic was well done,  though minor in the story.When a crisis in her life happened you surely  wondered which which one she would take, though it was not difficult to  determine beforehand.This was superior to  &quot;Hyacinth In Blue,&quot;  another book about Vermeer that didn't do it for me.
5 Girl With a Pearl Earring by Tracy Chevalier is an historical fiction set in Holland in 1664.It tells the story of the painting by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. The painting is a real one, and you can see it on the front cover of the book.Griet, the heroine of the book comes to the Vermeer house as a servant, and the book is written with Griet as the narrator. We follow Griet through her hard work for the Vermeer family, her first meeting with the father of the family and how he wants to paint her. Griet falls deeply in love with her master, and the book tells a beautiful though heartbreaking story of love and sacrifice. Griet is not only falling in love with her master, but also in his life of colors and paintings. Griet masters the art of mixing colors, and through her work together with Vermeer their relationship becomes very intimat.The clue of this story is the way it is told through Griet, and the way she manage to bring us with her to her 17th century world in Delft. I loved the book when I read it the first time, have reread it, and know I will read it again. It's a jewel of a novel, or on other words - a master painting. And it has made me interested in other books with the same theme, Dutch art and Dutch history.
5 Most people recognize Vermeer as the Dutch master who created priceless works of art.  Yet little else is known about him or the subjects that he chose to paint.  In this fictional tale author Tracy Chevalier brings to life that mysterious model for the Girl with the Pearl Earring.  It is through her eyes and voice that we learn about the enigmatic Vermeer and about 17th century Dutch culture.This simple yet absorbing storyline flows seamlessly under Chevalier graceful penmanship. In this tautly written novel, Chevalier creates a cast of intriguing characters - the cold and stoic Vermeer, his emotionally fragile and volatile wife Catharina, the powerful matriarch Maria Thins, the lecherous patron van Ruijven and the modest yet radiant Griet.  It is through these characters that Chevalier creates the intriguing premise for how that Vermeer masterpiece came to be.  A thoroughly wonderful and highly recommended read.
5 After reading &quot;Girl in Hyacinth Blue&quot; I wanted to learn more about Vermeer and his times.  I hoped that &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring&quot; would be half as good as &quot;Blue.&quot;  If anything, &quot;Earring&quot; is better, which is almost a miracle.  This magnificent novel is a time-travel machine, taking you to the mid-late 17th century in Delft.  Others have summarized the beginning of the story, so I won't add to that and possibly create a spoiler.  Don't miss this book.  A wonderful read with a lot of insight into painters, painting and domestic life 330+ years ago.
4 Lanie Schalbe has written an excellent review of Girl with The Pearl Earring. Read that review for a well-considered overview of the book. I would like to add a few points to her review: first, I found the main character, Griet, well developed and likeable. I didn't have any problem "getting into her skin" and seeing things as she did. However, I was amused at the way in which she kept her pursuer Pieter at arms length so long. I think that was a little unbelieveable. In real life, she most likely would have jumped at the chance to become his wife, even with his stained fingernails. It was a matter of eating well and caring for her stricken family.Peripheral characters were not as well-drawn, particularly Griet's brother and sister. When they left, I couldn't sense the pain she must have felt.When I was in The Netherlands, I was enchanted by the architecture and the canals. The architecture of the place captivated me. I wanted more of this backdrop for the scenes of this book, from the perspective of the author's art appreciation background. And street markets are lively and noxious at once. Scenes that occurred in the street market of Delft were fairly sterile in the narrative.But those are minor considerations when stacked against the positive attributes of this book. Although I was familiar with some of the works by Vermeer, I knew little about the man, his time, nor of what it took to create even the colors of his painting (or of all paintings of this era). Just that was well worth spending time with this book. Previously, because of the typical subjects of Vermeer paintings, I did not rank him very high on my list of favorites. The author deftly brings a new appreciation of his art.The life of a maid of the times was thorough and very interesting. The vivid descriptions of family life, and a maid's lot within the family, were the very foundation of the book.The most sublime parts of the book, however, were Griet's coming to understand the genius of the man, and to even subtly assist him in coming to see what she knew he would eventually realize about his own works in progress. I say sublime because the author combines an intelligent young girl with her daily duties of placing and re-placing his settings after cleaning them, along with her history of long talks with her artist father. For me, this is the very essence of the book and explains her attraction to him, as intelligence is attracted to genius. And it, combined with the conventions of 1600's Netherlands, explains and makes acceptable so much of the author's beliefs about her subjects.This is a very good read. Although some have called it a fast read, I believe it called for some relevant thinking about what exactly was happening to Griet, as the author wisely did not spoon-feed the reader her conclusions, but let us discover them on our own.
4 &quot;Girl&quot; doesn't exactly qualify as compelling fiction. It moves along at its own quiet pace, threatening stagnation at times. Chevalier's prosaic, spare style actually suits the subject matter quite well, however. It reflects Dutch society of the period, which was not about &quot;flash,&quot; to put it mildly. The author does a superior job of depicting the straight-laced, mercantile society of late-Rennaissance Delft. She is also shrewd in her decision to focus on the barter system, the spring which provided movement to the social mechanism throughout Holland. Griet metes out small sexual favors to the butcher, Pieter, for instance, in exchange for information about her family, who have been quarantined due to an outbreak of the plague. Vermeer's mother-in-law, Maria Thins, acts as the artist's agent as well as the head of the household. She is interested primarily in the money a particular painting will bring in, rather the aesthetic result.There are some problem areas with the narrative. The chief being a matter of &quot;willing suspension of disbelief.&quot; Griet, the narrator, at one point informs us that she can barely sign her name and that she is illiterate. At no point in the novel does she relate how she came by the ability to write her story down, and given the nature of her position later in life, it would beg credulity to see how she could have taught herself to read and write. This could easily be dismissed as artistic license, but Griet's own standards are so precise and exacting, that the flaw seems more glaring in context. One other minor negative is stylistic. Chevalier is at her best when she sticks to the straightforward prose that predominates here. Sometimes, however, she allows Griet a rhetorical flight into poetry land and the result borders on the risible, as when she mentions the smell?/sound? of a particular brick mortar. The editor just missed that one, apparently. On the whole, however, this novel is extremely well-written and Chevalier is particularly adept at delineating period and character.
2 I personally adore art, history, Vermeer, and creative writing, but I found, in this case, the author's attempt to blend all of these elements into a meaningful novel turned out largely unimaginative.
5 I read Girl With A Pearl Earring over the summer and I was amazed when none of my friends have heard of it. It is one of the most lyrical reading I've done in a long while. The descriptions of the life then is very vivid ~~ I can almost smell the paint and see life viewed through the characters' eyes. Chevalier takes you on her journey through time and when you finished the book, you almost wish you weren't done. And it does take a few minutes to travel back to the 21st century ~~ so vivid is her description of life in Holland. I recommend it to anyone who has a few hours to spare to read and to daydream.
4 A nice read. Short, simple story and yet one that will likely almost haunt you a bit after you have read it.
5 I had read the book years ago and saw the movie, but re-reading it gave me much pleasure as the first time.
5 A beautiful landscape of 17th Century Holland, this rich book made me a Tracey Chevalier fan. Her deep understanding of servant life, she introduces us to Griet, a maid forced to work for the famous painter Vermeer and his demanding household. Though her station keeps her below stairs, the connection between the painter Vermeer and his young maid is bittersweet and romantic. A stunning story of unrealistic love, ambition, and the final hurt, this is a stunning book that is so subtle, the final showdown between Vermeer and the young maid left me breathless. Chevalier is a master storyteller, who creates a lush backdrop to her story line. Multidimensional, colorful, unforgettable, this remains one of the best books I have ever read!
5 I enjoyed reading this book very much. A very good read.  I will for sure pass this one along to my friends.
5 Tracy Chevalier's novel, _Girl With A Pearl Earring_ is fascinating for many reasons.  The beautiful young girl in the painting is breathtakingly fresh,wise and innocent.  It is these qualities that have been brought to life in the novel.  Chevalier shapes the mystery of who the young girl might have been into a believable plot.  Utilizing the little known facts about the famous artist,Vermeer, the author breathes life to the skeletal background.  She has also carefully researched life during the 1600's.  I love the style of the writing, simple like the painting.  I love the imagery used and the characterization of family members.  When a novel forces the reader to search the internet for Vermeer's paintings, it becomes more than a reading experience.  I love the fact that this then becomes an interdisciplary task, forcing the reader to carefully view all of the paintings mentioned in the text.  Tracy Chevalier will be studied by many students in colleges and high schools in the future.  The novel is as rich as the painting, and readers are indebted to the author for providing us with a plausible scenario.  Griet is a true literary heroine, and one can only hope that the model for the painting was as wise and beautiful (inside and out) as the character that has been created by this talented author.
5 Girl with a Pearl Earring is a beautiful tale of a long time ago.  This story is realistic and heart driven.  Griet, the 17 year old girl who becomes a maid to help support her family, is the focal point of the story and of a painting by her master which causes all kinds of trouble.  She works in the house of a famous painter whom she is in love with.  Life is not as easy as it would seem when one is a maid and in love with their master.  This story is a fast read with details that create a world based in 1664.  I would strongly recommend it!
4 I just finished listening to the novel on CD read by Jenna Lamia.  Avoid it.  The reader tries to put on accents for every different character and fails horribly.  Her accent for Vermeer is most ridiculous of all and it takes away from the novel terribly.  The only well created accent is Griet's; that's not a compliment considering the many characters in this excellent novel.  Read the book but avoid this particular CD version.
4 I had heard great reviews about this book, so I decided to pick it up one day.  For me it was a rough beginning, but once she got into Vermeer's house, and started living there, I really wanted to read this book.  I could tell what was coming as the book progressed, but loved it anyway.  I really liked the description of his art studio, and when he finally got down to painting the girl, I kept turning to the front of the book to try to see the different things the book was describing.  Overall a great book, and it makes me want to pick up that other book about his work, &quot;Girl in Hyacinth Blue&quot;.
4 Speculative fiction about Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer or, more specifically, about the girl in one of his most famous paintings, Girl with a Pearl Earring. Griet starts off as a maid in the painter's house but she is soon made his assistant and eventually his model. While this is going on she also has to deal with being away from home for the first time, Vermeer's wife and daughter's jealousy, and her growing attraction to the painter.Not the kind of book I usually read but it was enjoyable. It was a bit on the slow side but the book itself was short so that didn't really bother me. It could also be vague in places but this is one of those books where some things are better left to the imagination. If you are an art dork or you just like good fiction in general you'll probably enjoy this book.
5 If you liked the movie, you'll love the book.  Tracy Chevalier writes like a painter. She's able to create visual moments on the page that hang there and collect together with the inertia of the story, compelling the reader to become part of the world she's creating.In her imagined backstory to one of the world's most famous paintings, Chevalier takes what might otherwise be a run-of-the-mill bodice-ripper plot and elevates it with a poet's eye for image and understanding of motive into something quite unique and beautiful.Chevalier is a very talented writer who has produced a tender and intricate tale illuminating the wonder and danger inherent in immersing one's self in the worlds of love and art.
2 I thought the story was too simple and it failed to transport me to Old Delft as I had expected.  Besides the Meat Market, the Beast Market and doing laundry by hand, I didn't see anything remarkable about the Delft that the author created.  It might as well have been any rich household in any country outside of the US.  I've never been to Holland and I could have made up the same details.  The story itself was too simple: a maid gets painted by Vermeer and his wife doesn't like it.  First of all, I personally find it unlikely that Vermeer needed a maid to clean his studio every day.  I found the drama in the story to be oversized, simple things are made into a big deal.  Everytime Griet cries or feels an injustice done to her, I just didn't see what the big deal was.  Since the story is done in Griet's voice, you don't get to know the other characters as well and you know almost nothing of Vermeer.  Throughout the book, he's simply known as &quot;he&quot;.  I think it was an unwise decision to write the book in Griet's voice especially because we keep hearing how she's smarter than she lets on and how she's so wise she can see through people's words.  It would have been more effective and believable if the compliments were coming from an observer rather than herself.  It made her story less believable in a sense by writing it in first person.
4 This is one of those instances when the book, though very good, is not quite as good as the movie. The movie succeeds in distilling the emotional essence of a very visual story about a very uncommunicative protagonist. These two features--visual story and uncommunicative protagonist--are ideally suited to film, the former for obvious reasons and the latter because in a movie you can read what's going on inside a character on her face. In this book's first person narrative, you must read between the lines, and make deductions based on other characters' responses to her. There are enough clues to work with in Chevalier's sparse writing, but Griet remains a bit of a dissatisfying enigma. Thus, the book fails to achieve the same emotional crescendo and climax as the movie, but it is still a wonderful read, and seems to be very true to both the psychology and the realities of 17th Century Holland.For those unfamiliar with either, &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; is essentially a speculation on the meaning of the painting of the same name, the masterpiece of artist Johannes Vermeer. The book posits the subject of the painting as a young maid who comes to work in the Vermeer household and develops a connection with the painter while getting swept up in family politics, as well as a power struggle with Vermeer's patron.
5 The writing style of this intense novel, at first blush, seemed formal and dry, but I quickly discovered that it perfectly displayed the protagonist's personality and was necessary to build the realism. The need for a maid to remain emotionally distant from her employers and to manage the subservience were requirements for that line of work.  The novel's style not only seemed to match the time-place and the young maid, but also the painting style of Vermeer ... unpretentious, sharply detailed, coldly accurate, and yet, intensely evocative.  The tension between Griet and Vermeer is palpable and stays with you long after you've finished the book. Like the painting that prompted it, the book is beautiful and enigmatic in its passion held back.  Because the style is what it is, it becomes invisible, letting the reader disappear into the story completely.
4 I recently discovered this author through a recommendation in a women's magazine.  I very much have enjoyed three of her books, this being the third one I read.  It is an enjoyable read, yet very strange in contrast to modern day standards of "appropriate behavior".  I found it interesting and fun, and was pleased there was not the disturbing events found in "Virgin Blue".The movie does not do the book justice and is actually slow (I'm sure I wouldn't have finished it had I not already read the book).
5 A wonderful novel that brings to life 17th century Dutch life through the eyes of a girl of 17 who becomes a maid in the house of Jan Vermeer. Griet is the daughter of a tile painter and a member of the guild Vermeer heads. When her father is blinded by a kiln explosion, his family becomes destitute and Vermeer, needing a maid, agrees to take the girl, who will turn over her meager wages to support the family.Griet has many jobs but one in particular is to clean Vermeer's studio, where no other family member is allowed to venture without his authorization and presence. Since her father is blind, she has learned to keep things where they are when cleaning so that a blind man can find what he needs. Vermeer needs to keep his painting backgrounds clean but exactly the same and Griet does this well. When he first meets her in her house, he sees she has separated the vegetables she is cutting into colors around a wheel and knows when colors clash. From this moment, we know that there is a gravitational field around the two. But the novel is far more complex than artist seduces maid and Chevalier handles the various subtle erotic elements with a care that makes them real.The novel is well written in simple, clear language that evokes the time and the place. Despite the strictures imposed on women by that society, Chevalier shows how women could be bold and use their intelligence. Without being heavy handed, she shows the social stratification as being very subtle and permeable. This is a love story and is handled with grace and verve. The characters are fleshed out remarkably well in a very short novel and we care about them.While not much happens in the three years covered by this novel, the reader comes to know the characters, and finds deep meaning in the ordinary actions of daily life. A wonderful book.
3 If you like the Vermeer's paintings (and who doesn't appreciate their surprising details?) then you will enjoy this story about the daughter of a tile painter reduced to being hired out as a maid to Vermeer and his family. The juxtaposition of Vermeer's trained and educated taste to Griet's natural ability to distinguish imagery is dynamic, as is Griet's education, both sentimental and artistic. In the Vermeer household the creative process occurs symbolically and physically above - Griet does the grinding of the colours in her attic room - while the life of the family, in evidence largely through their spying, manipulations and petty jealousies, occurs below. These family caricatures menace our heroine indiscriminately, in order to serve a plot that depends on maintaining secrecy, by acting as a family of spies that thwart her in the mission to stealthly help Vermeer in preparing his paints and scenes. With the exception of the maid, the characters in this book do not grow, change or discover each other and the lack of comprehension between the members of the household is tiring. The plot turns on the fact that Vermeer has painted the maid wearing his wife's pearl earrings. The question of how the maid managed to wear the pearl earrings for the painting becomes paramount. When assembled as a family, everyone is silent in front of Vermeer's distraught wife, even though the painter and his mother-in-law are culpable for convincing the maid to pose and wear the earrings. Some kind of confrontation between these related people would have been more evocative and less irritating. There are some grating anachonisms: it is absurd to hear Griet say to her boyfriend that at 18 or even 17 years of age she is too young to marry (in 17th century Holland where life expectancy must have been less than half of what it is today!). The community setting with its active and gossipy markets gives the story its drive but it never goes much further than that of a girl continually trapped and menaced from all sides such as in a fable.
5 I just loved this wonderful little piece of fiction. It took us right to mid sixteen hundred's Delft, Holland. Were the painters guild resides (St.Luke's) and other master painters of that time period resided i.e.; Johann Vermeer and Rembrandt were two and there were more all competing for money for their work from rich patrons.I love historical novels if they are done well. This writer takes you there to Delft and, tells the story of an ordinary girl,"Griet", who is sixteen years old and, has to grow-up quickly due to her fathers losing his place in a shop that paints tiles when he becomes blinded by a kiln accident at work he was also a member of the guild. Griet now has to go out an earn an income to help support the family as well as her brother.Griet has to learn a lot as she goes to a strange house. One filled with too many children to count. A wife,"Catharina", who is narcissistic and thinks her status is more than it is and, she is perpetually pregnant. The mother-in-law to Vermeer, "Maria Thins", who for the most part runs the career and finances of the home and of Johann Vermeer. The surly daughter "Cornelia" who is very mean, manipulative,and jealous concerning Griet the "new maid". Then Tanneke the well seasoned other maid who shows her the ropes and tells her the house gossip.  Griet now lives in a home that follows a different religion then her own as she is Protestant and the Vermeer's are Catholic as Griet's mother tells her "to hold her ears during their Catholic prays!"What absolutely drew me to the book was the beautiful girl with a large pearl earring that seemed to glow for that time period. At that time I did not know a lot about Vermeer's work. I do now! The photo/portrait just really pulled me in! Every time I went past the book I was fascinated finally I got my wallet out. I have read this book twice. The second time after several years I got more out of it then the first time. I now look at that portrait and think of Griet the simple little 16 yr. old servant girl who couldn't read as stated by Catharina Vermeer. Griet had a bright, clever, mind. Which Johann Vermeer saw in her. Griet made out better then the Vermeer's in the long run. Although, she was sexually curious about "Master Vermeer" she ended up with someone that was not duty bound to have all those children as dictated by the dogma of an earlier Catholic church. Griet has a good husband, a couple of children and they work together in a business. I think she was duty bound to her heart and mind!  There is a lot more to this book but, I don't want it to be spoiler alert. If you are a mystery person or action thriller this book is not for you. This book is a historical novel and the characters are more introspective.
5 I read this book and really enjoyed it.  It was recomended to me by two family members who really enjoyed it.  Good read.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this story. Maybe this has been done before, I don't know, but it seemed like a very creative idea to take one painting and write a whole story around it. The calm and clever Griet balances the characters in the household where she's a maid, making for a perfect balanch in the cast of characters. I did find it helpful to get a book from the library that had Vermeer's paintings in it. About six or seven different Vermeer paintings are mentioned in the book and it helped to be able to see them...
5 I thought this book was very well written.I especially enjoy books written in this era and in England or Australia. It just shows how women were viewed and especially the different classes.  The main character was such a gentle person and very strong at the same time. I would recomend this book to others and give it five stars.
4 Famous Dutch painter Vermeer left behind thirty-five works and little else.  In Girl with a Pearl Earring, Tracy Chevalier puts forth the possible story behind one of the more famous paintings.Griet is a teenager when the failure of her father's eyesight causes him to abandon his tile-making trade.  The family's financial instability forces her into work for a wealthy Catholic family and her brother into another artisan profession.  Griet's new life with her "new family"-that of Vermer-is certainly different, in terms of religion, daily routine, social status, and financial status.  After a few months, she adjusts to her new life and finds herself separating from her family.Chevalier's descriptions of the Netherlands and of painting in the seventeenth-century helped the book because they provided a framework for everything else.  Although I loved Griet, she seems too strong and too modern for the novel's time period; could a sixteen-year-old maid, with no formal education of any kind, really have outsmarted Vermeer?  Her observations about her master's art seemed too astute and too quick, even if she was supposed to be a fast learner.  Overall, I would recommend Girl with a Pearl Earring to anyone looking for a quick, engaging, and light novel.
5 This was such a good story.  Chevalier is an intelligent writer, definitely brought to life the painter and the supposed girl in the painting.  I won't go on and on about it, I just don't have words to describe how much I love her books, or why.  I just tell everyone they need to read this.
4 I hate to have to say this right off the bat, but this book is not a story about Vermeer.  It is the story of a maid in his house and her relationships and struggles with the new world she has been forced into. It is also not a fast paced shoot-em-up of a novel. This should be fairly obvious from the dust jacket, but apparently not, given some of the recent reviews this novel has received.All ranting against the &quot;it didn't go boom&quot; crowd aside, this is an enjoyable and quick read about how Griet, a sixteen year old girl, forced through bad fortune to become a servant, survives and changes during her stay with the family of the famed painter Vermeer.After Griet's father loses his eyesight in a kiln accident, she must become a servant in order to help her family survive.  She quickly finds herself thrown into a foreign world; she is beset with problems on all sides from an unfamiliar religion to a mistress who hates her, a master who demands much of her working time and energy and a patron who lusts after her. Her plight is best summed up by the words of the butcher's son:&quot;You're getting caught where you should not be, Griet...  Theirs is not your world.&quot;As I said, this is a quick read and is highly enjoyable and well written.  The author, Chevalier, uses language beautifully and  paints a deft portrait of life in the 16th century herself.  It's an interesting story behind a famous painting.  Give it a try!
5 I like the simplicity of this book.  The story is well paced and and not bogged down with minute details that sometimes make other wonderful books difficult to get through.  I love the descriptions about making the paint and how Vermeer used these colors in his painting.  Wonderful setting.
5 The story is beautiful, narration poignant, plot moving, characters memorable, style artistic, imagery quiet &amp; nostalgic...  This little novel is a masterpiece, just like Vermeer's actual painting of the girl  with an earring. Chevalier deftly mingles history and fiction to produce  something exquisitely charming. I couldn't help but constantly glance at  the painting of &quot;Griet&quot; on the jacket as I devoured the book.  This is a must-read.
5 A wonderful book that brings the artist Vermeer, the city of Delft, and the history of the period alive.  I so look forward to walking through the settings in this novel.  And I have a better appreciation for the Dutch Old Masters paintings, too.  A good believable story line, characters you can respect, and great setting descriptions and how the characters interact with the setting.I'm now reading the author's &#34;The Lady and the Unicorn&#34;...after all, I'm going to Belgium as well!  By the time I read this second book, I'll have to go to Cluny, France, too.
4 The characters were well developed and the time period was well described.It kept your interest and even though the story does not have a lot of action, it was fast moving because the characters were interesting.
5 Based on the portrait Dutch Mona Lisa 1665 by Johannes Vermeer, a famous 17th century Dutch painter; Chevalier cultivates the story behind the portrait. The girl in the portrait looks at us with untelling eyes and an expression that could depict a thousand words, the expression "a picture can say a thousand words" comes to mind.  With less than no information about the true emotions of the painter or the girl, Chevalier uses facts and fiction to depict one version of the truth in her novel Girl With a Pearl Earring.Girl With a Pearl Earring by Tracy Chevalier is a story that follows the life of a young teenage girl, Greit, who in the mist of her family's financial deficit is sent to be a maid to the wealthy Johannes Vermeer.  Vermeer was in fact a famous painter in the seventeenth century mostly known for his slow pace, great care, bright colors, use of light, and a sense of longing for the objects in the paintings. At Vermeer's Greit encounters his distasteful children and materialistic wife, Catherina Bolenesa. Greit engrossed by unique beauties of art, finds herself emotionally attracted to Johannes' work.  Johannes frustrated with pressure of selling his art to feed his growing family, finds himself intrigued by the youthful maid and her intellectual capacity of art. The attraction between the two increases as the he opens to her the beauty of his life. Their relationship however does not grow because of the distinct separations between rich and poor. While at the market she meets Peter, the butcher's son, who becomes infatuated by Greit. While she favors his attention, she holds out for her draw towards Johannes, until truth about the scandal surfaces and Greit is fired.This novel is amazing. Chevalier's use of first person and sensual imagery illustrates the unseen but heartfelt attraction between Greit and Johannes. Her amazing ability to contrive this spiritual and complex story line from one portrait and historical facts is remarkable. She redefines historical fiction and I highly recommend this novel to any looking for a unique story line and intriguing love story.
4 When I heard a brief description of this book I wasn't sure I'd enjoy it. All I knew was that it was a fictional account of one of Vermeer's model and the story of a girl in 17th century Holland. I felt the story might be kind of bland but as I learned, human drama reads well regardless of the location and time setting. I found this an enjoyable and quick read. The main character, Griet, is well-developed but the author still leaves room for the reader to wonder about some of her actions. I found myself thinking of Karen Cushman's &quot;Midwife's Apprentice&quot; another piece of historical fiction written with a younger audience in mind.
5 This book is written from a very unique point of view.  A must read book.
4 Girl with a Pearl Earring is a wonderful and pleasant read. Not too challenging or thought-provoking, but an imaginative story that I think most people will enjoy. Tracy Chevalier has come up with an interesting concept. She takes an enigmatic Vermeer painting -- The Girl with a Pearl Earring -- and weaves an interesting and well-written story about it. Griet is a young woman whose family's financial luck has changed after an accident leaves her artisan father blind. She is hired as a teenage girl to work in Johannes Vermeer's household as a maid. But her own artistic gifts and sensibilities get the artist's attention. Griet soon begins to secretly assist him with his work. Griet ultimately models for the painter, and doing so creates conflict in her life...I found this an interesting read, perfect for a lukewarm spring day when you are searching for something substantial to read. I had a difficult time getting into this novel at first, but I soon warmed up to it. I love the historical references and Chevalier's lyrical writing style. I hope the film version has done this wonderful novel justice. I recommend The Girl with the Pearl Earring.
5 Have you ever been in love?  Ever had a silly grin on your face when no one else is laughing?  Has your foot ever tapped to its own accord from simple joy?  I paint this picture of myself as I sat in a train station and started this novel.  I was consumed with the passion and multiple layers of the work as an artist is impassioned at the easel.  Chevalier uses a palette of words like Vemeer used hues to cast images and make breath catch in awe of creativity.  She is a new master of the literary brushstroke, evoking mental pictures and emotions, showing rather than telling me the story and setting.  I rarely read a book more than once, but the plot and the prose are both worthy of greater inspection. You won't put this one down.
4 This was another case in which the book and the movie (which I saw first) both met expectations, which is quite a compliment.  The movie is stunning in its cinematography and simplicity but the book was just as good, if not better.Tracy Chevalier "paints" a picture with her prose as eloquently as the photographers did in the subsequent movie.  It might sound like a reviewer's cliche, but you do feel "like you are there." In this case, "there" is 17th century Holland, and in the home of famous painter Johannes Vermeer.It's one of those rare cases where I would recommend seeing the film first.  You then have a  portrait in your mind of the main figures and the picturesque area. Since, admittedly, the film was slow-moving, I was worried the book might be dry....but it wasn't.  It was fascinating.
5 Jan Vermeer's paintings thrill me. They are so finely rendered that you can almost touch the velvet, the nub of the pearl, the satin.This book does justice to Vermeer's artistic skills.It is historical fiction at its best- a speculative piece of work based on a woman who  is the study of one of Vermeer's better known paintings &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring.'In Chevalier's novel, the &quot;girl&quot; is Griet, a young Dutch girl of the poorer classes who becomes a housemaid in the Vermeer household. Through her eyes we see the nuances of family life-Vermeer's ever pregnant wife, bratty daughter, mother in law- and we also view the somewhat rigid class structure of Holland in the 1660s.Griet is a gritty, gutsy girl, who is struggling to survive with her dignity intact in this world.I would recommend this book to those who enjoy historical fiction and character driven plots, particularly female-themed.It is a beautiful read.
3 I'm not sure why this book has garnered so much attention. There is not really anything special about it that I can tell. It is a quick and easy read and I would only recommend it to someone who asked me for a recommendation of a quick, easy, not bad, not typical chick-lit book. The book is simply average.Griet's father was once a tile-maker painting beautiful tiles and making a good living, however, an accident at the plant takes his eyesight and he is no longer able to work. This forces sixteen year old Griet to become a maid in a wealthy house.The master of the house is a painter whom Griet's father respects and with whom Griet becomes infatuated for reasons that are never fully explained, perhaps she cannot even explain them to herself. It is this infatuation that works it way through most of the novel, the driving force behind Griet's actions.Here's the thing, I didn't particularly like Griet throughout most of the novel. Perhaps it was the bad mood I was in when I was reading it, but I found few redeemable qualities in her and found her to be pretentious at times. While Griet does her work without complaining, it isn't that she doesn't complain because she doesn't want to, it is because it is beneath her to complain, beneath her to draw herself into conversations with the other maid in the house to find common ground. She wonders why the other maid does not like her and attributes it to some kind of jealousy, while this may be true; perhaps the main reason is Griet's attitude toward her position. She may be resigned to it in a sense, but more often than not her thoughts and actions reveal a hint of something else. In this novel Griet comes across as unsympathetic because you only scratch the surface of who Griet is of what her thoughts are--if not, if what you read is what you get-- than Griet becomes simple and close to being one-dimensional.
2 Gorgeous painting, deeper appreciation of art; mediocre, annoying bookThis is a book that fictionalizes what might have been behind the famous Vermeer painting, "Girl with a Pearl Earring".  Griet's family is destitute, and now she must work as a maid in the Vermeer household, cleaning up the famous painter's workstation.  Slowly, she grows more interested in her master, and her master in her.I am not what you would call an artsy person.  I make an effort to decorate my home nicely, I can pick out nice yarns for knitting and crocheting (according to a pattern), and I am fairly decent at picking clothes that don't clash, but that is as far as my "artistic abilities" go.  You wouldn't find me in an art museum for fun, unless my sister, the artsy one in the family, drug me there.  So when I say that this book made me look up Vermeer, analyze his work, and actually grow more appreciative of it, I think it's a somewhat big deal.And, though I really hate to say this, that is the biggest reason I am giving this book two stars.  Because a book that makes me look up a historical figure, investigate his work, and actually start to like it deserves to have SOME kudos.  If you take that aspect of the book away, you are left with a medicore book, populated with annoying/cliched characters with virtually no plot to speak of.Griet is our protagonist, and there were several times I was hoping she would drown in her washing or set herself on fire or accidentally fall between the butcher and his blade.  I understand she's young, but I didn't realize she was A) a 10 year old child (she acts way younger, more sheltered, and more immature than her 17 years would indicate), B) a spoiled, wealthy child suddenly thrown into poverty (though her father lost his trade, I never got the impression they were wealthy before this book), or C) hideously emo (she tends to wangst about not seeing her parents, about the "secrets" she has to hide, and she faints after piercing her ear).  Her first day working for the Vermeers, she whines that the first time she smiled all day is when she saw a familiar butcher's face.  Booohooo.  She is stupid, keeping an expensive comb anywhere within a 12 mile radius of a bratty child who wants to wreak havoc on Griet's life.  She is dense as a brick, selfish, ungrateful, and unemotional (she is never shown loving or caring at all for Pieter, which makes the ending seem weird).  And yet somehow, this girl garners the attention of THREE men and the hatred of SEVERAL women.  She's better at cleaning, cooking, caring for Vermeer's studio, making paint, buying meat, AND arranging items in Vermeer's paintings (yes, it is SHE that comes up with the earring idea for the titular painting and rearranges the cloth for another painting).  Griet, come on down, you've won the Mary Sue of the Month award!The other characters are two dimensional at best.  Catharina is a b!tch, mean to Griet just because.  I am really sick and tired of this cliche: of having the female of the house hate the "poor girl" just because, well, that's what the female of the house is supposed to do, I guess.  I ended up feeling SORRY for Catharina, because I felt she was desperately trying to win her husband's attention by having so many children.  Cornelia is a demon; her actions venture way beyond "Terrible Child" into "Spawn of the Devil".  One character dies just to include some more angst and a thin relation to the Plague.  Vermeer is a complete enigma.  I can understand retaining some mystery around him, but when you finish the book with as many questions as you began, something is wrong.  I have no idea what he saw in Griet, how he felt towards her, and who he was.  Van Ruijven is a stereotypical CAD; Tenneke is stupid (she can't tell when Griet is sucking up to her??  Yeah, right!).  Pieter started out a nice guy, but when he feels up Griet against her will, I just felt cold.  Their entire relationship is awkward: he seems really keen on her, very nice, yet she wants nothing to do with him.  But then, after Vermeer sees her hair loose, she is okay with having sex with Pieter???  Huh???The story is so bland and stereotypical, it's absurd.  How many times have we seen the "X must take a job because X's father/provider can't work" or something along these lines?  It wouldn't be bad if there was SOMETHING to make it different, but Griet never gives an indication of what she is missing out on nor does her story make this plot line interesting.  Instead, all she does is whine about how rough her hands are, how much her back hurts, how much work she has to do, how bloody the butcher is, how all the women hate her, etc.And what makes Griet so special that Vermeer pays her any mind?  I got a glimpse when Griet arranges vegetables, and I actually liked a scene where Griet and Vermeer discussed colors in white, but other than that, there is nothing between them.  Well, there IS Griet's feelings for Vermeer, but because I saw so little of Vermeer, I always got the impression she had a major crush on Vermeer and he was just smitten with her in an artistic sense.As for all the secrets...come on, people, what gives?  Why is it such a big deal that Griet helping Vermeer create paint?  Why do they go to such efforts to keep it a secret?  Why the big deal about the painting Vermeer does of Griet?  Is it because of the possibility of an affair?  If so, why did Catharina have no problem with Vermeer painting the butcher's daughter or van Ruijven's family?  Vermeer is painting her to get paid; you would think Catharina would have enough sense to be okay with that, but apparently, no!  (In fact, if she were a REALLY interesting character, she might see Griet's painting potential and FORCE her to sit so they could make more money!)  If people actually TALKED to each other, instead of hiding stupid things like this, there wouldn't BE a story.The ending actually isn't bad.  I liked how she moved on and wasn't still harping (too much) on Vermeer.  Though there were still a few things that bugged me (SPOILER FRIENDLY: her marriage, what she did with Vermeer's final gift to her).I suppose if you are really curious about Vermeer and his background and don't mind a fluffy, almost Young Adult approach to it, this is your book.  But if Mary Sues, flat characters, and an almost non-existent story hold you back, you may want to skip.  I will give this book credit: it was a fast listen (I "read" on audiobook) and made me more interested in the artist.UPDATE 9/12/11: I recently watched the movie starring Scarlett Johansson and Colin Firth and was pleased at how well it was adapted to movie format.  This isn't something I often say, but I definitely preferred the movie over the book.Brought to you by:*C.S. Light*
5 This book was one I really enjoyed. It is historical fiction set in 16th century Holland.  The main character is sent by her family to work for the Vermeer Household as a maid, because her father can no longer work.  Vermeer (whom by the way was a real artist) hires her to clean his studio without moving anything from its proper place. I had a wonderful experience in my art History class, and really enjoyed learning more about how things truly were, even though this book is partially fictional. It tells of Greit's life story and has a truly wonderful ending.  I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys art, or just a good read; however, some parts were a bit risque. But that did not affect the reading at all. This was truly a wonderful book.  I hope my review has helped you!
4 I enjoy books where the author successfully transports the reader to another time, and Tracy Chevalier does just that in Girl with a Pearl Earring.  Told in the first person, it is possible to believe that we are the servant girl, Griet, working for the famous painter Johannes Vermeer in 1664.Chevalier takes an actual Vermeer painting, and weaves her story around the painting and the sketchy details about Vermeer's life.  Griet is a young girl whose family has fallen on hard times.  Her father was a painter of Delft tiles, but lost his vision in an accident.  So her parents send her to work for Johannes Vermeer in order to support the family.  Griet is pretty, intelligent and has an artistic eye.  But she soon runs into trouble.  Vermeer's wife takes a disliking to Griet, as does one of his mean-spirited daughters.  Another maid is also extremely jealous of the new domestic.  But Vermeer sees something in the young Griet and he starts using her to assist in his work--a situation that creates even more tension in the Vermeer household.  Chevalier tells the story in an elegant and sensual manner and brings the tale to a nail-biting climax.Girl with a Pearl Earring is my first Tracy Chevalier, but it won't be my last.  In fact, I've already started The Virgin Blue.
4 This is a simple but well written and interesting story inspired by an art reproduction hanging on the author's wall-or so says her web site about the origins of this book. No one today knows the identity of  the mysterious wide eyed and open mouthed girl on the bookcover who wears an exotic turban and pearl earring. She is one of the only 30 or so know works of Vermeer. Tracy Chevalier's imagination spins up a good yarn about who she might have been , taking us away to experience everyday life in 17th century Delft, Holland as lived by the ordinary working people as well as by the rich and famous-namely the artist, Vermeer,his patrons, and his friend and contemporary, Van Leeuwenhoek. One sees the religious chasm between Catholics and Protestants with the misconceptions furthered by segregation. One is amazed to learn that pigments are derived from griding raw materials like charred ivory and lapis lazuli in a costly and labor intensive process instead of just buying them from a paint merchant. Plague has no cure and claims its victims at any time. Class distinctions are followed and illness or injury is devastating in a society with no social welfare system in place-with only family members to take on the extra load. Tracy Chevalier has a good imagination. The book made me wonder who do I think this girl was?
4 A teenaged girl named Griet leaves behind her family to take up domestic service in the household of the celebrated Dutch painter Jan Vermeer. Though she is but a kitchen maid, Griet comes to the notice of the master painter who, while faithfully wed to his strict Catholic wife, becomes fascinated with her and makes her his model for his most famous work "Girl with a Pearl Earring." This novel imagines the life history of the wistfully expressive girl in the painting, gives her a name and background, and then creates the circumstances under which she came to be in the portrait. This is an exercise in filling in the blanks in one of art's mysteries, and it is a skillful creation that sets the world of 17th century Holland back to life again more than three-hundred years after the original scenes of the book have passed.
1 I'm an avid reader and can usually read a good novel in 2-3 evenings.  This, however, took over a week to plod through. I'm in a book club and this novel was chosen as our October novel. I came close to abandoning it about every 10 pages.  If it weren't for my club, I would have.  The novel lacks depth and is shallow in theme.  I was  extremely disappointed in the writing style, as I have heard from others that Chevalier is an exceptional writer.  Unfortunately, this novel does not reflect her talents.
4 This little book has great characters.  It doesn't take long to read, but it will stay with you for a while afterwards.  I have passed it on to several friends and family and everyone has loved it.  The characters feel real and you want to know what's going to happen to them.  It's fun to imagine that this is really how the painting came about.
5 This is a very readable and convincing story told by a (fictional) maid who works in Vermeer's house and learns some of the secrets of how he sees the world and brings it to his paintings. The book tells us much of life of domestic life in 17th century Holland from the perspective of the the 17-year old Griet who is the subject of this famous work.For me, there were two very interesting things about the book. The first is that this description of domestic life tells us much about the subjects of Vermeer's paintings -- who the people were in Delft. The second is that we learn a great deal about how Vermeer painted (e.g., layered paints to give us a richer mix of colors) and even how objects were set up in his studio.Griet brings a very nice sense of discovey to Vermeer's work as she understands more and more of how he achieves his effects. This helped me understand Vermeer a bit more and understand more of his wonderful art. I found myself reading this book and then going back and forth a book showing Vermeer's paintings (all 35 or so of them).The book was well worth reading just for its value as an art history/art appreciation text. The book is much more than that though, in that it really tells an engrossing story a young and intelligent girl in a very realistic setting. I recommend it very highly!
4 Have you ever looked at a portrait and wonder about the artist or the subject? Well, Girl With a Pearl Earring magically does this for you by telling the story of Griet and Vermeer. Griet is a very young girl sent to be a maid for Vermeer when her father lost his sight in an accident and could no longer provide for the family. Upon arriving at the Vermeer home Greit is instantly troubled by the family and especially Cornelia (one of many children in the household). She is torn between this man that she is drawn to and what she knows is right. Take a step inside a painting a read this book. You will not be sorry.
5 If like me, you read many of the reviews of this book that are less than positive, you might think it's going to be a boring book with little substance.  I'm glad I read the book before I read the reviews.If you are seeking action, depth, subplots, and a complex story line, this book is just not for you.  It's a quiet, almost dreamy tale of one person's musings on the model/subject of a famous painting by an enigmatic artist.Perhaps you're like me:  you've just finished a long string of involved novels, with story lines that constantly jump around in time (Time Travelers Wife, The Sparrow, Kite Runner, etc.) and just want a pleasant, linear story to read on a rainy saturday afternoon - then Girl with a Pearl Earring is just the thing.  It's very well written, with a well-crafted, if limited, glimpse into 2 very small neighborhoods in Delft, Holland.  It's not a sweeping saga of how life was in 17th century Netherlands, or detailed chronical of the life of Johannes Vermeer, as some reviewers have complained it should have been.It's more of a delicate watercolor that simply suggests a life that might have been;  the girl in the painting could have been anyone - why not Griet?  The book to me is as evocative as the Vermeer painting on which it's based - we know very little (if anything) about the girl in the painting, but she still speaks  to us.  I think that Tracy Chevalier has succeeded in crafting her story with the same simple mystery that haunts, frustrates, and pleases us when we see the actual painting.The story is simple - a young girl is forced to seek work to support her family after her father loses his sight in a work-related accident.  She becomes the newest maid in the home of Johannes and Catharina Vermeer, and slowly finds herself becoming more involved in the master painter's work, to the point of becoming his subject.  That's really about it - everything else just consists of the details of that process.  The ending, while not at all dramatic, is fitting with the rest of the story.  And while fictional, you'll never look at the famous Vermeer painting (from which the book takes its title) in the same way.I hope my review helps put some of the negative reviews in perspective.  Don't read it for all the wrong reasons!5 well-deserved stars.
4 "Girl With a Pearl Earring" is the first major novel I have read since John Irving's "The World According to Garp" more than 20 years ago.  As a journalist, I can't explain my aversion to fiction, other than to say that anything akin to "once upon a time" is already six feet under to me.  Truth has always seemed stranger than fiction.I was attracted to this book for one reason.  I was at the Maurithuis Museum at the Hague in the Netherlands in 1996 and saw Vermeer's "Girl with a Pearl Earring" and "A View of Delft" (both pictured on the book's dust jacket) in person.  They are the most unforgettable paintings I have ever seen.  Vermeer's paintings are incredibly hypnotic, drawing us into a time and place that no longer exists.  By virtue of thousands of brush strokes, we are pulled into a time warp which places us into a scene the same surreal way that an old photograph does.This is what author Tracy Chevalier has wonderfully achieved.  Unlike other paintings riddled with religious motifs, nearly all of Vermeer's 35 known works have the ability to force you to think, "Yes, this must have been what ordinary life in Holland was like more than 300 years ago."  And one can be  quite moved by this even if one loathes cheap sentiment.The book's triumph is taking the tangible, that is, the painting which still resides in the Netherlands -- fusing it with what historians know about life in  17th century Holland -- and then concocting something that not only is  believable, but plausible, even though our minds are telling us, "But this is still a piece of fiction."Griet, our heroine, does seems  mature beyond her years.  Yet her thoughts are not unbelievable when we remember our own youth, what scared us, moved us, what made us care about what others thought.  We felt wise beyond our years.  Only later did we discover how naive we were, how much more we had yet to learn.Griet's narration reads better if we imagine her telling her story from the point of view of an adult reflecting about her thoughts when she was 16, and not in the present tense, as presented here.  Still, there is a soft rhythm in her narration that doesn't seem pretentious in a way that would call attention to the author's writing style, the mortal sin of any book.  When something is good, we don't think about how words are strung together.  We are so enthralled that time loses all meaning, like a dog whose only notion of it is something nebulous that must last forever.The events which force Griet to work for Vermeer and the tragedy that occurs later, have less emotional impact on Griet as a 17th century girl than if she were a 21st century girl.  They are treated without sappiness.  We watch Griet's transformation as an attractive young woman who is already aware of her effect on men, to something more complex and cunning.  We listen to her efforts to de-feminize herself to deflect unwanted attention, her silly and resigned rationalizations in her trading of dispassionate "minor" sexual favors to achieve her goals, however vague they may seem.  We deduce that Griet is a creature of the moment in her actions, but oddly, in her mind, she is also a girl who has one eye on her own future, as well as her family's.The greatest scenes in the book are the conversations, sparse as they are.  When Vermeer tackles the complex subject of religious attitudes toward paintings and whether they have any relevance to the viewer, despite the fact that his paintings are not riddled with religious themes -- he does so with such clarity and logic -- that it has you soaring into the stratosphere, like listening to Einstein breaking down the theory of relativity into simple language that anyone can understand without being offended.In addition, Griet's efforts to articulate her emotional feelings about the master Vermeer are wonderfully conveyed.  She is explicit in almost every other emotion, but never about her growing romantic feelings toward Vermeer.  Yet it is clear in her narration that she loves Vermeer in her own special way.  This, to me, is what others have long said to be the essence of romance.  It is the notion of "what if?" and all that it entails, while the rest is just  "life as it all turned out."The few sexual passages in this book do seem off-kilter to its mostly placid and intelligent tone.  They were necessary to illustrate Griet's awareness of her allure, as well as her low self-image, which betray her confident narrative.  But it would have been better to allude rather than to describe what seems mildly lurid.  My first thought was, "Well, here's the 'PG-13' portion of the book  which calls attention to itself."  The placid tone Chevalier has painstakingly created is now jarring, a rant against the sufferings inflicted upon women by bestial men throughout time.The book's ending (without giving it away) is "Zhivago-esque" (the movie and not the Pasternak book, though purists say one should never compare apples to oranges).  It is gentle, oblique and rich with a wonderful sense of irony and closure.  It has a completeness that takes many other authors several  hundred more pages to convey.Turning fiction into reality, mixing facts with a creative extrapolation of how the "Girl with a Pearl Earring" came to be, is the magic all of the world's best writers desire.  Minor faults aside, Chevalier's account is brilliant enough that in my mind, Vermeer's painting is now inextricably linked to Chevalier's book.The girl now has a name and her name is Griet.  The result, quite eerily, is this.  After reading "Girl With a Pearl Earring" --  how can anyone look into those luminous eyes of the girl in Vermeer's painting -- in quite the same way again?
5 Instantly, Girl With A Pearl Earring by Tracy Chevalier draws its readers into an unfamiliar yet excitingly new setting in 1700th century Holland, where a sixteen-year-old timid girl sets the stage. Griet detests the idea of having to serve the family of rich painter Johannes Vermeer. Soon enough, though, Griet is faced with many inspirational experiences that she can no longer pretend do not intrigue her. This novel is the struggle between artist Vermeer and Griet and his desire to teach her how to be a more appreciative person who can see the true beauty of life and understand what love really is.I suggest that everyone seriusoly takes time out to read this novel. It captures life and beauty in its true essance and brought me to tears when I finished. I cannot ever remember being as moved and inspired as I was with this story...
4 Tracy Chevalier's novel imagines the life behind a painting, a conceit in lesser hands that could have sustained no more than a short story. Griet, the daughter of a blinded and thus unemployed tilemaker, is sent into the Vermeer household as a maid where she quickly learns the ways of servitude.  Griet is not well-liked by the senior maid nor by her mistress, both of whom are jealous of her because she, and not they, are allowed into Vermeer's studio.  Griet is beautiful and has an eye for color and order, qualities the painter finds enchanting.  How she ends up in the painting and what it does to the futures of all involved make up this tale.This book is easily read in a couple of sittings - maybe even one, if you have the time.  Because I read it back to back with Anita Diamant's The Red Tent, I found it lacking in complexity and depth, but was a good read all the same.  Griet's chores in the household are well imagined and precise, and the historical details Chevalier provides, particularly those pertaining to the grinding and creation of color, are a delight.  While Vermeer himself seems elusive as a character, almost as though the author were afraid of giving him flesh, the other major characters are solid. I couldn't help liking Griet and feeling for her difficult position.This is an excellent vacation book, not demanding but still evocative. You don't have to be interested in art or Vermeer or historical fiction to enjoy this book.  It stands on its own as the story of a young woman coming of age and learning where her place in the world lies.
5 I enjoyed this book a great deal from the first to the last page. From the authors writing I felt joy and sadness for the main charactor, and I kept wishing for a miracle that the girl would somehow elevate herself from the confines around her. The charactors were developed wonderfully - I could feel my presence in that house as though I were Griet. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone, especially a teenage audience. A great read!
4 One of my dearest friends gave me this book to read with the assurance that I'd enjoy it and that it was &quot;an easy read.&quot; I did and it was. I was quickly pulled into a historical period of which I know next to nothing -- 17th century Holland. Chevalier's descriptions are richly detailed, her characters seem real and engaging. The book pulled me in and kept me there. Story-wise the ending was somewhat unsatisfying but quite realistic.
5 Loved the book.  Not sure what happened to her brother.  Would have liked more about her life when she left, but guess that was not the story.
4 When her father is blinded in an accident and no longer able to support his family, 16-year-old Griet is hired as a maid by the painter Vermeer and his jealous, egocentric, and frequently pregnant wife. Griet's responsibilities in the house are legion, and her tasks rendered more difficult by the unkindness of several of her new home's inhabitants. When Vermeer adopts her as an assistant in his studio--and subsequently determines to paint her--interpersonal relations below stairs are only worsened.Tracy Chevalier has written a believable and moving account--or imagining--of the creation of Vermeer's "Girl with a Pearl Earring," the painting which graces the cover of the paperback. The genius of the book lies in Chevalier's investing the act of painting Griet with a dark significance one would not imagine it to possess. There is in Griet's modeling for Vermeer the potential for tragedy, and in the painter's final brushstrokes a form of abuse. Communicating this significance to readers--and imagining this history of the painting in the first place--is quite an accomplishment.Reviewed by Debra Hamel, author of Trying Neaira: The True Story of a Courtesan's Scandalous Life in Ancient Greece
4 This was my first Tracy Chevalier book. I had heard about her for a while and was intrigued to read at least one of her works. I was pleasantly surprised.I won't delve in to specifics of the story as most previous reviewers already have. But I must say it definitely kept my interest and I looked forward to my reading time.  I have not seen the movie, but now I will have to.I found myself having a slightly difficult time getting into the story in the beginning as the characters were established. After the first chapter or so, it was easy going and I was completely involved with the characters.It is not a long book, so it is a good short-term read.  I am going to try another one of Ms. Chevalier's books soon. I hope it is just as good if not better than this one.
4 The year is 1664 and 16 year-old Griet is sent to work as a maid in the Vermeer household where she is scorned by some and tolerated by others. A wonderful portrayal of life in the times of the famous Dutch artist as witnessed from the eyes of a young girl mesmerized by a greatness beyond her reach.Though the author does not paint Vermeer in a very favorable light, he clearly portrays the egocentric expectations of a great master who is solely wrapped up in his work. The characters are interesting and the story flows well to an ending that is to be expected. It is the glimpse at human nature and the creative process of this great artist that is so enjoyable. That and a young girls love and respect for her master. A wonderful book.  Kelsana  4/04/01
5 I picked this up to read on the train on my way to Mauritshuis, the museum in The Hague in which the title painting hangs. It was an easy and entertaining afternoon read. There was enough history to add a bit to my experience of the Vermeer painting, as well as a nearby Rembrandt (featuring a character in one of the "paternity caps" described in this book). Too often historical fiction seems to have stories wildly contorted to fit the history. In this mostly sweet tale, the history was added subtly to fit the story.
5 In this radiant novel we are introduced to the minutia of family life in 17th century Holland as seen through the eyes of the maid Griet, a sixteen-year-old girl who became the subject of a famous painting by Johannes Vermeer.  This is in fact the story of how she became his subject.  As such it is a fiction fused into history, an imagination of Vermeer and the life of one of his models.  It is a tale that makes us see with alacrity the poverty of choices that a girl without means had in that world, a world caught between feudalism and the rise of the mercantile class.  Indeed, Griet had only her cleverness to stay her as she maneuvered among the men and women of privilege who would control her life.Novelist Tracy Chevalier has a gift for expression and a great talent for telling a tale and weaving into the fabric of her story the poignant details of everyday life.  Somehow she makes those details and the acting out of the petty politics of domestic life utterly enthralling.  Her first-person narrative of an illiterate girl charms and disquiets by turns.  Although this may seem a far-fetched comparison, I was reminded of Mark Twain's Huck Finn, also illiterate, who nonetheless waxed poetic with not just a novelist's but a painter's eye for detail.  The words they use are everyday words, but spun out so beautifully, so aptly that they become something close to poetry, all the while maintaining plausibility.  In truth no maid nor elegant lady of learning could express herself so well as this girl, but that is the novelist's license, and Chevalier uses it well.Griet has these choices: a butcher's son with blood under his fingernails; Vermeer, who has a wife and five children (and a sixth on the way); and van Ruijven, Vermeer's rich and lecherous patron, who also has a family.  She cannot move to another city, although sometimes she vaguely expresses this childish dream.  She, like the vast majority of humankind before the Industrial Revolution, was fated to live and die in the town of her birth.  Her life was controlled by the choices she had in men; and what would become of her depended on how she handled those choices.  She could not take a job and live alone.  She could not abandon her poverty-stricken parents.  She could only steer between the rocks and the shoreline, torn between her heart's desire and her good Dutch rationality.  Thus, on one level, this is a disturbing tale of how people, especially women, were subject to the dictates of property and privilege, without real choice, working six days a week, from sunup to sundown, for subsistence wages in economic subservience to the privileged few.  On another level this a Horatio Alger story of how one might, through hard work, right morality, a bit of clever common sense and--in this case--a pretty face, rise above one's predicament in life.  Or, perhaps how one might try.  This is also a tale of how our emotions lead us to ends both desirous and disastrous.  Griet loves her master, as all good maids should, almost inevitably.  Hers is a restrained and protracted love, beyond her control, so that she is caught.  In this sense Chevalier's book is a romantic novel, a woman's interest tale of how the heart's desire may or may not be fulfilled.  The beloved is a station above Griet; he is an accomplished artist, and he is taken--consumed in a sense--with his work and his large family, and yet she, as her brother points out, &quot;wants him.&quot;One of the nice things about this book is the reproduction of the celebrated Vermeer painting, &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; on the cover.  As one reads, one can easily refer to the painting again and again; and this is valuable because part of Chevalier's story is an imagination of how the work was painted through an intense study of the painting itself.  Those in the visual arts I imagine will find this part of the novel fascinating, and may speculate on how closely Chevalier came to a truth about the process of artistic creation.  Chevalier's interpretation includes the idea that the painting was the artist's way of making love to the girl.  There can be no doubt of that.I wish I could write with such grace and with such a feel for the felicitous detail and the absolutely apt phrase that is the hallmark of Chevalier's prose.  I also wish I had the cunning to construct a novel so carefully.  I knew I was in the thrall of a master as early as page nine when Griet learns that she is to clean Vermeer's studio without disturbing anything so that every object is returned to exactly where it had been.  Chevalier has Griet remark: &quot;After my father's accident we had learned to place things where he always knew to find them.  It was one thing to do this for a blind man, though.  Quite another for a man with a painter's eyes.&quot;  Or, on page 163, Griet is home visiting her mother, and a &quot;neighbor, a bright-eyed old woman who loved market talk,&quot; was there amid the rumors that Griet would appear in a painting alongside the lecherous van Ruijven.  Griet tells her mother, &quot;my master is beginning the painting that you were asking about.  Van Ruijven has come over...Everyone who is to be in the painting is there now.&quot;  Griet then observes that the gossipy neighbor &quot;gazed at me as if I had just set a roast capon in front of her.&quot;  Griet adds, &quot;That will take care of the rumors.&quot;Such skilled and subtle writing moves the reader along with a sense of deep involvement, and opens wide the eyes of other writers, who might learn from the very accomplished and gifted Tracy Chevalier.
3 Tracey Chevalier's idea to write a story about the famous painting 'Girl with a Pearl Earring', by Johannes Vermeer, is very intriguing and unique.  Griet, the main character, was  often frustrating with her withdrawn  manner and lack of confidence in herself. This itself is probably a reflection of her status in society in 17th century Europe.  I found it disappointing that the painter himself was not really brought into the story as well as he could have been.  We only  were given an indepth look into Griet's character, and the story was seen soley from her perspective.  The plot was luke warm around the relationship of Griet (his maid) and the painter, but we discover that Griet has an artistic ability, that adds light to an otherwise monotonous plot.  I was drawn to reading this book by the idea behind it. It is a good, light read, and one which I recommend .
5 In Girl with a Pearl Earring, Chevalier paints such an intimate and believable portrait of a girl whose fascination with and devotion to her "master" is so complete, that the reader cannot help but admire her and yet pity her at the same time.  Told in a simple yet powerful narrative, Chevalier traces Griet's growing attraction for the painter as well as the complex relationships within the entire Vermeer household and her own.  Each character sketch is a work of art:  the wife whose insecurity makes her self-centered and shallow, the perceptive yet hard-boiled mother-in-law who makes it her business to do what it takes to ensure their financial security, the simple-minded maid who takes offense easily and doesn't hesitate to punish those who offend her, the brother who is so disillusioned with his apprenticeship that he becomes reckless in the pursuit of pleasure, and the artist, who is willing to sacrifice a young girl's honor and livelihood as well as his own relationship with her, to become a successful painter.  Chevalier helps us to understand the private life of an exceedingly bright and sensitive but very quiet young girl who is surprisingly astute in her evaluations of the people she comes in contact with but yet nave where her strongest affections lie.  Chevalier skillfully traces Griet's growing attraction for her "master" that develops into a bond she cannot willingly relinquish even when it threatens to destroy her chances for future happiness.  She also addresses the moralistic attitudes of the times that left young women of Griet's station in life with few choices if they were unlucky enough to attract the attentions of the wrong sort of man.  In addition to the complex personal relationships that Chevalier brings to life, she succeeds in creating a convincing portrayal of daily life in 17th-century Holland as well as the process of painting from the preparation of the paints to the finishing touches, through rich and sensual visual imagery. Overall, Girl with a Pearl Earring is an absorbing and evocative novel that is sure to give the reader a deeper understanding of the bond that can develop between two people who share a similar way of looking at the world as well as an insight into the emotions felt by those who lack the freedom or the desire to reveal them.
4 In her novel, 'Girl With a Pearl Earring', Tracy Chevalier gives clever voice and life to the enigmatic subject of Johannes Vermeer's incomparable oil painting of the same name.  For protestant Griet, just 16 years old and forced into service as a maid due to her family's poverty, the very Catholic household of the famous Delft artist bears little ressemblance to her life as the daughter of a tile painter.  Although assailed by mountains of laundry and other monotonous and never-ending kitchen duties, she nevertheless has the acute perception of an artist's daughter to notice the odd dynamics that bind the inhabitants of the household together as deftly as Vermeer's brushwork depicts the light shining on the face of one of his models.  &quot;He&quot; as Griet awefully refers to Vermeer, lives only for his painting; his mother-in-law agrees to any of his whims to insure a faster end-product with happier patrons and hence more revenue to keep the household from slipping into financial ruin.  His wife, Katerina, desperately wants to be a part of the world Vermeer sees with his painter's eye; she smoulders pettishly when she realizes that Griet is admitted into his world wordlessly as Vermeer recognizes something within Griet that defines her as a kindred spirit.Chevalier fills the novel with the tasks of an everyday Delft so real, one marvels at the magnificence of her invention.  Her simple concentration on Griet's cleanliness; the whitness of her cap, the studied way in which she wears it with the two ties hanging on either side of her face to hide her expression, reminds us of the Biblical maxim &quot;Cleanliness is next to Godliness.&quot;  Yet, the author ingeniously uses this bit of clothing and its accompanying characteristics to display Griet's dual nature: a Protestant girl who wears her snow white cap fears gossip in the marketplace and frowns upon what she calls &quot;Catholic art&quot; displayed in the Vermeer home and a girl with unruly hair that needs hiding within the cap's entrapment hints at an equally inruly spirit that would not hesitate to go into the alley with the handsome butcher's son and have him grope under her wanton skirts.Chevalier paints a lovely portrait of a young girl's resignation to a live the limited life to which she is born yet to live again in innocence, beauty and expectation forever captured within the medium of canvas, paint and linseed oil.I thorougly enjoyed this novel.  I listened to it on unabridged audio and never once was I bored at the simple straighforward narrative told in Griet's controlled voice.  Here the love affair takes place in the world of canvas; so if you are expecting romantic fireworks set in a skyrocketing July 4th tableau, forget it.  This novel concentrates on a full spectrum of emotions that burn underneath the skin with the steadfastness of an eternal candle rather than the &quot;appearances-be-damned&quot;, &quot;no-holes-barred&quot; passions that are snuffed out after carnal lusts are spent.
4 The story is set in the 17th century.  A young woman, Griet, is an unassuming beauty who at the age of 16 is sent to be a maid in the house of Johannes Vermeer, an amazing painter who takes a liking to Griet.  There are numerous tensions already existing in the household and Griet adds to them.  The mother in law there, Maria Thins, knows that Griet is special and feels the trouble brewing.  What good can possibly come of a painter/master of a house and the maid who works there? To him she became more than just a servant.  She assisted him with his work and he taught his vision of the world to her.  To watch Griet's character grow and come to life is the best part of this book.  Her perceptions of things are wonderfully written.Tracy Chevalier is a truly talented author.  Her look into the life of the working class versus the well-off, the religious differences that were so apparent at that time and the social injustices is what makes this novel shine.
5 I didn't know much about Jan Vermeer, except that he was a Dutch painter.  Based on Vermeer's painting &quot;The Girl With a Pearl Earring&quot;, the book is a fictional first hand account of that girl, who the author invents as a maid turned muse in the Vermeer household. There are enough facts to stir up interest, for me at least, in the works and life of the painter. The story told by the maid, Griet, speaks of the 1600's where Catholicism was suspect, the plague caused many deaths,and food was scarce.  You also glimpse the technology of the times;  the camera obscura, the boats with swolen holds in the harbor, the mixing of herbs at home for medicine, and the use of various plants and bones to make paint.  I think that Chevalier was inspired by Vermeer's use of light and shadow, and has researched this period, plus whatever scant personal information exists about the artist,and has written a beautiful, insightful, well thought out book.  It is as rich in color and light as the painter's work. I loved &quot;Galileo's Daughter&quot;, for much the same reasons as I love this book.  When I think of the 1600's, I have a hazy view of that period of great artisans, a crippling lack of technology, cold and damp houses.  I am always delighted to read about micro perspectives of that time that deliver me from this sort of hazy macro collage I have of the past.
5 All I can say is...Wow!  Girl With a Pearl Earring is a positively stunning novel, and one that I will remember for a long time to come.  The historical detail quickly pulls the reader into another world, and the sparkling prose breathes new life into artist Johannes Vermeer, his family and most especially Griet, the girl hired as maid to the Vermeer household.Set in 17th century Delft, Girl With a Pearl Earring begins with 16-year-old Griet chopping vegetables in her mother's kitchen.  Griet's family has fallen on some hardships, and her mother has informed her she is to become a maid in order to help support them.  Vermeer and his wife, Catharina, agree that Griet will make a fine maid, and with that quick decision comes a fate that Griet could have never imagined...a world of color and symmetry, secrets and passions, and one in which could spell her ruin.Author Tracy Chevalier has created a magnificient fictional account about what could have been, the inspiration behind one of Vermeer's most celebrated works.  Truly a masterpiece and one history, romance and art lovers will enjoy.  Girl With a Pearl Earring starts as a fever and rises and flourishes with each turning page.  I highly recommend this beautiful, eloquent, evocative tale.  Readers will find themselves lost in the world of Vermeer and Griet; this atmospheric novel will have nothing less to offer.
4 Griet, the protagonist of Tracy Chevalier's &quot;Girl With a Pearl  Earring&quot; is very much like the girl in Vermeer's painting of the same  name--keeping her own counsel, beautiful, and a bit enigmatic. The reader  eventually comes to know some things about Griet--the color of her hair for  example. We know only a bit more about her thoughts, motivations, and  actions. Why is she so bold at times? Imagine a mere serving girl  rearranging Vermeer's artifacts set out for a painting--especially after  being warned not to do so by the Mistress of the household! And, she never  really confesses directly how she feels about Vermeer. I can only think of  &quot;The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie&quot; -- does she desire the man or the  artist? And, speaking of enigmas, I still don't know much about Vermeer.The girl in Vermeer's painting is unlike anything else he ever created.  For one thing, while many of the sitters for his paintings can be  identified, and the yellow satin cape with the ermine trim shows up over  and over, the girl in this painting remains a mystery. According to  &quot;Johannes Vermeer&quot; printed by the National Gallery in Washington,  &quot;The Girl..&quot; has proven difficult to identify because there is no  parallel for her clothing with contemporary Dutch fashions. Also, the  concept of the painting is very different from the other interior genre  scenes Vermeer painted. &quot;The Girl..&quot; exists against a backdrop of  black. And, the skin tones of &quot;The Girl.. are created by  &quot;layering a thin flesh-colored glaze over a transparent  undermodeling&quot; something apparently Vermeer had not done in any of his  other paintings and did not do as well in later paintings.  He seems to  have been truly inspired by this girl. Who was she?Chevalier attempts to  draw her own portrait of the girl. Her story is compelling, evolving not  unlike Vermeer's painting, where overlay after overlay of color is used to  build the subject's image. The plot is not complex.  The book could have  been titled &quot;two years in the life of Vermeer's sitter of the girl  with the pearl earring.&quot;  Speaking of which, the book can be easily  read in two sittings.Two recently released books involving a Dutch  painting: &quot;The Girl in Hyacinth Blue&quot; by Susan Vreeland and  Michael Frayn's book &quot;Headlong&quot; have been compared with &quot;The  Girl With a Pearl Earring.&quot;  For me, &quot;The Girl..&quot; by  Chevalier is better than &quot;Blue..&quot; by Vreeland, but Michael  Frayn's book is the best. Different strokes...
5 "Girl With A Pearl Earring" by Tracy Chevalier, set in 17th century Holland which deals with Griet, who worked as a maid in famous artisit, Vermeer's home. Griet was an exceptional young lady as she was observant, intelligent and very much in tune with paintings despite her humble background. In Vermeer's home, Griet had to deal with the insufferable mistress, Catharina as well as her children and the other maid who was hostile to Griet and considered her a threat. Not to mention, Vermeer trusted no one but Griet to clean his studio, which others don't have access to. Soon, Griet became Vermeer's "unofficial" assistant; grinding colors for his paintings, giving him suggestions and basically inspiring him. The author also explained one of Vermeer's most famous painting very vividly. She also did a fantastic job of characterizing their tension and feelings for each other. In the midst of this, there was also the local butcher's son who was out to woo Griet.I really enjoy this book as I find Chevalier's writing very eloquent and at the same time, easy to understand. She was able to vividly describe the unspoken feelings that Griet and Vermeer had for each other. Using the first person narrative, we are able to see the confusion and the excitement that Griet felt for Vermeer even though she knew nothing would come out of it. In addition, Griet was also dealing with the other members of Vermeer's household who became suspicious of the relationship between Griet and Vermeer. Besides the fact that this book was very well-written, I enjoy the historical background the Chevalier provided for her readers; such as the setting, the mentality of people in 17th century Holland, the roles of women in the society, and etc. It is obvious to me that Chevalier knew her subjects very well and were able to bring out their personalities which make the characters come alive. This is definitely one of the better historical fiction around.
4 The entire novel is short and can be a very quick read, but if you take the time to appreciate the flow of the story, it will seem although you are reading poetry or prose set to music.It is quite amazing how much information can be derived in so little words. I am a big fan of more verbose writers like Umberto Eco, Neal Stephenson, Philippa Gregory - and don't usually expect to become captivated by short novels.The writer posseses a gift in being able to convey the characters' thoughts and essenses without have to go into detail about everything.The day to day life that unfolds of young Griet, from her thoughts to her experiences gives the reader a glimpse into society and culture of that time period - which is truly, once again, mostly due to the author's writing style, quite enlightening.
5 Chevalier is one of those writers that can make you pray for rainy Saturdays, just so you can have the pleasure of sinking into the sofa with her book and a blanket. Girl With a Pearl Earring is as rich and intriguing  as its namesake.  Griet is a lovely narrator, young and vibrant with a  wonderfully curious dispostion.  Chevalier captures the essence of the  painting in Griet, a girl at once naive and honest yet possessing a clear  and often cold acceptance of her fate that betrays her station in life.
3 It was difficult to become involved with the characters. I get that the style of The Girl with the Pearl Earring is meant to emulate Vermeer's painting style. However, real life is not flat like a painting. Iciness, restraint and a sense of brooding came through strongly. I'm torn between wanting more from this book and just wanting it to be over. Luckily the book is short and it was a quick read.
4 Vermeer's famous portrait of a girl with a pearl earring and her hair covered completely in fabric has always beguiled me.  The style of the painting, the expression, the clothes, the earring, the direct stare and longing in the mouth and eyes have always made me want to know more about the model.Ms. Chevalier's book dealt with those questions quite well, and took my understanding of the subject to new depths that I had not considered before.  If I had only gained that increased understanding of the painting, I would have found this to be a worthy book.The story is also filled with interesting details about the artistic methods of the time and preparation of materials.  That information was an unexpected bonus.Vermeer is known for having produced few works.  Ms. Chevalier has provided many intriguing ideas about why that might have been the case.On top of these artistic questions, Ms. Chevalier has written a lively story of a young woman whose family falls on hard times so that she has to take up work as a maid in Vermeer's household.  She finds herself at the bottom of the pecking order and is often treated unfairly.  Like Cinderella, her true qualities are eventually appreciated and she finds her Prince Charming.  The story also provides many helpful details about town life in Delft during the 1700s.The Cinderella story was a bit overdeveloped compared to the artistic aspects of the story.  Had the two aspects been in better balance I would have found this to be a five star book.If you normally enjoy historical romances, you will probably like this book better than I did.Keep smiling!
4 "The Girl with the Pearl Earring" tells the story behind the relationship between Vermeer and his subject, his maid-the girl Griet. Like the painting, the story is simple, subtle and strangely intimate.Upon picking up Chevalier's novel, I thought it might be slow and boring. Thankfully, despite the delicate prose, the novel moves along at a steady pace and at times the novel is so silent and intense-like a cat on the hunt- I had to hold my breath. The novel is the perfect length and Chevalier skillfully mixes character, art, plot and 17th century Holland into a tight novel.
5 This book will definately keep your interest. I couldn't put it down. It tells the story of The Girl with A Pearl Earing in Holland in 1660. The best thing about this book is that it was very easy to read. There was just enough information given to give you an idea of life in those times - but the book does not weight you down with historical facts. It keeps you interested by keeping the story moving - you keep wondering how it will end and where the girl will end up. It is a really good story.
4 I find it difficult to review the book without also reviewing the movie, so I will review both and try to compare and contrast the two.The story is about Griet, the daughter of a Dutch tilemaker and his wife in Delft, Holland, early 17th century. Griet's father is blinded when his kiln explodes, leaving him unable to support his family. Griet is hired out as a maid to the family of the painter Johannes Vermeer. She becomes the object of attention of the painter, as well as of his wealthy and lecherous patron. That's the storyline that is common to both book and movie.First, the book. Chevalier's prose is nearly perfect, expertly supplying detailed setting descriptions that guide the reader into the beauty of everyday life that often goes unnoticed because of its ubiquity, &quot;hidden in plain sight.&quot; Common objects become &quot;objects d'art&quot;. The complicated personal interactions between the well-to-do and the poor, family and outsider, servant and served, artisan and patron are all meticulously treated and never boring. The hook(s) in each chapter are well relieved and easy to ascertain. This is not to say that the book lacks subtlety, for the lavish descriptions could easily have become distracting from the important action were it not for the author's skill in separating the wheat from the chaff. From a readability standpoint, the story is seamless and intriguing.Now, for the movie. The movie is a visual feast. If you've ever viewed Vermeer's paintings, you will think that the movie is the paintings magically set in motion. The colors are rich and textured, and the action of many of the scenes are shot through door frames and windows, providing acute visual focus. The cinemagraphic emphasis is on contrast, just as Vermeer's paintings emphasize contrast. The dialogue is sparse, and much of the communication to the audience is via facial expressions and body language of the superb cast of actors. This is simply a great movie.However. . .the movie diverges dramatically from the book in several particulars. The movie doesn't explain what has happened to Griet's father. The movie doesn't mention Griet's brother and sister, key players in the over-all effect of the book. The movie doesn't end as the book does.It seems that book and the movie have different goals. The action in the book moves Griet from her simple life to a far more complicated life, eventually placing her at a point of crisis in which she must choose between eight different options (symbolized by a compass painted onto the street in Delft). The movie is about contrast, with the action (in conjuction with the visuals) moving Griet into the ultimate contrast, that of role-reversal. At first, she is taught by Vermeer, and then she teaches him; at first she is dependent upon the Vermeer family, and then the Vermeer family is dependent upon her.When compared, the story of the movie is far more striking than the story of the book. If the movie's divergences from the book weren't so distracting (namely, the lack of explanation of Greit's father's plight), I would almost prefer the movie over the book. Taken separately, though, the book is better. Taken together, the movie is better. I guess the caveat is, don't see the movie without first reading the book. (I do sort of wonder if the differences are the result of a clever marketing plan to make the public partake of both.)In any case, I thoroughly enjoyed both book and movie. Both explore the human condition in unique ways, and the rewards of taking in both are well worth spending money on both. I highly recommend.
5 This is set in seventeenth century Holland, so I suppose I'm a bad person to review it because I start with a prejudice against historical novels. I think the novelist should stick to his or her own time. If I want to know how people spoke and thought in the seventeenth century I'll go to Samuel Pepys's Diary. One problem all historical novelists have is with dialog. Do you make people talk in modern colloquial way, which jars, or have them talk with yeahs and forsooths.  The usual compromise, which Chevalier adopts in this book, is having them talk in a stilted way with little humor or give and take. This conveys an atmosphere of solemnity. There was a lot of tragedy in the seventeenth century, but some people sometimes had good times. One of them was Leeuwenhoek, who appears as a solemn character in this book. He must have been bubbling over with excitement about Hooke's book on the Microscope when he talked to Vermeer. We know from his letters to the Royal Society how lively and interested in everything he was.A ten year old child dies of plague in this book, and such terrible things happened then, but it was also possible for an amateur scientist, grinding his own lenses, to enter an unexplored world and start the train of discovery that would stop such things. Leeuwenhoek was the first man to see bacteria.
5 Although I'm not usually drawn to period pieces (I think that's what this would be considered), I really enjoyed this book. I liked the author's style. The characters actually seemed to come to life and the story was interesting.
3 I'm a sucker for historical fiction. Gary Jennings' Aztec and Ken Follett's Pillars of the Earth are probably the most enjoyable examples of period fiction based upon historical fact (with plenty of author's license utilized, to be sure). For an educator, historical fiction is a great way to introduce the study of a period without the usual commensurate pain.Chevalier's Girl with a Pearl Earring was laying around our house (required reading by my 16 year-old for her AP history class, I believe). The reviews on the back cover were stunning: the Times, Journal, Chronicle and others waxed eloquently; depicting the novel as a compelling blend of 17th century Holland, the paintings of Dutch master Johannes Vermeer, and the origins of one of his most famous paintings.The painting is, of course, "Girl with a Pearl Earring," also known as "the Mona Lisa of the north." An enigmatic young woman is featured in the painting (and on the book's cover). She is imagined by Chevalier to be one of Vermeer's maids named Griet. Griet is shy, intelligent, and too-pretty-for-her-own-good. Forced into servitude by her father's unexpected blindness, Griet becomes an essential part of Vermeer's busy household.Cleverly navigating the domestic politics of a household spilling with children, a grandparent, and other maids, Griet soon finds herself receiving attention not only from Vermeer's wealthiest patron but also the great master himself. How she deals with these difficulties forms the very essence of the book.Unfortunately, the book's plot is so simplistic as to be almost 233 pages of nothingness. Imagine a Seinfeld episode taking place in the 17th century without any humorous characters, and you've pretty much got the idea. As for 17th century Holland, consider it unvisited. There were few details that would satisfy the mildly curious, not to mention someone truly interested in the period. Despite an elegant writing style, this book could have been the length of a magazine article without missing a beat.
2 I don't read much literary fiction, mainly because much of it is more about the style with which the novel is written or the allegories or hidden meanings which readers are supposed to detect, cleverly hidden as they are among the novel's usually rather thin storyline. When I read fiction, I read it for the emotional involvement with the characters, and thus my preference is for authors who can invoke emotion with their words.The reviews carried on this book's jacket appear to promise such emotional involvement: we are told that it is `haunting' and `magical', `unbearably poignant' and `steeped in atmosphere'. Maybe it's me, but I didn't see any of that. What I did see was a not-very-well-fleshed-out story about a young Dutch girl with an unusual fascination with colours and imagery, employed to work as a maid in the household of the seventeenth-century painter Vermeer. The household is fraught with traps for the unwary, where no matter what she says Griet may end up in trouble with someone. And yet through all of this, for a character we are meant to believe is uncertain, alarmed, unsure of her status, Griet appears remarkably calm and even capable. She chooses meat better than the household's existing cook; she can even cook better, too! And she can apparently teach Vermeer himself how to give his paintings that extra touch they need to make them unique.But it is the emotions which are the least convincing. Chevalier always tells, rather than shows, when it comes to Griet's emotions. For instance, Griet is subject to the lecherous desires of van Ruijven, and also to his stolen touches. She tells us (very briefly) that she dislikes it, but the few mentions are very dispassionate. Even more emotionless is Griet's courtship with Pieter the butcher. In the accounts of the time they spend together, it appears as if Griet barely tolerates him - and yet this relationship appears to be serious. With Pieter she experiences her first kiss, and this barely rates a mention; more intimacy is described as if the narrator is a detached, uninterested observer rather than the active participant.In fact, the whole book feels written from a perspective of emotional detachment. I didn't find myself caring about the characters at all, which led to a sense of scepticism about the interest which Vermeer himself is supposed to show in Griet - whether real or just as the potential subject of a painting - and about Griet herself as a credible character. Whether I would have finished the book had I not been reading it to while away a train journey I don't know, but it certainly didn't interest me enough to consider re-reading it, or going to see the film.wmr-uk
5 I encourage you to curl up with this book at the end of the day!  This has become one of my all time favorite books!  It is well written, engaging, unique, thought provoking and beautiful.  Tracy Chevalier has a gift for describing settings and feelings that is rare.  It prompted me to visit the local art gallery in search of other Vermeer paintings so that I can experience first hand what was described in the book.  I was not disappointed!  I have read only one other book by Ms. Chevalier (Falling Angels) and it was equally eloquent and capativating.  I look forward to reading her other books in the future.  Susan Vreeland has also written a book about Vermeer, Girl in Hyacinth Blue, that was thoroughly enjoyable.  Other books I enjoyed are "Pope Joan", "The Red Tent", "Stones in the River", "Kite Runner", "Tapestries".  Happy reading.
5 I didn't think I would like this book, (had to read it for a class) but it is a beautifully written story. Totally plausable fictional account of Vermeer's inspiration for his most famous painting. However you can skip the movie version, its terrible.
5 &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring,&quot; by Tracy Chevalier, is a story set in Delft, Holland in the 17th Century.  A lovely sixteen-year-old named Griet, whose family has suffered financial setbacks, is sent to be a  maidservant in the home of the great Dutch painter, Johannes Vermeer.  Griet finds herself drawn to the world of Vermeer--a world of light, color,  beauty and perfect composition.  Griet shows an aptitude for understanding  art and she gradually begins to assist Vermeer in his painting.  Griet's  involvement in Vermeer's art sets the stage for family conflict. (The title  of the novel comes from a Vermeer painting that is known as the Dutch Mona  Lisa because of the enigmatic young woman in the portrait.)  This novel is  a small gem and it is an immensely satisfying work of fiction.  Chevalier  perfectly captures the life of 17th Century Delft, with its sharp religious  and class distinctions, and her nuanced dialogue and descriptive passages  are beautifully textured. In fact, &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; is  like a Vermeer portrait. It is expressive, subtle and meaningful. I highly  recommend this book for people who are fascinated by art and who enjoy  historical fiction.
5 I loved this book.  It intertwines art and relationships.  I enjoyed the story of the young girl and how she was enamored with the great VerMeer.  It explained how some of the paints were made and how important every aspect of a room is to the mood being set in a painting.  I thought it was written as the picture looks - simple yet as you look closer, very intricate. Very enjoyable to read.
5 this is a must read for all those who are interested in the northern european artist vermeer.  it is a work of fiction but it is somewhat historical.
2 &quot;I was chopping vegetables in the kitchen when I heard voices outside our front door--a woman's, bright as polished brass, and a man's, low and dark like the wood of the table I was working on. They were the kind of voices we heard rarely in our house. I could hear rich carpets in their vioces, books and pearls and fur.I was glad that earlier I had scrubbed the front steps so hard.My mother's voice--a cooking pot, a flagon--approached from the front room&quot;Most of the prose is unsophisticated, but might have been fine considering it is written in first person and the protagonist is young teenager, but ridiculous passages like this (from the first page) stand out. The strained metaphors only get worse as you read on. The characters are unsympathetic and worse, unbelieveable, and the plot is paper thin.
2 This is something that I would read if I have a long wait in the doctor's office. The plot is interesting enough, but everything is lopsided and flat. There is not any real back stories to the characters themselves. A lot of things are based on local market gossip with almost no explination. What really bothered me is that Griet sounds more educated than she really is. She is barely semi-literate. It says in the book that all she knows is only to write her name and read her prayer book. She cannot read somebody else's hand writing or printed words in anything else. That really bothered me. We don't really get to know her family in depth and that was a big plot hole.
5 This is a gorgeous book (and I don't just mean the cover). It's the story of Griet. Her father would bring back the income for her family as a painter of tiles, but ever since the accident that has blinded him, the family needs money. Vermeer needs a maid, and she is chosen to work for him and his large family.The book sets flawless images in your mind, meaning Chevalier depicts every word and makes it her own. The details are vivid and you can picture every bit of it. And at the same time it's not too unctuous, and she leaves a wispy essence of mystery, just enough so you can leave some of the picturing to yourself.Another important and brilliant part of this book is that it's actually believable. It's not overly exagerrated. The characters have all the right emotions so that you can easily figure out just what's going on. The book is just enough of everything so that nothing is too ridiculous or pathetic.
4 "Girl with a Pearl Earring", set in the 1600s, is a masterfully written piece.  Chevalier paints a beautiful picture with her words, character development, and quite believable storyline.  Even if the reader is not familiar with Vermeer, Chevalier weaves in fact and fiction well enough it reads like a story book and not an art history lecture.What I enjoy about this book and also in "Falling Angels" is that she writes in the mood of the era.  The reader comes to feel Griet's embarrassment and awkwardness when faced with even the slightest intimacy with men.  Many other authors would exploit those scenes, but Chevalier is true to the mood and spirit of the era and writes those scenes eloquently.I wished she had been able to add more to the story to make it longer.  I think it would've made the end more climactic.  That would be my criticism of the book.  That is why I only gave 4 stars.  It was a compelling read and I am very glad I read it.  I did not find the movie as compelling, unfortunately.
5 This book was very simple yet rich and vivid.  Wonderful story.  Memorable characters.  A deep protagonist.  Highly recommended for those who enjoy coming of age stories and historical fiction.
5 I thought the writing was clean. The story unwove smoothly. The character was likable. I thought the historical detail was perfect, not too overdone.  Many reviewers did not like this book much and perhaps John Grisham is more to their taste. It is not a fast paced paperback to read on the plane. Rather a book to be savoured like fine wine.
4 Girl with a Pearl Earring is a wonderfully pleasant read.  Not too challenging or mindboggling, just an imaginative story that I think most people will enjoy.  Tracy Chevalier has come up with an interesting concept--she takes an enigmatic Vermeer painting--The Girl with a Pearl Earring--and weaves an interesting and well-written story about it.  Griet is a young woman whose family's financial luck has changed after an accident leaves her artisan father blind.  She is hired as a teenage girl to work in the Vermeer household as a maid and soon, because of her own artistic sensibilities begins secretly assisting the artist.  Griet ultimately models for the famous painting, and the conflict it causes is her story.  There are many other stories swirling around Griet, those of her own family, the Vermeer family and Peter, a young man she meets at the market.  I found this an interesting read, perfect for a warm summer's day, when you are searching for something a little more substantial than the usual summer fodder.  Enjoy.
3 Although I knew I was buying a used book, I was surprised by the condition.  The front cover was badly creased, the back also showed damage, as did the spine.  The first 11 pages were dog-eared as were several other pages.  This was not mentioned in the description.  That said, I loved the book and it deserves the praise it has received.
4 Girl With a Pearl Earring is an interesting fictional account of the life of a maid, Griet, as she works for the painter Vermeer and his household.  Even though I am not familiar with the painting or Vermeer, I've learned about some of his paintings and his favorite subject matters.  This book will especially interest you if you are a history buff or an art lover.Griet tells the story in first person.  You feel her pain, her fear, her insecurities and her frustrations.  Her family forces her into servanthood after her father is stricken blind in a kiln accident.  She goes to work for the painter Vermeer.  Even though he is the man of the house, it is clear he does not run the house.  His wife, Catharina, and his mother-in-law, Maria Thins, are the true overseers of the house.  Catharina is perpetually pregnant, and the house is full of little girls.  One in particular, Cornilia, proves to be a handful.The book educates the reader as it describes the life of a maid in the 17th century, as well as some of the notions and the culture of 17th century Holland.  I would have liked for the book to be longer, but the book is the perfect length for the story lines that are developed.  All of the story lines are completed, and I didn't find myself wanting to know more about certain characters.I look forward to reading Tracy Chevalier's other works.
3 One half of me liked this book, I enjoyed reading about his paintings and the time in which they were painted.The other half was waiting and hoping for something to happen between Vermeer and the maid- it was totally left off-  like&quot;what was that&quot; - I agree with one of the comments made earlier,I would recommend this to a young girl- she would enjoy it.Disappointed from ALL the hype!!
5 The first time I read this book, I was a huge Vermeer aficionado. He is still one of my favorite artists. Here Tracy Chevalier recreates the Netherlands in the 17th century with perfection. Who was Johannes Vermeer? Chevalier tries to answer this question and more as she tries to create a story behind the painting called "Girl with a Pearl Earring."Griet is a fascinating heroine. At the age of 16 she lives in Vermeer's house as a servant. There, he is captured by her beauty, enough so that he uses her as a model. Griet is an unassuming character, perceptive to the extreme, who observes much of the world around her.In this book Chevalier does a great job showing us what the lives of upper and lower class people were like. Her descriptions of people and places are exquisite. Also recommended: The Lady and the Unicorn, also by Tracy Chevalier.
5 I read another book, Girl in the Hyacinth Blue, recently and enjoyed it very much. It also concerned Vermeer, but from a much different standpoint. That book was more about his painting, this book was more about the man and his time period.I really enjoyed the story of Griet, the daughter of a blind man, who must feed her family because of he father's trade accident. (The kiln exploded at his work, and blinded him leaving him without a way to support the family of 5) Griet is thrown into a maid position for a Catholic family (her family is Protestant) in the city of Delft, Holland. The household is full of children and she must serve two mistresses, but she finds herself much more intrigued and drawn to the master of the house, Johannes Vermeer.The story tells of Griet's growing up, and her feelings for her master--she evantually sits for a painting that goes down in history as his most noted painting--a girl looking over her left shoulder, wearing a pearl earring.It is a beautiful historical fiction, I could not put it down. Chevalier is a wonderful writer, and I really look forward to her other books!
4 There are two paintings on the cover of this book. One of a city (Delft) and one of the girl with the pearl earring. I don't know why, but I've always liked the latter. Very little action-wise is going on in the painting, yet it still catches your eye and holds your attention. So it came to be a big surprise that Tracy Chevalier was able to create a more or less interesting story on such a simple painting. The book IS rather slow, but I don't think anyone could have done much better. The characters are likeable and realistic. The author also does a good job of setting the scene in which this story takes place. You will learn many things about painting that you never thought of before. There are many parallels in this book--events or objects early on are reintroduced at later times. I appreciated Vermeer's painting a lot before reading this--now I appreciate it even more. After reading this book, you will be changed: you will see the blues and reds in every cloud, you will see the story in every painting. . . .
4 Girl With A Pearl Earring, by Tracy Chevalier is the story of a maid, &quot;Griet,&quot; and her work with the vamous painter Vermeer.  Her duties as a maid expand to assisting Vermeer -- not &quot;acceptable for a maid&quot; -- and Vermeer's art is not supposed to be of maids. Yet they overcome class differences, and we are brought into a painting which comes to life the minute the first page is read. In the following pages, Chavelier paints a slow, yet careful and beautiful work of art that makes the 17th century timeless. For an artist's eyes and the &quot;wide eyed maid&quot; exchange pearls of wisdom.  The story is as beautiful and complete as a tightly strung pearl necklace.  Pearls may look white, but looks can be deceiving. The story of this work of art creates an illusion that satisfies the readers' eyes.
3 I finished it, which says something, but I know I won't read it again. I liked the deluxe edition, and I enjoyed the full-color plates.
3 "Now that the painting was finished he no longer wanted me."I read this book in one sitting and you will too (if you've got the time).The story is about a young woman who has to take on a job as a maid in the house of a wealthy painter to support her blind father and her mother.In her new master's house, her master has an interest in her that drives his wife's jealousy into several fits, the older maid into calling her a whore, and her master's daughter into pulling mischevious pranks that more than once almost get her fired.Even if you don't read this book in one setting, thoughts of Griet and her misfortunes will haunt the back of your mind until you've finished.
5 A friend recommended this book to me and I completely loved it.  The movie adaptation was completely beautiful, adding a visual aspect to the story, but the book, as usual, managed to carry more depth to the story; a sense of how very hard the girl had to work, the kinds of pressure she was under and how very dangerous it was for her to pose for the painting.Unforgettable.
4 A clever and believable tale centered around one of Vermeer's most famous paintings,  Girl with a Pearl Earring.  I was completely intrigued with the way Ms. Chevalier seemed to spin every aspect of the tale  to the point where the reader feels voyeuristic for peering in on such private moments!I will never look at this painting in the same way again. Vermeer's mother in law was in fact named Maria Thyns (note: Maria Thins in the book), and the Dutch Master indeed  sired 11 children.  Another fact is that  many of Vermeer's works were purchased by the very wealthy Pieter Van Ruijven. So as you can see,  this wonderful work of fiction is steeped with important historical facts.Wonderfully creative.  Clean, crisp. bare bones writing style.
5 What an exquisite novel!  Deceptively simple in the telling, GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING is told from the perspective of a serving girl in the house of Vermeer, who becomes both model and muse.  Chevalier captures the very quality of a Vermeer painting in her writing, and vividly brings the Delft of the artist's time to life in this breathtaking first novel.  A lovely, lyrical tale of love and art.  Don't miss it!
3 The idea is great, the story is good, but the writer lucks talent. I didn't like her way of writing, too simple and full of inconsistencies.This is a very easy read, I finished it the same day. As I said, it is a good book, but far from being a masterpiece.
3 This is the first book I have read by Chevalier. I didn't love it, but I'm glad I read it.Parts of it were very good, such as the description of what life was like in the 17th century, how things were done, how life was seen through a painter's eyes, how families lived, etc...Others were dull and tedious to read, but I won't go into that.The main character, Griet, is a 16 year old girl, who is &quot;forced&quot; to work as a maid for Vermeer, a very famous painter. She is very bright, and she has the ability to know exactly what everyone thinks about her, feel when someone is behind her and  when she is being looked at, know exactly what people want from her, and even make changes that make paintings perfect, which makes her very unbelievable, but, apart from that, she is likable and you do find yourself in her shoes from time to time.The storyline is simple, not very elaborate, and the characters are either pure white or  midnight black.The story is definetly fiction, yes, it is based on a true painting, and on the life of the artist who painted it, but so little is known about the painter's life that Chevalier really let her imagination flow when it came to the feelings and attitudes of all the characters.Finally, if you really want to read this, you will enjoy it, if you don't have very high expectations, and it is a simple easy read for a relaxed afternoon with a nice cup of coffee!
4 Johannes Vermeer's most famous painting, "Girl With A Pearl Earring" (once referred to as "Girl With a Turban" or "Young Girl" and now also referred to as "The Mona Lisa of the North"), seems ready made for speculative fiction. In the case of this work, speculation may in fact be all that we have. The origin and history of the painting remain shrouded in mystery. Only a signature, revealed after a 19th century cleaning, ties the painting to the Dutch Master. Historical records and provenance become very unclear before 1881. Scholars do know that it was purchased for almost nothing in that same year at auction. Before that, it might be one of the items mentioned in Vermeer's 1676 death inventory, listed as "2 tronies painted in turkish fashion." As such, this enigmatic portrait only gained its reputation, and current name, in the twentieth century. At the epicenter of its mystique sits that anonymous but emotionally charged face. Someone was the model for Vermeer's masterpiece. No records remain. And that provides the jumping off point for fiction.This book, with no pretensions to historical accuracy whatsoever (the word "a novel" are emblazoned across the cover), makes Griet, a poor maid trapped by 17th century societal circumstances, the subject of Vermeer's masterpiece. Griet's father has lost his sight and his trade in the equivalent of an industrial accident (a kiln exploded). This forces the family to "sell" their daughter into paid domestic servitude. The waifish seventeen year old Protestant then enters the Catholic world of the famous Vermeer family. She enters a house imploding with internal politics and social hierarchy. Even the children and grandparents are in on it, and Griet proves a quick study of the de facto house laws. Though the painter himself appears shadowy, distant, and wraith like at first, he takes Griet under his wing as his unofficial assistant. She mixes and buys paint for him. She even makes an "improvement" in one of his paintings. He shows her the wonder of the camera obscura. Through him she gains self-respect and confidence in herself. The famous painter helps her grow. None of this happen withouts intrigue, of course. This is a novel. As Griet becomes more involved with the master of the house, the children plot against her and the matriarch, Catharina, grows suspicious. Griet also grows rather fond, too fond, of her master. He seems to have reciprocal feelings. If that weren't enough, the plague hits Griet's neighborhood and her social standing as a woman interferes with her ability to find out the condition of her parents and sister. Griet also possesses beauty. She attracts the butcher's son, Pieter. More ominously, Vermeer's main patron, Pieter van Ruijven, takes a liking to the developing maid. He wants Vermeer to paint her. Other girls in this situation have ended up in dire circumstances (i.e., pregnant). Vermeer intervenes, but agrees to paint Griet nonetheless. The famous portrait is born. His wife finds out and flies into a rage before trying to destroy the painting. The main affront revolves around the pearl earrings. How could he have allowed a maid to wear them? Griet finds herself out of a job standing at the 8-pointed star that serves as the novel's main metaphor of human action. She has some freedom after all. Each point represents a future: a return to her parents; a search for her fugitive brother; betrothal to the butcher; aimless meandering. Griet makes a smart choice. Ten years later, the Vermeer family reappears in her new life with a surprising request from the master painter himself."Girl With a Peal Earring" explores the coming of age of a 17th century "common" Dutch woman. Throughout, Griet remains a tool to the opaque men that come and go, control her, attempt intimacy with her, and ultimately buy and sell her. Even after she marries her husband jokes about "the price of a maid." Griet forever resolves this issue, with a dash of poetic justice, on the novel's final page. And though the story might come across as a too-familiar tale of "evil patriarchy," Griet nonetheless makes real choices concerning her destiny. If anything, the narrative attempts to empower the lives of women who found themselves in such a stringent society but nonetheless acted. They may seem powerless to us now, but these actions carried implications for themselves and for others. In essence, they weren't completely powerless. As the story unfolds, Griet evolves from a nervous waif into an adult with awareness of her sensuality and a sense of her power within the confines of society. It's no coincidence that she turns 18 at a crucial point in the story. Today we consider that age the gateway to adulthood. The fictional drama of Griet's few years in the Vermeer household leave us to reflect on fate, our place in society, and the implications of our actions. Some things never change.
4 Written in a soft and subtle style, at the same time with a richness a acuity that showed me into the world of Delft in Vermeer's time.  I felt like I could see the painting from the inside out.  The writer's style was congruent with the feeling of Vermeer's art.
4 SPOILERS!!!I read this book for the first time when I was 12 (sometime in 04) and I loved it then. It seemed so magical...a young Dutch girl called to work in the house of infamous painter Johannes Vermeer and his large family. While working there she shortly becomes the desire of a number of men who frequent the house or who work in the bustling town square, and eventually becomes the subject of one of Vermeer's better known paintings. It was a pre-teen's dream! Obviously, there were much darker themes at play in this novel; themes my little 12 year old mind didn't grasp upon first read and now have.I still find this novel amazing, with the long, beautiful descriptions of Delft and of Vermeer's paintings, as well as references to the religious and wealth divisions in the city, but eight years after my original read the character of Griet bothers me some. She is, for lack of a better term, a complete Mary Sue. Perfect in absolutely every way, while having a very cold and judgmental view of everything and everyone, she makes everyone else look bad by comparison. She cleans and cooks more efficiently than the older, more experienced maid right off the bat, and manages to mix paints perfectly on her first try. The real kicker is that she is able to mentally complete one of Vermeer's own paintings before HE realizes what the painting needs. Riiiight. And to complete her Mary-Sue-ness she is rescued by a well-off and handsome butcher (who loves her for no particular reason - just because) once she is tossed out on her butt by the Vermeer family. Yay!Still, it's a very good read and totally worth it just for the wonderful description of 17th century Holland.
4 Based on the famous Vermeer painting of (obviously) a girl with a pearl earring. Griet goes to work for the Vermeer family when she is sixteen years old to help support her own family. Vermeer's jealous wife Catherine, their mischievious young daughter Cornelia, and the lustful patron van Ruijven all serve to create problems for Griet in her new life. She soon finds herself entangled in, and the very cause of, growing tension and disorder in the household when she begins developing a close bond with Johannes Vermeer himself. Griet treads a fine line remembering her place as a maid serving the family.I enjoyed reading this book though only gave it four stars because the characterization seemed a bit flat at times. Griet's emotions seemed a tad on the generic side and the various antagonists did not have many layers. It was very &quot;what you see is what you get&quot; in the way of characters' personalities.I was also a bit disappointed with the conclusion. Anticlimatic really after the climax scene. The falling action skipped right into the conclusion.Highly recommended nonetheless. I enjoyed this book very much despite the few shortcomings. It's a story you become wrapped up in right away and can't pry yourself away from until the end. Definitely a good choice for anyone looking for a good, quick read.
5 ...but I don't think I've read such a good book (poetic prose) since &quot;The Color Purple&quot;, and that was a LONG time ago!
5 A sharp, sensitive and absorbing novel of 17th century Netherlands, combining history art and fiction. The remarkable author Tracey Chevalier fleshes out and embellishes the story who the girl in the painting by Johannes Vermeer could be.Griet, a 16 year old Dutch girl in the town of Delft from a poor Protestant family is hired out as a housemaid to the wealthy Catholic painter. His household include Vermeer's vain and jealous wife, Katharina, Katharina's cordial and wise mother, Maria Thins, Tanneke,  the Vermeers' other older household servant and the Vermeer children.Griet is wooed by Pieter, the handsome son of the local butcher, while Griet's parents worry she is losing her soul in the ostentatious Vermeer household.Griet's sister dies of the plague, and things grow more difficult for Griet, in her place of work, and in the circumstances of her family.which become more desperate.But the novel reaches its climax when Vermeer coerces Griet into being the model for one of his most ambitious works. Things spin out of control though for Griet there will be  happy ending.Heartwarming, in parts amusing, a fable of self and disparate components, and hope and despair. A sterling piece of literature form a master novelist.
5 Tracy Chevaliar has accomplished something I have considered many times when viewing art....&quot;Who is the muse?&quot;  She shares that information with us in a fictional account of Griest, &quot;The Girl with the Pearl Earring.&quot;  Her words are such lovely compliments to the visual.  I was astounded at her ability to create the perfect tale for the picture, and bring to life every aspect of the art.  This was a joy to read and I recommend it to all who love to learn history through fiction.  I was not that acquainted with Vermeer's work, but now I am captivated by it. I wish I could be among the lucky patron's in NYC who are privy to a showing of Vermeer's masterpieces at the MET, inspired by the response to Chevalier's book.  BUT, I will settle for having had the grand opportunity to read this book, and be privy to Vermeer's and Griet's world in Delft.  Wonderful, wonderful, reading!!!!!!
5 This is one of the best books by T. Chevalier. It was also my first encounter with the work of Vermeer. I was captivated with his paintings after reading this lovely story. The story, which masterfully captured the life of the 17th century Delft.
5 Too often I have lamented that my gender cannot write, but Tracy Chevalier is the pearl in a haystack. It is an art to write a fascinating tale about a still scene on canvas. When in highschool in Germany, we also had to write a whole story found in a single painting. Carl Spitzweg made everyone of his scenes tell a story. Perhaps all painters tell a story in their picture. Tracy Ch. slips into the picture painted by Vermeer around 1660 and becomes the girl, whom she deems to be his maid. By looking at her profile, I disagree that she was a maid who married the butcher, her features are too fine; but it is the freedom of the writer to create a fiction about the girl. With all her housekeeping chores and detailed family life in Delft, Netherlands, the narration takes off well and never becomes boring; and I read every word. It is the literary art of Tracy Chevalier to stay focused on her simple subject and create a spell-binding book based on Vermeers old oil.
4 And moving tale.  A memorable picture woven  from sparse facts and good research -- highlighted with emotion and a surprising, but satisfying ending.  Loved this author.
5 This book began with an interesting premise and did not disappoint.  Who really was the girl who posed in Vermeer's famous Painting The Girl with a Pearl Earring?  I think all of us have wondered this before when studying great works of art.  Was the model someone important to the artist or someone who just captured their eye for a fleeting second?Chevalier does a remarkable job of introducing us to 17th Century Dutch life and in bringing us into Vermeer's household.  Griet, the model for the painting, begins life as a maid to Vermeer.  Over time her relationship to the painter becomes increasingly complex and brings to head a number of problems in the household.Chevalier's writing is simple yet effective.  She is not prone to overly descriptive prose but still manages to make us see the scenes in the novel vividly.This is a wonderful and touching story that you deserve to read.
5 I am not a big art fan, but this book made me fall in love with Vermeer's work! I know, its fiction, but I love looking at the paintings and imagining the version of Vermeer portrayed in this book.  The story is beautifully written.  Chevalier's description on the art is flawless. However, do not skip this book even if you aren't an art fanatic. The story itself is breathtaking! Who knows, you may even discover that you love Vermeer's work as well!
2 This book was recommended by a friend. The story never captured my imagination, or even got very interesting to me. Nothing much happened outside the head of a young girl servant.
5 This title is worth reading.  I had seen the movie and was interested in reading the book, so I picked it up for my kindle and enjoyed it very much.
4 This was an interesting story. The narrator has such a wonderful voice she could have been reading a phone book and it would have been soothing.
4 A simple story that brought you back to experience what life must have been first hand for those less well off. Also, made me think about how, for some including Vermeer, art was a way for them to make a living - not just a past time or secondary pursuit. Well written. Can see how hollywood grabbed it up.
5 This is a quietly-disclosed love story. It is not a romance, except to the romantic-hearted reader. Instead, it tells of a bond between a maid (Griet) and painter (Vermeer), born of their shared understanding of beauty, one which remains unspoken for the most part.They are walled off from any relationship beyond their shared vision of art because of their daily necessities and burdens. There are too many differences between the way that a servant must notice daily needs, and the way that a master artist is often allowed to heartlessly overlook them, at cost to the servant rather than himself. In an even closer look, the difference goes beyond daily tasks to their family relationships. Griet's love for her family is often wrenching. She is not allowed as much as a single day with her dying sister for the sake of cleaning clothes and babysitting the children for her Mistress. Her Master's love and dependency on his family is softer, though its repercussions land hard on Griet.In the end, their relationship puzzles the heroine, because she sees deeply into Vermeer's heart through his art, but sees the rest of him at the distance of a maid. The book explores what such a relationship can offer and what it cannot offer, not with a penetrating glare, but with something that fits much better with this story. It readily shows Griet's alienation from her family, as both painfully present in her mind and painfully absent in her daily work. It holds an open eye for beauty, and an open eye to its cost as well, not allowing the proverbial blindness of love to cover over its glaring limitations.
5 As Time Magazine first observed, Girl With A Pearl Earring is &quot;a portrait of radiance.&quot;  Upon trying to think of another, more original phrase to describe this marvelous, subtly beautiful book, I could think of nothing that would do it the justice it deserves.Vermeer has always been one of my favorite artists, especially for his renowned painting &quot;View of Delft.&quot;  As the book describes, it is his use of light that allows his paintings to come to life; the subjects are ordinary, if not beautiful, and the backdrops are typically common and true to the every- day life I imagine he lived.  Because of my interest in Vermeer's work, I cannot quite understand why I waited to long to finally pick it up and read it. However, I am very glad that I did.As a fan of art history, as well as history and fiction, I found this book a delightful triumph. Not only are the characters well-developed, they are believable.  I really imagined Vermeer living the life Chevalier described, and I felt so close to Griet, his muse and maid, by the end of the book that I wept for her loss.This is a minor point, but I felt that the breaks in sections of the book were perfectly and strategically placed.  Creating cliff-hangers, they kept me on my toes while reading; I felt as if I could not put down the book until I had finished it in its entirety.Of course, one must keep in mind while reading Girl With A Pearl Earring that it is fiction; I think one of the challenges of writing and reading historical fiction is being too critical of the misrepresentation of facts.  I read the book with an open mind and genuine interest, and I ended up loving it.Although I had not previously read any of Tracy Chevalier's books, I now plan to; I anticipate enjoying them just as much.I would recommend Girl With A Pearl Earring to anyone, young or old, male or female.It took my breath away.
3 I never finished this book. I made it about 3\4's of the way through tedious descriptions of every day life, washing and cleaning and a plague that swept through the opposite side of town and killed off some very unfleshed out characters that the protagonist knew well. The girl's character comes across frequently as cold and unsympathetic. I did find the descriptions of Vermeer and his art fascinating, but that was about as far as I got with it. I made myself read it when I had free time because I was trying to find out what everyone else was raving about. I would rather read a textbook about Vermeer than this woman's pale, watery interpretation. I realize that this sounds harsh, and this book probably just wasn't my cup of tea. Maybe it will be executed better in the movie when it is released.
5 The best way to read this book is to first visit The Girl with Pearlearring website.  Print the paintings that are provided there.  These make a great referral as you read this terrific book!  The author does a wonderful job of transporting the reader to the setting of Vermeer's lifetime.  Although this is a work of fiction, I am convinced that the author must have been Griet, for she seems to know exactly how these paintings were created.  The book is unique, and a learning experience as well as great fun to read.  Ms. Chevalier, well done!
4 This good book took me back to times long ago when life was so very different. It had a very good story line. However, toward the end it got off track and the plot was lost for a while. Because of the ending I gave the book a 4 star rating. Pity really as with a little more care at the end the author could have had a classic on her hands.
5 The film was recommended to me a year ago and I put it off wanting to read the book first.It's such a simple story but so deep at the same time.  The characters are all so real, I could imagine every single one of them.  Griet was a wonderful character, moral and innocent yet with a growing worldliness as she realised how her life was panning out.The historical information was really interesting, especially from a maids viewpoint...but the art aspect was just as fascinating.  Most of all though Chevalier is a good watcher of people and although set in 1665 the characters feelings show that nothing really changes. She captures Griets vulnerability and pride perfectly.Endings of novels are often a let down but this one wasn't. I'll never be able to look at pictures of this painting again without imagining Griet.
4 GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING is writing at its best, both in terms of the concept, and of the prose itself.  Author Tracy Chevalier has written a novel in the first person, her narrator being a sixteen-year old girl who is forced, due to her own family's dire finances, to work as a maid for the family of the 17th century painter Johannes Vermeer.In the voice of the heroine, Chevalier reveals how difficult life was in those long-ago days.  She never is maudlin, however, nor even obvious.  This is a quiet book, which the reader will have to study for its nuances.Oddly, in the peculiar way of coincidences, this book came out very close in time to GIRL IN HYACINTH BLUE.  Not only are these titles similar, but both of these books engage in fictional explorations of particular aspects of the life of Vermeer.  Read together, these two books are as good as a class on the Old Masters.
4 I read this book in one day, which is saying a lot since I am a grad student in the middle of finals.  It is a quick read, written at a reading level middle schoolers could understand, but somehow manages to still be grown up.  Chevalier was very successful at evoking the Netherlands of the 17th century, I could picture myself surrounded by the canals and markets.  The characters in the book were also convincing, if rather flat at times.  This book is highly recommended to someone looking for a light and 100 percent enjoyable read, maybe on an airline flight.
3 This work of fact based fiction isn't all that the hype would have you believe. But I have that problem with so many of the last year's crop of books that many expected, or wanted so much from ('Tis, Heartbreaking Work  of Staggering Genius to name a couple.)  However, I DID like it. I loved  the way that the spare prose, which reads almost like a young adult novel,  perfectly reflects the simple protestant character of Griet. It is a quiet,  unexciting, slow book, but in part, that must be because Griet is all of  these things, and the story is told through her.Yes, Griet is annoying,  and I also found it irritating that all the men in the book lust after her,  that she know best how to launder, sew, cook, and that she is assuming and  interfering (basting and salting Tanneke's joint, moving the things in  Vermeer's studio to perfect the composition of his painting), but it is  possible that someone like her could exist. She appears to be all these  things in order to highlight the traits of the other characters - gives us  something good and fairly pure to compare them to. Rather simplistic, I  know, but that's what got from it.The book is slow. But I found this  made it incredibly relaxing and pleasurable to read. Added to which, the  rare moments of excitement, especially where Vermeer touches Griet's cheek  and wipes her tear away (the tear resembling the earings that he forces her  to wear against her will), or the shock of her allowing Pieter to fondle  her in an alley, are intensified if only because they are so different from  what we expect from her. Some parts shine, necessary glitter against the  otherwise dull backdrop of the novel; again, reflecting the purpose of the  earring in Vermeer's painting - to catch the eye and provide an unexpected  focus. Even then, these occurences are still simple, and the sex is very  understated, almost not there at all. I would certainly give this to a  reasonably mature child of 13 to read. This book is much more skillfully  crafted than it at first seems, and I appreciate it for that.I don't  really have a problem with the spareness of the text, Griet's supposedly  perfect character, or the slow pace - I think the book actually benefits  from all this. What I would have liked to see, being British and living in  Holland, is more detail of Dutch life in the 17th century - many  situational details seemed absent, and Chevalier did not, for me, create a  vivid picture of her chosen time and setting.  Though it will surely be  quickly forgotten, &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring' is a very relaxing,  calm and pretty read.
4 I'm a bit behind with my reading of some books and finally got to this title.  I'm enjoying it, but knowing what I know about the time period (1600s), life was NOT easy and clean as it's depicted here and that element of the book bothers me for some reason.  Food preparation was not as straightforward as it's made out to be, obtaining food wasn't as simple as going to the market (like we go to the grocery store), keeping clean and neat wasn't easy, and running a household like this one wasn't all just dealing with a few political games with the mistresses of the home.That being said, I am still enjoying the social history aspects of the book, imagining daily life as a maid and her family.  It's interesting to imagine the life of a famous painter who works at home with his family around -- a twist to today's work-at-home family members facing similar issues of needing quiet, having business visitors, etc.The writing is simple, but that's the beauty of it.  It moves quickly and tells a story that builds.  It's a quick and great read and if you have any interest in Vermeer, painting, Holland, social life of the 1600s, etc. you'll enjoy this book.
5 Tracy Chevalier's Girl With a Pearl Earring felt like falling into Alice's looking glass.  Chevalier takes her readers into Vermeer's painting and brings the model to life.  She turns a two-dimensional canvas into a living, breathing person and paints Griet a rich landscape of a life.A wonderful novel.
5 Girl With A Pearl Earring is based on the famous painting by the same name by Johannes Vermeer. Chevalier brings that mysterious woman who looks out at us from her frame to life and injects her into everyday life in Delft. Griet becomes a maid in the Vermeer household and struggles right from the start to find her place there. The one place where she finds solace is when she is cleaning the studio for the painter. Little does she know that the solace that she finds there and the attention she gets from Johannes makes people in the house become upset. As things get increasingly out of control, Griet must make some decisions that will affect her life and her place in the household.I initially read this book about 5 years ago - and I really didn't remember much when it came to reading it again this time. I think it probably had something to do with the fact that I had to read it for school - and that is never as enjoyable. I feel that this is one of the best art novels around - it sets the bar high for every subsequent novel.One of the things that I found very interesting is how different Vermeer's wife, Catherina, is portrayed in this book compared to how she is portrayed in The Golden Tulip by Rosalind Laker. In both stories a young girl goes to live with the Vermeers (in Pearl Earring as a maid and in Tulip as an apprentice). Catherina doesn't like Griet and goes out of her way to make life difficult for her. But in Tulip she is very kind and welcoming to Francesca. It's amazing how different authors can depict the same person so differently. I think I liked her much better in Tulip.Another aspect that I really enjoyed was how all of Vermeer's famous paintings came to life in this novel. You got to meet all of the people who sat for the paintings and it added a deeper meaning to the works. On her website, Chevalier, has the paintings juxtaposed with lines from the novel.Overall I very much enjoyed this story. Besides learning about the life of the artist and the paintings, I learned about the camara obscura (a box with mirrors that somehow helps the artist see his work better) and how pigments were made. This was my first Chevalier book, but it won't be my last.
4 An easy-to-read historical fiction account of 1664-6 Netherlands, this is suitable for 6th grade and up, even though it is intended as adult fiction.  It's much, much better than Karen Cushman's irritating gurl-power novels.  Chevalier strikes a believable balance in creating a strong female protagonist, but one who in many ways is under the power of others.  This quick read imagines the life of the teenage figure in Vermeer's painting of the same title.  Daughter of a tile artisan, she goes to work as a maid for the famous painter, enduring the politics of the household and of the courting butcher's son.  Some of the prose annoyed me in its self-consciousness, but this also helped create the character and period.
5 In only 146 pages it gave new meaning to how selfish and unfair people can be when their livelihood -putting food on the table- is at stake.
4 This is an interesting book written about the Dutch artist, Johannes Vermeer. Very little is known about Vermeer. One of his most famous paintings, &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring,&quot; is both engaging and mysterious, not unlike the Mona Lisa. This is a fictional account of the possible origins of the girl in the painting. Taking what little is known about Vermeer and adding some history of Delft during the 1600's the author seamlessly weaves a story about the girl in the painting. This is a story of class differences, of romance and of a young woman's coming of age.16-year-old Griet goes to work as a maid in Vermeer's household after her father is blinded in an explosion and can no longer support the family. She is expected to know her place, which is well below the others in the household. As she expresses an interest in his work, Vermeer allows her to learn from him and to help him, and Griet finds herself being drawn to him. Meanwhile the butcher's son takes an interest in her, and her family encourages her relationship with him because he will be able to provide them with meat in their poverty-stricken circumstances.This book is very well-written, with every character and relationship carefully thought out, including Vermeer's selfish and demanding wife and his manipulative and scheming daughter. I really enjoyed the story and found myself thinking about it when I wasn't reading it.I rate this book at 4.5 out of 5 stars.
4 Certainly Ms. Chevalier got the details of 17th century Holland absolutely accurate but the people she creates are for the most part terribly fake. Too many characters were merely plot devices and do not seem psychologically valid human beings. The child Cornelia is like a cartoon villain, for instance. She may have been thoughtless and resented Griet, but her behavior had more in common with the Alexis character in "Dynasty" than it did with a child of such tender years. The relationship between Vermeer and Griet, though never consumated, is kind of skeevy; shades of that teacher in Seattle who had two children by her 11 year old student. By the time Vermeer decides to paint Greit, I wondered why she agreed considering how much extra trouble and work it meant for her. By the way, the the girl with the pearl earring actually was Vermeer's daughter. That makes a whole lot more sense than this novel does.Vermeer turns out to be a real big creep, which I doubt was actually true in real life. Given that he had 11 children, the reason for the low output of paintings is not surprising. It's a lot of work taking care of so many children, servants or no. I won't ruin the ending by revealing it here, but it makes absolutely no sense given his overt indifference to the way she is treated in his household. The major portion of this very slim narrative is about Griet's cleaning techniques and her trips to the market to buy either meat or herring. Frankly, given the circumstances of her employment, I imagine that the real-life Griet would have jumped at the chance to marry Peter instead of haranguing herself for being disloyal to her master.  I'm sure sexy Colin Firth will do an excellent job of bringing Vermeer to life in the movie version, but I don't look forward to watching a 40-plus man come on to a teenaged Scarlet Johansen as Griet.
4 I first stumbled across Tracy Chevalier nearly a decade ago when I happened upon "The Virgin Blue" in my local library. After devouring that, as well as "The Lady and the Unicorn", I turned to "Girl with a Pearl Earring". Perhaps it was because I had recently finished something completely different from this type of book, but for whatever reason, it didn't sit well with me. I knew it was probably better than I had remembered, so I recently went back to it. I was right to re-read it; this is a beautiful book.The book focuses on the story of Griet, a maid in Delft, Holland, in the late seventeenth century. Her father is a tile painter who has recently lost his sight to an accident with a kiln, and to make ends meet, she must go find work. When a local painter who knows of her father's situation through the guild offers to take her in as a maid to clean his studio, she moves out of her childhood home and into a world of art, beauty, and complications. For the man who has hired her is none other than Johannes Vermeer, a celebrated (though very poor) local painter.It is in the Vermeer household that Griet first awakens to the world of art. Through being exposed to Vermeer's paintings (and conversations with the man himself), she begins to look at light, color - every aspect of life - in a new way. Though she often clashes with his controlling wife, Catarina, and his daughter Cornelia, Griet enjoys her work. She may be a humble servant, but she gets to watch some of the most exquisite art being created, day by day, brush stroke by brush stroke.In the course of her work, Griet develops a severe crush on her employer, around the same time a butcher's son begins to show interest in her. And while Vermeer thinks highly of the maid, he's more focused on his work than any effect it may have on other people. Through the complex (and yet simple) relationship between the painter and the maid, Chevalier sets the tone for what may have inspired one of the seventeenth century's most famous paintings.As in all of her books, Tracy Chevalier does an excellent job at creating a world that draws you in, one line at a time. She nearly paints the scene where this all takes place, brings characters to life, and puts the reader in the position of both understanding Griet's troubles, while at the same time wanting to warn her of what must inevitably come next. It's truly a book worth looking at.
4 Many have pondered the thoughts behind Mona Lisa's smile. In this case, we learn not of the Mona Lisa but of the Girl with a Pearl Earring. Author Tracy Chevalier takes us behind the scenes of the famous painting by Vermeer and speculates on what might have been in this delightful novel. Chevalier has a wonderful knack for describing everyday life and building a subtle tension. This is a great book to read while settling down with a cup of tea on a snowy/rainy weekend.
5 I wanted to see what the hype was about this book. After seeing how it was listed on so many wishlists, I figured it had to be good. It got off to a slow start for me, but it picked up quickly and I myself wrapped up in the story.I studied a little bit about Vermeer, during a college art class. I love art. Looking at it mostly :) So I had to go back and read up on Vermeer before I started the book. (I did however remember the paintings)I think this is a wonderful story, although fiction I agree it gives the girl in the painting a name, and wonderful detailed story of how it came to be. It's believeable. I love Griet's spunky attitude. It's like she is saying, I'm the maid but you will respect me!I recommend reading it. If you are a fan of history, art or Vermeer, I think you will enjoy it. I have to admit though, it took me a few days longer to read it..because I kept looking at the cover and gazing into her eyes, or staring at the pearl earring itself!
5 Tracy Chevalier's  narrative of Griet, Jan Vermeer's domestic servant, is an intriguing project. The fact that the book is so fascinating is simply marvelous. In the same manner that the artist's work glows and captures our imagination, so does this book spark curiousity and hold our interest.
5 Beautifully written, imaginatively conceived and complexly satisfying both in the details and the sweep of the story, this book is a fictional tour de force.Chevalier brings the painting to life, lovingly and thoughtfully.  We find ourselves in the artist's home, experiencing the creative process from the insider's point of view.  We also see how artistic geniuses are sometimes underappreciated by their families.  The ending was just right.One hopes that Chevalier will do more of the same with other great works of art that she loves.
5 At first I didn't see the point to this book.  There wasn't much action or conflict other than Griet becoming a maid.  However, her narration was compelling and story enjoyable.  The one thing I would tell those who are looking for a thorough historical fiction peice is that this is not for you.  Although it took place in the 1660's, there was nothing to distinguish this from say the 1760's or even the 1860's.  But if you are looking for a light hearted novel about a young girl and how she draws people to her, then this is the book for you.
5 This book was eloquently written; one of the best books I've read in awhile.
1 Never have I been so bored by the style of writing, nor so angry at the flimsy content of a book capitalizing on my favorite artist's life.  As stated elsewhere, the cover art was the lure here, and I also had to force myself to finish it, waiting for a momentum which never materialized.  This book left me feeling ripped off, since $12+ for a paperback is not peanuts.  The book's cover hyperbole bears no relation to the book that I plodded through.  These accolades, and others read elsewhere, were too freely bestowed on a very minor talent.  Who are these book reviewers setting standards for the rest of us?  Tracy Chevalier should give up writing -- no-one else can drag out nothingness for page after page as she can.  I would not even pass this book along to friends.
5 Over 650 people have taken time to write a review on this amazing novel, a large majority offering the highest of ratings.  Their reviews are substantial and I recognize my contribution would be repetitious.  The novel was exquisite.On a personal level, I was presented the novel by my daughter.  She informed me she read it  &quot;cover to cover&quot; in one night and offered that I may enjoy it as well.  Within a few days, I noticed her in the backyard examining calla lillies.  Soon, she was requesting a canvas and taking out her stash of paints.  Sketching a replica of the lillies, she spoke of the subtleties of colors and the teachings of Vermeer that were passed on to his maid in the content of the novel.  Searching for ways to covey the finer points of the book without betraying the ending, she was clearly irritated by my comments to not give way the plot.  It was easily resolved with reading the book.I, too, felt as enchanted as many of the 650 readers.  Everything about the book captivated me; the dutch history of the 1600's, what it could have been like for a poor maid to integrate in a  large household of  a prominent artist  and the intricate process of how a painting is conceived and completed.I was urged to research more intensely Vermeer and his works  which were easily satisfied via the internet.  Vermeer's biography (what little of it available) and the pictures of his paintings truly rounded out the experience of reading the book.For an entertaining novel that  could  be enjoyed  on a long afternoon,  I could recommend none other.  After you finish the book, visit those sites that offer the representations  of the works of Vermeer or, if you are fortunate enough, make sure to see the original pieces in your lifetime.  Thanks to this novel, it has lit the candle of interest and appreciation.
4 Bought this for my wife, who enjoyed it thoroughly.  That's good enough for me.  At the very least, this means that if at some point I am searching the house for something to read, I'll consider it for myself.
4 Chevalier imagines the life of the model of the famous Vermeer's "Girl with a pearl earring" portrait.Very little is known about Vermeer himself and nothing is actually known about the subject of this painting.Chevalier gives us a fictional account of the existence of Griet, a poor Delf girl who is forced to work as a maid since her father can no longer provide for the family. She enters the world of a numerous catholic family where she meets Master Vermeer, a rather excentric and mysterious painter.She quickly shares his passion for art,learning about the use of color and composition. The shared interest between both characters develops into some kind of platonic "sexual tension".Griet wants to be more than a mere servent, she wants to learn and she doesn't let Vermeer break her heart,since, at the same time, she pursues a relationship with her "butcher boy" Pieter.The movie based on this book is extremely mediocre comparing to the story in the novel.For one, it ommitted the plague episode, also Griet's brother, and the original ending which pretty much explains what the relationship between Vermeer and his maid was truly all about.My advice: forget the movie, read the book first. It is a real pleasure.
4 &quot;Girl with the Pearl Earring&quot; is a wonderful read for any emerging or struggling artist, or even those fascinated by art history.  Chevalier takes the reader into the world of competitive Dutch art, where a now famous artist whose paintings sell for very high numbers, struggled to compose and find inspiration in a world not-so-glamorous.  It's inspiring to know that even great artists like Vermeer faced the same struggles that today's artists do.  The details of how the pigments were created, stored, and cherished is enlighting, while the veiw of the possible 'model', Griet, brings greater depth to an already fasniating and intriguing painting.  Was the girl with the pearl earring thinking of deep secrets as she sat for the artist, or simply thinking of surviving in trying Times.  Definately a keeper!
4 I read this book in 2001. This was a fun read that takes you through history. I have a Dutch heritage and this made it more interesting.Well worth reading.
5 I received this gift from an art gallery owner after making the oft-handed remark that the Old Masters were too representational in their art and today would be replaced by cameras. And that modern artists, though rarely having the same technical prowess, nonetheless are interpretive in their work and thus more intellectually challenging and provocative.  Well -- ahem -- this book demonstrates the narrative in the work of an Old Master and never have I been so happy to have made too much a sweeping generalization before.Clever, imaginative, believable, insightful and educational ... the adjectives that most novels strive for but few seldom achieve. Chevalier fills in the blanks of a painting who's mystery and allure is second only to the Mona Lisa. Told from the subject's perspective, you'll gather an appreciation for the true soul of a great painting - the human interest stories that go on behind it, as well as the artist's techniques that bring it to life.A great book for yourself and for someone as a gift! It's just about impossible not to be drawn in and engaged by this book.
3 This was an interesting story of two individuals.  One is a young girl from a family that is thrown into depressed circumstances when the father is blinded in an accident.  The second person is the artist Vermeer, a brilliant painter, who left behind less than 40 completed paintings.  In this story Griet, the young girl, out of necessity, goes to work as a maid for the Vermeer family.  Griet has certain qualities that seem to draw Vermeer to her.  Her first responsibilty is to clean his studio without rearranging any of his tools, paints or settings.  She accomplishes this perfectly.  When she reconsiders cleaning the windows because she perceives that it will change the quality of light that he is using as he is completing a painting, Vermeer seems to become intrigued with this young girl.  Eventually Vermeer uses her as more of an artist's assistant and eventually decides to use her as the subject in a painting.  The problems that their relationship cause are thoroughly explored by the author, making the characters very much real and alive.  This was an interesting look at the possible life of Vermeer, based on what small amount of information that is actually  known, this made for an interesting look at the life of this artist.
5 This is for anyone who has ever wandered through a museum and wondered about the people whose images are displayed there.  Vermeer's Girl with a Pearl Earring gazes at the viewer over her shoulder as if she had been interrupted on her way to someplace else.  She is a young woman, her head wrapped in an improbable manner with richly colored cloth, not at all the typical style of the day.  She has no other ornaments or signs of wealth other than a large pearl earring.  The background of the painting is blocked out, as if she were standing just outside of a gaping void leaving the viewer to focus on her large dark eyes and single jewel.  There are few historical records of Vermeer's life and no information on the identity of his young model.Chevalier has taken the inspiration of this painting to tell a story of young Griet whose family had been comfortably well off until her father was blinded at work.  Now it was up to Griet to provide for her family, at least until her brother completed his apprenticeship.  Griet was sent to work as a made for the ever expanding household of the painter Jan Vermeer.The reader is shown Dutch society and the city of Delft through the eyes of 16 year old Griet.  She misses the happier days of her childhood with her brother and sister and fears her future.  As a young woman of the lower middle class she knows that her best hope for the future, her only hope for a respectable future, is to marry well.  She is also quite aware that working as a maid has drastically lowered her status in the community and made her prospects for a good marriage unlikely.  Added to these worries are the ones unique problems of the Vermeer household, the power struggles among Vermeer, his wife and mother-in-law, the need to please a difficult patron and the ever increasing size of the household.  Chevalier has done a masterful job bringing the various characters to life.  This would be an excellent book to assign to high school or lower level college students, either in literature classes or as a supplement to history courses.  Chavlier, through Griet, give the reader an idea of the challenges facing a young woman growing up in a society that offered few opportunities to women.
4 This book initially caught my eye because I am an admirer of Vermeer's paintings.  I don't read much current fiction because I find most of it to be trite and boring. Instead, my personal preference is to read historical biographies or other historical works. This book claimed to be historical fiction and the subject seemed interesting so I thought I'd give it a whirl.  Imagine my surprise when I found myself transported to the world in which Vermeer lived and painted.  I found the writing to be incredible in its ability to evoke images of Vermeer's paintings as well as the process of painting itself.  Tracy Checavlier's writing is terrific and I was wholly entertained when reading this book.  The book works on many levels and I'm sure that I will read this book again in the future.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to read a terrific story about a simple, young girl who discovers much about herself while in the company of one of history's great painters.
5 When I first bought Girl with a Pearl Earring, I thought it was going to be just another historical fiction book...nothing more.  How wrong I was!  When Griet, the protagonist, goes to work at Vermeer's house I wondered what was going to happen.  I quickly found out.  Besides getting herself into one awkward predicament after another, she meets a very original cast of characters.  There's Vermeer's mother-in-law, Maria Thins, who is a very intimidating woman...or so she seems, Vermeer's wife, Catharina, who is pregnant most of the time, the butcher's son and of course, Vermeer himself.  Vermeer is portrayed wonderfully.  I thought that if I had ever met Vermeer he would act exactly as Tracy Chevalier had made him act.  This book goes by faster than you will want it to.  I guarantee that after you read this you will never look at a Vermeer painting in the same way again!
5 WONDERFUL!!!  I found myself reading this book in a day, unable to put it down!  The author made this story so real, you begin to wonder if this is really how the painting came to be.  I found myself flipping from the pages to the cover (the painting) and back again.  LOVELY!Jennifer
1 Johannes Vermeer's most famous painting, Girl with a Pearl Earring, has touched and mystified audiences since it was completed in 1665 in Delft, Holland. It depicts a beautiful, if simple, young woman in three-quarter profile wearing an unusual headdress and a large pearl teardrop earring. The girl's wide eyes and slightly parted lips suggest a startling andinnocent sensuality. Unfortunately, Tracy Chevalier's novel of the same title (Plume Printing, 2001) captures none of the elegance nor timelessness of the original Vermeer.The plot is similar to a school creative writing assignment to concoct a story based on a still-life picture. Chevalier imagines the painting's young subject as 16-year-old Griet - the daughter of a painter whose family is thrown into poverty by his sudden blindness. In desperation, the family sends Griet to work as a housemaid in the home of Johannes Vermeer. Griet there encounters about 170 pages' worth of discomforts - from fearing the family's Catholic faith to finding virtually everyone in the household unpleasant. Vermeer's wife, Catherina, envies her; his mother-in-law, Maria Thins, intimidates her; and his tiresome daughters pester her. Longsuffering Griet tolerates these irritations in silence out of devotion to her master who, for no comprehensible reason, enlists Griet to help him with his art. She buys his supplies, mixes his paints, and begins advising him on ways to improve his work. All the while she is falling into a sort of canine awe of him. Eventually he is moved to paint her wearing his wife's earrings - presumably because he finds Griet more attractive and engaging than the shrew to whom he is married, though we know from the outset this move is destined to end very badly.Sounds dull? It is. This novel has to be one of the better sleep aids on the over-the-counter market. The real low point comes when Griet spends three pages describing her dusting routine.What it lacks in plot it lacks further in character. The story is told in first-person by Griet. This was Chevalier's first mistake. We spend 220 pages painfully aware that we are inside the head of someone who doesn't think much. Griet simply isn't fleshed-out enough to go through any changes as a result of her experience and therefore engender any interest or sympathy.The prose itself is, at best, uninspiring and, at worst, distracting. Chevalier makes no attempt to use language that will give us the feel of 17th century Holland. Her modern turns of phrase give Griet the voice of a simple-minded Midwestern girl from present-day America. The short sentences and limited vocabulary suggest she was striving for an elegant simplicity and wound up with something like the writing of a 7-year-old.Fond as she is of reminding us that she is illiterate, Griet demonstrates a sudden and sophisticated knowledge of modern art theory, altering Vermeer's subjects while he's not looking and instructing her master in colors, shape, and light.Chevalier herself holds a Masters degree in creative writing and cited only two references used to research the book - one on Dutch history and one on Vermeer. This may account for some of the novel's shortcomings. It would appear she set off armed with only three bits of knowledge - that 17th century Dutch Protestants didn't like Catholics, that most of them wereilliterate, and the painting itself - which she proceeds to belabor at every turn. It's clear by the end that Griet's sexual awakening and Vermeer's unspoken passion are symbolized in the earring itself. But the earring is obviously manipulated to Mean Something that it loses its power to move the reader.The premise itself is interesting and could have made for a delightful story. While many art historians believe Vermeer's subject was likely one of his daughters, part of the painting's appeal is that no one really knows. Evidence suggests that it was not a commissioned portrait and the painting didn't surface until after Vermeer's death. The lovely girl with her pearl earring and wide-eyed innocence and sensual mouth have kept their secrets almost completely for 340 years. And the literary world would have been better off if Chevalier had left it that way. If you're tempted to pick up Girl with a Pearl Earring, spare yourself and view the painting instead.
4 When I saw the movie I thought, &quot;Wow, this really looks like a Dutch Renaissance painting in every frame!&quot;  However, when I read the book I felt like I was walking through such a painting  on every page; which was even more awesome.I like the way Chevalier looks at and writes about art and color. When the colors of Griet's vegetables fought in the opening of the novel I knew this was a writer with an artist's eye.  And who better to write about Vermeer than an author who appeciates the play of light with color, the influence of history and culture on painting, and the elevated role of women in painting while they were degraded in society.  This was a highly visual novel that was fun to read.  Chevalier's style is easy yet intelligent.As usual the book is better than the movie--read it.
3 I expected this to be my favorite Tracy Chevalier book and was very surprised to discover it wasn't. The main issue I had with the book was with the characters. I don't mind if a character has contradictions, in fact, I like it. But I need to have an explaination for actions that are out of character. If I don't understand the character's motivations I feel that I don't know them very well, making it difficult to relate to them. There were a lot of things I enjoyed about the "The Girl with the Pearl Earring". As usual, Chevalier makes the atmosphere come to life in a way that few can. You feel as if you have really stepped back in time to mid 17th century Delft. The storyline, involving Vermeer's relationship with a young housemaid is very interesting and compelling. I recommend this book to fans of Tracy Chevalier.Jennifer K. LaffertyAuthor of Offbeat Love Stories and More
5 "Girl with a Pearl Earring centers on Vermeer's prosperous Delft household during the 1660s. When Griet, the novel's quietly perceptive heroine, is hired as a servant, turmoil follows. "..or in my own words, A fictionalized account of a young girl in Holland who winds up working as a maid in Vermeer's house. She captivates the artist and becomes a muse for him. The best book I have read in years. You don't have to be an art lover to appreciate this book but it helps. Having studied Vermeer's paintings before I found the story very enjoyable and I could not put it down. If you love historical fiction and / or art history check this book out!
5 great book about another time. Very romantic and emotional even though so much was left unsaid or undone.  I enjoyed it very much.
5 Not a fan of historical fiction, I was a bit skeptical about a novel set in 1600's Holland.  How would I relate to the characters?  And isn't the plot line a little unbelievable--a simple peasant maid becomes a painter's muse?  Upon picking up this novel, I was instantly hooked on the life of Griet, a young girl forced to leave home to work as a maid to support her family and disabled father.  Griet is a loveable narrator, and, as a modern gal, I was amazed at the strict social order and structure of her world, and how deeply she had to keep her emotions and actions in check when she was employed by an upper-class family.  Any change in the dynamic of her relationship with the painter Vermeer (her employer) was subtle and well under wraps.In this deceptively short novel, an amazing relationship blossoms between Vermeer and his maid, who gets promoted to be his assistant (much to the anger of the rest of the family).  Again, all the blossoming is suble, barely detectible, and nothing vulgar occurs, yet the entire scene would be absolutely scandalous to the outside world in thr 1600's.  Chevalier convincingly portrays the elevation of Griet's status in her employer's painting career.Chevalier tells a fictional tale behind a real painting.  In fact, Girl With a Pearl Earring is unique amoung Vermeer's catalogue because it is the only one in which the subject looks out at the viewer.  If you buy this book, be sure you get a copy with a reproduction of the painting on the cover.  Throughout my reading, I kept flipping back to the cover to absorb the painting.  The story behind the artwork is absolutely mesmerizing.
5 I finished this book in one day.  It was easy to read and also easy to get lost in the lives of it's characters.  After I read it, I thought about it enough to go look at a book of Vermeer's work.  I strongly suggest that anyone reading this have a collection of his work handy because of the references to specific works throughout the book.  That Vermeer's paintings serve as another dimension to the work make it all the more pleasing.
2 Unlike Vermeer who obviously had talent, I am hard pressed to believe that this author has produced a best seller.  I truly wanted to like this novel,(as it was a selection by my bookclub), alas I did not.  My reasons for disliking it are simple; it is terribly dull. I kept waiting for something to happen (it never does).  The characters are one dimentional at best, and our muse Griet would appear to be the most amazing and accomplished teenager to have ever lived.  At the tender age of 16 she knows everything about running a large household, raising children, manipulating the mature women of the house, fending off the advances of men, and in case that wasn't enough she's giving art tips to the master himself, um sure... that's plausible.  While the premise of this book was fascinating the execution certainly was not.  The best thing about this novel?... the cover art!!
2 I found this book to be too short, lacking in character development and excitement of any kind. I am someone who prefers long books that take you through time, that paint a thorough picture of the main characters. I did not get this from Girl with a Pearl Earring. I was very disappointed.
1 Did not like this book at all.I  kept waiting for something to happen,I thought they were building up to something  and it just kept going on and on then it ended.
4 This book is a fictionalized story of the woman in one of Vermeer's paintings; Girl with a Pearl Earring. It is considered one of the most well-known paintings of Vermeer, if not the most.The girl in the painting, according to the book, is 16-year-old maid, Griet. She then starts from just serving the family, cleaning the house, doing laundry, and other household chores to becoming Vermeer's assistant.As for every book I have read, I try to write down both the positive and negative things about it. And for this review, I'll start with the positives.I do like the way the author writes, especially her descriptions and attention to detail; they were just right and not over the top. This is true most especially when she describes the landscapes, clothes, and settings. It is almost as if you yourself are actually in that era in Delft, living the life of Griet. This is also true every time she talks about the different uses of the paints and colors. I found them very interesting. Generally, this read is not boring because she writes very well and the concept of the book is mysterious and new.As for the negatives, ::may contain spoilers:: I do have to say that the ending was too abrupt and sudden. There are many loose ends. I also did not like most of the characters except for Maria Thins and Vermeer. The rest of them are either intentionally annoying or unintentionally uninteresting. I did not even like Griet, the main protagonist, at times. Although she was incredibly interesting and alive in this book, her character was overall unconvincing. For me, it was not so believable that a maid that has been said could not speak, write, interpret that well, and has no educational background whatsoever, was able to assist a talented painter by giving such knowledgeable and effective input. Maybe if she just gave little but helpful advices and tips here and there, it would have been more believable. But she was actually giving very, very credible help. But then again, maybe it is just me.THE CONSENSUS: It was a good read; I liked it. But it's the type of book that I probably would not be so enthusiastic picking up and reading over again. It is a fresh take on a mysterious historical painting, mixed with Chevalier's intricate writing. However, if you don't like rushed endings with loose ends left, then this book is probably not for you.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed Tracy Chevalier's book, &quot;Girl with the Pearl Earring.&quot; I knew nothing about Vermeer prior to reading this book. I didn't even recognize the painting on the cover of the book - however, my book club chose to read this as their selection for May, and I wanted to keep up with them.&quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring&quot; is descriptive and moving, and Chevalier does a fabulous job of catching and describing the feelings and demonstrating the emotions that Griet has in having to leave her close-knit Protestant family to live with the famed painter Vermeer and his Catholic family in 17th century Delft. To imagine what it was like for a 16 year old girl to leave the comfort of her own home and abandon her relationships with her family is overwhelming. Chevalier does a wonderful job of showing the internal conflict that Griet is having throughout the book. She is torn between doing her job and what she feels is best for her relationships with those she loves.This book is not long at all, and it reads quickly, as you are captivated and drawn into Griet's life and relationships with the butcher's son, her brother, and her ill-fated little sister. This book is filled with tragedy as well as triumph, and makes me wonder about the story behind all those paintings I've come to take for granted.
4 After reading some of the &quot;negative&quot; reviews, let me just re-state the title - &quot;it's fiction&quot;.  If you don't like character studies, a genre in literature many of us learn about in high school, you will not like this book.  Most of Chevalier's books are character studies with mediocre developed plots. She is interested in the psychology of the characters, not necessarily the total historical accuracy of say, Dutch art history.  That is not her focus. I like her books mainly because she is so good at developing characters to the point that reviews state that Griet is &quot;immature&quot; or a &quot;practical tramp&quot;.  This is not a masterpiece of literature, but it is a very good book and an enjoyable read with some umph to it. In comparison, I know many people who enjoyed the DaVinci Code for its action sequences and esoteric presence, but I would not necessarily rate it better or worse than this book for historical accuracy, if that is your pet peeve.  These are not classic works of literature.  Read for enjoyment and use a book like this to spark enough interest to pursue increasing your knowledge-base about Vermeer and Dutch life in the 17th-18th century, if that is what you want to do.I would also recommend the movie, but only as a visually stimulating work, again not &quot;quintessential&quot; film making, but enjoyable from the perspective of framing it like a Vemeer painting (in the eyes of this amateur anyway).
2 An interesting look into the painting style and techniques of Vermeer, and into the daily life in a small city in Holland in the 1660s.  However, I was less than convinced by the basic premise of the plot, that the main character (the girl, named Griet in the novel) would have had the hots for the married-with-lots-of-children, cold-as-ice Vermeer.  So while I enjoyed the setting and admired the writing, I think the "plot" (such as it was; it never really went anywhere) was very contrived.  2 stars.
3 A fictionalized account of the story behind the girl with a pearl earring in Vermeer's painting.  By the end, I found it satisfying, but much of the beginning and middle seemed forced to me.  In trying to put in the details of 17th century life in Holland, I found myself imagining the author with her history books more than I imagined a deep picture of average life.  Not a book I'd highly recommend, but still moderatly impressive for its creativity.
5 After reading &quot;Falling Angels&quot; and totally falling in love with Tracy Chevalier's writing style, I just had to go back and read the best seller &quot;...Pearl Earing.&quot;  I was not disappointed.  I usually stay away from period pieces and cannot usually enjoy reading about any period of time before I was born (maybe it's because I find it hard to identify with it), but these two books were so worth the read.  Pearl Earing takes place in the 1600's (exactly 300 years before I was born, mind you!!) and it is a fictional telling of how Vermeer's famous painting came to be.  The actual painting doesn't take place until nearly the end of the book and then it sort of felt rushed, but as the reader, I didn't feel cheated of anything.  It didn't seem like any part of the puzzle was missing.  I did think the exact ending was a little predictable and neatly wrapped up, but other than that, I thought the book was fantastic.  I anxiously await the next piece of fiction from Ms. Chevelier and thank her for drawing me into stories that take place before I was born.  I can now get a history lesson while I am doing one of my favorite pastimes (reading).  If you enjoy period pieces or modern romances or stories about strong women - A Girl With the Pearl Earing is the book for you.  At less than 250 pages and small in size, it's a breeze of a read - You'll be begging for more and counting the months until Ms. Chevelier publishes her 3rd &amp; next novel!!
5 I usually don't have patience with most "literary" novels, but this book was breathtaking!  It was a short easy read.  It completely took me back in time to Vermeer's Holland.  The author did an incredible job of taking you into the mind of this woman.  Our bookclub read this book and everybody loved it!
4 If you have ever seen "the Dutch Mona Lisa", or the "girl with the pearl earring", by Vermeer you will have been struck by it's tenderness. Maybe it is misplaced to say so about a naturalist like Vermeer, but you get the feeling he must have liked this girl. However, nobody knows who she was or why he painted her in such an un-Vermeer-like pose.Perfect fiction material then, and Chevalier has not wasted the opportunity. The book tells the story of a 16 year old girl in the 17th century Dutch town of Delft who becomes a maid in the Vermeer family. We follow her struggle to keep her dignity in a house full of strife, culminating in the event of  her being painted (she, a maid!). I usually like first person narratives, but this is one of the best I know. The historical setting is (to me, a non-historian, but Dutch and knowing Delft) completely convincing. The story is plausible, satisfying and well composed, and the prose has a soft touch that somehow accords very well with painting itself.The one flaw, for which I deduct a star, is that the protagonist is implausibly mature and confident for her age and social status. Another reviewer on this page remarked that the book reads better when you the girl looking back after the facts on her younger self. This is true, but a writer should not have to rely on goodwill like that.The book reminded me of "Memoirs of a Geisha", in storyline (although it is less brutal), the ease with which the writer makes fiction feel like reality, and the way in which it makes you wish things will turn out well for a small girl in a big world.
5 Reading The Girl with The Pearl Earring  was like eating a small box of fine chocolates.  I could not put it down.Tracy Chevalier's jewel of a book is so descriptive of 16th century life. I'm an art student and reading about how Vermeer made his pigments was so very interesting.  Anyone wwho is curious about the lives of the Old Masters would do well to enjoy this small, elegant little book.
4 I really enjoyed this book. When I started it I wasn't exactly sure what to expect, but I was immediately swept into the story and the relationship between Griet and Vermeer.I think I'll rent out the movie now :)
4 I'll be honest...I'm not really sure how to rate this book.  I read it as part of a book club and it's not something I would usually read.  It was...interesting.  I liked the first party narrative but never really connected with the characters.  I didn't understand Griet's decisions, but I enjoyed reading a different perspective than I might have taken.  Overall, I am glad I read it.
5 This book is a real winner.  The writing is very simple, yet in no way shallow.  This is most appropriate since the story is seen through the eyes of a largely illiterate yet very sensitive young woman.  Vermeer's paintings, reproduced in color, help make the story more relevant and meaningful.My only gripe is that the story was a bit too hard on the gender roles.  All the men seemed letcherous, although many of the women were not paradigms of virtue.  But this is a persponal gripe and does not detract from the quality or beauty of a great little book.
5 What a fine, fine novel this is! It is a fictious account of the family of Vermeer, the Dutch master who painted luminous, sunlit portraits of people caught in a moment. Seeing a Vermeer painting is to enter another world through a magical peephole. This book is similar. It is not large, it is not populated on a grand scale with princes, kings and battles.Author Chevalier brilliantly puts a story to one of Vermeer's paintings, that of a young woman with a pearl earring, her hair wrapped in a swath of blue and yellow cloth. The theme is jealousy, sometimes over the petty. The story makes you turn time and time again back to the cover to look at the painting, each in a new light depending on the events in the story.The novel really centers on Griet, a daughter of a tile painter who is injured in a kiln accident, is sent to work at Vermeer's house. She must please the head housekeeper, Vermeer's wife, her young daughters and her formidable but sympathetic mother, and of course Vermeer himself. Life in the Holland of Vermeer is portrayed, the seething jealousies, the stark life of the rich versus the common people and the world of Vermeer's art all come together on a fascinating canvas.
5 I found this to be a very interesting book. One of my hobbies is painting, so I was expecially interested in how an artist had to mix paints back then and other aspects of it. I thought it was clever how the author viewed a painting and made a story out of it. The discriptions of the times were facinating too. I read this for book club, and we will discuss it next week. I am sure it will be an interesting discussion.Amazon Verified purchase
4 Girl with a Pearl Earring deserves the praise it has garnered. Chevalier writes with precision, creativity, and intelligence, and her prose can only be described as lyrical. It's a slim volume and easily read, which I found  a slight disappointment. Given the complexity of Griet and Vermeer--and of  the novel's situation--I expected more complexity from the plot. Griet's  situation seemed to resolve too easily. Nonetheless, Girl with a Pearl  Earring is well worth reading--and rereading. Griet is a fabulous  character, and Chevalier has done a magnificent job bringing her to life.
4 I really enjoyed this slice o' life historical novel.  It's more spare than usual for the genre, which I found refreshing.  Still lots of good detail about this fascinating young woman and the odd social and moral constraints that make up her daily life.  Good painting trivia and a properly enigmantic portrayal of Vermeer and his circle of friends.
5 If you have read Tracy Chevalier before then start with this novel.  It is her best work.  The Virgin Blue is good but not as good as this book is.  Wow - creating a whole story out of just looking at a painting.  I can imagine how Tracy's kids bedtime stories must be - amazing is what I am thinking.  Tell me a story mom and then here comes this elaborate tale.
4 The great artists always could make it look easy. Picasso, Charlie Parker, Monk, Ellington, Ted Williams, Groucho, Como, Kingsolver, Bill Clinton, to name a few. Then you look closer. With the proper knowledge and the appropriate measuring devices, you discover that there is much more there there. What appears to be white on closer inspection turns out to be ocher, lead-tin yellow, ultramarine, red lake and even carbon black. What seems simple is really quite extraordinary, like hitting a two seam fast ball coming at you at 95 miles per hour, or playing an equally convincing Stanley Kowalski, Vito Corleone, or Richard III. As Picasso once said,  the more technique there is, the less there is. Put another way, making it look easy, doesn't mean that it is. John Coletrane famously practiced musical scales every day. Not just to warm up. He practiced scales, or variations of scales, for eight hours a day. Eight Hours! Every Day. The Reason? His Answer: Basics man, you need to master the basics, always go back to the basics. So it is with Tracy Chevalier. Her portrait appears oh so simple. But look closer. Use the proper microscope and you will see how her early words and ideas serve as the foundation colors for the picture that emerges. How'd the young Tracy Chevalier get such skills? The same way Coletrane got to Carneige Hall. Practice, Man. Practice.
5 Tracy Chevalier was obviously drawn to the beauty of one of Vermeer's more famous paintings, of a young maid with a pearl earring. But unlike the many viewers who were similarly fascinated, that attraction became an obsession. She wondered about the circumstances that surrounded the painting, could find very little of substance in the historical record, and therefore took the known "crumbs" of facts, and performed major research into the life and times of mid-17th Century Dutch life. With this basis, she utilized that often sought, but oh so elusive gift: a seemingly magical ability of a creative writer to weave a well-told story that is authentic to the human condition.For sure, power is one of those conditions. The power of a famous painter with a substantial household over a semi-illiterate country maid who has recently been employed. And there is the countervailing power; that of beauty. And the need, yes, even the obsession to capture that beauty, in the perfect light, for all time. Chevalier does "nuance"; her viewpoint is not the narrow view of one or the other, tainted with modern political correctness. Rather, she depicts a more symbiotic relationship whose reflection is there for us to enjoy, more than three centuries later.And it reads so true. I said that it was "authentic," and how can anyone truly know, of private events over three centuries removed? And particularly when there are so many fraudulent novels, memoirs, et al. that are published concerning people and events in our own lifetime. So, it really is a judgment call. Given the sum total of one's experience with human interactions, does this appear to be a highly likely scenario? In my judgment, certain yes.I recently learned that Rembrandt, another brilliant Dutch painter, created a similar painting, of HIS maid, eight years before Vermeer, but have never seen a discussion on a possible connection, and would welcome reader comments. The review on Rembrandt's paintings isRembrandt Harmensz van Rijn: Paintings from Soviet museumsChevalier writes well, and it is such a pleasure to read since she eschews the hokum so many novelist believe is essential in order to produce a "best-seller."  It remains a tribute to a diminishing sector of the reading public that it became one anyway. The movieGirl With a Pearl Earringis also highly recommended. 5-stars for both.
5 what a trip this was...the author actually made me believe that she was the girl with the pearl ear ring herself.a lot of subtle stuff going on there...glimpses of society, feelings, relationships...lots of hints that allowed me to fill in the blanks as i saw fit.this is a "must buy" book!enjoy.
3 I enjoyed this novel in many ways. The story was moving and enchanting. But I had the feeling that the author had never visited the place that she wrote about. The sights and smells of this time just didn't come to life for me on the page.
5 I read this a long time ago but always mention it as one of my lifetime favorites. Just learning so much about that part of the world (that you don't read about as often), this particular painter/painting, and the timeframe historically speaking, all made me escape into the story. Color is an important 'character' in the book and I would definitely describe the story as colorful. It pulled me in immediately. I only wish it were a bit longer b/c I didn't want it to end.
5 I became interested after seeing the original painting at a Flemish exhibit. I enjoy reading historical novels and this one was no exception. To her credit the author does her homework before trying to write about the social mores of the era. I thought it very well written.  I liked it so much I bought The Girl and the Unicorn, too.
5 woven together with such expertise that you find yourself not 'reading about', but 'living in' this fable. It is historically based on the painting &quot;Girl With A Pearl Earring&quot;, one of the most discussed of the Dutch artist Vermeer's works.The painting adorns the cover and you are drawn back to it time and again as you walk down the streets of Delft in 1664 Holland; inhaling the smells, absorbing the sights and relishing all the sensory effects that the author spreads before you. You experience all things through the eyes of Griet, the narrator, and feel the weight of the luminous pearl earring as she guides you through this portion of her life. The author makes you eager to follow her no matter where it may lead you. And the harmonious flow of words are as if from Griet's mouth to your ears.Your hands become raw with hers as she launders and cleans in the household of Vermeer - torn from her family to become a maid because of an accident that rendered her father blind. You suffer her humiliations and rejoice with her when Vermeer selects her above all to become his assistant and prepare his paints.And then, he wishes her to pose! There is so much speculation as to who the magnetic girl in the painting truly is! But for me, it will always be Griet!Chevalier's strokes with the pen are as beautiful as the brush strokes of Vermeer; and the O.Henryesque ending is yet another pearl to relish.
3 I picked up this book because I had read other books by this author and enjoyed them.  THis book was the same--a very fast read, easy, if somewhat implausible story, and an interesting story idea.Vermeer's household hires a new maid, Griet, to clean his studio and help around the house.  Griet has &quot;wide-set eyes&quot; that seem to attract attention from everyone.  Vermeer becomes entranced with having her sit for him for a portrait--&quot;Girl with Pearl Earring.&quot;This is a story that shows what might have happened, or what moved Vermeer to paint this picture.  It's ok, but not spectacular.
5 Johannes Vermeer is one of the most appraised and complete painters of all time. His ending in poverty and short life add to that aura of mistery and curiosity that envolves names like Michelangelo, Mozart and such. The name of the book is also the name of one of the most famous paintings by the XVIIth century, wich is considered the "Dutch Monalisa". If you have never seen this painting, just look at the cover of the book. Who is that girl? Like DaVinci's Monalisa, no one knows who was the model to Vermeer's almost mystic portrait. That's what author Tracy Chevalier imagines in her story."Girl with a pearl earring" is the tale, told in first person, of Griet, the suddenly impoverished girl who spent more than two years as a maid in the Vermeer's household. Griet's arrival is seen with suspicions from the beginning, because she's a protestant, not a catholic like the Vermeers. Four daughters, the wife, the mother-in-law, and an older maid, everybody dislikes the new girl, with the exception of Johannes himseld, a quiet, withdrawn yet intense man; but, with her simple and straightforward way, Griet, little by little, becomes one of the most important people in the house. Read the book and you'll know why.Chevalier's book is, in fact, almost like a Vermeer painting: behind the apparent simplicity lies technic, perception and study. I've seen a few people complain that this book has no plot, no climax, it's dull, etc. Well, my advice is to this people is: stick to your shallow thrillers and gun-fight books. "Girl with a pearl earring" is a book made for people able to appreciate it. Just like a painting, but moving through your mind.Grade 9.0/10
4 This book relates the adventures of a young girl forced into becoming a maid by a family misfortune. The struggles of someone without status or power to navigate her way through her new masters (with their contrary demands), mischevious children, and powerful community members makes for a very good plot.I would highly recommend this book to all readers. No special interest in history or art is required.Side note: This story is so well done that I think the only possible criticism might be related to its very perfection. Griet-our young maiden and main character-seems to be just a bit too perfect; both in her responses to each situation, as well as perhaps also her keen powers of observation. (Critics of Fitzgerald's &quot;Great Gatsby&quot; have said something similar, e.g., that Jordan Baker's knowledge of the details of Daisy's past are difficult to credit.)
4 I read the book after seeing the movie and I truly believe that in order to understand the story you need to read the book. This story is so good because it has details and nuances that you only get from the book. Chevalier made me care about her leading lady, Griet. I felt for her and her hard life full of sadness. The book even made me feel downhearted after reading it, but I still enjoyed it. This is the book that led me to find out more about Vermeer and Chevalier and to check out more of her books in the library.
5 I think that this is one of the best works of fiction that I've read in a long time.  It takes place in Holland during the years 1664 to 1676.  The author, Tracy Chevalier has used a beautiful painting by Johannes Vermeer to spin a beautiful story.  She's named the girl from the painting Griet, and made her a 16 year old maid in the Vermeer household. The artist is famous for his sunlit domestic scenes and considered one of the greatest of the Dutch painters.I liked the fact that Griet is intelligent and seems to have an instinctive understanding of humanity.  Her quick mind helped her to traverse through a household of jealous and mean spirited people.Chevalier has learned her craft well.  The characters have been so fine tuned that I felt that I knew everyone myself.  I've read a little about the life of Vermeer and it seems to me that the author did her homework.  I'll look forward to her next novel!
5 I loved this book. It is head and shoulders above The Virgin Blue.  The writing was cleaner and the plot was deeper.  I wish I had had the chance to read the book before seeing the film, but the book is still a jewel unto itself. The relationship between the maid, Griet and her master, Vermeer, was so beautifully subtle, keeping you hungry, yet satisfied.  The tones are rich, yet earthy and authentic, and the characters are so real and alive I almost wish I could meet them.  She took a mysterious piece of art, and painted a gorgeous, and in some ways even magical history behind it. I found it to be a graceful piece, filled with beauty and depth that touched my heart.
5 The beauty of this book is its story-telling style and the in the manner of detail in its depiction of seventeenth century Dutch life.Although I watched the movie long ago, my review does not reflect my movie experience. The book did not try to be either authoritative or condescending. Very simply told, and as another reviewer mentioned, with precision.One reviewer complained about the perfection of the girl Griet. Well, she is telling stories in her own words, and she is after all a maid. So, she can brag about her own maid-works a bit. However, the maturity she displayed has its source in core humanness of all human beings. So, her being intelligent and sensitive should not be considered inappropriate--despite her being a maid. Although its style does not follow the tradition of magic realism, it did have few magical elements, which can be appreciated through the artistic backdrop of the whole story. What we read was not exactly a life-story, rather story of an artwork. I recommend it.
4 For anyone who paints or draws, there are certain novels that awake the spirit of the artist, that arouse the passion and inspire the soul. _Girl With A Pearl Earring_ is one of them. Here we are not only introduced to the wonderful character of Griet, but we learn so much about the technique and grueling process of great painting and the life of Vermeer. The novel is gritty, heart-wrenching, and incredibly beautiful and elegant. An extremely classy book that comes highly recommended. I would also recommend that the book be read with some resource to Vermeer's paintings at hand, to understand what's being spoken of in several of the book's descriptions of paintings.I usually write more but it's half past midnight and I ought to go to bed. All I have to say is that the book is a relatively quick read, but that does not effect the way the novel moves the soul, particularly the creative one. It is a beauty of a novel, as rich with texture and eerie realism as the paintings of Vermeer himself.
5 I found Girl with a Pearl Earring to a very entertaining story as well as educational.  I have never studied art history but found myself drawn into the story of Vermeer and the possible events that led to his painting Girl with a Pearl Earring. Enlightening but not stuffy...I couldn't put it down.  I will read more by Chevalier.
5 I hadn't planned on liking this book. I don't normally read historical fiction, but a friend (who's tastes in fiction are pretty reliable) bought me a copy and insisted I give it a chance.Take a look at the cover of &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring&quot; and you'll instantly know what impelled Tracy Chevalier to write this book. Vermeer's beguiling portrait (of the same title) begs explanation. Who was this wistful, wide-eyed girl? What was her story? Since little is known about Vermeer, the 17th century Dutch painter, Chevalier's account is largely fictional...but oh, what captivating tale.Reviewers who characterize this book as &quot;dry&quot; or weakly narrated seem to have missed the bigger picture (pun intended). Chevalier's gift lies in her clear, unadorned style. Like Vermeer himself, she paints a simple yet beautiful portrait that is all substance, with little flash. We are instantly drawn into the world of 17th century Holland, and the life of a young girl who, at least in this fictionalized account, serves as the inspiration for what is arguably Johannes Vermeer's most famous painting.As I read &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring,&quot; I found myself constantly flipping to the front cover to gaze at Vermeer's stunning portrait. The girl in the painting, although historically an unknown model, became Griet...a 17 year old maid with quiet sensibilities and a dazzling, wide-eyed curiosity. I was almost disappointed to learn that Griet was not, in fact, a &quot;real&quot; person, but the product of Chevalier's imagination.Fast readers should be able to swim through this book in a single afternoon, but my recommendation is to take it slow and submerge yourself. &quot;Girl With a Pearl Earring&quot; is meant to be experienced from the deep end.
5 This is a gem of a novel, and 17th century Delft comes alive in the deceptively simple but beautiful prose. Unlike many other historical novels, Chevalier's characters are not merely 20th century people wearing  period clothing-- they are 17th-century people with 17th century values and  world-views.I was cheering for Griet, an intelligent and lively misfit  in the restricted world of a maid-of-all-work, as she discovers that she  has an artist's eye and that there's a world out there more interesting and  more rewarding than what's in store for her. But this novel has very  bittersweet ending, and I did not have as much respect for Griet by the end  of the book as I did in the beginning. Life is full of compromises, and  Griet's compromises end up hobbling her, I think.Anyhow, the book is  exquisitely written and the characters stay with you after the last page is  turned. I'm glad I read it, and if you like quality historical fiction,  you'll enjoy it, too.
4 This is a story about a fictional girl named Griet and her interactions with the factual Johannes Vermeer.  Have you ever looked at a painting or a picture and imagined a whole life for the person or people in the scene?  That's pretty much what Tracy Chavalier does with this novel.  She brings to life the the girl in one Vermeer's paintings.The character she creates is a beautiful wide-eyed innocent girl who matures into womanhood under the roof of Johannes Vermeer.  This girl becomes his assistant and his artistic muse.  Chavalier does a great job in describing the sensuality of Griet.  There are scenes in the novel that send chills all through me.  Chavalier has the talent of turning a simple touch into the most intense experience imaginable.My only complaint would be that I felt that there were times where Chavalier should have given us more insight into her characters. By her lack of doing this, I didn't find myself as emotionally invested in some of Griet's story altering events.Overall, it was a good book.  I didn't want to put it down.
5 This book is magical. It was beautifully written The author Tracy Chevalier makes you jump back in time.and you can really relate to  Griet the narrator and main characters.This book is Highly recommend!!!
