5 Great as always.  Just cant wait for the next book to come out.  I love the books even more than the series.  That is usually the case though as the books hold so much more detail.
1 The plot doesn't move, it creeps in fits and starts.  I enjoyed Books 1-3 but Books 4 & 5 are long, hard slogs of Martin describing banners, castles, roads, religions, family histories, boats, clothing, et cetera ad infinitum, broken briefly and rarely with action.
5 As thrilling as the first 4 books. Suspense in every chapter. Can't wait until book 6 comes out. Author indicated on last page that there will be one soon. I hope the story line continues for at least a few more books. One gets emersed in the setting until you fee that you are actually there. Great series.
5 George R. R. Martin is a master story teller and a writer of tremendous talent.  He develops a huge number of characters into many plots and story lines and manages to keep it all moving forward and inter-related.
1 The first 3 books were great, the 4 th and especially this last book is a dissapointment. Martin throws in new characters and new story lines at fast pace and these new characters and storylines are just not interesting. I have read all great fantasy writers but never had the feeling before that i want to skip chapters because nothing important happens in them anyway. Even the main characters are less interesting in this last book as the storyline is always the same: character x sets out to y, but oh something happens so x does not succeed in y so x is doing z and oh, someting happens ..... Etc. The inpredictability becomes predictable, almost no character in the book succeeds at a goal set out. All in all: too many characters, too many storylines that are not interesting, too little develpment of the main story. Editors have been sleeping...
2 Along with many other fans of this series I am disappointed with the direction this series has taken. This is easily the worst written book of the series, and as far as storyline goes, along with A Feast of Crows, should have been edited down to peharps the first two hundred pages of a real novel, one that would have have moved the series forward.I really have to wonder what the writers at HBO are going to have to do to make these books palatable for a television audience. There are so many new characters, so many new viewpoints, that the story has gotten completely bogged down. And Martin doesn't just tell us what they are saying, we have to know everything that they are thinking as well. Add to that he's been giving us glimpses into the disatnt past of the land by sliding in snippets of ancient legends and myths that we have no reference points to, or any real reason to care about anyway.At first I was glad to see that he has included the maps to the Free Cities and the lands to the East, but this was short-lived. Much of the story takes place in these lands, asnd so we have to have endless descriptions of the customs and food and governments of these places that just serves to take up space. A lot of space.. What it also does is take is away from the main plot in the first three novels, which is Who will eventually sit on the Iron Throne of Westeros. We cared about what happened to Arya and Jon and Bran, but now they are such a small part of the overall plot that they no longer seem importanat, or relevant to the resolution of the main storyline.The plot, what there is of one, isn't very interesting, and much if not all of the action takes place off stage, like the battle for Winterfell. There are no surprises, no stunning developments or character deaths that made the first three novels so much fun to read.One last observation. Martin seems to take perverse delight in humiliating his characters, both great and small. Tyrion, Sasnsa, Arya, Asha, Theon, Cersei, the list goes on and on. It all began actually when Eddard agreed to allow Sasna's dorewolf Lady be killed, thus dooming her to the role of a pretty pawn. This trait has gotten much, much more pronounced in this novel. So much so that several of the chapters are nearly impossible to get through without physically cringing. What this leaves us with are a group of characters so flawed, so affected, that we don't have anyone left to root for. And those characters that we did care about, are so far out of the mainstream that what they do can't possibly seem to matter anyway.By the time Martin gets to finishing Book Six of this never-ending story, HBO will have to hire all new actors for the televison series. Or maybe they will rewrite these last two books, and edit them, the way this one should have been edited in the first place. Better yet, they should probably just skip it all together.
1 The publisher, Bantam, and the distributor, Random House Digital, clearly have lost their minds. $14.99 for an eBook?! Unbelievable and unwarranted. Save your money and buy no eBooks over $4.99!
3 This book was not as good as the first thee. I felt that the author was just trying to finish the series.
3 If you had told me to make a list off the top of my head before I sat down to read this novel, of events I'd want to see, or resolutions I was looking for, it would have been something like:Dany mastering her dragons, escaping the Meereen situation, and heading west.Tyrion arriving at Dany's court to serve her in his unique ways.The battle with the Others finally starting in a serious way.Jon learning who he is.Cersei's trial and the unleashing of FrankinGregor.What is Jaime going to do?Is Briennie dead, what did she say to get out of the noose?Quentyn arriving at Dany's court and revealing Dorne's plans to her.Victarion using the horn to control the dragons.Bran meeting the Greenseer and finishing his training.Arya finishing her training.A pretty obvious list based on the story so far, right?  I would have been happy with 3 of these stories moving along, 4 would have been downright wonderful.  Instead I got one and a half.  And the kicker...it's the last one and a half I would have chosen.This would have been bad enough...only it got worse.  GRRM manages to add two more very interesting plotlines, one of which is Stannis' battle for the North, the other of which we'll let be a secret, and he gives no resolution for them either.This is a novel that ended 200 hundred pages short.  Throughout all of it we are given two "big" stories, the North and the East, and both of them look to lead towards large power altering battles that will rival the Blackwater...only we never get to them.  The book stops before BOTH.It is a novel filled with ships sailing, and sailing, and sailing some more.  Of marching, and marching, and marching some more.  Jon Snow becomes muddled in food stores, concerned with wildlings, with not an Other in sight of the wall.  Dany reverts back to trying to save absolutely everyone, doing anything at all to make a false peace, and turns on her own dragons. Cersei has 2 chapters, Jaime 1, and both of them feel like they should have either been included into AFFC or left out till Book 6.  Bran and Ayra train, but it has no end in sight.Tyrion....Tyrion learns to cherish his inner dwarf.  If all this doesn't sound exciting, don't worry, you will be lucky enough to get to read near 50 pages of food descriptions scattered about the novel.  There is also about 100 "You know nothing, Jon Snows", about 50 "Words are Wind" and considerable "I must go forward" and something about Lannister's and debts I didn't know about...I can't say it was all bad.  If there wasn't good I wouldn't be so disappointing in where the book ended after all. Reek, Barristan, Asha, and Davos were all fantastic, the single Melisandre chapter shed much light on a certain bastard's destiny, and my main-dragon Drogon was the star of the book.But...I have just finished 1000 pages, it is fresh in my mind, and what drives me to my disappointment is the thought of another 5 years...where I will have my list above, one scratched off, and yet two more added.3.5 but it doesn't deserve the curve.
4 A pretty good story but I found the end lacking. Probably because I thought this was the last book. I look forward to the next one.
2 The series has completely run out of steam.Fair warning, here be spoilers.George R.R. Martin continues to deliver excellent dialogue and sparkling prose, but his "terror tactic" writing (where he builds up a point of view character only to be cut-down in cold blood, e.g., Ned Stark, Rob Stark, Kevin Lannister, the Onion Knight, the King Beyond the Wall, et.al.) has finally produced the result that it is nearly impossible to care about any of George's characters.  (Why invest the emotional energy when the character is likely to die, no matter how improbable the reason?)  Neither the murder of the Onion Knight nor the murder of the King Beyond the Wall had to occur to promote the plot in DwD.The plot is soooooo plodding in DwD that you have to wonder if the purpose of the glacial pace is only to wring out another novel from a cash cow.  The filler pages go on and on and on about flora and fauna.Our Dragon Queen decides to hang out across the sea when given the opportunity (13 vessels) to go home and reclaim her birthright.  She also cages up her dragons (well, the two that she and her minions can fool or capture).What?!!?  While character development and change are important in great stories, this particular change seemed to be a pre-mature birth.It just makes the series drag on and on.When Tyrion falls off the side of the barge into the deadly water, I actually felt relieved, but, since Tyrion is George's alter ego in the series, the dwarf is improbably back a few chapters later.  (The means of recovering the dwarf that fell down into the murky river and was essentially drowned is glossed over in the book.)  Of course, George will just kill Tyrion off in the first chapter of the next book as a way of saying, "nah-nah-boo-boo" to his remaining readers.Jon Snow ends up helping out our usurper king too.  Why?  Who knows?And the god of the deep ends up being ... I can't even bear to tell you in the review; it is sooooo silly.Then, there is the Deus ex Machina and returned minor character at the end of the book who kills off K. Lannister.  The character's appearance is not so much a dramatic plot twist as a "head scratcher."  It completely destroys suspension of disbelief.  Also, the character, who was previously portrayed as completely amoral if not actually evil, now "rides in on the white charger" as the savior of the Seven Kingdoms.What?!?!?  Why?!?!?Actually, more to the point, it is hard to even care.I understand that the HBO mini-series was very good.Hopefully, if HBO gets to the point where the Feast for Crows and Dance with Dragons takes place, the playwrights will take significant liberties with the story.In service,Rich[...]
5 Here is the latest cliffhanger du jour from George R.R. Martin, the fifth in the" A Song of Ice and Fire" series. Hopefully I don't have to wait six years till the sixth book,The Winds of Winter comes out, although I have to say the wait was worth it for this novel. Many questions and mysteries from previous books are solved, but a host of new puzzling chapter endings crop up. When I read this series, I feel like I'm a kid again watching the Flash Gordon serials in the movies on Saturday.This book runs parallel with A Feast for Crows up to a point. It follows the characters from the north and across the narrow sea till about page 593, when the time frame reunites both books. This book brings the reader up to date on: Tyrion, Daenerys, King Stannis, Jon Snow, Bran Stark, Davos Seaworth and Theon Greyjoy, now called Reek. Arya Stark reenters the novel on page 593, Jaime Lannister on 632, Brienne of Tarth on 646, Cersei on 717, and Victarion Greyjoy on page 741. Surprisingly Sansa Stark and Littlefinger are not in the novel at all, even though they are living in the north.Since it has been so long between novels, I found myself constantly going to the internet to refresh my memory on certain characters. In retrospect, I think it's a good idea to review the four previous books before attempting to read this one. This book is also filled with new characters, especially in The Free Cities, Valyria and Beyond the Wall. How Martin can keep up with all the strange names from all the Sellsword companies, the people in Meereen and Yunkai is beyond me. It is a bit annoying trying to remember who Yurkhaz Zo Yunzak is, or Reznak Mo Reznak for example. There are many heroes in this novel and numerous scrofulous villains, new and old.One thing to remember about George Martin is that he plays no favorites when it comes time for a hero, or villain to die. My one caveat is that this happens multiple times, or does it? The innuendos are astonishing through out the book.The last thing to mention is that you can tell by the book's title, the dragons are finally involved! I will not tell you what part Drogon, Viserion, and Rhaegal play in this book, but it is a big one. This was a pleasure to read, my only regret is that I have finished it! What do you read after this?
2 Laborious. After the first 100 pages I swore if I had to read another page full of yet more food and/or clothing description I would retch, and retch I did.Repetitive. I believe I read the precise descriptors of a character and of another character's feelings about an event at least three times over. Yes, the same words.Irritating. Old characters are muddled, dumb where they used to be smart, etc. New characters could be interesting but somehow are not. And WHY must I read yet more about Cersei? She was way too much of the last book; I definitely did not want to read more of her.Angering. When even Daenerys becomes aggravating to read, I know I've waited this series out too long.There is something good in all of this: I'm only as annoyed as I am because I loved the characters GRRM created, and I don't like what he's doing with them. However, I didn't think GRRM would - or could! - write anything to make me dislike Daenerys, but I've been proven wrong.
5 Book arrived in mint condition & delivery was very prompt!  Love the series - captivating reading.  Characters are a bit involved but there's an index to help you sort it all out.
5 The only thing wrong with this book is you don't want to finish it.  This is a real treat for people who love well-developed characters and suspenseful plots.
3 Just finished this - was looking for something to read and happened upon this series this summer.  Started wonderfully well, but alas I can't fully recommend this series.  I like what Martin does with his series, some characters actually die in it.  But to some extent it seems by this point the best characters have been killed off.  This latest book I had a hard time getting through.  The writing is top notch - as with all the previous books, however I just don't care for many of the characters.  I liked many of the earlier ones, but they ended up dead at some point or another.  While it is rather unique to have some primary characters die - quite a few of them over the last few books, you eventually get to a point where you don't wish to commit too much to any particular character because they will soon get bumped off.  While Jordan does the opposite - all the main characters are still alive after book eleven, and they are bone tired by then, this is the other extreme.  Many of the good guys die, and your left with bumbling children and vile queen regents that you wish would end up like  many of the previous characters.  Good book, good series, but could have been great if Martin would have picked some different characters to behead, poison, drown, etc. etc. etc.
5 My husband has been engrossed in this book ever since he opened it on Christmas Day.  Now he's anxious for the next one.
5 A Dance with Dragons is every bit as good as the four books that preceded it. It continues to amaze me that Martin can conceive such complex yet integrated plots and write them in such a way that the books are page-turners.
5 It seems that all the the things the author did were fine...until the initial large battles abated after the first three books.  Then the same "critics" decided everything was wrong, from style to the amount of description included.  For my part, I found this book fascinating in its portrayal of events that are widely separated, but closely related.  The introduction of new cultures on the Eastern Continent would not have been half as interesting if what made them unique, was not included.  That includes, what they ate, how they dressed and acted, and what maladies they had.  When you are dealing with a culture on a different world, all the description aids the mind in forming a picture.  I had a lot of good reading in this book.  It made other authors look like they were rushing to finish.As usual, having good intentions is not the only criterion for success of the characters.  The characters are not static.  Some learn from their experience and some don't  What they learn does not necessarily serve them well, much as happens in real life.  I, for one am eagerly looking forward to the next installment.  Winter has now arrived and survival will not be easy.
3 It's better than book 4.  At least the characters I cared about from the first 3 books were again the main focus.  That being said, the story still moves very slowly.
2 I had a hard time figuring out if i was still reading the same author. The book made no sense. I believe GRRM is a little to full of himself. He is taking to long between books and I believe enjoys all the anguish this causes. I will not buy anymore of his books as he is just a wast of money. If you are thinking about buying this book just wait and it should be available at the library for free.
5 Book 5 of the Game of Thrones does not disappoint .  All the intrigue of the first four with a few surprises thrown in.  An excellent read!
2 I'm astounded at how many amateur reviewers manage to hit the problem(s) square on the head, yet George RR Lucas seems to think EVERYONE else has it wrong.Dance is a smidgen better than Feast.  If not for Theon, Dance wouldn't have even garnered that much faint praise.THE BOTTOM LINE: I used to recommend this series.  I rushed out and bought Feast in hardback the first day it came out.  I waited several weeks to purchase Dance, and even then only the Kindle version.  If the next book averages 4 stars here on Amazon I may be tempted to give it one last chance--but I'm through being an agent of the word of mouth campaign; A Song of Ice and Fire has become embarrassing.I ceased reading and recommending Robert Jordan at book 4.And one last thing, I'm an adult who thinks "adult language," when overused, is childish.  In the first three books Martin's abrasive language lent the series gritty depth, but in Feast and Dance it feels more like a desperate ploy to maintain reader interest.Shocking exposition won't defibrillate a stale story.
5 "A Dance with Dragons" is the 5th book in the "A Song of Ice and Fire" series by George R. R. Martin. The hardcover is 1040 pages in length while the Kindle e-edition is a 2119 Kb download.SPOILERSWithin the first few chapters you'll be reacquainted with Jon Snow, Tyrion, Daenerys and Bran. Four important players that were absent or scarcely mentioned in "A Feast of Crows".The location of these four individuals is as follows...1.) Jon Snow's story is at The Wall...probably my favorite tale.2.) Tyrion's...travels through the Free Cities area...slow to get going but improved with time.3.) Daenerys...at Meereen on the Slaver's Bay...a very slow tale to develop (to the point of thinking about skimming some of it).4.) Bran...an interesting trek north of The Wall, with a less prominent role than the other three...one gets the feeling that there are important things in store for Bran in subsequent books.There were also several other individuals whose tales were very interesting, in particular Davos, (acting as the 'hand' for King Stannis Baratheon at the Isles of The Three Sisters and at White Harbour) and Theon (Lord Ramsey's prisoner).END SPOILERSIn addition to this fine story, some other things I liked about the physical book itself...1.) three maps: Beyond the Wall, The Free Cities and Valyria. These maps seem to have greater detail, giving information on names, places, distances and direction. [but see Cons: 1.a) below]2.) an appendix in the back with an extensive Dramatis Personae...listing all the Houses (as well as lesser groupings), the characters within, their relationship to each other and sometimes, their present location.Concerns:Regarding the maps...1a.) in the Kindle format the maps are almost illegible. And unfortunately they become more indistinct as you expand them. This of course in not a flaw of the book but rather the limitation imposed by the Kindle rendering process.1b.) the three maps are hard to relate to each other. You have a vague sense of the geographic layout, but because there is no overall master map of the entire area, it is somewhat difficult to get a feel for the 'lay of the land' as to how the three maps provided are positioned geographically in relation to one another.2.) Daenerys tale...slow to develop and repetitive to the point of being annoying.Conclusion:With the return of the major characters of the previous books, my interest in this wonderful series has been rekindled.A definite improvement over "A Feast of Crows", not only because the more important characters have reappeared, but the intrigue and tension so familiar with the first three books (with the exception of Daenerys story), has returned as well.Overall, despite the minor concerns mentioned above, I loved it...after a hiatus of many years it's been worth the wait. And not unexpectedly, Book 5 ends with many situations and developments hanging in the balance.  4 1/2 Stars.Ray Nicholson
1 I am the biggest fan of ASOIAF that you will find. The reason I'm such a big fan however is because of the amazing quality of the first three novels.  I consider A Storm of Swords to be the greatest book I've ever read. A Feast Crows did not live up to the hype and ended up being a massive disappointment. With that said, I still had hope that GRRM could right the ship. Unfortunately, A Dance with Dragons is the worst book he has written yet. It is a book of pointless filler where almost nothing important happens.  Too many chapters are simply unnecessary chapters where the character starts at one point and the chapter ends with him/her still at the same point. There is little development whatsoever with ANY of the characters. There are a few good moments and surprises but not nearly enough to live up to Martin's books.I waited 6 years for this novel and got a 1000 page book in which everything important that took place could have been completely summarized in less than 5 pages. Yes I'm serious, that's how little took place in this book.  Gone are the huge surprises, the big battles and the sense of awe that you used to get while reading these books. When I read the first three books there were many moments where I just had a blank look on my face and thought "Wow". These looks and feelings of awe have been replaced by feelings of boredom and yawns.  ASOIAF looked like it was destined to become the greatest Fantasy series of all time but that has all gone out the window. Martin can still regain it however if he can deliver in the next book unlike with the past two.Martin is still the best fiction writer alive today but if it takes multiple years to release the next book, I'm going to give up on him. It's criminally expensive to buy a hardcover book these days.
5 My husband read this whole series This must have been really good, because he had his iPad on every waking moment reading the complete series.  He was looking for more but the Authur has not written past book five.
5 George R. R. Martin, &lt;strong>A Dance with Dragons&lt;/strong> (Bantam, 2011)It took seven years for George R. R. Martin to finish, and release, the long-awaited book five of A Song of Ice and Fire. (Longer, actually, as it was originally intended to be a part of &lt;em>A Feast for Crows&lt;/em>, so it's conceivable that some of the prose in this book is eleven years old.) And, let's face it, &lt;em>A Feast for Crows&lt;/em> was by far the weakest link in the series so far. So perhaps I was a little more reluctant to pick up &lt;em>A Dance with Dragons&lt;/em> than I would have otherwise been. In case you're a fan of the first three books who's been on the fence about it as well, I'm here to tell you that while this isn't &lt;em>A Storm of Swords&lt;/em>, it's absolutely a return to form for Martin.We pick up a number of threads we last read about in 2000 (probably not coincidentally, the threads most favored by fans); Tyrion's, Jon Snow's, and Dany's. We also get a couple of new threads, minor characters elevated to main character status, most notably Reek (whose identity remains a mystery until about halfway through the book, but you know him). Two-thirds of the way in, we pick up the threads from &lt;em>A Feast for Crows&lt;/em> as well, and get reacquianted with the rest of the Lannister clan, Arya, and a few others. As for the plot, if you've been reading along, you're well aware of it, though the action shifts from the War of the Five Kings (which seems to be petering out) to focus more on the east, with a number of prospective rulers realizing that gaining Dany Targaryen's alliance could mean the balance being tipped in their favor. Problem is, Dany has more than enough problems of her own.There's nothing I can tell you about &lt;em>A Dance with Dragons&lt;/em> that I didn't tell you about the first three books in the series. Fast-paced, action-packed, with excellent characters in interesting situations. It's wonderful, scurrilous, bawdy, majestic stuff, and if you haven't yet discovered it, give it a try. The books may look menacing (this is the second of them to top a thousand pages), but trust me, they're quick reads, and absorbing as all get-out. This is good stuff. **** 
3 I have invested quite a bit of time reading this series.  I will see it to the end.  I just wish that end would come soon. This book is similiar to book 4 in that it seems to be stretching the story out for reasons other than the story.  Some of the storylines would best be served as spin offs rather than pushing this tome to 1000 pages and delaying the end to a series that seems to have peaked in book 3.
1 A "trilogy" in seven or more (potentially) volumes, several thousand pages, and nothing really happens.  We waited how many years for this "conclusion"???  I have lost all faith in Mr. Martin and in his ability to actually end a story.  The final pages of this book leave us with almost every interesting character either standing in a field, or half-way to a desired destination, wondering what comes next, or (even worse) suddenly killed without warning.  There is very little actual plot advancement from the end of Book Four.The Bible required only 2 "Testaments" to cover a great deal of material.  War and Peace managed to be complete in ONE volume.  Many, many great authors have created satisfying masterworks in Trilogies..  Originally planned to be a trilogy, this series was (apologetically) expanded to 4 volumes.. which still didn't reach a conclusion.  Then there were FIVE volumes, with a promised "conclusion" that didn't happen.  Now there are chapters of a SIXTH volume making their appearance, with hints that a SEVENTH volume may be necessary.  Where does it end?  How many years?  Will Brian Sanderson be asked to complete this series when another five volumes eventually seem to be required. and Mr. Martin has retired at the age of 150?  Will my great grandchildren still be alive when the final page is completed?  Will the TV series run even longer than "The Simpsons"???  Give us a break, Mr. Martin!It seems far easier to create a bunch of interesting characters than to know what to do with them.  There are far too many characters in this series for anyone to expect the author to track them all the way to their ultimate goals, so Mr Martin solves the situation by many, many sudden deaths.  Still, it would have been pleasant to see the main characters eventually achieve some kind of goal.  Even two of the three dragons vanish from the storyline shortly after being introduced.The one star is for creating interesting characters.  Sorry that they are all, after all these years, left dangling or (at least temporarily) dead.
1 We've entered Jordan County.If you'll look to your right you'll see a memorial to its namesake, James Oliver Rigley Jr ("Robert" to friends and fans) who like many intrepid pioneers passed away in the midst of exploring his territory, leaving others to finish.This excruciatingly detailed landscape includes such features as a glacial plot and a travesty of beloved characters.Jordan Country is pleased to welcome its newest settler, George RR Martin.Alright, seriously...I'm torn. On the one hand, I greatly admire Martin and all he's accomplished and I sympathize with the enormous challenge a series like this represents, and nobody likes a Monday morning quarterback.On the other hand, I feel Martin may be too close to see he's getting away from what made his series great.My critique can be summed up succinctly: why did this need to be written?From what I understand, Martin was originally going to do a break in years between SoS and the upcoming books, but realized the flashbacks and backstory would be cumbersome to recap.Well...what does he thing made the first three so great? All the little scenes of backstory peppered throughout! Jaime's time with the Kingsguard under Aerys, the rebellion, Littlefinger growing up with the Tullies, all wonderful, but did we need to see it all? I get the feeling this new Martin would devote whole chapters to Tyrion's marriage to Tysha, their discovery and punishment.Like it or not, and all those who praise Martin for breaking new ground probably won't, Martin was writing to a formula. For all the wonderful complexity the basic skeleton was a simple one: three books of setup, two or three books of payoff.Greg Keyes is sometimes given the backhanded compliment of Martin-light, but he has mastered the formula in all its permutations. I cite Keyes' "Age of Unreason" series, and more recently, his "Kingdom and Thorn and Bone" series the first half (two books in AoU and three in KoTaB) dedicated to causing turmoil in the world and getting all the characters in position (and having a lot of fun too) and the last installment is all payoff.That was the formula Martin started with, but he has wandered off the track.The problem is that so much of the first three books were devoted to getting certain key characters into position, but once they were in position, we don't need to see them for awhile because we know very well nothing big can happen until those dragons are grown up.For me, AFFC worked because none of the big characters were present, and I was fine with that. There was nothing for them to do anyway.For example, I would've loved to see Bran and Arya `fully formed' in their sorcerer and assassin roles, then maybe get a couple flashbacks or descriptions of their `training' days. Bran's reveal as the green-dreamin' lord of the weirwood groves could have been an incredible climax, maybe follow it up with a few brief flashbacks in the following book...But enough what-ifs.There are a lot of specific criticisms I could level, but one stands out for me at least: what is the point of Cersei getting her comeuppance now, and at the hands of some secondary characters we don't care about? In the first three books we hated Joffrey, Cersei, Jaime and Tywin. We hated them with a passion because we saw them through the eyes of their victims, and because Cersei, Joffrey and Tywin kept getting away with it. Joffrey and Tywin got away with their rotten acts right up until the end, and then we cheered when they finally died. Martin got the maximum mileage out of those two characters. With Cersei broken and reduced to an incidental character, what satisfaction are we supposed to get when Dany finally comes along to topple her regime?Needless to say (but like Martin I'll say it anyway) ASOIAF is no longer on my `buy before looking' list. I don't shell out my money till I get a library copy first.Meanwhile, I'll cross my fingers and hope Martin can pull a U-turn and get out of Jordan Country before his epic is lost in the quagmire.
5 To all who care to read this before reading the next installment, take this for what it is worth. The last tale A Feast For Crows and this A Dance With Dragons are one book split in an unusual way. I will spoil it by telling you that it is in the same time frame as the former but because if he had tried to publish them as one he could not have done it justice or even kept it under the nearly 2000 pages the two are in combination. Think of this in that way when you read it and you will love the story. If you loved the others as dark as they are you will love this.
5 If you liked the previous books, you'll love this one.  This book has to be one of my favorites in the series.
1 All of these books of Martin's could have been written in a third of the amount of words by editing the many useless  and repetitive descriptions. This author loves to "hear himself talk" w out EVER telling a story.
5 I call this series of books a Hydra because every time Martin kills someone off, three more story lines appear. The entire series so far could have been a simple trilogy. Nevertheless, I have to admit, it's hard to put them down.
1 The first 4 books, all well written, came to no conclusions, except for the characters that were killed off. -- This book isn't as well written - revealed very little story and less conclusions to the story began.  The whole thing feels like a ploy to make more money, without offering any reader satisfaction. - I have to confess that having read over two thousand of Martins pages, and being a real GoT fan (computer games,TV series, etc.)it was all a gigantic disappointment - but at least I won't be looking forward future books of his, I was a sucker, but I'm done.
1 The worst book I have read in ten years.Over priced, over hyped.Two thirds of this book should have been edited and left on the floor.This is the best that Mr. Martin can do after 6 years? If so, please let it be the last.This was one of the most eagerly awaited books in years and a major flop.The book like the last couple he has wrote was hard to read.The reader must be committed to the story, devote endless hours to the book for NO ending.Way, way, way, to many twists and turns,to many people, places, things,that have to be remembered.Mr Martin, it does not need 50 pages on how a spoon looks or another 30 on how the person raised it to his mouth to eat. Not to mention that is ok to leave some of the good guys alive.I don't mind killing off the main subject from time to time but you have pushed this to the limit. I have purchased his other 4 books and was ok with them, some better then others.This is my last book that I intend to buy from him.
3 Let me first say I have enjoyed all of the Song of Ice and Fire series, including this novel.  I rated it three stars because there was just SO much left unresolved in this book.  It's been ages since I read the previous novel so I spent a lot of time trying to recall what happened, and I felt that shortly after I got a good hold on it and re-identified with each character's story, the book ended.  I expected a lot of issues to remain unresolved, things that have been carried throughout the books, but I felt like a lot of new issues were introduced very briefly and then completely dropped.  I think that trying to hang onto all the threads was difficult while I was reading the book and will be really difficult by the time the next one comes out.  The whole novel just seemed a little more disjointed and less tidy than the rest of his works in this series, but I did remain very interested throughout and am looking forward to the next.
5 Well what do you expect its the Song of Ice And Fire, George RR Martin.  This is the stuff of legend!  If you want to watch HBO's Game Of Thrones then you must read the books or you are missing out on 60% of the story.
5 I have been looking forward to this book for a while and Martin did not disappoint. This book had me entranced from the first page. I definitely recommend this to anyone
5 This was equal to or better than Book 1. The movement through the chapters is far easier to follow and is more fluid.
5 Ok,  Game of Throwns,  need I say more.  The interwining stories are wonderful and it is a series to get lost in.  I actually am enjoying this from a business perspective,  how to screw your way to the top and then get killed by your competition.
4 Mind Boggling!Another interesting and mind boggling book added to the series. The drama continues with many twist and turns as plots within plots materialize. The book itself was not smooth flowing until the second half of the book. The chapters seem to cover the in-between scenarios that happened either before or after some of the drama that unfolded in the last 4 books.These chapters were in no order and I got bored with too much description of the surrounding lands, their histories, and the men who came beforehand. I just had a hard time getting through some of the chapters because it was at a stand still with nothing happening that was in my opinion not relevant to the main plot or maybe it was just me being impatient and wanting to get to the main point of finding out the outcome.Everyone in this series is going mad to take over the seven kingdoms, not just one king within the seven but several lords in their own lord-hoods. To top it off, there are those outside the seven kingdoms across seas that have their sights on the throne as well but their kingdoms are full of their own destruction and underhandedness of chaos to include all the cut throats fighting each other to gain the princess and her dragons to take the throne. Yet all the while, evil magical and paranormal forces consume the ordinary folk through false religious covers (sorcery/demon worship) and old magical powers.Overall though, the many plots within continue to get closer to a climax. Hopefully the readers don't have to read through 5 more books to get to there. The writing is great and the characters are well established and just when you think you have a favorite character the author has a way of making the good one bad and the bad one a hero.Great Read!******** Spoilers Below this Point **************NOTESto read before I read the 6th book whenever it is released:Night's WatchJon Snow - one of my favorite characters and his white Dire wolf. I like what he does by opening the gates to the wildlings and in this book his sworn brothers are not happin with him and in this book in the end Jon is stabbed but it doesnt state whether he is dead or not because Lady Melisandre the red priestess is there and you never know what kind of sorcery she will do.2. Samwell Tarly is not mentioned in this bookHouse Stark1. Bran is beneath ground with the Three Eyed Crow (last greenseer/sorcerer)and the children of the forest. He has become part of the Direwood and is learning to fly but this book doesn't spend much time on him, just one chapter. Hodor is still with him.2. Rickon - this book doesn't cover him at all and he was split from Bran in the 4th book. He is with Osha the wildling woman.3. Jon Snow still doesn't know his brothers live.4. Lady Stark is still alive in the 4th book but she is not mention in this book.********************House Tully1. Bends the knee to King Tommen in the book due to Jamie Lannister.****************King of the Seven Kingdoms1. Tommen - 8 year old King, son of (ex Queen)Cersei2. Cersei - ex Queen - yes I hate her and she is finally charged with treason, insest, fornication and was degraded through out the city by having to walk naked through her own people - she deserves death but we won't know what her outcome is until after her trial when Ser Robert Strong fights for her innocence.3. Ser Jaime Lannister - bad guy gone good, however the book leaves Jaime in limbo and was last seen takeing off with Ser Brienia4. Tyrion Lannister - My favorite character! I love his sense of humor, his part in this series is the best. In this book he finds himself across seas mixed up with a knight and another dwarf and are slaves. Tyrion does get himself and his company out of the slavement but signs away with lots of promises that he may not be able to keep.5. Ser Kevan lannister - I liked him, he is Cersei's Uncle but he is killed at the end of the book.6. Margaery - New Queen, married to Tommen - I like her sweet personality but you can tell that she is up to something in the long run.7. The People of the Faith - The High Septon - I hate those religious freaks.**********King at the Wall1. Stannis Baratheon - Rightful King some think and in this book he is at Castle Black for a while until he goes out during the on coming of winter to take over Winterfell but in the end of this book it is left in limbo with everyone thinking he was taken and killed.2. Lady Melisandre - The Red Women, a priestess of R'hllor, the lord of light - I can't stand this women. This is where the evil comes in or sorcery comes in. She burns people to get a seeing in the fire.3. Mance Rayder - King beyond the Wall - this guy is suspecious and I don't trust him. I think him and Melisandre are up to no good and will change everyone to demons or something in the end but in this book it is left with him still missing from castle rock and no one has heard from him. He was suppose to have been burned but Melisandre used magic to disguise Rattleshirt (Lord of Bones)as him in order to fake the death.4. Ser Davos Seaworth - King Stannis Hand but in the book he is left in limbo - he was captured but secretly released so he could gather a force for King Stannis.**************King of the Isles and the North1. Euron GreyJoy - Crow's Eye - King of the Isles and the North. This part was the most boring.2. Victarion GreyJoy - Euron's brother - this guy is full of himself, at end he is on his way to claim the Princess Dani and her dragons for himself instead of for his brother Euron.3. Asha GreyJoy - I love her, she is one tough cookie. She however is captured by Stannis and in the end in limbo, we don't know if she is still with Stannis or not.************House Arryn - The ValeIn this book the Vale is not mentioned but in book 4 Robert Arryn, otherwise known as sweet robin, he becomes King as his mother is thrown off the mountain by her husband Petyr Baelish (Littlefinger). Sansa Stark is posing as Alayne Stone - Lord Petyr's natural daughter. Last happenings was they were coming down the mountain before winter hit.**************House FreyThe Freys are with Ramsey Bolton and Ramsey has married the fake Ayra Stark that Jammie Lannister sent in order for him to gain control of Winterfel.************************Across Seas1. Arya Stark is with the Kindly Man and the servants of the Many Faced God. She is being trained to be a fighter and assassin In Braavos.2. Daenerys Targaryen - Dani - rightfull heir to the Seven Kingdoms. Lots of drama goes on all around her. She finally gets to ride one of her dragons (Drogon). She gets married to Hizdahr a wealthy Meereenese nobleman in order to save her children from starvation and killings. Howwever, all kinds of chaos happens and now she is off away with her dragon. Her other dragons get free at the cost of a Doran prince whom is burned to crisp by one of the dragons. Hizdahr is taken afterward by Dani's protector Ser Barristan Selmy and is acussed of treason and trying to kill her and her dragons.
1 Five books later at an expensive investment, I will not read Book 6, 7, 8, 9.....???I loved the first three, even four books.  Then this book five comes out...and what a crock!A l,000 pages that could have been edited easily to 500 pages without sacrificing plot.What plot....this book five just drags on and on....going nowhere.Only in the last 200 pages did any of the story line progress at all.Why does George R.R. Martin have to be so verboise?His fifth book of meanderings is useless.  He is like a mad man on speed, going off on moretangents than need be.I am angry that I spent the time and money on this one.But I will learn my lesson.  Skip this book five.  It in no way adds to the the earlierfour (that was suppose to be only a triology).It could have been a triology, but the editors' were  evidently  afraid of facingthe dragon RR Martin when he is  such a 'stark struck literary darling' as a never- endinggolden  purse for the publishers.....to rein him in on verbriage that never should have been allowed.But a golden calf is a golden calf....thinking of more gold by stretching these books out into infinity.No, I quit the series, now, once and for good.
1 There are SPOILERS involved with this review.  I have to include these because the GRRM fanatics believe that if you do not like this book, then you have never read the book and therefore if you post on any of the forums you must be a troll unless you include spoilers to prove you read the book.First, can we stop with the endless repetitions???  These are repeated hundreds of times throughout the book, after a while it is just worthless and we realize the Mr.Martin is just trying to up his word count.1.Where do whores go?  The imp dsoen't know, we get it.2.Reek, Reek, my name is reek, it rhymes with (?????).  We get it, reek rhymes with many different words, are you going to go through the alphabet?3.You know nothing Jon Snow.  O.K. He's ignorant, can we move on?4.I am just a young girl...Dany's young, are you trying to make sure we don't forget, or that you don't Mr. Martin?5.Word are wind.  We know, we read your book.  We are surprised that it did not blow itself off the shelves.6.Corn. Corn. Corn......Okay Ravens eat corn, we know.First of all there is way TOO MUCH filler and fluff in this book.At the beginning we are given page after page after page after page etc...of fluff just to find out that A) six skins dies and enters the one eyed wolf and B) that Jon Snow is a skin changer too, but dosen't know it.Conserning Jon we are subjected to a second retelling of Jon sending away Sam and making the baby switch. Did Mr Martin forget that he wrote this in AFFC?  Does he think his readers forgot (it has been a while)?After letting the wildlings cross the wall to help fight the others (somehow his seasoned brothers are all retarded and do not understand that they are undermaned and will die and lose the wall without help).Jon is then stabbed four times by his brothers.  We are never told he is dead and never see his body, so because of all the endless drivel at the beginning of the book most readers will have missed that he is a skin changer, so maybe he changed skins, maybe he is just wounded, or maybe he will come back from the dead like his mother.Bran finds the three eyed crow and learns that he is a greenseer.With the imp we are treated to his bathroom habits.  Do we really need to know everytime he goes to the bathroom?  Have a little bit of a hang up with the bathroom habits of little people do we Mr. Martin?Then we are treated to his travel log. Worse than reading a tech manual.  Words are wind Mr. Martin.He then becomes a slave, rides a pig in a mummers joust, walks away from slavery and on his word alone hires a sellsword company and joins them.The onion knight eats and we get to hear of every bite.  We know you like food Mr. Martin (we've seen your pic) but we do not need a play by play of his eating.A. Stark loses her sight and then gets it back and then commits her first assaination.Thon Grayjoy, through torture is transformed into Reek.  Eventually he helps Jane escape Ramsay Bolton.Dany keeps telling anyone who will listen that she is young, as if they or she has forgotten.  She chains up two dragosn because they are uncontrollable.  She thenmarries, and then flys away on the black dragon while Mereen is underseige.The prince of Dorn is killed by the green dragon (fire) while trying to steal the two dragons who are locked up.Mr. Martin thought his baby switching plot was so good that he told it again in this book.  Not only that but he was so proud of this "original" idea that he recycled itthree times.  We are told that a prince of dragons was not killed during the first rebellion, but was switched as a baby and now he is back to retake the iron throne.  Then we are told that the king beyond the wall did not die by fire but was switched with rattleshirt.  Plus A. Stark and Jane are switched.  Who else are we going to switch?  Maybe Jon was not Jon when he was stabbed, maybe he was switched.  Might as well recycle the plot one more time.Cersie confesses some of her crimes and does a walk of shame.  Now she is awaiting trial by combat.The queen is waiting a trial by the church.Little finger returns to kill the king regent because he wants the kingdoms to be at war so it is easier for the dragon prince to retake the iron throne.Jamie rides away with Brienne and is not heard from.Stannis marched on winterfell where we again are given more filler than you can shake a stick at.  Do we need a play by play of the snow march?  Then we are told in a letter that he and his friends are dead (maybe a lie?).Mance Rayder (switched with rattleshirt) takes six spear wives and tries to free the Stark girl (again a recycling of the switching plot, she is not Stark but Jane).We are told in Ramsay's letter that he is held captive and the six spear wives are dead.There was supposed to be a continunity check but we find out that grayscale is not what it was.  It was a childhood disease but has somehow become a life long illness like leprosey.Mr. Martin tells us he has a problem writing strong women and children.  Well, maybe he should not have so many strong women and children in his book.  It is funny though that he did not have a problem writing strong women and children in the first three books.  Are we sure Mr. Marting wrote books four and five? Dany and Jon are totally different characters with no development on how they changed.  He has lost sight of his story and is now offereing us filler and excuses.People have been comparing him to Tolkin.  The only thing he and Tolkin have in common is the "RR" in their names.  Anyone who makes this comparison has never read Tolkin or has become so emotionally invested in this story that they are blind to the truth.  Tolkin never wrote just to see how many words he could put to paper.  He wrote a complete story from start to finish.  At Mr. Martins pace and with these last two books of his he will be remembered as "The man who tried real hard".The only saving grace about this book is that I got it for free.  I am the third person to read this copy and the first person received it as a gift.  I will give it to someone else so that at least four people will not have paid for this crap and four people will not have given Mr. Martin anymore money.  I am leaving now to trade my copies of the first four books of this series at the used bookstore.  Maybe I will go back to Eddings.
4 The series &#34;The Game of Thrones&#34; is an excellent read. The reader becomes involved with all the characters in the books. Book 5 A Dance with Dragons is a good read also but the ending is a little abrupt. The ending is disappointing, but at the same time it makes you want the series to go on. A book 6 would be nice to help ease the sense of disappointment and abruptness in Book 5's ending. The series of &#34;The Game of Thrones&#34; is highly recommended as an excellent read.
5 Though I can't say that I liked what happened, it kept me wrapped up in it every step of the way.  I really wished the series could have just gone on and on.
5 A Dance with Dragons takes us from one side of the Narrow Sea to the other, from the Wall to Westeros, rollicking from one character to another.  George R. R. Martin spares no characters, no matter how much we love or hate them.  Each chapter leaves us hanging:  What did he mean when he said Brienne screamed one word?  Was she dead?  What about Jon Snow?  And where is Sam?  What part does he play in all this?  And what's happened to Peter Baelish and Sansa Stark?  And will Mance Rayder be saved once more, this time from Ramsay Bolton?  Will Ramsay get his just desserts?  Will Daenyres rule the Seven Kingdoms?  Will this Winter be the worst?  I join my tenant, with whom I discuss the books as often as we would discuss the news of the day, in urging the author to finish and publish Book Six.
2 This is the fifth book in a series.  I first saw the video of Game of Thrones and was hooked so I bought the book which really cemented my interest in the Starks and the Lanisters.  I couldn't wait to read the next book which had many surprising twists that led me to the third book which I enjoyed but not as much as the preceding volumes.  I struggled with the fourth book but did finally finish it and I purchased the fifth book which was so slow and dull that I quit reading after 600 pages -- I might ultimately finish it but I'll wait and see.  I became entranced with Ned and Catelyn Stark and their Children Sansa, Robb, Bran, Arya, and Rickon.  Tyrion Lanister was easily the most interesting character I have encountered in a long time.  Cersei and Jaime Lanister were equally fascinating as was Brienne.  But Martin killed off Ned and Catelyn Stark and that was just the beginning.  By the time you get to Dances with Dragons Robb Stark is murdered, Arya has disappeared into some sort of religious order but her status is unresloved. Jon Snow has gone off fighting Zombies of all things and his story just gets duller and duller.  Bran seems to be headed into some sort of weird status as a "changling" or a tree -- undetermined.  Rickon Stark just vanishes from the story.  Tyrion's story just drags on and on with no resolution and his ultimate fate is not resolved.  Jaime seems on the cusp of redemption with Brienne but his story is left hanging and whether or not Brienne was killed is left open.  In short all of the characters who made the story interesting are either killed off or left hanging for what surely must be book 6.  To make matters worse books 4 and 5 could easily have been reduced to 300 pages each by simply dropping all of the tedious descriptions of clothes and food.  Plus more and more characters are introduced who lack any of the interest of the original characters.  I found myself skimming through whole pages of descriptions that did nothing for the story.  I started skipping all of Jon Snow's battle with the zombies as being simply too dumb to accept.  At that point I realized I was done and no longer cared about any of the characters.  A great start to a wonderful series but it deteriorates into a very poorly written soap opera about people I don't like and have  no interest  in.  It is a dull and tedious end to what could have been a great story.
4 Again a well written book by G. Martin but missing some of the characters that I have loved and find it hard to wait for the next book to find out
5 Book 5, A Dance with Dragons a Song of Ice and Fire by George RR Martin, continues the fascinating and well-written saga in the Game of Thrones series. It is quite a long book, but worth reading, so plan to spend some time getting deeper into the complex and sometimes perplexing series. Time yourself, it's hard to put down so remember to eat and sleep
5 Well he's back, and with the same flare that made Storm of Swords so gripping. Was it worth the wait?  Yes and no. I'm still mad about waiting over ten years for two books, one of which was not very good (the one before this), but this book is not like Feast of Crows, this is a return to the character depth, haunting scenes, internal struggles, and amazing world building imagination that made him so great in the first place. If it were a matter of having a half ass story and not having to weight so many years, or having this, I would go with this and accept the wait with ill mastered patience. But please, don't do that to us again George.
5 I was hooked from the start. This is one of the few books that can still let me escape from my modern day world.  I forget about time and everything going on around me when reading this.  I'm 2/3 of the way through the last book and am reading slower and slower.  I don't want it to end!
5 So... I was confused. I thought A Dance With Dragons was the last book in the series for... like... 90% of the book. So I spent most of this book royally pissed off that nothing was resolving the way I hoped it would. Then I read a blurb or review or something that said... 2 more to come.Yay!So, I guess what I mean to say is that this book was a fantastic chapter in the series, it just didn't resolve anything
5 This one was just as ingrossing as the past 4 and left me completely mad at the author over cliffhangers. Trying to wait patiently for "winds of winter" and "dream of spring" but unfortunately may not be out til 2014... sadness.
5 If you read the other books, you'll enjoy reading this one.  George doesn't disappoint with this return to Westeros and the lands beyond.
4 Readers who have invested their time in this story will like this addition to the saga.  I have enjoyed reading this tale.  Most of the characters are appealing and the authors descriptions of the landscapes and of the people and creatures that live there are vivid and engrossing.  The reason I gave the book only four stars is that for me, some passages that explain the history of individuals and places are excessively detailed and so long that I found myself skimming over long passages to get back to what I enjoy most, the interactions of the peoples with each other and with their environment.  It is a good read, and I would recommend it to friends.
5 The entire series of the Game of Thrones is great.  This book continues with the story and makes you want to read more.
4 I enjoyed Dance with Dragons. Martin struggled with his two previous books, but this one had some good character development, a lot of intrigue, and plenty of his trademark main-character deaths. This one still had some serious slow parts, but was thankfully better than others. Hopefully Martin can keep it moving from here to the end.
2 Loved the first 3 books, but NOTHING is happening in this series.  The last few books have been nothing but characters sailing or riding from one location to another.  That's it.  Not a single thing was resolved in this massive book.  Just a total story failure on every level.  Sucks.
5 Sure it may not be as exciting as the first three, but the book is still excellent and necessary to the proper continuation of the story.  I do not really know where all of the rage surrounding this and the fourth book come from, but I think a lot of it comes from the time that people have had to wait on them and the expectations that they built up.  Rather than getting any resolution, this book ultimately leaves you with more waiting.  I am fine with that, but I can see why others are not I guess.
2 800 pages of filler. How many times do I have to read the ritual for the Lord of Light? Lord of Light hear us. Lord of Light defend us, for the night is dark and full of terrors. We Thank you for the blah blah blah.... A good page for every time he copy/pastes this bullcrap. 800 pages of NOTHING. Then scrambling for the last 100 pages to give us cliffhangers to make us want to buy the next book for another 100 pages of plot advancement. I have to hand it to him, his greed is beyond limits. He will continue to strike while the iron is hot and take on 200 projects at a time and swear up and down he is "busy working out the mereneese knot". Oh speaking of, what the hell happened to that knot? It sure didnt get worked out. Its a freaking mess there. Daenarys was terrible. She went from one of my favorite characters to oh crap not another Daenarys chapter. So yeah all in all we were ripped. He absolutely knows what he is doing. I love how he put off the release until the HBO show finished with a few weeks inbetween for people to read books 1-4 and be ready to buy book 5. If you think that was coincidental you are an idiot. No way it took him 6 years to write this book. No way it took him 3 years to "unravel the knot". Last book I buy written by GRRM. I will wait for the series to be completed and buy them from a used bookstore. I will not contribute another penny to GRRMs greed.
1 This series started out wonderful, I loved the 1st two book and the 3rd was ok. This one and the 4th one were terrible. The problem is there are too many characters, too much unnecessary dialogue, and the biggest problem is the plot is moving too slow. At this rate the story wont be nearly finished in book 7. Maybe if books came out every year this wouldnt be a problem, but they only come out every 4 or 5 years. I am really mad bc this series was soo good at the beginning.
5 While long this edition was more informative and seemed to flesh out the characters better than the last 2. Quite a few eye-openers! Can't wait for the next.
4 While I disliked having to wait five years for A Dance with Dragons as much as anyone else, I wasn't too disappointed with the experience of reading it. In fact, I was thrilled just to be immersed in George R.R. Martin's gritty, living world again, and to revisit my favorite characters (Tyrion, Jon Snow, Daenyrs, and a few others) and locations. I couldn't put down the audiobook (well, the device containing it).In case you've been living under a rock for the past decade (or don't read much fantasy), I join the many readers who regard the first three books in The Song of Ice and Fire series as landmark works in modern fantasy, rivaling Tolkien in the sheer force of vision behind them. Of course, Martin doesn't *write* like Tolkien and the nature of his vision is very different. His world hearkens as much back to Robert E. Howard's Romantic Conan the Barbarian mythos, which never needed an explicit good versus evil struggle to define its characters. Martin's is a more grown-up version of that universe, recognizing that there's plenty of drama in humans as they really are, in the constant struggle between survival, pleasure, codes of honor, and realpolitik.The first three books were tough acts to follow, and Martin can be partially forgiven for falling a little short on books four and five. However, the chorus of frustration from fans isn't without merit. Martin kind of painted himself into a corner back in 2004, when he realized that the book he was writing had gotten too long. Rather than edit it down to a more manageable size, he split it in two. A Feast for Crows wound up being an immense novel of in which lots of hitherto minor characters got placed into new intrigues, along with some new characters. Was there was a larger purpose to these minor adventures? Or had the author just gotten swallowed in his own world, convinced that what the reader really wanted on this bus tour through Westeros was more stops, with no roadside stand or historic marker not worth a visit? (Hey, it worked for Patrick Rothfuss.)A Dance with Dragons doesn't really resolve those questions, but at least we get the major characters back, and the things eventually start to pick up steam and head somewhere. Tyrion hitchhikes his way east by a few less-than-ideal arrangements. Jon Snow tries to do his duty while dealing with the conflicting demands of an impatient king. And Theon Greyjoy makes a return, in *very* changed circumstances. As always, the "living, breathing" world remains brilliantly vibrant and alive, its drama infecting everything that happens in the foreground. For example, there's one sequence in which soldiers are sent on a dreadfully misplanned winter mission, not unlike Napoleon's troops in Russia. While this sequence could have been shorter, the details of cold, starving, weary men were so vivid, I didn't really care -- I was just along for the ride. And the chapters with Daenrys in Myreen illustrate the difficulties of ruling a "liberated" land in a way that seems not unfamiliar (apparently Martin turned on the news during the past five years). By the time the dragons in the story finally come into their own, we're feeling as ready for it as she is. Too bad so much ends on cliffhangers -- hopefully it will take only three years before we find out what happens.I agree with a few other reader complaints. Martin has slipped into the bad habit of repeating catchphrases ("words are wind", "my name is Reek...") and important pieces of information multiple times, from multiple angles, rather than trusting readers to see the connections themselves. The new characters he introduces aren't terribly interesting, and there's little tension (for now) over the possibility that our old favorites will die, as they have in the past. I wouldn't have minded a little more exploration of strange and wondrous things (e.g. the ruins of Valyria). Finally, while I think that the level of violence and cruelty in Martin's world has been necessary in shaping his characters, there are places in this novel where it borders, unsettlingly, on gratuity.On the audiobook experience, I had very mixed feelings. Overall, Roy Dotrice's grandfatherly tones are a great fit for Martin's writing, but, to my ears, he gets some voices horribly wrong. Young women sound like old hags or Monty Python members in drag. Too many knights sound like Long John Silver, and Tyrion could be a leprechaun. For the first hours, I was tempted to give up and get the print edition, but, luckily, my ears adapted. In general, I'm pretty tolerant of less-than-perfect readers for audiobooks -- your mileage may vary.Yet, all that said, I remained hooked on the series, and even a flawed entry is one I can't put down. Martin has tested us with two long novels of buildup, buildup, and more buildup, but I remain hopeful that the tour bus will be getting back on the highway and heading towards the big destinations that his fans signed on for.***1/2
5 I feel like a heroin addict who has just gone cold turkey.  This book was soooo much beter than the 4th if you are asking that silly question, and yes I am shaking from withdrawal.Buy this book, give GRRM all of your money!
1 The first chapter of A Game of Thrones involved The Other's attacking and killing a group of men from the Night's Watch. After reading that introductory chapter is there anyone who would have wagered that five books later The Others would have barely appeared again and done very little when they did?This is an example of the issues with Martin's story over the last two books. New stories are being added to the narrative and the story from the first few books is is moving at a glacial pace. A story that started with 7 or 8 main characters has expanded to over 25 and the series is suffering as a result.There are long stretches in this book where nothing happens. It's  adreadfully slow read and does not match the excitement and thrills of the first three books in the series.
2 Okay. I'm done.No more Song of Ice and Fire books for me. After trying to follow the characters that I was supposed to remember from volumes #1 through #4, and doing a fair job of it while studying blow-ups of the tiny maps at the front of the book, I decided the effort wasn't worth it. Yes, I still care whether or not Arya regains her sight, Jon succeeds in defending the broken kingdoms from the evils descending upon them from beyond the wall, Tyrion finds his true love, Caytlin is reunited with her children, the direwolfs find their masters, Bran reaches his goal, and Daenerys finally rides a dragon. But honestly, the bloated writing and over-the-top cruelty and violence do not compel me to continue reading anymore.Someone, please give me a summary of what happens at the end of Volume #6 or #7 or #8, or whichever one is the end, and I'll be happy.
5 The books are even more entertaining than the HBO TV show--if you haven't read them yet, now's the time! Let's hope GRRM is able to keep churning out the next two books of the series!
2 I just finished book five....it was an epic read, I mean that I made it through. (There are no plot spoilers here.) I'm a big fan of Tolkien, Lewis, Herbert, even Rowling and I was excited to find another author who wrote the BIG fantasy stories.....but I found that unlike those mentioned, there was no nobleness or goodness in any of the characters - unless they were to be killed off or physically maimed in some horrible way. By the end of the book I really didn't care what happened to any of those who are ...still alive or may be alive or at least are not dead.... the plot was so twisted it was difficult to know. I actually had thought of starting a "family tree" project to keep track of the characters...... but this is only a book and I'm not planning on spending any more time with them or on future offerings. I am sorry this was not the next BIG fantasy writer I have been looking for.....guess I'll go back to the above mentioned authors and enjoy a read that makes me appreciate the goodness of their humanity.
5 This being book 5 of the series it catches you up with the main characters who weren't heard from much in book 4. I could hardly put it down as the story is so surprising that you just never know what will happen next. I am anxiously awaiting book six. I don't want this series to end!
2 I don't believe I waded through all that gore & guts to be left with no resolution. I 'm not sure I'll bother with next one, there aren't that many characters left that I care about!
4 I have read all five books - enjoyed them all - am just so frustrated that book six won't be out for almost two years - that was a major disappointment....Am feeling a bit manipulated by George Martin - is he EVER going to finish this series and tie up all the story lines?
5 LOTS OF SPOILERS - warning!!!Best Sci-Fi TVI am currently dipping in and out of this book as I watch the new TV series.There are two great features of GOT, one each character has their own chapter, and 2) you are therefore follow individual story lines without reference to the rest of the book.While in the first book there was a lot of cross overs between the stories, now in book five,a whole bunch of characters are on very separate quests.This sunny Sunday it occured to me that this tome 5 was a bleak and depressing read.1) Daenerys is stuck with her 'rabbit ears', lots of political compromise and general married life misery2) Cersei and Marguery are both locked up awaiting trial, the first quite rightly the second more problematically3) Jaime wanders around the country breaking sieges, with compromises and promises4) Arya is off in Bravos - doing what - we're not sure, and its not relevant5) Bran is off North of the wall - doing what - we're not sure - and again the relevance is lost on me6) Jon Snow is having a miserable time dealing with a bunch of convicts sent north from Kinglanding, who seem set of having their own mini war within the wall7) Theon - & the Boltons Ramsey and Romsey - lets not even go there.Best Sci-Fi BookThe point of GOT if there was ever a point is that surely the Starks, and there were six children. One has to survive, win back and succeed as the new king - surely that has got to be the main point of this story.At the end of this book it feels like all the Starks are irrelevant or about to die?Which makes me think, why bother with book 8?Note to author, please can we have a happy ending, or something for the Starks?
3 WARNING, this review will be semi-spoiler-y!Anywho, first reaction: WHY THE HELL WAS THIS BOOK SO LONG?I had the feeling that this one would be packed with action, unlike its predecessor, the rambling and boring A Feast for Crows. It came on the heels of A Storm of Swords, easily my favorite book in the series, but I was not prepared for its length, where absolutely nothing happens. I expected more from ADwD, especially since it took so long to write. But nope. In the vein of AFfC, it was all set-up. Which is fine, but someone needs to get GRRM a better editor, because we do not need nearly 2,000 pages of set-up. I understand it's an epic story. But really, GRRM, you're just drowning yourself and your readers.Second of all, I have a problem with all of the cliffhangers. I feel like cliffhangers that resolve NOTHING are super cheap to the reader, because we have to wait such a long time to find out what happens. It's like in TV shows where the MC dies at the end of the season and you have to wait months to find out, oh, they weren't really dead. It's cheap. A good cliffhanger should resolve most of the plot while still leaving some juicy threads. GRRM's cliffhangers are all threads. Nothing was resolved. Dany continued to be annoying in Mereen, where she hooked up with Daario only AFTER getting engaged. Jon became a good leader but then was 'killed' at the end. (Quotations because I know he is not dead. I hate that GRRM brings so many people back from the dead. I thought that, after Ned and Robb, we knew people could die. But now they either don't die or are resurrected. It's annoying.) Tyrion's chapters at least contained some character development. There were only two Arya chapters, only ONE Jaime chapter in which he was kidnapped by an obviously-alive Brienne, and a small number of Bran chapters. For so many pages, we could've gotten more of their stories and he could've cut out some of the food description.The only thing that I really loved about this book was Theon's character arc. I HATED Theon in ACoK, but I felt so bad for him as Reek and I was immensely satisfied at his final words in ADwD. Say what I will about GRRM, but he is awesome at characterization. He made me love Jaime and he made me love Theon.If only because this is an ASOIAF book, I'll give it:
4 The book is very long and even as an ardent and enthusiastic reader, it got a bit much for me at times with many characters and plots. The fact that he is constantly killing off characters makes it hard to get invested and is always involving more plots and more people makes it a loooot of information to try to keep in mind at any one time. I found the X-Ray function on my Kindle invaluable in this regard, as it will quickly help you remember who is who. Another frustrating thing is that he sometimes uses pseudonyms which adds to the general complexity and chaos of the book. The series is excellent, shockingly real and brutal and I would recommend it. But come prepared for a lot of information and for the fact that you will almost certainly lose track of what is happening and be left unsatisfied with cliffhangers at regular intervals.
2 The first three books were great.  The fourth  one was lacking and I had hoped that this fifth one would redeem the fourth book by being as good as the first three- it did not.Describing things, places, men that have been described by the author before a hundred times- gets old.  The descriptions take me nowhere that I haven't already been or want to go.  Entire chapters about people that I don't care about, or that I didn't come to like as well as the characters who've been conveniently killed so things will become a little more simple, these chapters pretty much are worth skipping or browsing- looking for quotation marks and key words that may have something to do with someone who is interesting.Anyway, if there are going to be seven of these books, I guess that I can wait five years for the next one and I'll probably buy it and read it.  I read that Robert Jordan series and that was trying.  There's always Moby Dick, I haven't read that in a while.
4 The only reason I didn't give this 5 is because now I have to wait till Mr Martin finishes books 6-infinity. My husband teases that I might need an intervention.  Martin has made the characters so multi-dimensional, that it is impossible to completely hate any of them with the possible exception of Joffrey. OK, I hate Cersei Lannister as well.
4 Read all others in hard copy but this one I used the cloud to download it. The only problem with reading in on a tablet is that when I want to see a map of where the people in the book are I can't easily access it (or haven't figured out how to yet). Same with the end of the book where they give all the houses and who belongs to each. Cannot access this either. Had to go to Amazon today and had to &#34;Look Inside&#34; at the first few pages of the book so I knew what was where. Normally having to flip to the beginning or end of a book is not a problem but with this story not being able to flip back and forth is an issue.
4 I read a lot of negative reviews and was expecting an aimless book of recipes. The author has evolved. Good or bad he is not the same scribe who penned the first book. I enjoyed reading book 5.  His hallmarks of character development, murder and deviant cruelty are in place. If you want the dynamics of book 3 read said book. Book 5 leaves the reader hoping for book 6.
3 GRRR Martin has created a complex, rich, textured world that shows great insight into the personal, social, political, military, economic, and sexual forces that must have shaped the evolution of Europe in the middle ages.  On top of that, he's incorporated some pretty colorful dragons and zombies.  (I keep waiting for him to role out some Vampires).He creates compelling believable characters and riveting stories.  His prose is venerable and the books have been made into one of the best television series I have ever seen.  This world and its people are created in exquisite detail, which is part of why the story is so rich and realistic.That said, I have two issues with his pentad:  at times, it reads far too slowly to keep my interest, and there are too many characters and subplots for anyone save an idiot savant to remember, so that he must resort to complex appendices to help the reader sort through it.  I'm happy to slog my way through the details of European history, but i don't wish to work that hard for Westerosian fantasy.The fourth book left several characters we have grown to care about in the midst of unresolved conflict:  Jon Snow, Bran, Tyrion, Sansa, Jaime, Arya and Daenys.  Hopefully, the histories will be resolved and unified in the fifth book.That was compelling reason enough to read it, but now one is faced with at least 10 more characters and their various tangential tribulations.  I think this is a flaw in plotting.  It reminds me of the TV series "Lost," which similarly LOST me in its extraordinary, myriad convolutions.
5 Loved it!! Can't wait for the next one!!!!! I hope it's not too long before the next one comes out.
2 After waiting five years for this opus, I was terribly disappointed.  The story did not move along. More characters and new plot lines were added.  Nothing was resolved.
5 When I watched the television show it didn't catch my interest. My son kept telling me to read the books. I did and I got hooked. Great characters with so many story lines. Now I want to watch the shows. Can't wait for Winter book.
5 The book was good, but you are really left with the feeling there is more to come, not sure when that will be but anytime will be most welcome :-)
3 I read the first four books and while I thought it was very well written I got really tired of all the "good" characters getting killed off. I mean 1 or 2 should be smart enough or lucky enough to survive too the next book. Nez pas?
3 Story moves at a very slow pace in book 5. very few significant events take place during the book. Sansa POV was totally absent, and that was a bit disappointing. Expected to see more of Bran and Arya as they are two of the most promising characters. Dany, who is normally a good POV, was kind of wasted this time, with same old thoughts and babbles.However, really loved Jon Snow in the book. Cant wait to see next few POVs of him.
4 I enjoyed this one!  Compelling viewpoint characters returned, and the new characters were also well done.  There was refreshingly little Cersei."Dance with Dragons" came through with what it promised:  the interesting parts of the story omitted in "Feast for Crows."
4 unlike many of my friends, who told me this book was awful and they only skimmed it (really?  what's the point?) I enjoyed this and the previous installment of the series.  There are a lot of characters in the story overall and I appreciate that Martin tries to give them all time.  I also appreciate that the super-gory is left out for the most part.  I don't need to read battle scene after battle scene, but I enjoy the backstory and motivations of the characters.  I can't wait for the next one to be finished so I can find out what happens.
3 (Spoilers ahead) For me the first two books were filled with exciting events, and the whole narration featured many enjoyable characters interacting with each other, i.e. Robert and Cersei, Lord Baelish and Ned, Tyrion and Jon, Arya and Syrio. Also, it was easy to grasp the geography of the story. In the latest 2 books, exciting and history-making events are few and far between. As far as I can tell, only 4 truly important events took place in books 4 and 5: Cersei destabilizing King's Landing and allowing the priests to rise to power; Jon letting the wildlings through the wall; Dany marrying that guy and disappearing on a dragon; and Aegon beginning his conquest of Westeros. Since the Brienne, Stannis, Jamie, Tyrion, Bran, Arya, Selyse, Melisandra, and Greyjoy narratives haven't really gone anywhere yet, I don't count them. I kind of feel like we're reading Martin's notes instead of the grand narrative as it should be.Meanwhile, most of the interesting characters are separated from each other and paired with a host of less enjoyable or ephemeral characters. Particularly annoying was all the time wasted on Quentyn Martell, who we met for the first time in this book; he did basically nothing of note for 100 pages and then he died. Furthermore, he and his companions were not in the least entertaining to read about.And the disjointed maps make it difficult for me to figure out where one place is in relation to all the other places. Mr. Martin, please finish your map of Essos! And then please make a single map of the whole region!I am sad to admit that while reading books 4 and 5 I continuously consoled myself that HBO, if it ever got around to these books, would surely edit the narration down into a polished, elegant series. They'll probably add more sex, though.
3 I enjoyed this book immensely. Martin has a very descriptive way of writing, which is both a gift and a curse. I love losing myself in the pages, it is easy to do. However, there are just waaay too many characters. I care for the core characters from the first book and not necessarily the minutiae of every scribe/knight/family member of said core. I will read the next book, then reread all of them, as I am hooked.
4 The story slows down alot from the first few books but still a great story and a great read. I love the character development it seems like everyone is taking a rest to figure out what they want to do rather than the normal fast paced action of the earlier books.
1 You are not William Faulkner.  You're not even Cormac McCarthy. You're a fine writer of soap opera scripts, which is perhaps why you have NO idea how to wrap this up and end it effectively.  Like Stephen King you started with some fine creativity, and when you became famous you began to think you were smarter than your editor.  You are wrong. Get some help.  You are just irritating most of your readers at this point.
2 Beware, slight spoilers and slightly more ranting to follow.While absence may have made the hearts of some readers grow fonder, it certainly hasn't for me. A Dance with Dragons suffers from many of the same things as its predecessor, A Feast for Crows. For one, the length. Don't get me wrong. I'm not a lazy reader by any means. A thousand pages is not a daunting thing for me to read, especially if I enjoy the story. But there are just too many words! Martin really needs to learn to get to the point.For example, I could care less about the extensive feast descriptions that pop up, it seems, once per chapter. See, Mr. Martin, I can do it too:"The table was covered end to end with dishes overflowing: lamprey pies slowly congealing in the tepid air, tender roast mutton whose meat looked like to drip off the bone, tail of dog soup, caramelized cranberry steak tartar, blood pudding served with steaming buttered loaves of sour dough bread, Dornish wine glittering in crystal decanters, broiled pig stuffed with dates and walnuts, food, more food, some more of that food we were talking about, did I already mention food? Well here's some more, let me describe it to you in exhaustive detail if you don't believe me..."And five years later we get back to the story, but I've already forgotten what we were talking about. And now I'm hungry. Awesome. I felt like I was reading a medieval Martha Stewart cookbook. I'm sure some would call this overabundance of description "details," but I think it is unnecessary and something that hinders the progression of the plot. If you say that they're having a feast or dinner or whatever, Mr. Martin, I believe you. I promise! Now please use that page space for furthering the plot instead.I don't have all negative things to say about ADwD. I do love the POV characters. Well, okay. Most of them, the ones that actually add to the story. But those one-off, fringe characters that easily could have been shafted from the final draft? Those characters get on my nerves. Why waste a chapter on The Iron Suitor when I could read more of Arya, or Jaime? The POV characters who got significant face time in this book were, thankfully, very interesting, although Tyrion is starting to wear out his welcome. I've always been fond of Bran as a character, so I really looked forward to reading his share of the chapters. I liked that Theon had his chance to shine, and I do love reading about the Wall and the North through Jon's POV.Here's my main problem with the series however. No amount of clever wording, surprisingly exciting (but few and far between) chapter installments, or intriguing character development can mask the fact that not a lot has happened over the course of these five books. I feel like I'm watching one of those television shows where each week they have some exciting, self-contained little adventure that adds absolutely nothing to the overarching plot.Argue with me all you want to the contrary, I'm sticking with that assessment. I've been so blinded by the idea of this being an epic fantasy book series that I've ignored the fact that there has been very little follow-through in that regard. This series has been overhyped. There, I said it. It's still a tremendous body of work, sure, but if Mr. Martin churns out hundreds of pages per installment and can only move the plot along at a snaillike pace, maybe I'm not getting enough bang for my buck, and that disappoints me. I want this story to be worthwhile.And I want to see how this all ends. I do. But it's going to be a wearisome struggle to get there. Is it really worth it?
4 There is a terrific novel in here but like the last few books it is buried and strangled with the glacial pace and extraneous bits that clutter it up. Also like the last books there is no attempt to have a book that stands on it's own with a beginning, a middle and an end. We are left abruptly with no resolution to the story or most of the characters.Given the amazing breadth of plot and deep character development and the fabulous and richly fleshed out world that has been developed maybe I am being too picky? But I feel as if some talented editor could go through and help make this much tighter and faster moving book. But while I am gripping about the pacing and lack of resolution there can be no question about the brilliance of the author's creation. I am speechless with admiration about his willingness to brutally eliminate favorite characters in keeping with the nature of the world he has created which has allowed this series to avoid the boring predictability and tiredness that so many series fall into as the same lead characters have the same kinds of adventures over and over.I may be complaining but I am still hooked and at this point I am thinking we may never get typical book style character resolution. After all in real life there are no nice tidy resolutions and these characters and this world is more like looking down on what is happening in another world than reading a story
4 I waited a long time for this book to come out in paperback as I had the previous 4 books in Paperback.  I'm liking the story well enough but was disappointed to find flaws in the printing.....complete blanking out of the words on a couple of pages.  I was able to figure some out but didn't expect this.
5 George Martins series are outstanding.  Could not put the book down.  I can't wait for his next installment.  The Game of Thrones series is even better when you read the books along with the HBO dvds.
3 Martin continues the saga with more characters, more places, more deaths, more disappearances and more people seemingly resurrected from what appeared to be certain death.  We still don't know for sure where he intends to take us in the end, or who will be alive to welcome us there.  Very frustrating.
2 same as what everybody else said.  this story would have made a great 5-book series, but at this point he's just stringing us along for no good reason.  there's an art to writing an epic series like this, and part of that is making each book feel both self-contained and part of a whole at the same time.  this one feels more like a place-holder.  it's a shame that there are so many plot lines here, and that, rather than move any particular character one foot forward, he instead moves a dozen different characters forward an inch.
5 Can't wait until the next book. So much is happening and converging together in this world and so many unanswered questions.
5 I love this series of books. I do lose track of the characters at times since the book skips around a lot. Book 4 left two big cliff hangers and I couldn't wait to dive into Book 5.  The hard covers are huge and pretty heavy so I was glad to get them on Kindle. I bought the whole series now because I need to go back and re-read all the books. I wish sixth book was published because I just finished 5.
1 I wish I could say it took me two weeks to finish this book because I was savoring it.  After all I had been so excited that I pre-ordered this book the first day I could.  Heck, I almost ordered it via the UK Amazon just so I could get it sooner, but after the bad taste "A Feast..." left in my mouth I wasn't quite willing to shell out the big bucks that would have required.I was giddy with anticipation, and having been reminded how good the series is by HBO, I felt like a kid at Christmas when the UPS man dropped off my copy of "A Dance..."Two weeks and a thousand pages later, George RR Martin has lost me as a reader.  Never mind the five years, the nine other books he published or edited between "A Feast..." and "A Dance...", or the slow paced unsatisfying novel that "A Feast..." was.  It would have been worth it had this book delivered.  I would have gladly gone back to being the GRRM fanboy I was, preaching the wonders that is his Song of Ice and Fire, but no.  I can't.Much has already been said about how long the book is.  Its long and you feel every page.  The words crawl by, the plot and stories advance sluggishly at best, and new characters are introduced to replace characters that have been killed off, brought back, and killed off again.  The existing characters, exist only as a backdrop to the history and turtles that GRRM wants to talk about.  Only rather than telling those stories, through characters, plot lines, and differing points of view, he reduces characters, such as Tyrion, to disinterested third party narrators.Gone is the suspense, missing is the magic, and lost is the laser like focus of the first three books.  It should say a lot that the most interesting plots in "A Dance..." seem almost tacked on, after thoughts to the story GRRM wanted to tell.  Though rougher, and less polished than the main storylines in the novel, these "other" stories show flashes of brilliance and a return to storytelling that made GRRM great in the first place.  Sadly though, these stories are few and separated by hundreds of pages, and dozens of chapters about nothing.More tragically its seems that GRRM has found his "Wesley Crusher", something he had managed to avoid doing (or at least managed to avoid being eye stabbingly obvious) about in his prior books.  This is perhaps the biggest disappointment for me, authors need to keep themselves and their Mary Sue's out of their books.One last note and only because I haven't seen it mentioned in the other reviews.  GRRM interjected quite a bit of his personal views and politics in both "A Feast..." and "A Dance...".  There is nothing wrong with this as such, most authors do this, without even realizing it.  They project their world view upon a fictional world of their own making and its impossible for it not to happen.  "A Dance..." very much became a heavy handed and preachy vehicle for his politics.
4 Another star lost for excessive details. I feel like at some point I should really cut Martin a break, but then again I think about how I put over forty hours into finishing this book and I completely change my mind. Story telling shouldn't move at a snail's pace more than half the time. So here is the breakdown of events in this book. People get killed again for unfounded reasons, and others most likely at the end of the book will seem to be killed, but events in the next book will explain how that at the last second they were spared.I almost feel like Maritn does not know where to go with the story, so he just creates some other conspiracy out of the blue to distract the reader for another four hundred pages. So if you are reading this review, I take it most likely you are where I am with your reading of this compendium, and there are things that just as I said don't make sense. Some things happen and you just have to wonder why Martin would make the characters act a certain way, for example:Where we left off with Forest Gump, errr......I mean Samwell Tarley (this was in A Feast for Crows): for some inexplicable reason before he left on a mission to Bravos he never told Jon Snow that his brothers were alive and well. Promise or no promise to Bran, if you had a best friend and had knowledge that his younger half-brothers were alive, wouldn't you just tell him, "Hey, don't tell anyone else, but your brothers are totally not dead." As Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, I think Jon could be trusted to keep mum.Anyway, I don't want to get in a lengthy spiel again about how the details are out of control again, so I cut straight into my own theories about what will possibly happen instead:Theory I - There are to be three Dragon Riders that constantly get mentioned. We have Dany, and her cousin who had been thought to have been killed when he was a baby. (Aegon), so that leaves one more needed Rider (Unless people or Dany just kills her dragon Drogon. Which I think she should do. I mean this dragon was killing kids and eating them. When a pet goes wild, you have to put it down. I mean look what they did to Lady, and Nimeria was the one that attacked Joeffrey.)  So anyway, I think that Jon Snow is really a Targaryen. I think his father was Rhagar, and Eddard  promised his sister on her death bed that he would tell no one, because he knew that Robert Baratheon would kill the child if he found out, so he hid the child the only way he could, by admitting that he had a marital indiscretion.Theory II - In the end Tyrion will rule the Seven Kingdoms. I like this one, just because it has a Lord of the Rings feel to it. Kinda like, no matter how small, even a dwarf can do amazing things and save the world.Theory III - Eddard Stark is a green-seer and has really been alive this whole time, and he wakes up in a pool of sweat and it's all been a premonition dream, and as he wipes his brow dry he says, "Winter is coming." - close curtain.
1 I hate these books as much as I love them.  They go on and on and say nothing  An interesting, well loved character to me equals great reading, a character I don't like means pushing my way through many tedious pages of boredom.  Martin is an OK writer but if he was a good writer the books could be half as long and say much more.  I don't understand why people think these books are great as they are simply tedious and at times very boring.  Don't waste your time trying to read this sluggish mess of words
5 What an amazing book. You cannot assume to know what's to happen next. You are always left guessing. Magic stuff!
5 Martin is able to bring alot ( and kill off a lot ) of characters to life through his writings. He better write book 6 soon.
2 I am a very long time fan of Mr. Martin.  I still hold up the first 3 books of this series as the greatest fiction I have ever read.  Perhaps that is why the last 2 books have hurt so much.  The first three books were gripping, fun, suspenseful, shocking, inspiring and on and on.  This book just has none of that.  It has taken characters we have grown to love and watered them down and made them very dull and, in some cases, very dumb.  By the end of the book it seems the characters and the story is almost no further ahead than at the end of book 3.  Will I read the next book?  Yeah...probably...if for no other reason than I still have hopes that Mr. Martin can resurrect the drama of the first three.
5 Let's get the main criticism out of the way - yes, yes, "A Dance With Dragons" in many respects is far too long and far too slow.  This book is not nearly as taut as George R. R. Martin's magnificent "A Game of Thrones," but instead is eerily reminiscent of the half-baked-yet-1200-pages-long draft that Michael Douglas is working on at the beginning of "Wonder Boys."  I often felt like his insightful student who reluctantly tells Douglas, "Sure, it's beautifully written, but it's like you didn't have the courage to make any choices."But here's the thing.  Now that he's into the fifth book of "A Song of Ice and Fire," Martin has realized that he's created a unique, fully realized world that has a dizzying cast of characters.  Unlike Tolkien (the inevitable comparison once again rears its ugly head), Martin has decided to put everything into this series - he's not going to finish these seven books and then unleash a Silmarillion-like collection of back stories and supporting myths.  He's created this world, by gum, and he's going to let us wallow in its glorious, bloody miseries and triumphs.And wallow we do.  The first two thirds of the book bring back some favorite characters who were frustratingly absent from Book 4, "A Feast For Crows."  Tyrion Lannister flees to the East after murdering his father at the end of Book 3, "A Storm of Swords."  Ever the plotter, Tyrion aims to join forces with Daenerys Targaryen, the dragon queen whose dreams of reconquering Westeros are thwarted by the troubles she's made for herself in Meereen after freeing the slaves.  Daenerys must also confront the harsh fact that her beloved three dragons are not responding well to city life.  Daenerys faces innumerable political challenges in a world where political issues are often solved with blood or poison.  Jon Snow still commands the Watch at the Wall, but faces his own mess of devil's choices.  Bran Stark continues his journey toward becoming a mystical seer.  Theon Greyjoy endures the harshest of tortures at the hands of Ramsay Bolton but at Winterfell must maintain an obvious lie for political purposes.  Arya Stark stays on the path to assassinhood in Braavos . . . and on and on.  The last third of the novel reconnects with the action in the South as we get brief glimpes through the eyes of Jaime, Cersei, and Kevan Lannister and a few others.At the end of the novel, "A Song of Ice and Fire" is teed up for some mighty clashes and high-stakes political wheeling and dealing.  Could Martin have written a much shorter book to get to the same point?  Of course he could have.  But the point is, "A Song of Ice and Fire" is an epic story, perhaps the most epic in the history of high fantasy.  He is not writing books that can be easily enjoyed on an airplane flight and then discarded.  These are books that are meant to be savoured and devoured.  My perfect "ASOIAF" reading experience would most likely involve a quiet room with massive maps on my walls and a character compendium at my side so I could refresh my recollection as to just who the heck the Martells are, or the role of the Sand Snakes, and why the Boltons and Tullys matter.  I haven't forgotten these details because these folks aren't interesting - it's just they've been off-stage for too long.  For me, that's a strength of Martin's books, not a weakness.Eventually, this epic will be so vast that anyone who can keep it all straight should receive an honorary PhD.  We need more series like this, but I fear that Martin's creation is a once-in-a-generation affair.
3 I enjoyed Dance. I suppose the story didn't move as far as I would have liked but it was expected following A Feast for Crows.I enjoyed all the POV's, excluding the Frog Prince.I think all George's chess pieces are aliened to bring 2 powerful and re-readable installments to the Song of Ice and Fire series now that the last 2 are out of the way.I love the series and this book did not hinder that!
5 I was entertained.  I would give 4.5 stars if possible.  It was not as thrilling as the first three but for someone following the series, I think there was a lot of development and character building. While I would not be so willing to kill off a character unless it really serves the plot line, I will just enjoy Martin's writing, without questioning his motives.  After all, the story is not done yet and who but the author knows how one event may have a pivotal significance on the next part of the story.  Some of the "surprises" didn't shock me, but seemed a bit out of place or timed a bit peculiarly. In consideration of the enormous size of the book, I'm talking about a couple of minutes worth of events out of a very long story.  I think the moments that felt like: "huh, did that really just happen?" left me just a tiny bit irritated with the events rather than shocked at certain deaths. I am hoping that the deaths enhance the story somehow.  Also there was no suspenseful build up before these certain events happened, and that is why they may have seemed out of place.  They were abrupt, and one, or two of them seemed a bit pointless, or perhaps destructive to future components of the story. Other than those things, the book was an amazing piece of narration and story-telling, which I found highly entertaining. I find the three star reviews a bit silly, since they were probably based mostly on angry responses to a few events towards the end of the book (the ones that I just mentioned, but took with a grain of salt.  Since I have no intention of writing any other spoilers, that's it for my review. It was a good continuation to the story, well narrated in the audio version, and excellent for a long daily commute.
4 This book is a continuation of the previous and just doesn't end!  Rather disappointing, but always room for more to follow!
3 Please tell me this not the end.  I believe I need more. There are too many loose ends. The Dragon's need to come back.
4 Enjoyable as always.  People craving resolution will be disappointed, though; there are few answers here, and many more questions.  Essential to those following the series, but I wouldn't recommend it if you haven't read the preceding books.
3 I do love A Song of Ice and Fire, but I can't help but feel like George RR is pulling us around at this point! Ultimately I just have a love/hate relationship with the books, but lean more toward love.
4 The series is still so good...when does book 6 come out?????  Like all the rest, the most ridiculous stuff happens in the last 200 pages.
3 This book was better than than a feast for crows but still no where near the caliber of the first 3. It seems the plot will become much more interesting in the coming books but it could be years before we get those.
1 The first three were somewhat tiresome but worth reading for the verisimilitude and feel of being there and involved in the plot and the ACTION. I should have known with volume four to quit while I was (barely) ahead. Now, no action except when the author thinks he has just about put you to sleep. The dwarf's humor has even grown trite and banal. Now there are only words, and words, and words, and even more words, put together in no particularly pleasing order. When he killed off yet another Stark (Snow) in a matter of half a page to no good purpose, I almost threw the book at the wall. You sold us out Mr. Martin; most sagas are supposed to have an aim and an end. You are NOT a Tolkien. You have made your pile of money now please go enjoy it somewhere rather than destroy your reputation and our reading pleasure further. Shame, shame, shame!Seth Aragon
5 such a good read, Martin continues his tale and there are many wonderful parts that happen and he leaves you on so many cliff hangers you'll be anxious for him to release the 6th book.
1 I will not suffer the &#34;Jordan Syndrom&#34; twice in my life!  I will watch the show on HBO for the next 20 years to see how this ends.
1 No soft cover book available, maybe someday the book industry will care about fans of books and actually release the softcover at initial release so people that do not like hard cover can actually share in the story..
4 If you're a fan of GRRM and the Song of Ice and Fire series, this book will not disappoint.  Is it slow (as reviewers prior to me have stated)?  Yes, at times.  Does it focus on several characters for most of the book?  Yes, it does.  I believe GRRM knows where he's going, and the reduction in characters and narrowing of focus is on purpose.  Things are starting to come together, plot-wise.  This book reminded me of how Sanderson brought focus to the Wheel of Time series after it slowed down and the plot became too multi-threaded.  If you think you knew Tyrion and Danaerys and Jon before this book, well... you will get to know them even better.  To sum it up, I enjoyed the book very much.  It's not as fast-paced as previous installments and there aren't as many "momentous" events in the book but true fans of the series will think the investment well worth your time and $.
5 Boy, I can't believe all the complaining about the unresolved issues in this book. We all knew it wasn't going to be the last in the series. Middle books are just that-- the middle of the story. I don't think Martin has ever flogged his stuff as stand-alone. Look at all the unresolved issues at the end of The Two Towers. Anyhow, I, for one, am very grateful for 1,000 pages of high entertainment. Will we have to wait 7 years for the next one? Who knows-- who cares? There are a lot of other great books out there to read in the meantime.I think this book was just as good as any of the first 4. That said, I kind of knew what to expect this time, which wasn't the case when I was wowed by the Red Wedding or Ned's beheading in the first book. Let's face it, we've all begun to expect something shocking and new from Martin. Well, his prior stuff has really run the gamut and it just isn't as easy to be shocked by character deaths after a certain point. Which doesn't make them any less interesting to me.There are too many story threads for the reader to experience for me to summarize them and who wants to read my summary, anyhow. Suffice it to say that the writing is just as top drawer and the characters and the dialogue and.. and.... Well, it's a great book. I look forward to the next one, whenever it comes.
2 Right out of the gate let me say that I hated, hated, hated book 4 (AFFC), but respected the author's work enough to give it three stars, plus, the fact that I hated it because of its left turn away from characters I cared about is telling - I still care, I guess. So while I guess I hate this one less because we've turned back again, it gets 2 stars, because honestly, while I still respect GRRM's way with words I am utterly disillusioned with his ability to control them in creating context any longer.Let's just cut to the chase, GRRM didn't "have to" create two books out of one, what he "had to" do was let his editing staff cut out the trenchers of filler and get back to the meat of a very, very good story.  Alas, words aren't just wind, they're also cold, hard cash.But GRRM expecting us to buy that these two books just "had" to be published separately is somewhat of an insult to the intelligence of his readership.
3 I am in book 4 of the series and I am disappointed. The first time the author killed of a character I had come to love, I was in shock.  Okay, I recovered and kept reading. The next time the author killed off a leading character I was disappointed but accepted it as central to the story.  But now I am tired of what I consider a needless massacre of pertinent people central to the story line. I could not put book one down. I was excited to get into book two. By book three my interest was slowing down and here I am in book four and I have not picked it up in three days. I think the author overreached. This story has hundreds of characters and while having them listed in the back of the book has helped, still, it's overwhelming.  And why is there no mention on any of the maps as to where the Narrow Sea is located? I am disappointed overall. I don't even know if I am going to purchase book five. Something has to happen in book four to capture me before I buy any more of the story.
4 back on track and really enjoyed the development of the stories.  was more than a bit gutted by the ending though :-(
5 This series is an amazing swim in the deep end of the ocean where the big boys play. This plot has so many levels that I have no idea what will really happen next! Every time I think I know whats happening and going to happen.... I find I am WRONG! I LOVE IT! I need more! This writing is crack for readers!
5 I love this series. Book three was my favorite, so far. The author chose to split the last installment into two books ,taking certain characters to a particular point in book four and the remaining characters to the same point and then a little further in book five. Consequently there was an overlap in book five where the storyline included events that we had already experienced in book four. I felt it was a detriment to the story line, but it eventually worked out and despite that I thoroughly enjoyed the ride. The characters are incredible and no one is safe!! I can't wait til book six arrives. I hope Mr. Martin is working diligently.
2 Regardless of whether the narrative is enjoyable, the accompanying maps are totally illegible in Kindle - too small, light and blurry. Especially since much of the action takes place in the East, a lack of a good map is a serious handicap.
3 There's too much exposition and too many newly introduced characters in books 4 and 5, at least for my taste.  Also, too many long, boring passages that may go somewhere sometime but take too long to do so.  I'm not even a third of the way through and have already moved on to another, unrelated book.  I'll return to Dragons, but am not sure when.  Someone said it gets better near the end, but oh, the tedium to get there!
5 The complexity of the story lines continue to grow. An ever expanding cast of characters who move through a complex world. Rich in detail and full of the most amazing twists and turns.
5 I completely enjoyed this newest book by George Martin.  It was a total page turner and I was sad when it ended.
3 I'm losing interest in many of the story lines, but there were some nuggets in this book. I still love Jon Snow. I love the dragons and the dragon queen. My desire not to see the words c&ck; or T&ats; over and over has deepened.I want more nuggets!
1 It is entirely possible that Martin either did NOT write the first 3 books or did not write the last 2 books...the notion that the same person wrote all 5 is impossible.  We could henpeck all the inconsistencies in style and tone and talent, but there's really no point. If you're a fan, you know something's wrong.I've read other stuff by Martin and it's pretty decent. Fever Dream being on of my favorite vampire books, I'd say the guy has some talent in writing. That said, NONE of his other books come close the the complexity and moxie of SOIAF.  I have theories as to why the first three books are not in the same league as the last two.  If you'd like to discuss the conspiracies, please comment here and a message will be sent to my hotmail account. My user-name here is name I use for my email as well.Is George RR Martin part of one of the largest literary consipiracies since George Eliot?? Let's explore the possibilities together.
3 I'm not sure why, but I thought Book 5 was the end of the Series.  Unfortunately, when you start off thinking that, you keep wondering when the story is going to tie up the loose end, only to realize it DOESN'T!  My own fault I guess, but not my favorite book in the Series.  I'm not sure it added all that much value to the story line; if it did, I missed it!
5 Long but good! It has taken me a long time to finish and not the ending I expected.  Enjoyed the read
1 I actually got an autographed copy of A Dance With Dragons. GRRM came to the Tattered Cover in Denver for a book signing. I couldn't actually make it to the signing but was able to request an autographed copy. The next time I was in Denver, I picked it up and held it lovingly, afraid to mar the beautiful silver cover. As soon as I got back home, I started reading, expecting to devour the thing in one sitting (okay...may be 2!) much like I did the last Harry Potter book. I had my glass of water and plenty of snacks to sustain me during the hard-core reading expedition. I opened the book, expecting to be blown away by Martin's genius, gasping at the twists and turns, reveling in people getting their comeuppance, you know, all the things we have grown to love from Song of Ice and Fire.:(It actually took me MONTHS to get through Dance With Dragons, something that has never happened to me with any of the other books of the series even considering that I've read through the first four about seven times EACH! I never skip entire pages, nor leave the book sitting forgotten on the side of the couch collecting dust! NEVER!The only thing that kept me going was the hope that SOMETHING would happen, something important or exciting, or dramatic. Talk about being left wanting. As I read this, I got the feeling that Martin had lost complete control of his story and that he was simply filling pages with unnecessary descriptions and such to try to hide the fact that the essential parts of Dance With Dragons could be boiled down to probably something more along the lines of a novella.I'm sure I'll read the next book of the series but I won't be on the edge of my seat. I may even wait and check it out from the library, something I NEVER do with favorite books. I love buying them and having them on my shelf to read over and over again.
5 I have read all the books in A Song of Ice and Fire three times over.  Just like watching your favorite movie over and over again, you will always stumble across something that you missed the first time.  Martin is a wicked genius!
5 As usual Mr. Martin provides us with so much intrigue, mystery, twists and action one can hardly put it down. I'm so entrenched, it saddens me to come to the end of the completed series; I can only hope the next book will not be too long in coming.
5 I liked this one just as much as the others in the series. If you like the other books or the show, you'd probably enjoy this one.
5 Very much enjoyed this book more than the last. Can not wait until the next book comes out. Great read.
5 Keeps your intrest. I thought I would get tired of reading these but I have read all and am just finishing the last book. hope he writes another.
5 I bought the series after seeing the movie on cable! This some of the best fiction since Dune and The Dark Tower! You'll love this series!
5 This is where the series becomes really interesting. Loved it and I would read it again. Can't wait for the next book!
5 I did not start reading this series until book four was finished.  This one was as great as the first.  I can not wait until the next one is published.  I hope I don't have too long to wait, otherwise I may have to reread the 1st four again.The  Game of Throne ought to be included in high school or college literature classes.
2 I read the first four books at rapid speed as I was enthralled by the story. The writing is very good and satisfying to those who like well constructed prose. Then I began &#34;Dance&#34; and started to get annoyed. The story  does not move forward. It gets stuck and becomes disjointed as Martin jumps from one character scenario to another. I felt as if the author was not sure where he wanted to take the story and got lost in giving us deeper details about the characters. Also I got personally angry about his killing off all my favorite characters, especially Jon Snow. And leaving Araya at loose ends not to mention what was up with her mother. This book seemed to me to be a stop gap for the author, as if he is treading water while he figures out how to bring the saga back to life. But who can wait so long for Martin to get it together. I for one am moving on.
4 Riveting! I'm waiting for his next book to find out what happens to characters in this one. He does know how to write them!
2 Well, my review title is just a little bit of a non-spoiler which may make sense if you decide to read this book.What can I tell you that hasn't been said? Not much.There are moments when you can feel the old GRRM at work in this novel, but not many. It is indeed in need of a grand editing. And my sense is that both of the last two books penned by Martin would have made one 1200 masterpiece...had anyone bothered to edit them down.It is true that most nothing happens in Dance of Dragons. A little does. But not much that you will care about. Still, I didn't want it to end because as Martin would have it...it starts to get interesting at the END!!! lolI'm not quite sure what happened here. Really, I'm not. I felt bad when I read all the abuse that Martin receives from fans for not writing fast enough. Well now you can abuse him for not writing well enough.The criticisms espoused by the multitude of fans on Amazon are sadly correct. It is not the worst book ever written, but its just not very good. It's missing all of the "blood and fire" of the first 3, with glimmers in the 4th. What it's really missing are...HEROES...or at least our character behaving as such. And gone is the intrigue, mystery and action that we come to expect from GRRM. Sure, there is a little here or there if midgets riding pigs is your thing.This should have been the winner to take back the crown for Martin but despite the moronically positive critical reviews - the fans know that this book cannot touch the first 3.Luckily, since nothing bloody well happens except for people shuffling about, there is still room for Martin to save this series with the next 2 (I guess 3) books.I predict that he will do this but will not manage to capture the spirit of the first 3.If any of you are James Clavell fans, you might remember his atrocious novel - Whirlwind. Well, this is Martin's Whirlwind and sad to say, it will be at least 3-5 years before you get another one and most likely a lot longer.Is it better than nothing...answer - NO. Next time, I'll take nothing.
3 I'm still every bit enamored with the series as I have been since the first book and will gobble up every bit of story George Martin throws my way but with this most recent entry I finally felt the pangs of impatience and vehemently wished that Martin could go back and capture some of that brilliant narrative pacing he pulled off in book #3 and re-inject that energy back into the series.  PS - the Daenerys storyline is starting to bug!
5 I am glad I waited to start reading this series until after A Dance with Dragons released. That said now I will go insane waiting until the sixth and purported finale to this fantastic epic is published. This is by far the most detailed science fiction fantasy story since and (dare I say) more human, (though sometimes vile) and exciting even than the great Tolkien epic Lord of the Rings.
4 Great book would highly recommend the whole series every character I like has died but it makes for good reading
5 Great book in the series. It was everything I expected and more. Love this author. His fantasy world is his own and the characters in it are flawed, just like people in the real life, which of course makes it a great read. Now, the wait is on for number six.
5 Well, if you've read Game of Thrones up to this point, you already know what has transpired. Either you're spitting mad or laughing maniacally with the knowledge of what has happened...and most likely what is to come.Regardless, this book partially runs alongside Book 4 in regards to the storyline and then finishes with a grand push forward at the end with a whole host of cliff hangers to run headlong into Book 6. I cannot give any spoilers, in case you read this review before finishing the first four books, but each and every character will face their own trials and make decisions which will help them on their way to the Iron Throne...or put them in shallow graves next to those who tried before them.The North Remembers
5 This Series is amazing!  I wish all books could be written this well, and all twists this dramatic.  Good thing they aren't though, or I would never get anything done.  Everyone should read this series!  EVERYONE!
5 I would recommend Dance with Dragons because it continues the story line of The Song of Ice and Fire. It left me with many unanswered questions which hopefully will be answered with the next series.
2 I just finished DoD and I truly feel like it was a waste of time. I loved the first 3 books, thankfully I read the reviews about a Feast of Crows and wasn't too disappointed  by the fact that a lot of the characters I had invested in were no where in the book. I also read the reviews for this book, and bought it, and skimmed, skimmed, skimmed - oh read about Theon, skimmed, skimmed, read a bit about Arya, skimmed over all the useless filler, no forward moving dialogue- ugh just boring! What happened? How could the first 3 books be SO GOOD, and the last 2 so poor?
5 I can't wait to read the series conclusion...whenever George gets around to finishing it. Which I think is his point: He's had so much fun torturing the characters and his audience that he's just going to draw the suspense out until we all go nuts.
5 I cannot get enough of this series.  Come on book six and seven...This book is the other half of A Feast For Crows (book 4) with the other characters' views.  Some scenes are even duplicated from the other perspective.  A total joy to read.
2 Six years is a long time to wait for the second half of "A Feast for Crows", because that is what this book is. Martin's previous book became so huge that he literally cut out half the chapters, covering half the characters and pushed them into this book. Thus this story covers the same timeline as the previous, more or less, just from another viewpoint. More on that in half a hand of minutes, but first the reason I am still reading this series.George Martin does imagine a intricate and sometimes quite delicious set of intrigues. A cast of characters that seems to put Tolstoy to shame and a sweeping political situation mixed with injustices and wrongdoing that make the reader long to see favourite characters avenged. Martin does know how to weave a remarkable story, and that is surely the secret of his considerable success.Neverthless should we think for half a minute, there are certain things that really let this book down. There were times reading this book that I simply sighed and put it down, and each time my inclination to pick up the book was reduced.Stylistically, certain phrases are so over-used in this book that they have reached the point of immense distraction. I am tempted to find the e-text of the book and count how many times "half a..." is used. Certainly it was not unusual to find the phrase twice in a single paragraph. Do the people of Westeros not have the word "fifty", and thus need to say "half a hundred instead"? Other phrases like "words are wind" were put in entirely too many mouths, and just reminded me that it was just one author writing all these dialogues.Assuming that annoyance is just me, there are other problems. The most important is this story has become incredibly slow. This book and the last are filled with so much clever dialogue, character development, internal monologue and other page filling material that there was precious little space left for action.This is not helped by the multiple point of views used. Each chapter is told from a different character's point of view and the timeline goes back and forth as each character is given page upon page of development. All in all, this is a text book example of a story that is totally over-written.Then there is the world the story is set in: Westeros is just another faux medieval land with swords, sorcery (not much of that mind), dragons and knights and really nothing to distinguish it from the great raft of Tolkienesque literature, except the lack of elves and the number of pages.What really did it for me though was the incessant crudity and vulgarity. Some people will like that in this book I suppose. They will say this is a more earthy tale than Tolkien's. For me though,this book contains probably my most disliked passage I have ever read. I presume the author's intent was to make the character involved seem seedy and base, and to his credit, he succeeded in spades. I am no prude when it comes to books, but I don't want to read this, and this will be my last Martin book. I presume it will be another 6 years before the next in the series (if we all live that long), but when it comes I do not intend to buy it.This is not a series I can recommend anymore. The author has lost his way, and the early promise is coming to nothing. I wonder if I have correctly predicted the end - but I find I no longer really care.Two stars because despite my dropping this series, I do think the author has produced some good story here. If you can be bothered to wade through all the over-written stuff, you may find half a hundred reasons to enjoy it.Finally a note on the audio version of the book. This is extremely hard on the ear beause the narrator has a tendency to. Punctuate mid sentence.Every single sentences seems. To contain punctuation to interrupt the thought.I do admire the narrator's ability with accents, but his femal voices all just sound daft.
4 Much better, George. Much, much better! 'A Dance with Dragons' is a redemption of sorts from Martin's last book 'A Feast for Crows". It starts off a little slow, but then gets a lot more exciting as it progresses. Martin still tells a lot more than he shows and when he shows sometimes he shows too much, but at least here he practices some restraint. The editing is tighter, and the prose is much stronger. Best of all, there's a lot more action, and it involves my favorite characters. I was surprised by a few things, but overall there were no shocking twists. I am concerned about one character in particular. I can't see how the story can go on without this particular character, but I guess I'll just have to wait and see. The strength of this series is that you have no idea if the characters you love will make it and I really appreciate that Martin isn't playing favorites with any character, even the popular ones.Overall, this is a good read. Not the best in the series, but definitely not the worst. I have renewed hope for this story now, and I really wish he would hurry up and write the next one!flag
4 While I agree with some reviewers that the story does plod along very slowly in this book, I was still at all times invested in the story and overall enjoyed the book very much. GRRM is capable of holding the interest of a reader through the heavy use of dialogue, little action and very little plot development. Similar to the previous books in the series, there are stages in the book where very little happens yet I still feel compelled to read further to find out what is in store for my favourite characters as there was always something to tweak my interest.As before each chapter centres around a certain character but towards the end, the separate stories are beginning to merge and I hope that signals that some characters will be teaming up again in the near future. One minor complaint may be the increasing number  of characters who are sometimes hard to keep track of. However, the attention to detail and the fleshing out of each character in their own right is indeed masterful and makes one willing to forgive the ever growing task of keeping track of these due to the enjoyment I found in getting to know them. I believe this is one of the reasons you become invested and engrossed in a slow-paced book since you live yourself into the story thanks to the immersive writing style.Be warned that, as in previous stories, GRRM is not afraid to kill off characters, which I find refreshing since the story is not predictable and the reader is never assured that a main protagonist is safe. And once again, as in previous ventures, the story accelerates sharply near the end with many cliffhangers which will surely keep readers coming back for more.I look forward to reading the conclusion in this epic series.
5 I love all the books, however if I had known they were going to be as drawn out as they are, I would of opted to wait...Waiting for years for another book is just not acceptable to me... I don't like how he just leaves a character and never talks about him again for a whole book.... I loved the dwarf and never heard anything else and I have to wait for other characters as well... I'm sure it is making him a lot of money but it does not do well for my frustration... I read the first five books in eight days, devouring them.... I need and want more and sooner not later.
2 Jon Snow's decision to feed the wildlings rather than simply burn the bodies of the ones who starve ruins what could have been a promising turnaround in the story.
2 This book (and the last) were a drag. This author needs some serious editing! Seems like he is getting lost in the descriptive part of the narrative and the thrust and direction are too diluted by far. Also, we are running out of original protagonists, and I find myself becoming detached from the characters. There are only two I care about any more, and it is getting hard to wade through pages and pages of descriptive nothingness to keep up with them. Not sure I will continue with the series. I feel kind of abused!
5 Great book.  Possibly evil author.  If you are a fan of HBO's Game of Thrones and wondering if you should read the books, I highly recommend that you pull your head out of your arse and get started.  Be warned though as George RR Martin forces his readers to sit the Iron Throne and feel every barb and cut the characters feel.  The character development in this series is outstanding, the world building is amazing, and the range of emotions you will feel is only limited by your imagination.
5 I confess to purchasing only due to my 16 yr old's badgering. However, after discussing aspects of the books, they sound interesting and very complicated.
5 Enjoyed the book, I think it was a good addition to the series and helps to advance the story line. Additionally, it arrived in a timely manner from Amazon, so thank you Amazon :)
5 Son has enjoyed this book series. He recommends this book to readers. Plot is great and said ending was awesome!
5 Love Game of Thrones, and Book Five doesn't let you down! Such a breath of fresh air after wading through Book Four.
4 So if you've read the first three excellent novels and managed to suffer through the fourth than I do recommend a Dance with Dragons. The book is definitely not to the standards of the first three, but it is much more exciting and fun then the dreadful 4th book in the series. The pacing can be quite slow and it appears that there are several throw away chapters (and characters) but one can only assume that GRRM is building toward something great for the next two books. The crap in the middle of the series can be painful to suffer through though. 2,000 pages I've read that I'll never get back. That being said with the bad, there is much good in this book. There are some characters you really enjoy hearing about and some that you love to hate. For some reason I really started to find Tyrion annoying in this book while he was fun in the other books. I guess that is just his character progression but I don't think I like it.It is also very frustrating that the books are coming out at a snails pace and I don't have the patience to re-read these books once every five years or so. So if you you've invested the time already PLEASE GET IT. Its a great series with lots of potential for the future, but you've just started the series, I would wait until it is complete before investing the time and money.
3 **Spoiler**This is for those who Read it**Did anyone else but me look at this book when they got it and think..."Wow..I'm gonna have a lot to read" And then when it was finished think.."Now, what did I just read?" Its a huge book, yes. You'll be reading for a while. BUT, its mostly words, words, words! Nothing major happens..When Tyrion was in the Sarrows, I was thinking, finally, his story is going to pick up. And then it fell flat. Daenerys story was mostly boring...And even when she FINALLY flew on a dragon, its was close to the end of her story, and then its nothing major..Yep, she flew a dragon...No, Targaryen ansestry blood of the dragon running through her veins stuff. Ugh..And then there is Jon. Yep, his story was a bore too. So, he gets stabbed at the end, but who cares. Ghost, where are you Ghost. And the other characters, I'm not even going to go there, because I didn't even like them.When this series started, it was epic..The first 3 were like nothing ever written. But now, It just feels like its being drawn out to much and to many details that don't need to be in there. GRRM has talent. I'd just like to see him get it back on track.So, I guess I'm stuck here for the next 10 years waiting on the next one. And of course I'll read it. ;)
4 This is an amazing story continued. The world grows and the author remains faithful. Events are unfolding and there are still surprises. Minus 1 star however bc of too much description and not enough meat to the immense length of this book. Yes, I'm frustrated w some of the characters and what is happening in many parts of the world, but since this is still a work in progress I can not judge it until it is complete. I just hope it ends well (whatever 'well' means in this series). To be honest, I started skimming during much of the last 3rd of the book. I didn't do that at all with the first 4 books. I started wanting more definitive actions and answers and felt irritated by the lack of it. I'm ready for closure now and hope to see it sooner than later.
5 Well written and well thought out, it was truly a pleasure reading. Twists and turns that will leave you wondering how you never saw them coming. Can't wait to read the next.
5 This was a truly great new book in the Game of Thrones series, especially after the lackluster A Feast for Crows (the 4th book).  While not much happened (at least with our favorite chabracters) in A Feast for Crows, in A Dance with Dragons we see alot of Tyrion, Jon Snow,and Danyerys, Theon etc ( though not enough of Jamie Lannister).  And while there aren't any slow parts in this book, at many times while reading it, I thought to myself, "wow", not only is this guy a great fantasy writer, he is a great writer in general, bloody brilliant.  So far 4 of the 5 Game of Thrones books could be considered works of art.  The only tough thing is waiting a long time till they come out.  As it is, A Dance with Dragons has inspired me to loop back around to the beginning of the series to revisit how the characters were at the beginning of their journey.  At any rate, look out book number six, here come the Others!
2 The author (GRRM) owes his fans an apology for releasing this terrible book. The most popular reviews pretty much cover it. 1000 pages of poorly written squat.I could have lived with the lack of plot progression, but I didn't even enjoy the pages as I turned them. It was a painful marathon that ended by simply running out of pages.GRRM's quality of writing is clearly not present. As others remarked, it's like the trainwreck of Jordan all over again. Lines repeated over and over until you want to scream. Having to chew through endless pages of describing foolish things like food. Way too many plot threads and nothing happening during any of them. Rich characters suddenly becoming two-dimensional to the point of being corny (e.g. "Gee whiz I'm just a knight... I can only fight... gee golly I sure could never be deceptive. Shucks.") I actually grew to hate reading certain characters' chapters.I waited eagerly on this book for years as many of you have. This one was so bad, that I no longer eagerly await the next book and deem the series to likely end poorly.To go from such greatness to this drivel is... a disappointment. If I ever buy another GRRM book it will be used to ensure the author makes no money off it. He will have to redeem himself before seeing another penny of mine.I would mail my copy of this turd back to him if I knew his address, so that it would not waste space in my trashbin.
5 Totally got caught up in the series on HBO, so much that I decided I couldn't wait to see what happened in the next season!!! I've read all but Tyrion's Witticisms (and plan on reading that too eventually) and now I'm waiting on the next book and watching the fourth season on HBO! It's funny too, by having faces to go with names I thought I was watching a rerun when the first episode aired this season (04/2014) because it was all just as I remembered &#34;seeing&#34; it when I read that particular, and subsequent, episodes! Well at least it's that way for me! Love love love this series and as usual the book is much more detailed than the episodes aired on TV!!!I've reviewed all of the &#34;Game of Thrones&#34; books and copied and pasted this review since I'd rather not go into detailed spoilers!!! Great read you can't go wrong if you like story lines with Kings, Queens, castles, giants, mysterious creatures yet to be totally revealed, and last, but surely NOT the least DRAGONS!!!!! Along with a riveting story.....did I mention it's a great read?!!!
1 I love the series and can't wait to read the last two books.  This is my least favorite book in the series. This definitely could have been combined with crows. It is full of so much nothing and uninteresting conversation. The Danaerys character seems to be focus of this book and she is boring as ever. I really hope GRRM keeps her in  east with her dragons or kill her off. The Westeros story line and the north need to be focused on and complete.
2 Really? Others here have summed up my sentiments in fabulous detail so I will just say, if you just have to read more of this story, you'll enjoy the book. If you are looking for resolution, completion or the storyline to pick up....well that isn't going to happen. I just don't need a list of 200 characters that mean nothing to me nor do I want to keep jumping around the countryside without an end game. Story lines are too broken, seem to be forgotten or lost and serously I am too!I feel a little ripped off...like I got pulled into an amazing series, and then the author decided to just keep writing but forgot where he was going, or that there needs to be an ending soon. But by now all the characters worth following are dead,absent,or just doing strange unrelated things.Wake me when it's over which I guess will be in another 5 years from now. Oh hummmm.
2 I have always been hesitant to read fantasy books because of their reputation of being long and overly detailed but the Game of Thrones Series has received such high praises that I decided to give it a try.  Boy, was I pleasantly surprised when I read the first three books!  They were quite good and moved along at such a pace that I couldn't put them down.  Unfortunately, then came the fourth book (A Feast of Crows) which was quite a slog to get through.  I told myself, that is okay.  Every writer has an off book.  Then came this book.........and was saddened that nothing has changed.A Dance with Dragons has proved to be just as slow and monotonous as the Feast of Crows with the story barely limping along.  The story has just become too unwieldly with too many pages spent on repetitive internal character development and on other characters that have little to no impact with the overall story.  A much better book could have been made by combining this book with the fourth book and editing everything down to around 1,000 pages.  I hate to say it, but I suspect that the only reason to keep these two books separate might be greed.  Why write one  book when you can write two and fill it with repetitive catchphrases and characters saying the same thing over and over?  It also disheartening that Martin has also released a short story book set in Westeros.  Great!  More characters and a chance to cash in!  It seems like you could skip every other character's chapters and not lose anything.To get an idea of the scope of the story, I painstakingly counted the characters listed in the appendix and came up with a whopping 935 characters.  Assuming that each book is about 1,000 pages long (some shorter and some longer) that averages to about one character introduced every five pages!  It has come to the point that when a character is introduced, I don't have the energy anymore to try to remember their name.  Having to read a book by using a wiki numerous times is not enjoyable.Although I really liked the first three books, I'm not sure I would have even bothered knowing what I know now.  With Martin taking many years between books I am starting to wonder whether this story will ever have an ending or whether it will go on and on for as long as possible so that Martin can milk as much money out of it.  If you haven't started the series, I would recommend that you don't even start.
2 I have been reading this series since 1997, and it almost pains me to say that this book is not worthy of the first three.The fourth book, Feast for Crows, received a good review from me based on the assumption that Martin would follow his original plan and focus on the characters we care most about in Dance.He betrayed that idea.  Dance only follows Dany and Jon for a limited amount of time, and it introduces several characters that no one cares about because we don't know them.  The book was a waste of time and money, and it may have kept me from finishing the series.Martin is receiving undeserved rave reviews for this book from critics based on the fact that he has a television show.  Anyone who has been reading Martin for a while knows that this book is a colossal failure compared to his previous work.  If you are not hell-bent on finishing this series, leave it alone.
2 I have been a fan of George R.R. Martin since 1996.  The first three books were amazing and probably the best three fantasy books I have ever read.  Those books were fantasy stories for adults told by an adult who could write beautiful prose.No one builds a world like Martin.  No one.  His descriptive abilities are second to none and his characters are usually just as rich and vibrant.The fourth book, "A Feast for Crows" was the inevitable clunker that seems to plague nearly every series.As I read "A Dance with Dragons", I caught glimpses of the first three books in the series but in the end, it turned out to be more like the mid-series clunker.  Only it was worse.If you like descriptive prose that is sometimes beautiful, this book is worth four stars.  Martin goes way overboard on the descriptions, but that is a fantasy author's right to a great degree.On the story side, the book is worth one star.  It never came close to actually recapturing the brilliance of the first three books in the series, it just gave hints at that lost brilliance.  I would have given the book 2.5 stars if it were possible on Amazon, but since it is not and since I value story over technical writing ability, I went with the lower "whole star".The plot flies apart in Dance.  New characters are introduced out of nowhere and old friends are relegated to the woodpile...maybe to be revived later (who knows nowdays lol).  There is no resolution to be found, only more questions and more frustrations.A good book, even in a series, usually has a beginning, a middle, and an end.  Dance felt like almost pure middle with tiny portions of beginning and end mixed in.  Those portions were too small for a book of this length at this point in a series.As far as the series goes, I am among Martin's oldest fans since I have purchased every book within a month of release.  I don't like the pace at which he writes and, to be fair, I don't understand some of his public relations efforts.  However, I have always loved his writing.  I was willing to forgive the clunker that was "A Feast for Crows" but my hopes were dashed in "A Dance with Dragons".I want the old Martin with that rare mix of beautiful prose and adept story telling.
3 The guy just can't put a period on it! Another 1,000 pages and all you get is some more new characters and no satisfaction with the ones (and there are a lot!) you already know.
1 It is not that the book is bad per-say it is just full of frivolous side plots, useless ponderings, and pointless details. This would be tolerable if he published one of these a year, but he doesn't. The end effect is you wait five years for half a story that is 950 pages long. Every story line ended with a cliff hanger and no resolution was reached for anyone or anything. It was like he got tired of writing with 50 pages to go and said "f*** it, they can find out in the next book". I suppose we will now need to wait another five years to find out who lives and who dies (2 different characters), which army wins the battle (3 different armies), and if the lost characters return (1 character). For those of you keeping track at home that is 6 story lines that were left as cliff hangers.I genuinely liked this series, at first. But each book seems to get worse. Not that the plot is bad, or the characters aren't compelling, but to get to those gems you have to wade through pages and pages of drivel. Mr. Martin, please, I beg you, by the old gods and the new, hire a good editor and heed their advice.
5 This brings out the inner sci fi dork in me.  I love the entire series.  Have been watching the HBO stuff as well.  Cant get enough!
5 Bought this for my husband for his birthday and he really enjoyed it. Couldn't put it down most nights and zipped through it! Can't wait for the next one!
5 Can't say enough for this series....I need to finish reading it before I can give it an adequate rating.  I gave it 5 stars because Mr. Martin has been consistent in keeping me enthralled with his writing.
5 The previous book, while I enjoyed it, seemed like it was lacking something that I couldn't quite put my finger on.  Maybe the lack of main characters that were so crucial to the point and made me kind of Leary of paying so much for the 5th book.  But I was my disappointed. All my favorites were back, the twists and turns were great and we even have a wonderful set up for all the new characters as well.  Can't wait for season four and I can't wait for book 6!
5 Author just starts to bring main characters together when the book ends. I wish book 6 was written but planning to reread 5 when 6 comes out. Full of surprises and many unexpected twists.
1 If you thought GRRM would redeem himself for the  A Feast for Crows snooze-fest, well, you were wrong. Rather than bringing the old GRRM to the game, he continued his decline in A Dance with Dragons.Taking the characters that were not in AFfC and a few new ones, he puts them to the same wandering that bored you before. Please feel free to:a.) not buy this book because it contributes almost nothing to the plot, orb.) feel cheated by another GRRM rip-off.If you are addicted to uncomfortable sex scenes, diarrhea and/or menus . . . well, you won't be too disappointed.
4 I had read a great deal of reviews on here and as a result was apprehensive in buying the 5th book . After completing book 4 though I was like a rabid dog and needed my fix so decided to bite the bullet and give the 5th book a whirl.You should know that due to the severe negativity of all the reviews I went in with really poor expectations and quite possible could have enhanced my own pleasure of the book. That is, I was consistently and pleasantly surprised with the content of the book. I was even trying to figure out exactly why people were being so angry. Storywise, the book has a ton of heavy twists and small story-arcs. A lot happens to a lot of characters. Enough so that I was voraciously reading through and finished the book in half the time of the previous books.I think what really made people angry about this one though is that while a lot happens, very little comes in the way of moving toward the bigger underlying story arc of the book, which is the whole wights and their masters and what role the dragons will play, etc...I think this is ultimately what people are most annoyed about. The book was just as well written and in many ways better than the previous ones, but it lacks any real form of closure. It basically gives the reader the equivalent of "literary blue balls".That being said, i'm still lined up to read book 6 and greatly enjoyed the majority of this book and I think most fans of the previous book would to. Just go in knowing that you won't see much movement in the greater story arc.
5 The best epic phantasy series, the original book is far better than the tv series on HBO.I recommend it to everyone.Twin to the 4th book, this is the better half.If you read up to the 5th book you will be certainly couting the minutes for the 6th book release.
3 It is a good story, but the writer drawls. He takes too long in moving the story forward . Life is too short and there is too much to do than spend  so much time in a book.
2 The companion to book 4, terrible in my opinion.  Too much focus on outside characters and lack of knowledge of the main characters. Also, huge let down in the end. I honestly don't think I'll bother with the rest of the books.
5 I absolutely loved this book!  I have to admit that I was a little disappointed about book four.  Bringing in so many new characters was a little confusing and not having so many of our favorite characters featured in it, was a disappointment to me.  That being said, book five has more than made up for it and I am eagerly anticipating Book 6!  Get to work, George!!
4 A Dance with Dragons if the fifth book in The Song of Ice and Fire series (after A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Crows and a Feast for Crows and before, The Winds of Winter (forthcoming) and A Dream of Spring (forthcoming)).The beginning of this volume is chronologically parallel to A Feast for Crows and focuses on the other half of characters, on events in the North of Westeros and beyond the Narrow Sea.Tyrion's part starts in Pentos, where he will be embarked on an unusual adventure to Volantis and Mereen.In the East, both Quentyn Martell, Victarion Greyjoy are on their way to Mereen to ask Dnerys's hand in marriage, while she tries to conciliate dragons, husband, lover and peace for her people.At the Wall, Jon is trying to cozy up to Stannis and the Red Priestess Melisandre, to ensure their help in the defense against the Others.Beyond it, Bran is searching the three-eyed crow with Hodor, Meera and Jojen Reed, and Summer.In the last quarter of the book, characters from A Feast for Crows rejoin the cast as timeframes are once again synchronized.It took me over six months to finish this heavy volume! And even though I'm very glad to finally be done with it, one particular event in the last chapters came as a great shock and now I can't wait to read The Winds of Winter (whenever it comes out).
2 I did not get the part where it becomes boring right after a very interesting start. The characters were kinda lame and very feeble. This is very far from what I expected in his books.
3 3 1/2 stars is what I would give the novel if it was possible. Having said that, the series is still in my opinion truly worth the read. The main reason for this rating is the fact that books 4 and 5 should not have been  written convoluting the series as a whole. Writing them both to cover the same time period made it confusing and frustrating.Nevertheless, I am very  anxious  for the  next  novel to be released.
1 To make my point I'll be as concise as possible in this review. 90% of this and Feast for Crows were not only boring, but pointless to plot. The other part of the problem in Feast, repeated here, is focus on characters that aren't interesting. And most importantly, Martin's insistence on the use of internal narrative over and over again - whether it be simple thoughts or dream sequences - is completely unnecessary. When it was Catelyn remembering playing with her sister and Littlefinger as kids I could take it, because those folks were interesting. But I don't need 200 pages to realize that Cersei hates everyone, and I don't need 200 pages of Dany contemplating, or Tyrion pissing.  I don't need to be reminded anymore that Davos has lost his fingers. If this book was going to be terrible couldn't it have been shorter?!  Maybe in more need of an editor than anything I've read this side of a Bill Simmons article.
5 Each volume of A Song of Fire and Ice has its cliffhangers but this volume binds many threads, then leaves them dangling to entice the reader to impatience for the sixth volume. And to end it all, winter is here.
2 5 years was way too long to wait for A Dance With Dragons.  I'll give GRRM the benefit of the doubt that he knows what he's doing with the series that started out so promising; but only for one more book.  If the next is no better than Feast or Dance, I'll not read another.  Well, at least not in hardcover....  Compared to the first three in the series, this, well, sucks.  The only reason it's better than A Feast for Crows is that we don't have 30 new characters 3500 pages into the story.  But one can't help but wonder if Martin is as lost as Jordan became?  If so, he's taken what was the best series outside LOTR and turned it to so=so, hum drum mismash.  What a shame that would be.GRRM, if you are reading this, please, please, please, get the story moving again.  Your fans have suffered through the last two, please don't make them regret their investment in Song.
4 keeps the lengthy series moving. doesn't drag. when you finish you want the next book.five more words required -&#34;five&#34;
4 What can I say about "A Dance With Dragons" that you couldn't figure out for yourself.You already know that none of the threads will be wound up to a happy ending.You already know that several "main" characters will end up dead.You already know that there will be around one hundred and thirty seven new characters doing new things.You already know that the writing will spread out to fill a pre-chosen X-hundred blank pages.I found the pacing in this one very slow, and by a third of the way in longed for the Eastern continent to suffer the tectonic disaster I was sure was waiting in the wings and swallow all the bloody characters on it so the story could drop a cog and get some traction.Roughly half of it takes place during the action of the previous installment but concerns the events on the Eastern continent, then it resynchronizes with "real time" and the action broadens again, moving in part back to Westeros.In the six years between the last novel and this one GRRM discovered the word "leal" and it gets used everywhere he would have written (and indeed did write) "loyal", to the point it starts grating the gears. It would have worked well as a regional thing, but that's not how the writer used it unfortunately. Expect a retroactive editing in the other four books to make them match up properly sometime in the future.I love the series but I'm getting the distinct feeling that GRRM is now milking it for all its worth - especially as it took so long for the kindle edition to become reasonably (more than reasonably as it turned out) priced and in the interim there have been published some notable stinker side products.I'm kind of laughing at the situation GRRM's engineered for himself - where the in-print action is so far from finishing that he'll not be able to deliver the complete saga before the TV series reaches the logical end.
3 I've been reading these for a while, like many people on here.I haven't been able to get past the first three episodes of the show yet.  I know it's good but it's not as appealing as the books for me!That said, the reason for the three stars is my dissatisfaction with the author, and his inability to focus on this series (or amazing ability to spread himself on many projects at once if you want to go positive with it).
3 Does George R.R. Martin get paid by the word? Book five of the Song of Fire and Ice series titled, A Dance with Dragons, comes in at over a thousand pages. Considering that this book was meant to extend the stories of half the characters in book four that he left dangling in that large book, the volume seems excessive, and would benefit from editing. The popularity of the Game of Thrones television adaptation will bring Martin new readers, but I expect those who enjoy the visual grandness of this fantasy world will become tired by the prose and the ways in which Martin leaves one storyline and starts up another. Readers with patience and who are tolerant of wordiness will find extravagant and imaginative stories on these pages. Those who find value in more pages per dollar spent will find such value here. Most readers will bore easily and become confused by all the characters and their backstories. Fans will also be bored by the wasted paragraphs retelling the backstories that loyal readers may know as well as the author. All that said, this is a genre with little of decent writing to entertain readers, and for those who like fantasy tales, there's much to enjoy here, very much.Rating: Three-star (Recommended)
5 So many characters and so many threads in the story all woven together so well. I'm looking forward to the next book,
2 Leaving out half the story lines makes no sense, and seems like a bad marketing idea.  But nice enough if you want to keep up on half of the main players.
2 First off, I am not finished reading Dragons yet. I'm a quarter way through, but that doesn't mean I can't comment on this book because the errors Martin made in "Feast for Crows" are just as apparent as they are here.From what I've read so far (and this includes "Crows") this series is out of control. The +200 pages I have read are bursting with clumsy writing, people wandering and sailing forever, and a constantly expanding universe of new characters, new cultures and new plot lines - all of which I find displeasing. I'm already burdened with remembering who the Lannisters, Starks, Martells, Freys, Tullys, and every one else involved is. Please stop adding new characters.When I read "Game of Thrones," it was simple. Now it's agonizingly complicated, all because Martin has forgotten where his epic is going.Thanks, sir, for complicating an already needlessly complicated epic. I will finish Dragons, but I do so under protest.
1 I waited eleven years for some of these characters, between A Storm of Swords and this novel, after the horrific mistake of removing half of the character stories from A Feast for Crows. Although I don't think that Crows was as bad as the average fan says, it suffered from pacing issues and having too few characters on which to focus. I would imagine even George recognizes now what an insipid idea it was to change the format of the series, mid way through. That isn't done for a reason, and we saw why; it didn't work, and the fans hated it.So fast forward to the long awaited Dance with Dragons. GRRM spent a third of the book trying to rush us up to speed. The book required a brief intro from GRRM attempting to explain the format. Again, why was the split ever made?Dragons was rubbish. I mean, garbage. From the overuse of certain words (poor editing), to the incessant pointlessness of whole story lines (again, where is the editor?), to the destroying of Tyrion as the series's most interesting character (I didn't think that possible), down to the cesspool that is Daenerys' chapters. Why does she even exist any more?I'm also not sure why Sansa, Brienne and Samwell weren't in this book, and yet Quentyn Martell had endless pages of nothingness devoted to his vapid existence. We follow his painfully dull journey from one continent to the other.. and he dies. And the world is impacted in no way. Again, what was the point? His existence did not move the story forward one bit. And what was with the endless torture of Theon, turning him into a disgusting, deformed creature that we feel empathy for? An odd turn I thought. But far less objectionable than much of the rest of the book.I think the first three books in the series were brilliant. The fourth is slower, yes, but perhaps the best written. The war had ended, and many fans were expecting more action, but it's an examination of the hell that wars creates. It's a thoughtful piece, and I've read it twice, enjoying it both times.Dance? Dance is just horrid. I struggled to finish it, and will never go near it again. Eleven years is a long time for any author, and GRRM clearly is having difficulty keeping everything together. By his own admission, the series was only supposed to be three novels, and this world that he created twenty years ago is now far larger and more unwieldy than he ever intended.And it shows.
5 This is a book that you just can't put down.  Of course, you need to have read the other books in the series to get the full impact of the story development. All I really want to know is when the next book in the series is coming out.
4 What might have been.That seems to be the recurring theme in the 5th volume of "A Song of Ice and Fire". Characters are driven not so much by regret as they are by their drive to make amends for their perceived failures. Jon Connington failed to capture Robert Baratheon and thereby keep him from killing Prince Rhaegar at the Battle of the Trident; Ser Barristan feels he could have changed the course of history if only he'd been able to win that all-important joust; Tyrion imagines a life of happiness if only he could have stayed married to the one girl he ever truly loved.While many of our favorite characters -- for me this includes Tyrion, Daenerys, Jon and Davos -- return for "A Dance With Dragons", Martin continues to spend a great deal of time with new and secondary characters, though I personally found the tales much more compelling here than in "A Feast For Crows". The various sellsword and mercenary outfits maneuvering around Mereen makes for some fascinating storytelling, and in particular the characters of Quentyn, Jon Connington and Brown Ben Plumm are welcome additions to Martin's canon. I also enjoyed Asha's story, and it was nice to see inside the mind of Barristan the Bold.That being said, Martin's storytelling does often have a tendency to drag, especially in the early goings (as a great deal of travel is required before many of the characters get to anywhere important) and during the final act as the story is winding down, when the plot seems to lose a bit of speed. Fans are also likely to be upset regarding the half-dozen or so cliffhangers Martin left unresolved, and we can only hope that Volume 6 won't be another near-decade in the making.All in all, however, it was a pleasure reconnecting with characters we've come to know (and expect to die almost every time they appear), and several of Martin's plot twists and plot developments were truly remarkable. This is a far cry above "A Feast for Crows", and we can only hope Martin can keep the momentum from what he achieved here as we roll into the next volume.
5 I enjoyed this book much more than the previous. All my favorite characters were back and there was so much going on it made it hard to put the book down.  Can't wait for book 6 to be available.
1 I would like to preface this review but stating that I am a huge GRRM fan. A Song of Ice and Fire is one of my favorite reads. That was until this book. I have just now finished the 959 page torment. I bought this book the day it was released and I have now only just finished reading this 4 months later.I will agree with the other reviewers that this book was way to long and said absolutely nothing. What has George done with my Starks? I fell in love with this family, he made me fall in love with this family and now what? NOTHING, that's right NOTHING. I loved the whole direwolf connection and I am still waiting for Arya to come home and kick some A$$. But no, she is still in a temple doing NOTHING. What has happened to the strong women in this story. In this book Dany was weak and whiney and love sick. There were chapters upon chapters of nothingness.I will most likely buy and read the next book when it comes out 5 years from now because I feel like I have invested time from my life I will never get back.Dear George,I need some resolution. I have stuck by you for a very long time now and feel like as with most men you finished the best part way to early. Please don't write another 959 page book about boats and urinating and what people are wearing and dragons who don't do anything. I don't know if I could take that. I will conclude this rant buy saying there are way to many new characters in this story that no one cares about. They do NOTHING but fill paper. Please George get back to the "meat" of your world. Stop taking us places no one wants to go. You need to reread the first three books again and rekindle your love of these characters that we, your readers, have come to care about. Also, FIRE your editor.
4 I have been reading some discussion forums concerning the quality of the higher rating from this book, so I'm going to try and walk the fine line between answering the complaints about the book, telling you why I liked it and not giving away every freakin' detail in the book. Its long, can't be helped, try to keep up.1. "The book it too long and isn't fast enough paced": what did you expect? Its about a major war covering an entire continent. For those who compared it to the length of the Lord of the Rings, that story involved like nine people and Tolkien could get pretty wordy. This book involves HUNDREDS of people, even when you aren't hearing their voices. And wars take time, especially in medieval Europe. Most battles in this type of setting ended one of two ways, either you killed the leader, in which case everyone gave up (hence the importance of banners so people knew when to quit), or they were incredibly long sieges which usually only ended once one side or the other had been starved into submission. In which case, most of the war was waiting.2. "Are we there yet?": Again, what do you expect? In order to get to point B from point A, you have to journey. These journeys often don't do smoothly and there are often side trips. Like the Tom Bombadil story (again for those who like to compare GRRM to Tolkien). These journeys should NOT be skipped however, because it is in these moments that characters stop, reflect, think and GROW. Yes, battles are more interesting and energizing, but how many deep thoughts can a character have while in battle? For that matter, how many battles can they have before it just gets foolish? It is this "I want it NOW" action-crazed audience that led "7 Samurai" from being a fabulous, 208 minute movie into "The Magnificent 7" which was a tacky western of half the length and then onto a bad TV show that didn't make three seasons. Most people couldn't sit through the team actually getting put together and journeying together because they thought it should have been done in a musical montage or something3. "He should have/his editor should have/if he'd only cut...": Oh shut up. If you don't like it because its too long, tell us you thought it was too long and don't read the next one. Even better, get out of the backseat yourself and prove you can drive. Go write 5k words and listen to everyone tell YOU that you took too long, they didn't like how you took the story and they could have done better.So why DID I like it? I'll be honest, in places I didn't. Daenerys annoys me. There are too many bleeping characters and I have trouble with names. My geography is too bad to keep track of where everyone is even with the maps. Hence, four stars, not five. HOWEVER, Daenerys annoys me, despite the fact that she is supposed to be one we are rooting for. WOW! A book where I don't have to like the good guy! More like "Thomas Covenant" than the Hobbit! Reek was horrible but...ooo...now I kinda feel bad for him.  Still wish he'd die, but now out of pity. The Dwarf is the BOMB! He's witty, boinks hot chicks, runs circles around his siblings, tamed wild men and has great taste in wine.  But hey, now he's kinda useless for everything but pig riding. Which bring us to the end point. This is the ONLY series I have ever read where ALL the characters are imperfect, three dimensional, subject to change and prone to sudden death syndrome. And wasn't that what grabbed us in the first book? Ned's death? The sudden DIFFERENCE of it all? Not every book can have that "reach out and grab you by the throat" attitude. Like the battles, its gotta calm down sometime. In this case, the difference, and the growth are slower and more subtle. To expect everyone to change overnight in a flash of inspiration is ridiculous.And maybe I'm wrong. Maybe he is a "paid by the word" guy. Maybe he's just lost it. Who knows. The answer is I DON'T. If you don't like the book, fine. I do. But don't act like you have a clue where the series is going or what the author is thinking, because you don't. And neither do I, so I'm gonna keep reading.For those who want to judge the quality of my review, have at.  I am NOT a writer and don't pretend to know how to write prose. If I did I'd be too busy spending the next five years trying to come up with a story to top my LAST book, all the while knowing that if I have a slow spot in the tale I'm gonna be crucified. Why is it taking so long for GRRM to write these books? Probably because the stress to stay perfect is giving him writer's block!
3 The book was ok. However, I wish that more ground could have been covered. On the plus side though it appears that Mr. Martin's next Song of Ice & Fire entry is set to begin with a bang. So many cliffhangers to be resolved!
4 A wonder full story, ripe with personalities and deftly written .  As Monty Python use to exclaim that &#34;no one expects the spanish Inquisition&#34; and  no one expects the plot twists that come one's ways.  And within this framework MR Martin provide us characters who think what they want say, but say what is most prudent.A plot give away - The moral in the story do not have the luxury  to win out and are placed in positions where may or may win not.  The palace intrigues are deftly executed or botched depending on the capabilities  of the character undertaking the task .  One meets folks who really understand the game thrones and the those who are real pretenders.And if this were not enough, commentary on regions philosophy / individual greed / family / and the need for love - if not the central to the story, pops up regularly and just makes the book that much more special
1 The primary purpose of this "review" is to voice my deep disappointment; to add another 1-star review to the list. I only wish that I could vote negative stars.Most of the "plot" or "action" involves new characters (or at least characters who first appeared in novel 3 or later), whom I only vaguely remember, and couldn't care less about. Sure "old favorites" (Daenerys, Tyrion, Arya, Jon Snow, and Bran Stark) make welcome, even if brief, appearances but usually muddying the plot line (if there is a plot line) rather than advancing it in any foreseeable direction. Everything of interest (at least to me) which happens in volumes 3 to 5 could be well (and completely) related in 100 pages. Something like 5000 pages into this epic, there is still no "closure" to any of the substories---nor at this point is there even hope that there ever will be closure in subsequent volumes.  For example, there are no Lanisters left to "get even" with.  Every time a little momentum gets going, the protagonist (invariably one of the few interesting characters) is killed, and the "viewpoint" shifts to a different character POV) in a different story line. It's even worse when murdered characters come back to life a thousand pages later (after having been burned to a crisp or beheaded etc.) because they weren't really dead. Is Ned Stark going to be resurrected in volume 6? The "theme" of impersonators (for Arya, Sansa, Theon, etc.) is way past moldy. Sure, some "bad guys" are killed or humiliated---but there is no feeling of justice having been served. They "get theirs", not for the evil they've done, but rather for pointless political reasons. Even when Tyrion kills his father (a sick old man sitting on the toilet), it's just pathetic, not triumphant, not even satisfying. I'm tired of my interest being piqued by interesting new themes or side-stories which are abandoned and never developed. I'm exhausted by the cancerous convolutions and the lack of continuity. I'm particularly annoyed by the frequent feeling that I must have accidentally skipped several chapters---caused by abrupt jumps (leaving gaps) in the main story-lines, which are never filled-in.As far as all that praise for the "reality" of the story. Yeh, the series is more like "real life" than is traditional fantasy literature. I happen to be a published historian. I research and write "real life" stories (history). Despite those (usually) horrible high-school and college courses we all suffered through, well-written history is fascinating because the stories are real.  An appreciation of real history actually has value in living our lives. I read literature, particularly fantasies, as a vacation from reality---to enjoy a simpler (imaginary) world in which things are simple, problems are resolved, and justice prevails. It may not be reality, but it is a form of hope. Reality--yes, read history. Fantasy---yes, read Tolkien and Rawlings.Many reviews extol the lack of magic and fantasy (another way of praising the "reality").  One woman approvingly wrote, "When a character is killed, he stays dead".  What novel was she reading?  Although I love Rawlings, Tolkien, etc. the fact is, the relatively little magic in "The Song of Ice and Fire", is a distraction.  Besides, most of the magic in TSOI&F; is "scary old icky magic" (zombies, possession, reanimation of corpses, etc.) not the appealing imaginative magic of Rawlings, Tolkien, etc.  Giants and dragons undoubtedly hook many prospective readers, but so far GRR Martin has little more than mentioned them in passing. TSOI&F; might indeed be better without the little magic that it contains.Yeh, I know, there are already a thousand 1-star reviews and nobody will read this one, nor yours, but that's no reason not to "vote". Write your own 1-star review in order to record your own "vote".
5 The book was a bit too long.  Suggest it could have been broken into two books. A reader could be lost or forget what happened in the story line of character from the beginning to the end by the time you reach 3/4's of the way through.  Ending of this Dragons was unexpected.
5 I really liked it, I do think this should have been book Four part B instead of Five, and I understand why some were not as happy with this book, however, it was a great story, one that must be told to prepare us for the next. It was to much to put into one book, so here was four and five. Great tales, betrayals, and twists. Had me on my toes. As an avid reader, this was great! Things are happening! There are many stories in this series. All of them are intense. Great read.
4 This was the 5th book in a series I could not put down.  Writing these books seems to have become this author's career  and reading them has become mine.
5 I read the rest of the series in paperback, then I got my Kindle - loved reading it on my Kindle as the book gives the wrist too much of a work out.  I love this series and am looking forward to where it goes next.  The Kindle just made the experience even more enjoyable.
5 I have watched all of &#34;The Game of Thrones&#34; and really loved reading about what will be happening in Season 3 and beyond!If you like fantasy, this is a great  read.
1 Would've been an appropriate title.I am so disgusted with myself for the amount of time I wasted reading this book. I can't even imagine how disgusted George Martin must be with himself for the amount of time he wasted writing it.Jon Snow dead? Who knows, who cares any more. I'm finished with this series. Mr. Martin, do us a favor and stop writing - it's unbearable.
5 This kind of dragged in places, didn't stop me reading the book though. Wish it had ended with more information of what happened to all the characters.  Especially Tyrion....he is my favourite.
2 So disappointed.  As what most readers will say, the first three books were phenomenal.  I could not put the books down.  Now though with the last 2, and especially this one, I forced myself to finish.  It really feels like GRRM has lost interest in this series and that he is only writing now for a paycheck.  This book was mostly filler, just like the previous one.  GRRM would spend pages on how someone felt, look or just the scenery.  I am also getting a sense that he has no idea what to do with his characters anymore.  They just keep dieing.When the next nook comes out (whenever that may be), I will definitely wait to see what the reviews are prior to spending the money to buy it.  The series is so not worth the money as it currently stands.
5 I love the HBO series Game of Thrones.  I was so glad to find out it was based on a series of books!
4 I took away one star only because so many characters kept popping up and I had difficulty figuring out who they were and where they came from (I used the maps and the character glossary 10 times more than with the other books).That being said, I loved every page of the book. My only regret is that we might have to wait another five years for the sequel. My favorite characters are Tyrion and Jon Snow but I was aghast and left hanging about their futures.Terrific time spent reading this book.
5 great condition and I am looking forward to reading it once I get through the first 4 books! Would recommend this series to anyone who enjoys a great read.
5 Thoroughly enjoyable read. Intrigue, betrayal, and plot twists that catch you completely by surprise.  Can't wait for the next one.
4 I read the series over the past winter & can't wait for book 6 to be released. Loved this series.
5 The series &#34;Game of Thrones&#34; has become one of my favorite series of books. When I picked up this book I was immediately transported into this imaginary time and place. Each book in the series contains it's own flavor while continuing the saga. Love each and every book, eagerly awaiting books six and seven.
5 Riveting read! So descriptive! You can smell the smells! Feel the characters. Drawn into them and wish there are more hours in the day to read it : )
3 I read the first 4 books and devoured the first three but began to get confused on the 4th book because about a hundred pages in characters started to just disappear and it focused heavily on just a few... strangely they were not all the prime characters either.  It was not until I got to the end that I read that it began as a 'normal' book but when it got way too long he decided to split it.... but get this he did not split it chronologically and take everyone to a certain point before cutting off.  Instead he split the book laterally and took half the characters on and left half behind unmentioned.  Now if this sounds confusing you got it right it was.  So I bought Dance with Dragons and felt totally confused as events that I had read about  (like the death of a major character) were in the future.... so you are reading about them as though they were alive knowing they had already died.  It 'did my head in'!  He introduces a number of significant new characters and I could not work out who they were or where they came from.  Events happen with no explanation.  People appear to have died only to pop up 500 pages later.  Honestly it was a mess.  I desperately wanted to finish this book and may eventually go back to it because apparently towards the end of the book it all comes back together.  The trouble is this is over 1000 pages and tbh I dont know if I have the stamina to plough all the way to the end.  He is such an amazing storyteller I get absolutely no pleasure in trashing him but in this case he got it radically wrong.
3 My son liked the books and read them all and enjoyed them, but I couldn't finish the first book of the series even though I am an avid reader.  I am going to go back and try again, because I have a hard time with something that defeats me like a silly book!I gave it a 3 star because he liked it, and I should have liked it, so it averaged out.
2 I agree with almost all of the reviews. I'm just so disappointed that the main characters from books 1-3 have been given such short shrift. I mean - come on already - at least tie up a few plot lines before inundating readers with new characters that come and go randomly through the last two books. I found myself going back and forth trying to figure out who the heck these people were when they popped up hundreds of pages later and no sooner do you figure it out than they disappear again completely. I get it, he's going to milk this since the series came out, but PLEASE resolve at least a few of the sub-plots about the random characters and get back to the meat of the first three books. I'm not opposed to continuing the story by any means, but it drove me nuts reading books four and five with basically NO resolution whatsoever. After reading all five books I just can't help thinking that the only things I know for sure is that Ned's dead, Jaime lost a hand and "half a hundred" is one of GRRM's favorite phrases - among others that we can all repeat by rote...all together now: "about as useful as nipples on a breastplate" - which has just occurred to me could pretty much describe the screwy timelines and general frustration in reading these last two books. I could go on, but I'll let George do that - if he ever gets around to it.
4 This book happens about the same time period as Feast of Crows, only it has all the characters missed in feast. There is a lot of travel and more worldbuilding describing the Free Cities and the Rhoyne. Some of the characters make some pretty stupid mistakes and suffer for it. Some of the chapters annoyed me and I wanted to smack some sense into the characters but I'm sure martin will do that in Winds of Winter when the perverbial $&!# will hit the fan.Some new characters emerged and at first I wondered why but I enjoyed the hell out of this book as I'm addicted to Westeros. I'm listening to the chapters on audiobook every day and it seems I learn more and more with each day I listen. I love this world. Keep it coming George!
2 Short and sweet - still love the series but it seems like lots of pages that don't move the plot forward.  It is starting to feel more and more like the Wheel of Time series which we all know ground to a halt.  Hopefully Mr. Martin will not die before he completes the series.I first gave this a 3 for its OK but downgraded to a 2 as I realized I didn't like it.
1 STOP! Do not waste your time. There are so many threads left unanswered, it defies belief. He has fallen into the "eternal series" trap.
2 Dazed... uncertain... SER GEORGE stumbled through the wilderness.His plans were as ruined as LORD TYWIN'S groin. All the sellswords he'd hired had capriciously abandoned him to pursue their own deviant agendas.THE OTHERS, for instance, were supposed to be the Primary Villains of the series. Unfortunately, they weren't very villainous; instead, they proved to be borderline retarded. In eight thousand years, not one of them had realized they could build boats, sail around the Wall, and thus transform it into a Westerosian Maginot Line. Instead, they hung out in the Haunted Forest and said "Boo" every so often.JON SNOW could no longer remember why he was in the book or what he was supposed to do. Each time a decision was required of him, as Lord Commander of the Watch, he did the least responsible, most goofy thing he, or anyone, could imagine. Somebody was apparently sneaking funky stuff into JON's ranger brownies.DANY TARGARYEN was even more forgetful. She could not remember where Westeros was or what she had ever wanted to do with it.  Instead, she became a slutty bureaucrat, possibly because that's the kind of character fantasy readers invariably love the most.  SER GEORGE was very annoyed with DANY and totally wanted his money back.TYRION LANNISTER was still funny but showing signs of Other-like retardation. Someone had told him "You should hide in a wine keg and be transported to the Free Cities, but you don't need to know which one, nor do you need to have any money or friends when you get there." And TYRION -- quite unlike himself -- had said "Brilliant! This is the best possible plan! Sign me up."BRAN STARK had the only subplot in which Things Were Happening! Therefore, SER GEORGE, who had no idea what to do with interesting subplots, abandoned it halfway through the book.THE OTHER STARK KIDS (including JON SNOW) were all of a sudden transformed into skinchangers, who could not only link mentally with their own direwolves in dreams, but also other animals, including, presumably, human beings. They had just never noticed that, or gotten around to it before... somehow.CERSEI LANNISTER was bald. This might have been interesting, but DANY had beaten her to the punch and gotten bald first. (At one point, SER GEORGE considered naming the book A BALDNESS OF QUEENS.)  DANY going bald also meant that she couldn't tug on her braid.QUAITHE flat-out sucked. Given twenty seconds to answer questions, she didn't even try to warn DANY of the most daunting threat imaginable... that readers were getting bored.EVERYONE INVOLVED WITH WINTERFELL was grumpy. Snow fell; they were cold and hungry. Whatever.THE DRAGONS were getting big and fat and dragon-y, but despite the book title, nobody was doing anything with them, so there really wasn't much point in their being in the story. This upset their tummies.Even THE PLOT, once Ser George's most trusted comrade, had vanished into the fog, seemingly never to return.What was SER GEORGE to do?
5 Not as great as the first 2 or 3 by Martin, but a great book in a great series of books.  Martin lives up to his reputation of always keeping you guessing by putting his character through situations that change their lives.
3 wow - had to skip entire chapters and nothing much happened in the book other than dragons growing larger. If GRRM is not careful the Dragons might die of old age and then he will have an other Kong to deal with.S
3 As others have already exhaustively deatailed, comparatively, it's a great book. For GRMM, it's sub-par. I'm tired of the cliffhangers and the teasers. Give me a story with some meat in it and for the love of anything sacred stop with the reality show-like teasers.When I began reading the series I thought it was plodding until I concluded that GRRM likes to carefully set up the chess pieces and then give you a great climax. Not so in the last two books.GRRM is still doing some great things, and it's still a good read by any measure, but the non-resolution of so many strands is starting to grate. The exposition in book 5 is un-needed. If you're beginning the series at book five you deserve to be confused.I guess I'm one of the few that enjoyed AFFC and I enjoyed this novel too. It's just that he spends so much time on wasted events. Hell, half the events that do occur give you no emotional payoff. It's like paying to be tortured.I'm starting to dread that, much like The Wheel of Time series, which gave me weeks of enjoyable reading when I began it in high school, he's just writing and writing and doesn't really know where to go with things.I don't mean this as a personal attack on the author, not by a long shot. I love the series. I love the ideas and the injection of serious adult memes. It just reads like he's losing his way.
4 This is an excellent book.  The complaint that nothing happens ignores significant developments, and tremendous character maturation here.  The writing is good.  The sometimes irritating tics such as "much and more" are there to provide atmosphere and they do it.  If you like this series, you'll like this book.
2 A long wait and so disappointing. The book was wordy and overly descriptive. How much detail do we really need when a person is eating... I don't really care about what the people are eating, I want a progressive plot. Unless the food is somehow moving the plot along, I just don't care. This goes as well for the lengthy deep thinking done by many of the characters, which actually come out as a lot of woe is me. The book could have been cut by 400 words. I found myself drifting off a lot, or skimming quickly through pages to get back to the plot. Some of the characters, such as Davos, were so boring that I almost skipped their chapters. The past books have been so good, this left me numb.
5 I got started late on this series so I was able to go from one book to the next without waiting... until this point. Ack! I'm still amazed at how fairly central characters are killed off, but it does, as some reviewers have written, give the sense that anything can happen and increases uncertainty and excitement, and perhaps a bit more &#34;realistic&#34;, or as realistic as a fictional-historical-fantasy series can be.
2 I realize that these books are supposed to be about the &#34;land&#34; versus individual characters. But come on. Stop killing people for the sake of killing people. If I hadn't committed so much time the books already then I wouldn't bother with the next one.Shock value for shock value is really absurd.Plus have a little more closure in between books.
1 'A Dance With Dragons' drags along at a snail's pace, leaving you literally begging Martin for something interesting to happen.When the few interesting parts do finally occur, you are already too beaten down by overly descriptive minutia to feel that the book has vindicated your hard earned reading time.And seriously, wtf is up with all the food and wine references? I've had my "fill" of Dornish wine. More substance please!I fear that the glory days of the 'A Song Of Ice And Fire' series and those wonderful first three books are long gone. It eerily reminds me of how the 'Star Wars' movies progressed: From entertaining and thrilling stories with characters you actually care about, to painfully tedious boredom.Fool me once (AFFC), shame on you. Fool me twice (ADWD), shame on me.I won't be pulled into buying another installment without being patient and reading the reviews first. Martin may not care about my time and what I feel is enjoyable, but I do.
5 I am so addicted!  I cannot wait for season 4 to start and for book 6 to be released.  And I need this to be the end! I have already read 5,000+ pages!
4 Contrary to many, I am overall pretty satisfied with George RR Martin's A Dance With Dragons. Does it have problems? Well, yeah, and some of those are huge. But is it the worst book of the series, deserving of the derision and vitriol that's been heaped upon it by lots of reviewers? Certainly not. Allow me to elaborate.I won't recount the plot here (if plot is even the right word...meandering at times, achingly slow and then devastatingly wicked at others); there's entirely too much going on. Most of the chapters are Tyrion's, Jon's, and Dany's points of view, but others surface as well, including Theon, Davos, Jaime, Cersei, and Arya. There were a couple of POVs I must admit to being puzzled by, but I have to hope that ultimately Martin will bring them to a satisfying intricacy with the main characters. Would I have loved to know what Brienne and Sansa were up to? Sure, but it's all right. We're moving along, however slowly, and lots of Tyrion is always worth it.Biggest complaints? Well, the pacing is off in the first two hundred pages or so, with way too much detail given to traveling woes and feasting items. In any other series, these would be deal breakers. Do I think Martin's editor was snoozing? Probably. Just because you are uber successful doesn't mean you should be allowed to enumerate every food on a table. My other big, huge complaint is that it had been so long since I'd read A Feast For Crows, I was LOST for a hundred pages. That's my own fault for not rereading, but I also lay some blame on Martin, since five years between books is inexcusable.What I liked? Lots of things.The dialogue is perfect and the intrigue is thick. We got vintage Martin with double crosses, lots of gore, and set ups galore. Loved, loved, loved Theon's comeuppance and what he does later in the novel; loved Barristan Selmy's honor; loved the twist with Rhaegar's son. I found what happened with Dany and her dragons distasteful, yet entirely plausible; I know that the bloodletting has only barely begun after Cersei's humiliation. And poor Jon Snow...always trying to do the right thing, but it's usually at the wrong time and with the wrong people.Martin's world is convoluted, overblown, and nasty, much like the world we live in today. His writing, however, while needing editing, still draws one in and builds suspense, causing me to continue turning pages and luxuriating within the boundaries of the Seven Kingdoms and Beyond. Personally, I'm invested for the long haul, even if A Dance With Dragons pales when compared to A Storm of Swords. It's not the comparison I try to keep in mind, it's the journey.
3 Like the rest of the series a good story but I wish there was an easy way to keep everything straight. By the time the next book comes out I'm going to have to re-read the previous books.
3 This book is like the NFL star running back that finally gets his big payday. Then doesn't need to produce anymore, and has the worst season he has ever had. It just seems that George R.R. Martin has gotten his big payday and isn't hungry anymore. I sure hope he has room for dessert. Because I really loved this story! Keeping my fingers crossed for book # 6 !
5 I love the entire series. I am looking forward to the final installment. I cant wait to see how this series will end
5 The story keeps unfolding and more and more twists and turns can't wait for the next book.  I am very invested to this series of books.
4 There was a huge gap between book 4 and book 5, so this was something I was really looking forward to. Book 4 and book 5 take place during the same time period, but one has half the characters and the other has the other half of the characters. I have to say, it is getting a bit boring and starting to feel a bit dragged out. Yes there were exciting cliff hangers... but I want things to move faster!
5 A fantastic read. Better than the TV show by a mile (I read this before watching and still do live the TV show). Full of twists and turns that keep you excited to see what will happen next. Don't get too attached to some of the characters or you may regret it. Buy this now.
5 Since I hated book 4, 5 was much better and explained more from book 3- 1-3 are great. 4, blah but you have to read it. shame that you have to wait until 2014 for the 6th book ; there are to be 7 in series.
4 I love the series especially the first 3 books but this one was drawn out.  It's a great book tho it really gets better closer to the end n the last chapter is SWEET
3 Just once, I would like this author to finish writing a book.  This story just keeps getting longer and longer.  Don't get me wrong, I like serial books.  I enjoy catching up with my favorite characters in new and exciting novels.  What I don't appreciate is the neverending, cliff-hanger "endings" in these books.  It wouldn't be so bad if the next novel was available within a reasonable amount of time, but to wait 2-5 YEARS for a followup book, after leaving so many dangling storylines, is a bit much to ask.  George, this may well be the last of your books that I read.
5 I love the series of books and can not wait to see the TV series adapt this in the TV show.  It is a very captivating read.
5 This is the next in the series, and it doesn't disappoint.  No spoiler here, but the ending is somewhat unexpected and harsh.  Not sure where GRR's gonna go with it next.
5 So, I was most annoyed about Martin's decision to divide his characters between two books separated as they were by geographic distance.In part my annoyance may have been due to not really liking the southern characters, and at the time I did not realise there would be a payoff - the next book Dance with Dragons would be ALL  about the characters I did like!Well for the most part, Martin still manages to meander around with characters I barely heard of let-alone care about, and for some the plot will still appear to be moving at snails pace.Still D w/ Ds rules. Martin's writing is crisp, and powerful seeming to have evolved over the sixish years he took to write this book. Obviously if you've read up to this one in the series you're probably going to read this anyway, I'm just providing a heads up this is a goodun...
5 I've been waiting for this book to arrive and started reading it immediately.... So absorbed in this series!! Absolutely love it..can't wait for the next one!!
1 This illegal price fixing which has been forced down our throat is sickening.The actual book is almost as bad.  The first 4 were pretty good, but few folks will even be able to get through this garbage.I hope the Government fines the publishers and puts a few in prison - now that would be a very happy ending!
3 lots of characters left hanging without any resolution..just a lot of fighting without any sense.guess it's like today. read it to see what happens to all the characters G. Martin has introduced
5 Excellent book. I could not put it down. I am waiting with anticipation for book #6. I can't wait see how everything comes together. LOVE IT!
5 Doesn't disappoint as usual. I hate how he kills people off so easily though. Can't wait for the next one!
5 I'm very please with my purchase. It's exactly as described, will buy from u again. Adding it to my collection is a pleasure, it's perfect to display. Thank u!!!
5 I can't wait for the next one. This book had many characters return that were previously thought to have been disposed of. Once you think you know what's coming up, a new twist, a different direction.
2 It seems the author grew tired of witty engaging stories for his characters because unlike the last four books this one was as useless as nipples on a breast plate
1 I waited a long time for this book, but it's the biggest disappointment I've had since the last installment of this aimless, plodding, series.  From the opening pages spent in the POV of a character we've never seen before and don't see again, through long dull chapter after chapter of only the briefest vignettes that do nothing to advance the story, to the bitter flat ending, I simply could not believe that it could possibly be this bad.  I kept waiting for the old George R R Martin to rear his head and tell an actual story.  But no.  Apparently, the old Goerge R R Martin is no more.I'll bet the only people more upset than the readers who've invested in this monumental waste are the execs at HBO who've agreed to another season of the show only to discover that Martin has failed to deliver anything that would sustain the project.Hopefully, the people at Random House have Brandon Sanderson waiting in the wings and will bring him in to rescue this mess without George having to die for the honor.
5 So much corruption, so much deceit...juicy!I can't wait to see what's nextI can't wait to see the show
5 I enjoyed the book immensely, and am looking forward to the next installment.... a must read for those who have read the ones before
5 This the 5th book I have read and not finished it yet but it great.Don't let the number of pages put off like the other 3 in this series I am really enjoying it.
2 Ok, so I have now read all five of the "Ice and Fire" series and can say that I will not be picking up the sixth when/if it ever comes out. The first three books are some of my favorite titles of all time. A Clash of Kings is just all around a great story with great character. And the next was good, but you could tell it was beginning to fall off. And then you get to A Feast for Crows where the whole series falls apart. You read about a bunch of character you don't care about and wonder "Where the hell is Jon and Tyrion!" Well you finally get them back in this book, but you will be very disappointed with these characters. The book in whole just never catches steam. You read about people walking, and thinking about doing something, and sitting in rooms with each other talking about doing something and then by the end, none of it happens.I know no review will make someone who has read all the books stop them from reading this one  I read a ton saying do not read this and look at me) but i figured I'd spare you the 15 bucks and tell you you are not missing anything.
3 It feels like it's time to be done.  This book is the book in the series that has the story lines that go nowhere.  A new idea is introduced, followed and GRRM finds it's not going to pan out so he ends it.  Danearys is getting really boring.  What is she going to do?  Is she going to stay in Mereen forever or go to Westeros?  What's Tyrion to do?  He's here, there and everywhere and manages to stay alive even though he's got a sharp tongue and a price on his head.  Jaime is introduced FOR ONE CHAPTER!!!  What the hell was that all about?  The wall is a mess and falling apart.  Stannis' story line just stops.  It's pretty heavy following him for awhile and then it's just done.  The one line that I really liked was Theon, but again, BIG event and then it just falls off.  Dorne is useless here.  We find that they try to join in on things, but alas they are just not too popular, strong, fun, who knows what but GRRM stops the story line there.I'm hoping that the next installment is A) almost done and B) better than this offering.  We'll see.
5 I'm seeing a lot of down-beat reviews, & that's fine; everyone has his/her own opinion. My own feeling is that this was the best book of the series yet: big, bold, ugly, with plenty of potentially bloody cliff-hangers to end it all.Beyond that, I have to respect the way Martin made me feel sorry for "Reek", & almost had me feeling sorry for Cersei. Almost. There's no way I could ever actually sympathize with that slimey, wretched, loathesome woman ... but Martin almost pulled it off, until I reminded myself just who & what that despicable creature is, & smiled at the image conveyed.I loved the story. I can't wait for the next one.
2 None of the things you want to read about are in this book.There will be travel, food description, senseless backstory and endless lineage details for characters you care nothing about and have no real narrative relevance. This book is stalling. A huge, huge collection of words all used for stalling.
3 Finally finished reading "A Dance with Dragons," by George R.R. Martin. 1016 pages took me 6 weeks to complete. It was good, but after a 6-year gap since "A Feast for Crows" and an 11-year gap since "A Storm of Swords," it is hard to say it was totally worth the wait. At least I can look forward to a more timely HBO production schedule!
4 Many folks seem to be complaining how this book "set the stage" for many an event so to speak, but didn't actually deliver; this is only half-true.  The reason for this is that many people have a pre-determined idea of where the story 'should' be going based on what they've seen thus far in the book, but George has shown time and time again that just as you shouldn't get too attached to any one character, you shouldn't get too attached to any one plot line.  If everything played out exactly as you thought it would, what would be the point in reading the book?  There are many twists and turns on our way to our final destination, and in fact it's those twists and turns that keep us coming back for more.  Yes, certain storylines didn't get resolved.  Maybe they NEVER will, but why they won't is interesting if it's told in a compelling and organic way to the story (which I think in nearly every instance it was in this book).To sum up, this book was very interesting and entertaining to read, certainly worth your time and money.  Don't put a lot of stock in the naysayers, the majority of them are just upset because they've been waiting so long for what they think is little resolution (and as I said before, it's because they already had it in their minds that these things NEEDED to be resolved, instead of letting the author take us down the path while we enjoy the ride).
2 I hate so say it, but I'm done with this series. George has killed off most of the good characters and I really don't feel like getting invested in another character that may have been mentioned three books ago that I have no recollection of. The only interesting one left is Aria and you could write one good book about her alone. I do not care to wait eight or so years for the next book.
1 Martin admits in the acknowledgments that this book "was three bitches and a bastard" to write. If you can withstand boredom on an epic scale, you can see why.  Too many characters, too little action, and far, far too much musing about the past or what may or may not happen in the future.  Very little of any consequence happens in over 900 pages.  I had hoped that after the "Crows" fiasco the author would get back on track.  Unfortunately, GRRM went even further off the rails.
5 It arrived in excellent condition.I give it a 5 because it looks durable and arrived in such a mint condiiton.i am very pleased with the product and would recommend others to buy it.
5 Amazing, as usual.  It tied things up nicely and left just a few fun questions for... dare I hope... the next installment
5 So, i watched the HBO series before I read the books.  Love both but the books (as always) rival the series (which didn't entirely stay true to the books' story-line).  Highly anticipating the release of the final book/s!!
5 The &#34;A Song of Ice and Fire&#34; series is one of my most favorite reads.  This entry is the most recent release and one of the most fantastic.  If you love the show, you should read the series and multiple times.  It's a realistic fantasy tale that takes you deeper into its world than any other series has ever dared.  It's an amazing work, but GRR will break your heart while he keeps you turning the pages.
5 Damn...Not the ending I was expecting.  Now I am disappointed that I have to wait for the next book.  Again, George R.R. Martin has crafted a story that makes you want to hold on for dear life as the heads roll and we race from one vignette to another.  The dwarf has more lives than a cat and Snow is coming into his own.
4 Not quite as good as the others, but still a good read.  At times it seems like he is stretching the story out a lot further than it has to be.  I found myself thinking &#34;enough with the side tracks already...  Get him/her to where he/she is going...&#34;  But it does move the story along, and there some significant events.
1 At the end of "A Feast for Crows" (AFFC) we could read :"Tyrion , Jon , Danny ..... will be along next year (I devoutly hope) in A Dance with Dragons (ADWD), which will focus on the events along the Wall and across the sea, just as the present  book focused on King's Landing.G.Martin June 2005"Further, to justify that just 680 pages of AFFC took 5 years to be written, G.Martin tells us that ADWD was ALREADY finished. He merely had to publish the available material in two books instead of one.Well as we all know, ADWD didn't come the next year nor the year after. The book "already written" in 2005 took full 6 years to be published. It was necessary to remind these facts because, obviously this incredibly long time span raised significantly our expectations.If we had already to wait so long, it better be a masterpiece of A Storm of Swords caliber.Let us be honest, ADWD is to the Song of Ice and Fire what the Crossroads of Twilight were to the Wheel of Time. In other words a subpar lazy piece of writing which deserves 1 star because it is not possible to give less.As an aggravating circumstance comes that this piece of .... work was laboriously extruded during a full decade (AFFC+ADWD = 11 years).The Crossroads of Twilight has been very weak but at least R.Jordan didn't need 11 years to throw it at us.Readers and the series fans have speculated that George Martin has lost inspiration or interest.I submit that he lost both.First he obviously lost interest.ADWD has 959 pages prologue and epilogue included and contains 73 chapters.Let us be generous and consider that Martin mislead us and that actually only the half of this has been written in june 2005, so 480 pages and 37 chapters.That leaves us with 36 chapters and 480 pages to write.Obviously a writer committed  to his work and as devoted as G.Martin says he is, will put some hard work in the writing.Nobody expects 8 hours a day but ... what do you think about his interest when the result is 480 pages in 6 years, 312 weeks?If one considers that Martin wrote more than 1 chapter a week for the first 3 volumes (and how GOOD those volumes were !), he'd have indeed needed about 1 year to finish ADWD as he said.The unavoidable conclusion by comparing the 37 weeks of work with the 312 weeks delay is that Martin spent about 10% of his available productive time on writing ADWD.Those glaring disparities tell a clear story : while Martin had been both inspired and interested during the first 3 volumes, he bungled AFFC and completely lost interest in ADWD.As this would be irrelevant we'll not speculate about the reasons but everybody who occasionaly read Martin's blog knows why he lost interest.A severe case of hypercephalitis (new Tolkien indeed !) has certainly played a role .Second he lost inspiration.Here we will go in some length and spoilers are unavoidable. Actually there is nothing surprising or unexpected that happens in ADWD to warrant a spoiler alert but it is a tradition that I respect.As I said, ADWD is composed of 73 chapters. They are structured as folllows:The Wall+ Stannis: 22 chapters and 30 % of ADWD===============================================Jon : 14Davos : 4Asha : 3Melissandre : 1As you see this part which makes a whopping third of ADWD is all about Jon. What is so thrilling about him that Martin needs 14 chapters?Well Jon counts sausages. Cheese too. When he doesn't count sausages he receives wildlings south of the Wall. As they are many and more (mostly weak, wounded, crippled and otherwise impaired), he wonders what they will eat. And goes to count sausages. All this interspersed with"You know nothing" , "Corn,corn,corn"and "The night is dark and full of terror". It finishes with a REALLY ridiculous wannabe cliffhanger which will make you burst out laughing.The 4 Davos chapters are among the best and especially Lord Wyman Manderly, one of the few survivors of the excellent beginnings, is truly a character that still has 3 dimensions.Asha is useless drivel and Melissandre without interest.For those interested about Stannis like I am, his arc doesn't advance a single inch but you will be fed (another) ridiculous cliffhanger so that you may wait the next 5 or 10 years.Meeren + Daenerys : 33 chapters and 45% of ADWD===============================================Tyrion : 13Daenerys : 10Barristan : 4Quentyn : 4Victarion : 2I admit that I waited for this part with much interest. Most of us remember Martin's whining how he was struggling year after year with the "Meerenese knot". For the struggling part as I showed above he didn't struggle much. So what about the knot part?Tyrion "Wherever whores go" Lannister is actually on travels. You may leave him a message, he will call back in 5 years. Or 10. Is that all? Yes it is. Nothing knotted there.Daenerys transformed in a whining sex obsessed teenager with about as much intelligence as an oyster. We all know that her only purpose in the book is to tame her dragons, get to Westeros and kick Lanisters' a...s. Not that there are many Lannisters left because Martin has already exterminated everything that counted in the family anyway.Well in those 10 chapters Daenerys didn't make any progress towards this goal.She's stranded in Meeren surrounded by all kinds of Ahrrakz pffz Zgriks who do not like her and want the fighter pits opened. She doesn't. Then she opens them anyway. Everything is linear, boring and predictable. The slave and slavers can exterminate each other for all we care but they don't even do that. Not a trace of a knot here either.As Daenerys is temporarily absent, to get our dose  of Ahrrakz pffz Zgriks we need Ser Barristan to give it. He kills some guy in a definitely non knotted way.Quentyn. This is a disaster waiting to happen. Nobody remembers this guy  and nobody cares. But that's all right because Martin kills him after the 4 chapters anyway. Pure waste of time and space. Useless to add that there is no knot even with the wildest imagination.Victarion is a real badass, one of the few that are left. I admit that I enjoyed his 2 chapters even if Martin succeeded in the very hard task consisting in avoiding any action or character development at any price . In any case Victarion is a very straightforward guy with nothing knotted about him.So definitely this part which makes about half of the book is happening in places we don't care about, indulges in endless travelling (Tyrion) and descriptions, contains no plot at all and is generally irrelevant to anything that was important for the series. It is especially this part which demonstrates how uninspired and boring Martin became - the Quentyn chapters are an embarrassment and an insult to the intelligence of all readers.If there was any "knot" than it was only in Martin's imagination because with the best will you won't find anything that would be more complex or more knotted than a highway through Nevada .Westeros : 10 Chapters and 15 % of ADWD========================================Theon : 7Cersei : 2Jaime : 1Theon belongs with Davos to the best. We are in the thick of the contest for the North. The Boltons and the Freys are still their old selfs. We get a glimpse on what's seething in this cauldron and there are even moments which show that Westeros could still be interesting if Martin was not lazy and uncaring.Cersei was downgraded from a strong, beautiful  and vicious woman in Storm to a wilful totally paranoid bundle of nerves in AFFC. Martin finishes her off in ADWD. She is broken and exits the scene. Oh, I almost forgot, the last Lannister who still had some strength and personality gets killed too.Jaime's chapter is just a manner of Martin to taunt us "I served you a cliffhanger in AFFC and you thought to get the result in ADWD? Well I won't give it just to show you how little I care.  Perhaps in 6 years. RAFO ! Hehehe ! "Trash (for lack of better word) : 8 chapters and 10% of ADWD=============================================================Bran : 3Arya : 2Griff : 2Areo : 1Bran's chapters consist of Bran watching roots grow. Literally. Unfortunately he's necessary to the plot because he will deal with The Others when the time comes. Probably in many and more years if Martin and we live so long. So we had to suffer through those bleak chapters just to avoid forgetting who he was.I can understand that some readers were so desperate that even watching roots grow was an improvement to many other chapters so that they semi-liked the Bran's part.Arya's chapters are totally and utterly irrelevant to everything and anything. She has been training for assassin for the last 11 years and still does so.Griff introduces us to another resurrection. Not that we didn't expect this one.Areo. Who ?So what can be salvaged from this literary train wreck called ADWD preceded by another train wreck in the making, AFFC ?Theon (7 chapters) , Davos (4 chapters) , Victarion (2 chapters) , Griff (1 chapter) , Daenerys (1 or 2 chapters) and Jon (1 or 2 chapters) . Maximum 17 chapters out of 73.1 star .I am very pessimistic for the continuation . Martin has clearly lost it and the story will now just follow the gravity forces with much and more copy and paste. The strong and powerful characters,  we cared for are dead and those who stay are either broken (Cersei,Daenerys,Jon) or irrelevant (Bran, Arya, Stannis). Oh perhaps Wyman Manderly will be the only shining moment left.The plot grew stale , drawn out and predictable .We'll see in 10 years if Martin can recover but I won't hold my breath and do not recommend you to do so either.
3 Where is this series going?  Does anyone know or care anymore?  I remember the Gunslinger sage from King when I was a kid.  Well, sadly I outgrew the story and the same thing is happening here.  When you have a presidential term between books yet don't bother to have any plot progression it's inevitable you are going to lose readers and it's probable the story will never end.Martin has fallen in love with his prose at the expense of having anything happen.  Plus he has this annoying habit of introducing things that seemingly should have some import, but sadly never do.  Even the Stark direwolves that take up much of the story early on fade away until I'm left wondering why they were even introduced at all.  To a lesser extent I'm wondering why we met most of the Stark clan.  Ned's death seems like an eternity ago and have Bran, Arya or Sasha done anything of significance?  Ever?  Most people liked Book 2, but he spent so much time on Stannis only to have him essentially get a complete do over in book 3 I can only conclude his "crushing" defeat in book 2 was a mere flesh wound. For all his flaws books 1 and 3, and to a lesser extend 2 were great fun full of suspense and action.  Sure there were annoyingly long descriptions of wine drinking, what everyone was eating and how they did both, but the plot continued to move forward.After thinking about this for a few more days I just wanted to add it appears Martin enjoys writing about the details rather than action, and micro versus macro.  I recall thinking this as I read the fairly interesting, morbid but interesting, story arc about Thejon and Ramsey.  It really doesnt have any impact on the big picture, but he spends a lot of time making sure everyone knows Thejon is a broken man.  We already know Ramsey is a sadist, but Martin keeps giving us more and more evidence of that for no apparent reason.  I remember thinking the same thing about the fight at the wall.  Here Martin spent hundreds of pages worrying about the attack, explaining the gathering forces etc only to have it stymied by the Wall and 40 or so Crows.  Then to cap it off Stannis shows up with a few thousand knights and routs the entire wildling army.  Hey, it was interesting reading and A LOT of build up, but at the end of the day it was much sound and fury signifying nothing.  Now we know the real threat is the Others, but frankly I'm thinking if he treats that battle like every other major conflict when it finally arrives it will get a page or two describing it and then it will be neatly wrapped up.At this point I'm convinced Martin has no idea where he's going with the story so characters are essentially in limbo as Martin continues his love affair with describing the world they live in.  This book is no different.  Nothing of significance happens to advance the characters or the plot.  We do get told in detail what everyone is eating and drinking and wearing.So it will be another 3-4 years before the next book comes out, and probably 8-9 before the 7th book.  Even if the books were great that would be a long time to expect people to still care about the 20 characters he's juggling.
5 A Song of Ice and Fire, is a series that readers must learn to love. The POV style takes some time to get used to but I love it. I approached this book with doubt and fear. Many reviews were negative but they are short sighted. Have patience. People today are so results driven, everyone wants the fast answers or the quick fix, they don't have the time to appreciate the journey. This series is a journey. If you want to read about a history of a world that is different to our own yet so similar this is for you. This series is not about the readers or their rush to the outcome. All true readers know that books are about the journey. I have read a lot of books and none have taken me on a journey like these five books have. Those who knock this series I challenge you to focus on the journey and  not read to finish the books, and you will find these books more enjoyable.Magic, wit, humor, love, deception, dragons, honor are all things you will find in this book. Excellent writing and visual descriptions with a healthy portion of literary meat makes this one one of the best in the series. It's a marathon not a sprint people, are you up for the challenge?
2 Overall the series has its ups and downs; and it does inspire mixed emotions.  You climax with emotions.  I've read all 5 books in the last 3-4 months, and somewhere in the middle watched the HBO series.  The author is without a doubt a literary genius. It's obvious that the series does seem to drag out. Especially in books three and four.  Now a days why not make 7 books instead of just 2 or three ($$$). There is no doubt plain as the nose that used to be on Tyrion's face the author has been stalling. Throughout the series you can't help the feeling that there are more questions than answers as you continue reading.  The characters that you once despised you can't help but feel pity for; or should I say secretly cheer for.  Dare I say I had emotions as Cersei was taking her walk of shame. I couldn't help but thinking this would never have happened if Twyin Lannister was still alive.  Or if Tyrion was still the hand of the king.  Martin is definitely a master of suspense.  No doubt he is cleverly manipulating the reader into feeling anger, surprise, suspense, etc.OK back on track this is a review of the 5th book after all. The Author seems to be getting a second wind.  In all honesty I really have learned not to try to predict or hope for anything. JUST READ and enjoy.  I can't recall what I was hoping for from the inception of my adventure in the George R. Martin books.  I think I always wanted the Starks (remaining) to come back together to Winterfell.  Who knows?  The biggest Con of this series and any of its books is the Ocean of characters that actually have depth.  There's only so much time for one or any specific character.  So there's always going to be a feeling that you aren't getting enough of one character or the other.  That's the biggest criticism in this book and entire series.  That and the other small thing, PLOT RESOLUTION PLEASE!  There is none so don't expect any.  All in all these are the type of books that you have great difficulty putting down.  The first book is definitely better than the 5th; however, the 5th book is still quite good.  Anyways "in for a penny in for a pound".  What are you going to do quit on book number five.  You've already blazed through half of the series...In all honesty if there where some more plot resolution and less stalling this would outshine the Tolkien series without a doubt.
1 I was taken over by book 1, had to have books 2 and 3, and even enjoyed AFFC. I couldn't wait for ADWD and bought the hardback right away;  but I didn't even finish it. I went to Wikipedia for the last 100 pages of the plot, or what is supposed to be a plot.  There was a huge increase in distasteful language  and descriptions in this volume. I guess this was to make Tyrion and some others more quirky & interesting. The whole Dragon Queen plot became totally Byzantine. I began to skim those portions. Jon's voice on the Wall became the same thing over and over. In fact, the whole book became the same thing over and over. What a waste of money. Before I started ADWD I was concerned about waiting 5 years for the next volume. Now...I could care less when it comes out! What happened?
1 A lot of people waited a long time for this book.  When it finally arrived, and was as long as it was, I expected something to happen.  Very little did.  It drags, big time.  Now the wait for the next installment, which may never happen.
1 I didn't like it at all.it was very hard for me to keep reading it ! It just didn't have it ,the other books were great ! This book fell short of my expectations! To bad for the money I spent was not worth it at all!
2 I have been a huge fan of GRRM's Song of Ice and Fire Series.  Admittedly, A Feast for Crows had come as a disappointment.  But Martin had an explanation for that.  He reported on his web site that he had disagreements with the publisher about the scope and content of the book.  When I learned that A Dance with Dragons would finally be released this summer I felt confident that Martin would not disappoint his fans again and that he would deliver a novel that was worthy of the first three books in this series.  I anticipated spending a few weeks of the summer by the pool with this hefty tome in my hand.It turned out to be a big disappointment and I have put it aside several times to read other things that I wanted to read.  I have finally finished it.  In the previous books in this series, events had unfolded slowly but they had always maintained a sense of tension and drama.  Unfortunately, things move forward so slowly in A Dance with Dragons that it causes the reader to lose patience.  His handling of Tyrian, one of the most interesting characters of the previous novels, was particularly disappointing.  Tyrian sets out to align himself with Daenerys.  But after hundreds of pages of his adventures and misadventures, he never makes it to her.  This is extremely unsatisfying.  I would rather have read hundreds of pages of Tyrion interacting with Daenerys.  Maybe GRRM plans this for the next novel.  But if you don't have anything exciting to say in this novel, why not just move to it immediately?The plot lines revolving around Jon Snow and Daenerys are somewhat more interesting and suspenseful.  Some of the plots surrounding attempts to poison and assassinate Daenerys did hold my interest for a while.  Jon Snow has always been my favorite character in the series because of his combination of nobility and complexity.  His election to Lord Commander of the Nightwatch and his interactions with Melisandre were also interesting at times.  But these story lines were not enough to overcome my overall frustration with the lack of movement in this novel and Martin's tendency to skip over some of the larger conflicts that have been brewing in the series.This novel was a disappointment but I don't think that the series has been irredeemably lost.  It's clear that Martin still loves his characters and, let's face it, so do we.  Otherwise we wouldn't be criticizing him so fiercely here.  I am just hoping that in the next novel there will be some more significant events and major resolutions and that the development of the characters will go hand in hand with the measured unfolding of the story.
2 I'm not sure what happened here, but it sure took a long time to happen. I (mostly) loved all of the other books in this series and waited--waited years--for this volume. What a disappointment.If you haven't read the other books in this series, DO NOT start with this book--you won't have a clue. Martin introduces characters one after another, and unless you know them from the earlier books, you'll be left shaking your head. But what really astounded me about this book was the way he introduced several characters and then they seemed to drop off the face of the planet; you never hear from them again. What's up with that?While "Dragons" does have its moments, overall this book is a bore--and that's coming from someone who really loves the Fire and Ice series. It's obvious that the whole purpose of this book is to set up a sequel. I always thought that the purpose of a book like this was to entertain. It does that, after a fashion, but not very well.Sadly, I have to wonder if Martin has lost interest in his creation.
3 I've been reading George R. R. Martin for over 10 years. I've bought ever book i could find by him! I love his writing...  Have supported hhis work a long time :-)I'm not really excited about continuing my support however...  He doesn't seem to be an author anymore :-( Apparently he has too many &#34;other projects&#34; to actually finish his work :-(
4 Possible spoilers.I really like Martin's series but this book is not nearly as good as the others. It was very long winded at times when it didn't need to be and some of the characters seemed to devolve a little - Daenarys and Tyrion for example. Although Daenarys finally gets to ride a dragon. Tyrion just whines for most of the book.In the absence of Rob Stark, following the delightfully traitorous Red Wedding, a new candidate for the Iron Throne is unveiled. Hmm...deus ex machina? I think so.Some people we think are dead miraculously are not. And one of my favorite characters appears to meet their demise. Although I truly hope it's a ruse the like others.This book felt like a lot of small moves that should have built up to something epic but never did. I'm hoping the next book offers some more adventure. We need more battles and sieges. We need this simmering conflict to boil over and consume us.
5 If you're reading this review then you should have already read the first four books in the series.  I won't give anything away but there are a lot of unexpected plot twists complete with the death of some great characters and some not so great characters.I love all the song of ice and fire series and this is no exception.  If you've read the other books then pick this one up and continue in the amazing world that could only come from the mind of George R. R. Martin.
1 The first three books had a plot and just a few point of view characters. Now it is a meandering mess with too many pov's and not plot with beginning/middle/end. I enjoyed this book, but what started as a great series at the pantheon of fantasy fiction is now simply enjoyable.
5 My boys got me into this with the new show out.  The books go into more detail and the author keeps you in with each chapter he writes.  I can not wait for him to complete this series in print!
3 I dig Martin. I think he writes some amazing books. The first three Ice and Fire books are novels I will enjoy for years to come. That being said this book left a bitter taste in my mouth. There was some good Martin here but every time the story circled to Daenerys I wanted to take a nap, instead I skimmed chapters. There was a point, about 2/3rds in, where I just about jumped up because such an amazing scene happened. Then the book when back to MEH-land. The place where Martin seems to have become quite comfortable over the last few years.But I get it. I'm a writer myself and I know that not everyone will 'get' your work. I am glad the book is finally out but it is truly about 300 pages long. I wish he would have released the second half of Feast, as he talked about so many years ago, instead of this mishmash of two books that somehow packs an unbelievable amount of boredom into what HAD become one of the greatest fantasy epics of all time. The time flow is just disjointed and the ending was far from satisfying. Kill your darlings but for crying out loud, leave at least a few likable characters around for the next book.The thing is, Martin is doing what he loves and people are buying his books like crazy. So go George, man, more power to you. I just hope that:1. The next book is better and doesn't take 6 FRIGGING YEARS!2. He doesn't go out like Jordan, leaving reams of notes for someone else to finish what he could not.3. He gets to see this entire epic made on HBO. I know I hope for the same.If you are a Martin fan you pretty much have to read this book. There is simply no way to encompass the entire novel with someone else's notes before the next book. Unless you just give up.So pick up this massive tome and when it gets slow just smack yourself in the forehead with it. When you come too, you will look at the book in a whole new perspective.
5 A very strong and well written book that will leave the reader desiring to read the next in the series.  There are continuations of the story lines from book four as well, which makes it all the more interesting.
4 well, it's actually a continuation of book 4 or, it runs concurrently with book 4.  if this sounds complicated... it is.  if you have read the 1st 4 books, you are already hooked and are dying to know all about...?  if you haven't read any of them yet,  be prepared.  this series is no light read for a weekend working on you tan.i knew all of this, and i bought it anyway!  if you are fan of A Song Of fire And Ice this will be your cup of tea.  if not...  try re-reading tolkiens ring trilogy.  it's lighter and shorter.
5 The detailsand twists and turns are awesome.  This book was awesome!  Not a lot of battles but great stories.  Cant wait for the nect one!
5 As per usual, George's storytelling is crackerjack!  I was riveted and left wanting more, which is always the problem with George.  I fear that the next installment won't be for awhile!  Recommended!
5 This book was just explosive!  Couldn't put it down and now I have to wait (again) for the sixth book.
5 Every book in this series has been fantastic and this is no exception. The only complaint I have is that we're left on a major cliffhanger, but it certainly makes wait for the next book full of anticipation!
2 Plenty of reviews here with the same sentiment, but I'll chip in my two bits.Martin got three solid books out of this series...then it went off the rails with "A Feast for Crows" and "A Dance With Dragons" continues the train wreck.  I think his honesty to the story is getting in the way.  It is like no character can *ever* achieve their basic goal (or any goal for that matter).  Tragedy always ensues which sends the story in yet another new direction (complete with 1000 new irrelevant characters). It's impossible to fall in love with any of the characters.Too many new characters, too much useless traveling, constant soul-searching by various characters, and way too much descriptive prose (I don't know why he has to go into 3 paragraph details about a simple meal, or describe in excruciating detail the 4,000th coat of arms of some character that you will never hear from again) - it all grinds the story to a halt.Personally, I'm going to skip the next book and MAYBE pick up the 7th, as I do have an interest in what happened to (what's left) of the original characters.Damn shame - Martin really had something good going on there for a while.
4 Martin has split a longer book into two parts, a result, I think, of the problem I outlined in my review of the previous book: with a larger number of narrators, the writer is sometimes forced to write about a character simply to keep them current in the story. Movement is not action, a point exemplified in Tyrion Lannister's chapters. His purpose in this novel seems only to be to introduce to us the missing Targaryen prince rather than to develop his own conflicts.However, the writing does flow forward. I was able to finish reading the book in less than three weeks. Those readers of the previous books will not have to worry that the story here will completely bog down. However, he is still no further to resolving some of the mysteries raised in the earlier books. We are no further to discovering who ordered the attack on Bran Stark in book one. For that matter, we are no closer to discovering who was behind Ser Mandon Moore's treacherous attack on Tyrion Lannister during the battle for King's Landing in book two. Some of these should have been resolved before the conflicts which await us in book six are opened.
4 To say that A Song of Ice and Fire is a beloved franchise is an understatement. Many individuals, excluding myself, felt that George R.R. Martin's last outing "A Feast for Crows" was in poor show.  It was so strange to see the forums light up with outrage over a book that was, by my observation, one of the best in the series.  Two of the most common complaints were that "Feast" didn't feature the most beloved characters in the series, i.e. Daenerys, Tyrion, Jon Snow, and that it didn't feature a truly memorable scene like the Red Wedding from "A Storm of Swords".  That all changes in "A Dance with Dragons".  Written as a companion piece with "Feast", "Dance" features all of the northern and western characters that were missing from the fourth novel.More likely than not, the most common complaint of "A Dance with Dragons" will be the tremendous length of the book.  "Dance" is the longest entry in the series, and just as the case with Feast, it has a certain unhurried feel to it. In all fairness to the complainers, "Dance's" narrative does overlap with "Feast's" narrative for about the first 600 or so pages.  It is the investable result of "Feast's" own incompleteness, and the way its manuscript was culled from that of "Dance" to begin with.As previously mentioned, the three most beloved characters (Danny, Jon, and Tyrion) make a return.  In fact, they carry the bulk of the plot this time around, which depending on whether you enjoy their characters could be a good or bad thing.  Both "Feast" and "Dance" follow the culmination of the third novel "Storm", and Martin takes great care and deliberation to follow the main characters as Westeros tries to rebuild their nation in the aftermath of the War of Five Kings.  There are times in the novel where things are slow going, and it makes you wonder whether Martin just threw in the towel and is trying to ride this thing out.  But the cumulative effect of the novel, once it is over, is formidable, proving that Martin hasn't lost any of his mastery of writing what is considered the greatest fantasy epic of all time.  It really takes reading the whole book to appreciate what Martin has created this time around.Up north at the Wall, Jon Snow, now serving as the 988th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, has his hands full.  The Other's, also known as the undead menace that is destroying everything north of the Wall, are driving the Wildling's towards the wall, leaving Jon to figure out what to do about it.  On top of that, the self-proclaimed King of Westeros, Stannis Baratheon, is becoming an arrogant nuisance who hopes to unite the entire north by raiding the land.Elsewhere, everyone is waiting for Dany Targaryen, who has claimed the city of Meereen as her own, to make her intentions clear.  All are somewhat bewildered by the fact that Dany has chosen to take up residence in Meereen, abandoning her claim to the thrown, at least for the time being.  Dany is determined to do right by the people of Meereen, whom she has liberated from slavery by banning that institution entirely.  It is a decision that has crippled the economy.  It also made a whole mess of people angry and upset at her decision.  These people have begun to assassinate her soldiers, leaving the city a very unsafe place for Dany and her followers.And finally there is Tyrion, fleeing Westeros after murdering his father with a crossbow, he finds himself in about the most humiliating and dire circumstances that he has come across thus far in the series.  Later in the book, we get to see a bit more of what transpired in the lives of Arya, Cersei, Jamie, and the others.  Meanwhile, underlying everything is the sense that there is fresh chaos about to erupt with the realm.  It is only a question of where and when, someone will strike the first blow.As expected, Martin's writing is nothing short of amazing.  Beyond the prose, the editing is something to be marveled. Thousand-page epic fantasy doorstoppers are plentiful, but you don't often find one that manages to balance multiple plot threads and vast ensemble casts so smoothly that readers never get bewildered, lost, or just plain bored out of their minds.Once you dive into the meat of this novel, you'll know without a doubt, that you are back in the Seven Kingdoms, where lives are cheap, words are wind, and winter is coming.
5 After the filler book #4 that simply updated lesser characters, Martin returns to the fast paced intrigue of book 3.Plot twists and unexpected events make for an easy enjoyable read. Waiting for Book 6 later this year (?)
2 I will not get it because I'm fed up with Westeros, the imaginary land where it takes place, as well as the characters and the whole thing. Number four (got the paper back version) was really frustrating and boring. I did enjoy  the first two books. Reading number 3 was quite disappointing but I managed to finish it. Reason? Martin's a great writer, no doubt but as of book 3, the original Story-line and characters start to fade out or just vanish. The remaining ones, after some FOUR THOUSAND PAGES are still pretty much the same age (Not even Homer's Illiad does that!),- (boring)... It 'is' a "saga", only because it all takes place in Westeros . So Westeros IS the main character! (and whores, and BLOODY CRUEL MURDERS, and "bastard-borns"... and MORE cruelty and treason...ENOUGH...MORE THAN ENOUGH!!) Too much of the same for me.
2 Martin's forte was his political intrigue and the unexpected way he killed off major characters.  Now, it seems everyone comes back from the dead, the political intrigue goes nowhere and he traded realistic fantasy for stupid absurd talking-tree fantasy.  Lots of people are on the move, but no one seems to get anywhere.  The Reek chapters are so over the top and frequent that I started to hate reading them - "Oh God, not another stupid internal rhyming dialogue" was a frequent thought.Martin has really started to let the size and scope of what he's doing overwhelm him.  It took five years for this...series of unresolved events.  I can only imagine how long we'll wait for more unresolved events, new POVs and new stupid rhymes from Reek (aka Theon).
5 At the beginning it was difficult to follow because of all the new characters he was introducing. But eventually I got into it. The detail that Martin uses to describe someone's outfit paints an excellent picture.I also enjoy his description of a meal, whether a rather simple meal or a 7-course meal. Especially since most of what we are dealing with is not something you find in a local 5-star restaurant, get my mouth starts watering.When reading a couple books at the same time, I usually can't wait to get back to Martin because his writing is head-and-shoulder above whatever else I am reading.
2 I'm so disappointed. I love great fantasy and GRRM is one of my favorite writers, but this is more like reading a text book with nothing but facts.A Dance with Dragons is just not up to Martin's ability.
4 This book is a little scattered but if you take the time to get into all the characters they won't disappoint you. Also some of the storylines have been left behind as well. Looking forward to the next one!
5 I always lose sleep over them staying up well into the night eager for more.I have this awful taste in my mouth as my second favorite character lies bloody and dead or dieing.Why would you end it like this?
4 Much better than book 4. I struggled through book 4. I actually quit twice.  Book 5 was a breeze to read through.
5 Loved this installment. Glad to get ahead a little ahead of  the show. So many great stories in this-cersei( Bout time she got what she gives), Jon Snow- please say he's still kicking! Arya- probably my favorite storyline- in the house of black and white, can't wait til she grows up. Tyrion,oh Tyrion, laughed so much at his quibbles. Dany,Dany- surprised at her &#34;marriage&#34; but love Daario( the one on hbo is yummy too). Can't say enough great things, hope I get to read everyone's HEA(though I'd settle for Jon,Arya,and Tyrion's:)
4 Another lengthy novel by Martin wheremore characters are developed and moreexperience their demise. Twists and turnsthroughout with always a glimmer of hopethat the &#34;good&#34; guys might win. Then againsometimes it is hard to know if there are anyreal good guys with this series.
5 GRRM is a god among writers. I grew up with a strong distaste for reading, instead preferring the easy entertainment of video games and TV. After discovering the Game of Thrones TV show on HBO i decided to thumb through one of the books. A few short months later i found i had ready every book in the series. If this book can make me like reading for fun i'm sure it will be an instant hot for anyone. The BEST book series ever written!
3 Simply put, the book is long, wordy, and seems to go nowhere. Everything ends in obnoxious cliffhangers so there's no sense of closure, just frustration.Some of the characters I was most interested in (i.e. Bran) get almost no mention. I read in an interview where GRRM said that Bran's chapters were some of the hardest to write because of the magical elements... so I guess he fixed that by just not writing any.I wonder how HBO will turn this and book 4 into functioning seasons, because the events related in their combined 2000 pages don't offer much of the breakneck pacing and excitement the show is known for.
2 Though the story kept my attention enough to continue reading to the end, the storytelling is lacking. Splitting up the storylines into two books that take place at the exact same time is a terrible mistake and only made me lose interest in other characters. Out of all of the books, this book has the least action as well--nothing dramatic happens as compared to the sinister nature of the other books.Martin has a lot of work to do to appease his readers in the next book. I hope he can pull it off because otherwise he's set himself up to a lot of pressure and with the tv series he's only attracting attention for what may be a dramatic failure.
5 I love the entires series. I'm very surprised this book didn't get better reviews. I thought Feast of Crows wasn't his best work, just because my favorite characters were in this book, but I loved Dance with Dragons. The only complaint I have is that the books are moving more and more towards being a magic-dominated book. I really liked it when it was all about winning the iron throne. But it's not like we all didn't see this coming. It's been building up to something like this, and it's only going to get more and more like this from here on. The characters are so great that I just don't care about it at this point.When's the next one?
5 Martin brings back in to the story elements that were sidelined in Book 4.  More pieces fall into place for what is coming.  If you are in this series, keep going!
4 I'm going to write a very brief review of this book, so I'll just cover a few bases.  To begin with, I think the first three Song of Ice and Fire books are top-tier fantasy novels that easily contend with the likes of Lord of the Rings and the Wheel of Time.  The fourth book, however, A Feast for Crows, left ol' Martin's fanbase decidedly divided.  The book, to me, was basically a well-written intermission of sorts that served to move playing pieces into their places.  I did rather enjoy it, though.  Since that book covered the characters from a certain geography only, then A Dance with Dragons covers the characters who were not in Feast for Crows.  Now, since nothing momentous happened in A Feast for Crows, and nothing momentous was reported from the other characters offscreen, then it should have been a logical conclusion that A Dance with Dragons would be of a similar pace and low-impact plotting as A Feast for Crows.  This turns out to be the case.  A Dance with Dragons is really well done, but it's just very slow and not much happens to advance the overall plot.  There are some really intriguing events being set up, however, and since the book is so well done I found myself really enjoying it, albeit it not nearly as much as the first three books.  I can see why some people are disappointed, though.  Nothing happens in this book that you would want and expect to happen, and since A Feast for Crows was basically a plot doldrum, everyone seemed to hope that A Dance with Dragons would be a fireball of epic grandeur.  Its my opinion that since the last two books were basically huge intermissions of plot organizing, it stands to reason that the final two books of the Ice and Fire series will be mind boggling in scope and action.  In any case, this book leaves me looking ever more forward to the next installment, and let's just hope the intermission phase is over with.
3 this is a fine fat piggy of a book ... I'm sure GRRM laughed all the way to the bank ... it is an incredible 346 pages stretched into 1016 pages. Tons of cliff hangars and Tyrion emerges as a real favorite ... Liked it and alternated between suffering through it and racing through it. It is a book in desperate need of editing. True fans and members of the cult will enjoy it. I have mixed feelings about it even though I enjoyed oh say 400 pages or so of it. Ah, it's time to stop introducing new characters and to find a way to end it. And, therein lies the rub. I am not sure GRRM knows how he will end ths thing. More than anything I hope he will spare us the wights err zombies err frozen dead.
3 !!!!!!!! CONTAINS MAJOR SPOILERS, DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVE NOT READ !!!!!!!!Good news for those of you waiting to hear about your favorite characters, Jon, Daenerys and Tyrion are all here.  The bad news is that  their story-lines are the worst parts of the book.  The plot moves at a slugs pace, not much really happens to move the main story along at all.Tyrion - Tyrion was one of the best characters, but there's only so much of his repetitive wiseguy hijinks that I can take, especially when it doesn't move the story along at all.  Yeah, we know, Tyrion is a smart a$$ dwarf that can't keep his mouth shut. I can sum up every Tyrion chapter like this: Tyrion mouths off, *Smack*,  Tyrion spits  blood.  Tyrion insults whoever, *Kick*, Tyrion doubles over in pain, Tyrion speaks his mind, *Whack*, Tyrion groans.  Seriously, every chapter about  Tyrion involves him smarting off and getting a beat down, that's all.  Add to that, a near death scene and an improbable rescue of Tyrion and you have a lot of disappointing chapters involving your best character.Daenery's - Wow, were these chapters tedious.  In a nutshell, Daenery's is a bleeding heart that wants to save the world, down to the last kitten, bunny, puppy & butterfly.  No child, animal or insect left behind, at all costs.  Oh wait, she also cages her dragons.  I found myself throughout the book wanting to shake Dany violently and yell, "Wakeup! It's not you the people are following, it's your Dragons, it's not about you and your platinum hair & amethyst eyes, it's about your Dragons, and you just caged them up! Get an F'ing clue girl!"Jon - Much like Daenerys, Jon has decided to save the world, including the entire Wildling population down to the last giant, no matter what the cost to his Brothers. *Sigh* Jon is very stubborn and unyielding much like his father.  He doesn't listen to anyone around him of the danger he is in, yes, much like his father.  Jon's chapters were alright except for a huge, glaring, fly in the ointment, part that Martin added.  Jon gets a letter from Bolton revealing that Bolton has just destroyed Stannis and is going to be coming for Jon if he doesn't comply with his wishes.  What does Jon do? He gets personal and decides to attack Roose and anyone of the Watch that wants to join him is welcome.  In other words, he decides to commit treason. As Stewie Griffith would say: "Say Whaaaaat?"  Martin has spent the previous books and this one building Jon up as a follower of the rules, much like his father, and out of nowhere he decides to break the main oath of the Watch, "Don't Get Involved".  Add to it, that Jon is the Commander, not just some grunt of the Watch and it just becomes ridiculous, totally brings down the book.  Unlike others, I don't care a lick that Jon's is cut down by his Brothers, isn't that their duty after all to handle treason?  They were doing their job, unlike Jon. But if Jon is brought back to life after basically having his throat cut and belly sliced open, I will really be upset and this series will have officially, "Jumped the Shark".  The only thing I'll accept is if he goes into Ghost, a proper name, if you think about it.  If he comes back with a miraculous recovery or as a wight, sun-god zombie or whatever, the book will be ruined and becomes a farce for me.The book of course contains several other stories about ancillary characters that for the most part go nowhere and add nothing to the story but more pages.  But the story of Theon "Reek" Greyjoy is the one bright spot and probably the best storyline in the book. This book was rather bloated with endless details that only Martin can describe.  He does it with great prose in great style but there are only so many descriptions of food you can stomach without becoming bored.  His descriptions of food, meals and drink were so detailed and exact, that I often found myself craving food throughout my read. Martin's star might be fading in the fantasy fiction world, but the Food Channel would be chomping at the bit to get him to market their channel.  Another thing that annoys me was Martin's repetition of the same old phrases.  She's been f'ing Lancel and Osmund Kettleblack and probably Moon Boy for all I know.  My name is Reek it rhymes with meek.  Where do whores go, for that matter where do plots go?  Not anywhere fast in this book.It's not a bad book, but for Martin it has to be considered mediocre mess.  I can only hope he can tighten up the remainder of his books and not ruin his legacy as one of the best.  I know many people will give this book a 1 star review because their favorite character, Jon, was killed.  I'll just say this, basing your review off an emotional attachment to a fictional character is unfair. Life is not a song, sweetling. Someday you may learn that, to your sorrow.
3 I'll read the next books when they come out, but if fantasy fiction at its highest level is supposed to be an epic story of good vs. evil, then this book (and series) falls well short of the mark.  I've read all five books after hearing Martin on an radio interview plugging Dance when it came out.  He has created a world that is many-layered and endowed it with history and fable, and the characters are interesting, although one gets the sense that some of the "skin-changing" episodes aren't limited to the ones that the author intended.  I've seen one character morph into another across the span of the series.The plot wobbles all over the place - with the point being that life is that way, I guess.  But this is fantasy - the reason for the story is that this is supposed to transcend "the way life is".Long and complex doesn't equal genius, however.  I'll read the next books, but I'm certainly not on the edge of my seat wondering how things are going to turn out.  Bottom line:  Martin's series is slightly above the norm for this genre, but to compare him to Tolkien is to compare Quayle to Kennedy.
5 After the somewhat disappointing fourth book, this one was much better.  Would recommend the series to anyone who enjoys the series on HBO.
3 From the first book, I fell in love with the story and the characters.  I read all 4 books and avidly awaited the 5th.  Unfortunately I was disappointed in Dance with Dragons. NOTHING is resolved, NOTHING is laid to rest. And now, I'm left knowing I'll need to buy another book, if not more, just to see how this story resolves itself and what happens to the characters we've come to know and love.Seriously....if J.R.R. Tolkien can write an incredible and amazing story about the Lord of the Rings in three books (4 if you count The Hobbit)...one would think George R.R. Martin could wrap it all up in the 5th book.Come on George....finish up the story of the Game of Thrones and start another series I can sink my teeth into and love.  I know you've got more than one story in that creative and talented mind of yours.
1 Lovers of Westeros,We all wanted this book to take us back to an age where the lord of bards, George R.R. Martin, had the guts, the energy, and the gumption for true storytelling. That is to say: We wanted the pace, the plot, the people, and the passion of the first three books. The unfortunate reality, however, is that this book delivers none of these. It is a commercial product designed to fulfill a contract and to make a publisher money. Of course, there is nothing wrong with this. Nothing at all. But don't think for a second that this tree-killing monster is anything more than that.Three things you need to know before buying this tripe:1. There will be no sixth book; at least not one written by GRRM. He (or his publishers) will do what Robert Jordan did. (Not a bad solution, really.)2. At least half of the "five star" reviews have been written by GRRM's friends and fans, the same folks who would give five stars to a steaming turd dropped from the Wall so long as it came from GRRM's well lubricated bowels.3. Take a look at other major f/sf series here on Amazon. Nowhere -- I mean nowhere -- will you see such a collection of one star reviews. Do you know why that is? Because this book is trash. Period. And the world knows it.Remember when GRRM told us fans "to get a life?" Back when we were all waiting for FFC? Remember that?Time for him to take his own advice.FINAL WORD: Trash. Pure and simple.0.5 STARS
4 This felt almost like an incredibly good 'fanfic' book.One that got written 'between' real books by the author.I enjoyed the stories about the characters, but they *almost*seemed like 'background' stories.  Filling in LOTS of minordetails about what happens between major plot points.With few exceptions, barring some bizarre twist of plot in the next book, the reader doesn't REALLY need to know most of the stuff that happens in this book.  I suspect you could skip this book, and when you read the next one, you wouldn't realize you had missed one.That said, I still enjoyed the read.  It was fun to get to know the characters a little better.  See them in the mundane day to day activities that is their lives.  In a way, it gives a little better 'perspective' to view the earth shaking events.  The idea that earth shaking stuff is the EXCEPTION, not the rule.I'm a fisherman, and I see it a little like fishing: If I nearly always caught 4 or 5 limits of my target fish every time I went out, I would call it a bad day when I went out and only caught 2 limits.  But if I usually only catch one limit, then catching 2 limits is a good day!I guess I'm saying maybe GRRM attempted to lower our expectations a little, so he can WOW us with just a COUPLE major events in the next book.  OR maybe not.  But like I said, I did enjoy the read, even though nothing really momentous happened.
4 I've read all 5 of the existing books and just feel frustrated. I figure I've read about 3000 pages and just feel a great lack of closure. Worse I feel that this story could go on for ever.Don't get me wrong I liked the books but I just feel frustrated and more importantly cheated. I feel that the whole story is beginning to seriously drag and was possibly designed that way just to make money. Especially since the author seems to be struggling to complete the work. Likened to J.R.R. Tolkein, an American version is flattering but Tokein finished his work.
3 A very good book to read the more you read the better it got keeps you guessing at what would happen next good reading
4 I found this book in the series to be more ponderous than the previous four. The first half of the book proved to be less interesting and made me feel the,author was having trouble keeping the story straight. Almost as though he had lost control of his characters. The last half of the book was more interesting and found the path laid out in the previous books. Still enjoy the series and can't wait to continue the journey.
5 Much better than the last. Interesting developments in plot , the story moved well, and there was some growth. I can't wait to read the next one.
1 this book taught me not to start series of books until the last one is published.when (i mean if) the series is complete, i will pick it up again (or wait for hbo to finish it?).i think, not sure, this book is longer than all of the lord of the rings books combined, yet NOTHING happens (well enough happens that a 1 page summary can easily suffice, i've seen it done in reviews here).sad to see the greatness of books 1-3 diminish...
4 First of all i must say i came late in these series . I saw the tv series and then bought the books , so i didn't have to wait 5 years for the last one . Maybe that is why i liked it .Now lets start with my review . It may contain spoilers for those who do not wish to be spoiled !Yes it didn't have the action that the first 3 had but i had anticipated that much . In order to move the story foward you do need to slow down the pase at some point , that was what affc was and adwd . Set the players in key positions for future come . I expect the next one will be full of action and resolutions for our favorite characters . As for the cliffhangers some you saw coming a mile away like John Snow for instance , nobody agreed with him or his actions . I do hope he comes clean though i coundn't bare loosing him . As for Stannis it was indeferent to me whether he lived or died and still is for that matter . It was nice to see that Melissandre was not all wicked . But as to who this Azor Ashai is still remains to be seen . Jamie , ah Jamie i have grown very fond of him now that he is out of Cercies spell and i see the purpose of Brienne now which eluded me before . I liked the glimpes of Arya but i do wish she was coming back to westeros , to interact with someone familiar , anyone ! Tyrion , i just love him , absolutely love him . I was happy he did not reach Denearys  . Maybe i am the minority here but i find no reason for him to just be an adviser for her , he has so much potential and it would go to waste on her . Yes i do not like the dragon mother anymore . Maybe she should just stay in Mereene and be the queen there , now that we have an onther Targarean i say we don't need her . GRRM has made me change my mind about a character i so loved in the begining and was rooting for her .I enjoyed this book as i did all the others . The wrighting i found the same , the discriptions of food the say no more or less than the other bookes . I get why people complain though it has mostly to do with anticipation all those years .The only downfall i saw where the ironborn , if they were not in the book it would make no difference to me . Maybe it aludes me i don't know .I will be waiting for the next one although i do hope it will not take so long .
2 I first started reading this book in 2011 when it first came out. If only Martin would FINISH this series. I am too vested to stop reading and I need the closure.All the books are LONG and they drag on a bit. A Dance with Dragons isn't even book 5. It's really an addendum to book 4. I am a bit lost now since it's been THAT long since I have read the last book. Some of the chapters are a difficult read as I am finding that I use this book to help me go to sleep.I had borrowed this book from my local library back in 2011.  I returned this book to the library after having made it only to page 145. I couldn't NOT put it down (translation: snooze fest). I was forcing myself to get through a chapter a day, but the length of the book and the fact that it was a loaner from the library was too much pressure.UGH the endless details and rambling. Just. get. to. the. point. Lucky for me, I wasn't one of those poor saps that had to wait umpteen years for Martin to release this one as I had read the other books in the past two years.I bought the Amazon Kindle version this year with a goal that I will read a few pages each day and hopefully get through the end.  I shouldn't punish myself this way - I may not ever finish it, but if I am having trouble falling asleep, I know I can just grab this book and be out in about 15 minutes.
4 Good foundation for another book wish it would've answered more questions.  Enjoyed  the details. That's what drew me to the series
5 Great read for those that have read the other four (4) Volumes in the saga.  Plenty of surprises (and disappointments for various characters).
4 This book similar to all George RR Martin books is brilliantly written.  I continue to have a love hate relationship with most of the major characters.  For example, as much as I detest the character Cersei I began to feel pity for her in this book.  This is the nature and the beauty of the series where no one is completely evil or good.  I think the brilliance of the writing makes the disappointing portions glare more brightly than one would see in an average to above average book.Problem 1, Lists and Lists of useless information. During one visit to the wall almost a full page is dedicated to listing all of the shields that were arrayed on the wall by the family name and crest.  As with so many of the Martin lists the names are rarely ever seen or heard from again.  I have gotten to the point that when I see these lists I usually just read the first and last one.Problem 2, Premature ending.  When I finally arrived at page 1000 I began to feel anxious because I knew Martin could not give me the satisfaction of some resolutions before the book was over with only 100 pages left.  In a series of this nature it is expected that some plot lines will continue unresolved until the next book but in this case Martin left virtually all plot lines unresolved.  I thought this was supposed to fix the problem with Feast of Crows but again I was left wanting.  While writing this review I was tempted to fake satisfaction because the book was still an enjoyable read but it is best to let prospective readers understand the book's limitations.Problem 3, There are still some characters that leave me clueless.  I really don't understand what is going on with Bran.  Martin has spent a lot of ink chronicling Bran's sojourn with mystical undertones but I'll be darn if I have any inkling how this will impact the story line.  What was up with Jon Snow?  He turned from a position of zero intervention with the world of men to a highly political being.  Character disconnects and unresolved story lines abound.One would think that with this critique I would have given the book a lower rating but when evaluated based on the writing merit and the enjoyability factor George RR Martin continues to deliver.  Now if he can just focus on writing some plot resolutions, publish Book 6 withing the next 12 to 18 months and reduce the mundane lists I will find myself completely satisfied.My recommendation is to read it but don't expect it sate your appetite it is merely a morsel to wet your whistle.
5 Outstanding!!!  Love this series and am waiting eagerly for the next installment.Very skillful blending of politics, warfare, magic, fantasy and the unexpected.
5 I couldn't put it down! Masterfully written, the saga continues.  The characters are like old friends. I wish I had the next book in my hands.
5 Its hard for a 1000 page book to keep your attention, but even with all the unnecessary kills I still found this one the most riveting out of the series so far.
5 If you've read the previous books. Then you know what this book is and what it's about. The continuation of this epic saga was everything I hoped it would be. Well, almost. I'll have to wait until the next installment for many unanswered questions. If you are a fan of the Song of Ice and fire, you will enjoy this.
2 If I wasn't already bought into the series with books 1-4 (and if I hadn't waited 6 years for it) I would not have finished this book. This book is a perfect example of what happens when you don't plan out exactly what you're doing. I think GRRM really screwed up big time with AFFC and now this. He introduced too many PoVs and the book starts to feel really disjointed about halfway through when it seems like nothing happens with many of the main characters just so we can get more of the PoVs in. Characters like Victarion and Asha are super interesting and all, but they just don't advance the overall story.The mark of a series going sour in books and in TV is usually when you watch/read a bunch of stuff without anything really happening. There is really no other way to describe this book. Let's look at some examples (minor spoilers):Tyrion - A favorite character to many; last we heard from him he was being squirreled off by Varys. In this book, he goes across the narrow sea and then does.... essentially nothing. If you read the preview chapter for Tyrion on GRRM's site, then you're pretty much where I am after reading the book.Danaerys - This was the biggest travesty of them all. Literally zero movement here.Jon - This character had some movement, though if you've read the preview chapter (posted on GRRM's site in 2008) there is really nothing of interest here until the last Jon Snow chapter in the book.Theon - This character was pointless and drawn out.Overall, as well, there is VERY little different in this book.The whole idea of this book is to try and take as long as possible to build stuff up as to make even the smallest changes seem epic. Things like Theon's escape attempt takes many, many needless chapters of labored anguish. Why?!The whole book is structured foolishly as well: the first half is split about evenly between Tyrion, Jon, and Danaerys with some Theon sprinkled in. The characters move slowly, but it's acceptable. After the first half, the book turns into PoV after random PoV. Asha, Victarion, Melisandre, Barristan, it's just random person after random person and then it brings people back from AFFC. Of course, nothing is going to get tied up! The story basically stops halfway through the book!This is the problem with this whole 'time split' thing. He needed more PoVs for AFFC and so now he needs to wrap those PoVs up, even though the story doesn't need them to continue. Textbook case of good intentions gone wrong. Bit sad to see this happen to a great series.
5 Best book so far! I didn't want it to end. I can't wait for the next one in the series!
5 I was captivated even knowing beyond a doubt that this was fiction, I was unable to put the book down.  The only minor negatives were the unusual use of Martin's creative &#34;language.&#34;  The use of &#34;ser&#34; and some of the unusual character names slowed my reading pace, but not enough to take away my enjoyment.  I was thrilled to see the development of the main character, Dany Stormborn, from a shy young maid to the true &#34;Mother of Dragons.&#34;
5 Great. Love this series....written well, so as to be right in the story itself, can't wait for another. All characters are interesting, and intertwined.  So much fun to read..
4 As the 5th book in the Song of Ice and Fire series, Dance with Dragons may very well be the final expansion item in the series. This is not a bad thing per-se: it means that if you understand the pattern of the books, the story has not only progressed a great degree but the scope of it has gotten bigger and bigger and bigger. Whereas the first book focused strictly on the perspectives of the Starks, Tyrion, and Daenerys, the second book brought in Theon and Davos, the third book brought in Samwell and Jaime, the forth book brought in Brienne, Cersei, the Greyjoys, the Soiled Knight of the Kingsguard, The Dornish Guard Captain, and Reek. Now the 5th book, the story being told in parallel with A Feast For Crows, brought in the main characters back, caught up with the awesome ending that book, and then continued forward. And yet, as the story has progressed and expanded at the same time, it remains manageable, compelling, character-centered, thought-provoking, and a sound emotional mix ranging from frustration with people you hate, and gratification with people you love.I do have a theory about why there are so many 1 and 2 star reviews. Maybe it's because this story has drifted well outside the comfort zone of many readers and they simply weren't ready for it. By now, you the reader have been consumed into this world that is clearly bigger than you, and this story does require some serious comprehension. And I guess given the shallowness of mainstream books like Twilight and the Seinfeld-Banya rivalry, people prefer material they don't have to think about.And that's just unfortunate, because a quality story like the one told in Feast for Crows and Dance With Dragons, both of which given a long and drawn out 2nd act, really does deserve to be told and it deserves to be credited with thought and intrigue. The series has been amazing thus far, and unlike most others, I have embraced this difference. Here is a book series that immersed me into a world that doesn't even exist, and I am now torn on several sides, trying to figure out how best to rule and control it and how I would sort this political mess out. And because there is just so much there, to the point where fantasizing about acquiring the powers of Superman and warping into the world so I can kill who I want, save who I want, and fix everything is literally an impossible task. That the only purpose in my reading of these books is because I am desperate to see what happens next and I just want to see how it ends. There is no book series that has ever done that to me. And that's what makes Song of Ice and Fire valuable, particularly Dance With Dragons.Now maybe after all that, you're all wondering why I gave this book 4 stars and not 5. I only give something 5 stars if I think it is either flawless or its flaws are so tiny that they aren't even worth mentioning as flaws. In this case, I was a little disappointed with a couple of the character arcs in this book - particularly Bran. He's in the beginning of the book, and then a little later, there's this absolutely epic moment that I will not spoil that has to do with him, but after that...nothing. Bran has gotten cooler and cooler throughout the story and I really wanted to see more of him, but I guess that's material for the 6th book and this story was largely centered around Daenerys. This is understandable, but also a little disappointing because even her story was a little stagnant. There was plenty there, but there was a lot of nothing happening, followed by one also crazy and epic moment that really changes things but it's not something you'd be expecting and it has somewhat rendered what were/are my ultimate hopes for her, irrelevant. Not to say necessarily that what happened was bad, just that now I'm a little lost and I'm still trying to wrap my mind around it.But rest assured, Dance With Dragons is a stellar installment in the series and deserves your read.
5 Read the first book, got hooked and read all the rest. These are terrific. Well written, well developed characters. Only bummer is that he will kill off characters you like very unexpectedly. BUT that makes it good. Read them all before the show came out. Like the show too, but love the books.
5 I really enjoyed this book and I am looking forward to the last 2 to come. I'm not sure why people were shocked to find out that this story didn't end with this book. If you look at GRRM's website it shows that 2 more books are slotted for this series before it ends.It is a little hard to wait for the next book since I don't know how long till the next one, but I still really enjoyed how the characters have developed and to which side people are on or how this will end up. There are characters that I hated, but now find i am rooting for and hopefully I'm not wrong in rooting for them.If you are a true fan than the length or time that it takes to read this book won't bother you. I'm a recent fan who read the previous books in about 2 months since I read them at every opportunity from the want of finding out what happens next. If you are a die hard fan of GRRM, which it seems like I now am, you will enjoy this book just as much as the last ones.
5 I waited almost 7 years for this next book in the series and it did not disappoint..but only when reaching the end!
3 It had too many other groups of people I had no interest in.  All the characters I am interested in have been killed and now it looks as if Jon Snow has been attacked and killed.  What next? Doing away with Arya & Sensa?
5 This 5th book, continues the quest for the rightful heir to the Throne.  The awaited 5th book, introduces new characters, that further unfolds the fight for the throne. It answers some questions of the past, and provides surprises that leave to asking more question as you wait for book 6.  In addition to wondering what happened to some of your characters from previous books.
3 I wanted more details.  Is Bran going to continue to be a mushroom in a hole in the ground???  And did he try to contact Jon Snow through the crow?  What in the world has happened to Rickon???  Did Sansa get married, again??  Is she giving up her heritage??  What happened when Breanne was hanged?  Why isn't she dead?  Where did she lead Jamie and why?  Did the others that hung with her die??  How many people will come back to life?  Is there a possibility that Lady Lisa will come back to life just as her sister Catelyn did??  And how could Ramsay Snow Bolton be requesting the return of his &#34;wife&#34;, if he killed Stannis, that is where his wife and Reek went to??  Why did Theon become Reek?  And why didn't he spill his guts about not killing off the Stark boys while he was being tortured?  What happened to Samwell?  What happens to Arya?  And is all the vulgar language really needed?  A story can be indepth and well crafted without all the cursing, that is a choice.  Too many unanswered questions for me.  Is Mr. Martin going to drag this out into 100 books?
5 I really don't understand the negative reviews. This book is much better than the previous one in my mind. If you read (and enjoyed) the previous books then this one continues with good characters, a fully imagined world (maybe more so than allows a quick read), and interesting plot.I can only imagine that some people are mad that the story isn't finished at the end.
5 Martin continues to flow the words into wonderful stories of our now familiar settings.  I got interested in reading the series because of the TV show and found myself reading through the entire set so far.  Now I am eager to get the next book and find out what else our characters can deliver.  Recommended.
4 little was resolved...more questions raised than answered. at least I am still ahead of the TV Series.my favorite characters are still alive...for nonce.
4 So despite the last book leaving you a bit bored and less eager to go on, this one helps shape things up again!The story gets fired up, and you get a nice cocktail of characters as well, like before. You feel like you're home again, sort of.It's a bit long, but what I really didn't like about this one is the chapter titles. I always thought the power behind this series was how the story was told from the point of views of different characters. In this book, the titles don't state names, instead weird titles and descriptions that leave you confused till you get a hint of who or where this is. I found myself missing some details that I had to reread once it was clear where this chapter was taking place. It really becomes very annoying!Still one of the greatest series I ever read... The next ones cant come soon enough!
3 I was disappointed in this book!  Most of the main characters have been killed off or wounded so badly that they probably not going to survive.  It seemed like he had to maintain a schedule and lost sight of the previous four books.
4 I'm surprised at some of the negative reviews. It's not great but it borders on being very good. There are lots of mini cliffhangers throughout the book - but an observant reader will be able to figure out which ones are faux and which are actually important.Things I thought were great - at last there is some Bran. The early scenes with Tyrion were very well written. The new characters he runs into were decently done. Most of the chapters were set in the North (always my favorite part of Westeros)and were so good I couldn't put it down. Martin really goes into the many rammifications of the Red Wedding - even into secondary characters like the Boltons and the Manderleys - in ways that I didn't expect and that I enjoyed reading.Theres a couple of Martell chapters, also some others. set in Kings Landing - all pretty good. Plus Asha and Melisandre have some good POV chapters.Things I didn't like so much - the scenes with Daenerys (but then she was never one of my favorite characters - so to me - no loss), some of the cliffhangers were completely unneccessary and run the risk of Martin jumping the shark by overusing this technique - in trying to replicate what he achieved earlier with Lord Eddard's death and the Red Wedding. If you are a reader for whom this would jump out at you - I could see some disappointment. Plus there could have been more Bran, Meera and Jojen.Overall - it's really good. New and well written fantasy is hard to find. I'm glad George Martin continued this story and I'm interested in how he will further it in the next volume. Very good job.
3 The fifth book of George R.R. Martin's fantasy series improves on the fourth which meandered a bit. The fact that Tyrion one of the most popular characters in the series was MIA in the fourth book meant that I was a bit less interested in the novel than the previous three. Tyrion returns in full force in the fifth book A Dance with Dragons.That isn't to say that there isn't some bloat here--A Dance with Dragons COULD have been trimmed and a good editor would have kept the story more on track here (something that was sorely missing from the previous book--keep in mind that that book and this one were originally planned as a single novel). Nevertheless, even with the padding the reintroduction of Tyrion and focus away from some of the lesser characters that dominated the previous novel helps Dragons in the long run.SPOILERS:Occurring concurrently with the fourth book, the fifth novel finds Jon Snow elected as the Lord Commander of the Night Watch although Snow continues to run into conflict from Janos Slynt who betrayed Jon's father and helped in his arrest. Arriving to help save the day, Stannis and his troops help reinforce the defense of the Wall as the Wildlings stream through trying to escape the Others.Tyrion finds himself an exile in Pentos sheltered by Magister Illyrio at the request of Varys. Tyrion finds that Prince Aegon Targaryen long thought dead is alive having been sheltered by Illyrio with the intent that Aegon will return and resume his role as rightful heir to the throne (he is ahead of Daenerys inthe succession). Tyrion ends up being kidnapped by Johan Mormont in hopes that he can regain the favor of Daenerys who banished him for betraying her.Daenerys has conquered Meereen but finds herself uneasy with many of the kingdom's traditions including the use of the fighting pits where slaves face off against each other to the death. She bans the fighting pits. There ae a series of attacks and murders by the Yunkai and the Volantis throughout the kingdom. She ends up marrying  Hizdahr zo Loraq who may have a connection with the Yunkai and Volantis.Cersei Lannister finds herself imprisoned by the Faith of the Seven until she confesses to adultery (although she doesn't reveal her incest with her brother Jaime nor that King Robert's children are actually Jaime's)which leads to her eventual release but she still faces trial for the crimes to which she confessed.END OF SPOILERS:Although a massive book, A Dance with Dragons moves the action and main stories along at a brisker pace than the preceding novel in the series but, as I mentioned earlier, Dance could still have used some judicious editing to reshape the story and keep it focused. With only two novels to go until the series concludes, A Dance with Dragons will keep fans of the series both happy and excited for the next installment. Although Dance isn't quite as briskly paced and could easily have been pared down by at least a third, the fifth installment--to me--at least got the most important plot elements of Martin's novel back on track.Recommended.
3 Edited...I SO much enjoyed the Game of Thrones.... up until the author (I am theorizing) lost interest in the story, and decided it wasn't worth the effort to tie up all the various plots, sub-plots, and myriad storylines.In my initial review, I panned this book. I somehow was under the impression that this was to be the last book. In that light, I thought it was horrible.As several people have commented, I was mistaken. There are two more on their way. (whew)While I still do not PERSONALLY like how this book went, and found it inferior to the first four... I will hope that the remaining two books do a better job, and conclude with the excellent writing of the first four.
2 Warning, there are spoilers below.I really wanted to enjoy dance, bad. As upset as i was with the 5 year wait to get the second half of a mediocre book...i was really willing to give it a chance. I bought it the second it came out, brought my kindle with me everywhere so i could read it in my down time - paid close attention and picked up on little subtle things others might have missed - all this, and i was still disappointed.  (not in the Kindle tho, this thing is awesome, and no I'm not getting paid to say this.  It's perfect for someone who travels a lot for work).It really boils down to this - it doesn't feel like Martin enjoys writing about this world anymore. His behavior reinforces this feeling, too. It's like he's just bored of this world and has lost that energetic spark to create.Reading the first three books, it was like a man excited about the world he was building, excited about the stories, the characters, excited about what he was going to DO with them and he wanted to get there as smoothly and quickly as possible. Remember when Catelyn left for King's Landing in one chapter, and then arrived there next chapter? It's because the journey was unimportant - that stuff was filler - what happened to her IN King's Landing was important.Reading the last two, it was like he wasn't really sure what to do anymore, he couldn't figure out where he was going, he just had to fill up the pages with something, and he kept thinking back and forth on what to write. adding, deleting, adding, deleting - this is a worrisome sign when indecision, apathy, and indifference about a tale begin to rear their ugly head.It's this energetic drive when you have a story you want to tell.  But I didn't get that here from Martin, which is disappointing, because the man has genuine talent.  He just doesn't seem to be inspired enough to use it. I never got the impression of a clear vision. I didn't get a sense of his excitement for these characters. It shows up in a lot of ways - the tired cliches, the empty characterizations of the main viewpoints - it feels like Dance was a homework assignment to him, a very unwelcome homework assignment. "This one was a three bitches and a bastard", indeed it was, and that feeling comes across in his writing style.I really just feel he's bored and out of ideas. He's tired of Westeros, he isn't sure what to do anymore, and he's just stringing things along with random WTF moments thrown in to try and maintain our interest and fake excitement. It's similar to sudden loud sounds or 'GOTCHA' moments in bad scary movies; using cheap tricks to try and evoke a sense of fear when the plot itself can't.There are only a few moments where I get a sense of the old Martin. Reading Theon's chapters were interesting. Theon actually had an arc, an evolution, and you got the sense that George enjoyed telling this story. Too bad he had to ruin it with yet another cliffhanger ending. In fact, this was one of the few true cliffhangers in the book, in my opinion. The other 'cliffhangers' were never set up properly and are more like 'dangling threads' that came out of nowhere.We have Jon getting the Caesar treatment, Stannis marching on Winterfell, Theon and Jeyne escaping, Aegon landing in Westeros, the situation on the Wall, the Pink Letter... Too much buildup here with too little payoff!And then one of the big cliffhanger moments from the first book - Brienne - gets barely a mention in this! We are left to deduce what she most likely said and her agreement to lead Jaime to UnCat in return for her life - yet another plotline that goes nowhere. At the end of the book, effectively, nothing big or major has happened that we can see the result of. Dany is basically back where she started, realizing she should have gone to Westeros. The entire sideshow in Meereen has effectively accomplished nothing. A lot of interesting things happen to the characters that are ultimately irrelevant. The Others are still persona non grata, mentioned only in shadows. Dragons still haven't returned. Stannis hasn't really conquered anything meaningful. Tommen is still king. Dorne is still 'progressing'. The Ironborn are still the same. Not enough major action has happened.  I can accept one book of mostly filler, but two? A Dance with Dragons feels like it was written to meet a word count! What's next, he goes through and increases the font size on all the periods to add some more volume? He might as well, it'd be just as entertaining.The problem is, Martin could have easily given us at least one big climax in this book. You could have given us a Meereen showdown with results, you could have given us Jon's "death" and obvious rebirth as Azhor Az'hai or whatever, you could have given us the Others finally attacking in force, you could have given us Victarion or Tyrion meeting Dany, you could have given us the battle of Winterfell and the results - there are so many things he could have done that we don't get to see. He could have given us the first use of Dragons in war, and that would have fit right in the with the title. I don't mind cliffhangers, but really we should have gotten SOMETHING resolved in this book so it doesn't feel like a giant tease.The few redeeming moments for me - Selmy, Wyman's awesomeness ("So young" said Wyman Manderly. "Though mayhaps this was a blessing. Had he lived, he would have grown up to be a Frey."), "Would you like Freys with that", Theon - simply don't add enough to justify book for me.If you enjoy reading detailed prose, and seeing a world being built by a very skilled author, you might enjoy this.  If you're a huge fan of everything remotely to do with the world Martin has skillfully created, then you will find a lot here to fill in the blanks.  Unfortunately, most of those blanks were blank for a reason - we just didn't care.  I still don't.If you're a fan of an engaging, interesting plot - the sort of plot that we saw in the first three books - I'd give it a pass.PS: Martin may denounce us here at Amazon as trolls and sockpuppets, but I think that makes a mockery of the good rating system that has made Amazon so useful for people like me in the past.  Mr. Martin, if you read this, please make note of the 'verified purchaser' next to this review.  I'm a real person, with a real opinion.
5 My love of GoT started with Season 1 of the HBO series. After the season ended, I immediately picked up Book 1 of Martin's series. Wow! While the number of characters can get overwhelming, the level of intrigue and suspense surrounding each one is addictive! I'm pleased at how closely the HBO series follows the storyline of each book, and that those variations that do occur add to the story, don't distract or take away from it. As a person who doesn't consider myself a big Sci-fi fan, I give this series of books an enthusiastic thumbs up!
4 Gripping!  Follows along the 3-4 main story lines in chronological order.  At times I get the feeling that Martin does not know where he is headed, but he just keeps moving on into new and unexplored territory.  Needs to get focused and working on the next book (or three), but bring things to a climax and finish off the series ...
5 Familiar characters are back with interesting story lines.  Tied up some loose ends that bothered me from previous books.  Can't wait for next book!
5 No surprise Martin has done it again.  Its is a quick read. Good continuation of the series. Just wish they would publish more frequently. ;)
4 It might just be the fantasy nerd in me, but I truly imagine that George Martin has himself a set of twenty-sided dice. My wonderings continue to visualize Martin labeling each of his main characters with a number on one side. He rolls the dice. Death to the winner! Martin has no loyalty to his characters, as realistic as reality in terms of the arbitrary quality of accident, purpose, and fate. I love this about Martin and the Song of Ice and Fire. But I hate him for it, too. This dichotomous relationship doesn't end at the life and death of a particular character or twenty. My mixed feelings continue in each of his five books that so far establish the series.The ProseIf you like good writing, you'll love Martin; but, you'll detest him in this arena as well. His grammar and diction are impeccable--his syntax superb. Reading `most' of his writing is a pleasure, but it can also be a tedious journey that mirrors the turmoil of his characters. Appropriate or testing?An example. Martin might say something like (these are far from exact quotes--actually, I made them up entirely), "There were many knights at the gathering. There was Garl from the Wolfhead Clan with his bronze shield and iron dagger. Then came Smoot of the Hollow Mountain, his hair twisted and...etc. etc." This list could mention thirty-some names, mostly characters with no role in the plot, just providers of depth in a world not lacking it. Martin goes overboard sometimes in the scope and breadth of the grandeur of his fantastical universe. There are many such lists and most are unnecessary to the n'th degree, aggravating even. I doubt I am the only reader who skips them almost entirely.I can only imagine Martin's brilliance at keeping up with it all. The detail is something that makes the series unique and awe-inspiring, but it also clouds the flow of simply enjoying a good read--something all fantasy-lovers share.The Black HoleI wonder if Martin dug himself into a hole reminiscent of the writer's from the TV series Lost. Can he possibly wrap-up the seemingly infinite plot lines he's created? He's a master of the craft and genre, so I sure as hell hope so, but with only two books left to go in the series...I have my doubts.I'm addicted to the `game of thrones' as it plays out for readers. Like our own world, so many lust for power, but when is it too much to maintain the scope of a good, manageable story? Maybe this simply isn't Martin's concern. Maybe he's ok if we as readers don't follow it all or don't want to follow it all. Stephen King, in his book On Writing, used the metaphor of a sculptor for the writer and the writing process. As a writer chips away at his story, the world, character, and plot are revealed. Maybe Martin is just telling it like it is, sharing the world as he discovers it.But damn-it man...will Daenerys ever make it home? What about this king or that one? Will he take true power? Did you really just kill off Snow? If not, what the heck were you doing to us man?It's these very frustrations that make me want to read--as much as I complain. It's the same reason I loved the pain-inducing finale of King's Dark Tower series, when Roland comes to find he's back at the beginning.But, I'm still worried. I'll have faith in Martin, for now--I just want to see if he can pull it off.ConclusionI don't regret a word I ready in the five-book series. I will admit I skipped some, and I almost never do this. I savor every word in the genre. But, for many reasons, I found myself skipping across the more boring sections like a stone across a lake, just touching down for a moment to make sure I wasn't missing anything. Then, I'd fall back into the depths of good-story telling, and find myself immersed in an unparalleled adventure.I highly recommend A Song of Ice and Fire, but be prepared for war. You'll battle with the effort in the intake, the lengthy diatribes into space, and the long waits between your favorite characters. But it's worth it. The toil is Martin's test to the reader. I hope you're worthy.[...]
1 Not much happens in this book.  The one before it I probably read 200 pages as I skimmed through, for this one it was probably closer to 50.  There just wasn't anything worth stopping for as I skipped around in this empy ghost-town of a book.On a more constructive note: The Name of the Wind, and The Wise Man's Fear are still great books you might enjoy instead.
5 I am more than happy that none of the plots in this series are completed in this book.  Frankly, I hope nothing ever gets resolved and the series goes on for another ten books or more.  I want to know what happens next but I am having so much fun with the twists and turns, the characters, and the settings that I really could care less about an ending.  Martin writes as if he is producing real history.  Real history has no resolution.  It just careens into the next set of circumstances carrying characters along like a flash flood in a desert.  The characters make the same dumb mistakes as real people.  But they learn from these mistakes and go on to the next phase in life......making more educated dumb mistakes. I like escaping into this World where I have more questions than answers. And I will bet that those folks who gave Dances a one star review will still buy The Winds of Winter when it comes out.Wow!  The amount of hatred generated toward this book is astounding!  What is even more astounding is the amount of hatred generated at people who liked the book!  Book reviews are supposed to be about literature and not about the level of vitupritude the fan boy cadre can sling at anything they dislike.  It is amazing how unlettered we have become as a nation.
2 I started reading a Song of Ice and Fire shortly after the third book came out, which means I had to impatiently wait years for Book 4, only to be disappointed by a Feast for Crows. But I justified it, as it was really only half a story and didn't feature my favorite characters. I resigned myself to waiting for Book 5 -- and then this came out.A Dance with Dragons finally picks up with the A-list characters again, but unfortunately never moves the story forward. I get the distinct impression that the author is just wasting time. I don't know if that's because he doesn't know where to take the plot or because he wants to milk the success of the TV show. I'm going to give him the benefit of the doubt and assume the former, though as a huge fan of the series I kind of hope for the latter.The sad thing is that the book is still very well written. George R. R. Martin is a talented author and paints a fantastic picture, but the last two books do not stand on their own. Books 4 and 5 combined would have made one satisfying book (with all the pointless filler and new POV characters removed). I'm tempted to take my two books apart and rebind them myself, sans filler.
4 The parts don't seem to mesh so you have a feeling of being jerked back and forth sometimes between several completely unrelated stories whose chapters were shuffled together and sold as a book.If you are a fan and you are going to stay with it (you know you will!), the new characters alone are worth it. That's good because you don't hear a lot about old characters.Let's see what happens next.........there are a million loose ends!
1 The only good thing about this book in the series is the enjoyment I received reading the other reviewers expressing their disappointment, as well.
5 My daughter has read all the other books in the series and she likes them This will make a very nice gift for Christmass
5 This book was incredible. All of your favorite characters are back. Unbelievable plot cliff hangers throughout the entire book.  I can't wait to book 6. John snow better not be dead!!!!!! You know nothing R.R. Martin!!!
3 I love the Song of Ice and Fire series, though A Feast for Crows suffered from "Robert Jordan Syndrome" - in other words, splitting the narrative into too many viewpoint characters meant that the pacing of the plot slowed to a crawl. So much so that this book is really the second half of A Feast For Crows.This book is better. The writing is engaging (Tyrion is hilarious as hell in this book, even when being emo) and I care more about the characters in this book than in the other.Buuuuuttttt... the plot goes nowhere. GRRM sets up a wonderful predicament for Daenerys in her conquered city. In fact, it is the main plotline of the book. And yet... everything is exactly as it was at the start of the book. The plot doesn't advance.In fact, if you picture the world as a chessboard, between the beginning and the end of the book, only a few pieces have moved. A couple have been removed, a couple have been added, but for all of the extreme length of the book, nothing really happens.It's a shame really, since it was actually a very enjoyable read, much more so than A Feast For Crows. Except for a couple wonderful (and horrible) plot twists, you could easily skip this book, read a one-page summary, and wait for The Winds of Winter.
5 Started watching on HBO, book is much better helps explain the histories and relationships in the series. Great to buy the grouping so you can keep reading along to the next adventure. Now have to wait for book 6
1 In this book, Martin introduces several more variously important characters, has several of the characters we know turn into people we don't recognize, most notably Tyrion. He produces plot complication after plot complication.Every thread ends with a cliff-hanger. It is as if Martin wants this series to outlive him, not figuratively as having its reputation live on but literally. He wants to die leaving his readers wanting more.Fine with me but I'm done with it.
4 This last,( maybe not?), book in the Game of Thrones series is also a winner. I gave it a 4 star rating only because I am still reading it right now. I have trouble putting it down but have to because of time constraints but I pick it up as soon as I can. I find myself taking my Kindle with me everywhere just so I can keep reading the story. Great book and I recommend it highly. I also hope the series is continued after this book.
2 Read this to finish the series if it continues I won't be finishing, which is unheard of for me. Story line is hard to follow and characters get stale.
2 Like the previous book in the series, the story just goes on .. and on ... and on ... and nothing gets resolved. Martin can spend a full page describing what the participants are wearing at a meeting and then kill off a significant character in a short paragraph. I was entranced with the first two volumes, but now getting through the book is more of a chore than an adventure. I keep looking at the percentage left on the kindle and thinking - is anything going to happen?... is it over yet?
3 The story is moving in circles and there are too many loose ends. I don't relish reading another 1,000 pages just to find out the story doesn't make sense. The last two books were gravely disappointing.  I didn't heed the reviews and purchased the book anyway. I regret that decision.
3 I have read all five books.  I am very disappointed in the ending of this book.  You do not get to find out how it all ends.  Hopefully there's another book coming our soon.
5 Book 5.  WOW!  True to Martin's previous 4 books in this series A Dance with Dragons keeps you reading and by the end you want more!  I can't hardly wait for Book 6 to come out!
3 I can't help but think that GRRM is hoping to get more seasons out of HBO. One book per season, so just pad, bulk, and bull your way through, huh George? On one hand, he's a marketing genius: he signed with HBO after the 4th book, and just stopped writing until he could release ADWD at the same time as the series began. I can't imagine he'll let readers get too far ahead of the series, otherwise it may hurt his profits. Thanks, George, for stepping on the backs of your fan base to get a better view. This once loyal fan is pulling herself out of the pile NOW. I even cancelled my HBO, I'm so angry! Maybe he should get Brandon Sanderson to finish it for him, since he seems to have gotten lost somewhere down the line.
5 This is book 5 and I can't wait for book 6.  The series fits together seamlessly and I have read each book twice.  That is the way to catch all the intricate plots and subplots.
2 After a 5 year wait, A Feast for Crows was a turgid disappointment.  Martin claimed the second half of the book (A Dance With Dragons) was already written and hopefully would be published in a year.  Instead, it was a 6 year wait. (Did that set some sort of record?) I wasn't going to bother reading this book, since there is no way I can recall all the secondary and tertiary characters and story lines, but I was enticed by the great HBO television series and changed my mind.Well, that was a mistake.  A Dance With Dragons is another disappointment.  A frustrating barrage of vaguely familiar names and plot lines caused me to give up about 30% of the way through on Kindle.  I couldn't sleep one night, so I picked up the book again and forced myself to keep reading, and fortunately the story picked up.Aside from all the forgotten characters and plots, the problem is that nothing much of interest happens.  Stories left dangling 6 years ago, and some instances 11 years ago, are still dangling. Of interest, Martin offers up yet another possibility for Jon Snow's true parentage, and shows that maybe some of those characters you thought he gleefully killed off aren't really dead after all.If you gave me a summary of important events in this book, it wouldn't fill up a single page, and I could skip reading this book and wait (or not) for the next book to come out in, what? another year? or 6 years maybe?
4 I think that many of the reviews and ratings have been way too harsh for this book.  There are things that people wanted to happen in this book that did not come to pass - yet.  This especially holds true for Dany, who just seems to have no clue whatsoever what she wants to do and who she wants to be.  I definitely feel the pain here as I never really identified well with the settings and characters on this side of RR's world.But despite the Dany flat tire (and a few other ones...), all of the chapters are great reads.  I've seen it said that this book sets the pieces into play for the next few books and I can't agree more.  Characters are in place to finish this insanely good series and the best part of this is that I don't have a clue just how this big thing is going to end!I thought A Feast For Crows was a pretty average book - this one is better though because you get to focus on better characters.  It makes me crave the next book which is all I can ask for.4/5 stars
1 despite it's popularity, this series gets worse and worse with each succeeding book. the last volume is so disjointed and unsatisfying that it spoiled the first two which weren't bad.
3 I simply must find out what happens in these books, so I will read the next installments for sure when they come out.  I liked this better than Feast for Crows, but less than all the rest.  There were some moments of the old ASoIaF fun.  BUT....Ending the book this way -with dozens of crazy cliffhangers- is really tedious in any book.  Doing it in an epic fantasy with so many characters is brutal.  Doing it in an epic in which each installment takes 6 years? essentially unforgiveable.  I'm not talking about a big cliffhanger at the end of the book.  I mean the last chapter of essentially every single PoV character, for about 100 pages. In most cases, we are given second-hand accounts of what terrible thing seems to have happened to so-and-so.  We often cannot make sense out of the details--&#34;wait, what just happened?  a battle?  A storm?  Did they really mean that?&#34;  ...  End of that PoV. See you in 6 years.So many little details.  So many characters.  All unresolved. I love the complexity, but there is a limit. The first problem is that we know Martin never simply &#34;reveals&#34; how they end up.  (E.g. how a certain jailed-knight's cliffhanger from the previous book took multiple chapters to resolve in this book).  We know certain details will be implied and never resolved (e.g. bloody porridge).  But the bigger problem is that we also know the next book, if we're lucky, might be published before 2020 (don't laugh, and don't be surprised).  I'd say there's no chance at all that the series is done before 2020.  Think about that for a minute.  You are supposed to remember all these broken threads in SIX YEARS??!?  Martin's never been one for exposition, especially plot from a previous book.  And his new-found fame has made the pace even slower.Even if the next book had been forthcoming in 1-2 years afterwards (already too late), it got to be ridiculous.  With 30 pages to go, I was already tired of it.  Really?  That, too?  Yet another &#34;worst possible thing that could happen and never be predicted?&#34;  It was very irritating as I read it, and terrifying when I realized I would be waiting probably 5 years before I got the next installment, which very well might not even treat with these characters anyway.So this book actually made me mad.  If you want to play that cliffhanger game, fine.  But not when you write less than 3 pages a week.  That's unforgiveable as an author.My prediction?  The TV series (which has already shown it is perfectly fine changing the story) finishes the whole series before he even starts the last book (even if they split all the books into 2 seasons).  It will be curious to see how he handles it--will he try to completely change the outcome from the TV?  Could be fun.But probably what he'll do is just kill everybody that the TV writers leave standing at the end, just to prove he can.
3 A Song of Fire and Ice started with great promise and was easily one of the most innovative and captivating works of fiction in decades, fantasy or otherwise.  The first three books in this series were rich, fast paced, full of unexpected twists and turns, dark, humerous, profane and moving.  However, the last two books, A Feast for Crows and A Dance of Dragons, have become bloated, unfocused and so full of predictable cliff-hangers that the series is in danger of becoming a parody of its younger self.  It almost looks as if Mr Martin took the sobriquet of "The American Tolkien" that was bestowed on him early in this series too much heart and started writing for the ages rather than his readers of the here and now.  Perhaps in the year 2050, readers of this series (if its completed by then and if people still read) may be able to have a perspective where A Feast for Crows and A Dance of Dragons can be seen as brilliant because they set up the remainder of the story in critical and necessary ways.  However real genius would have given us poor slobs reading this in real time a more tightly focused and rewarding story.  After waiting 10 years for A Feast for Crows and A Dance for Dragons to recapture some of the earlier brilliance of this series, like many reviewers here, Im not sure I care enough any more to wait another 10 years to see what happens to the story and the characters that are left.
3 I've read the entire series through this book and enjoyed much of it.  The characterizations are fantastic.  In fact, much of what I love about the book has come back to haunt me.  Let me get to my point..***********MAJOR spoiler alert for the whole series *************When he killed Eddard in the 1st or 2nd book (I forget exactly), I expected it  It was good.  But then he started killing off everybody to the point of annoyance.  I wanted Joffrey to die a vengeful death and his killing was pathetic.  Arya was setup to be a young girl warrior.  She never became the character she was setup for.  I keep waiting for her to break out in a epic sword battle.  Was it really necessary to kill Robb stark and never show retribution against the Frey's.  What's going on with Bran?  How any books till he "flies".  Why was Robbs message to "de-bastardize" Jon never sent and acknowledged by Jon?  And seriously, did he have to off Jon in this book?Will I read the next book?  Probably.  But expect to be disappointed.
3 there are to many names and people who offer nothing in the story. some times it goes  slowly and with no interest and then it speeds up again. I think the author is trying to keep it long and so he is loosing the main story.
5 I could not put this book down, having just read the other 4 books earlier it was great to get back to all of the characters and let the saga continue. Anyone who would like a series of books that they will not be able to put down this is it. I cannot wait for the sixth book to come out not that I want to put pressure on George R,R,Martin but come on my friend get writing I cannot wait. You have such a mix of characters some you love and some you just keep waitng for them to get their comeuppence,then you do a turn around and some of those beloved characters are no longer so lovable. Great writing gets you in and you don't want it to end. I highly reccommend this series to all.A Dance with Dragons: A Song of Ice and Fire: Book FiveGeorge R. R. Martin's A Game of Thrones 4-Book Bundle: A Song of Ice and Fire Series: A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Swords, and A Feast for Crows (Song of Ice & Fire)
5 So, to lighten the blow a little first, I will make it clear that I am a GRRM fan and a fan of the Song of Ice and Fire series. Like many others, I think the first three books were some of the best fantasy books ever written. They held my interest like few others, took directions many other writers would not dare to take and had me itching to read the next. I'm a fan who checked on the status of this book at least a couple dozen times through each year to see how the progress was coming and I'm a fan who also believes in a writer taking the time he or she needs to do it properly.
3 When does a strength become a weakness? I read the first three books of the series awed by the author's ability to kill characters who I thought were pretty central to the story and also create new and exciting characters. However, in book four and five I am not sure if it works so well. (spoiler alert) I think the problem is that the story does not move. Characters like dannerys agonize over their decisions for virtually the whole book.Of course I will read the next book when it comes out but I do hope that George Martin moves the stories forward. Not necessarily towards a conclusion but forward.
4 While this fifth installment in the A Song of Ice and Fire series is stronger than its most recent predecessor, it still doesn't match the excitement and overall strength of any of the three earlier volumes in the series. The beginning of the novel was clearly the other half of aA Feast for Crows (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 4), which gave the whole book a slightly skewed and convoluted chronology. Once the two plot lines caught up in chronology - and the story moved forward from there - it started to feel more like a real book and not an oddly jumbled rough draft. It still ended quite abruptly, and the prospect of having to wait potentially five years until the sixth book is published is downright depressing... But, hopefully the wait won't be as long as the previous two waits!
5 The book is better than the show, of course. If you've read all the other books, then this is the next book you should get.
3 Although I love the series, I have to say that A Dance with Dragons was a well written story with a major content problem. To be fair, the book had some highs, and I was thinking "YES! Finally the story is getting good" but then I was massively disappointed. The book has a confusing and unpleasantly startling conclusion that leaves me wanting more but dreading the end of the story! I still am in love with the series and I think Martin is a brilliant writer.... but I just need to have faith that he will finish the story with the same awe inspiring brilliance that he started it with.
5 Like all the books before this one, a great read. I could not want for a better book to read than any of the Game ofmThrones
1 Okay, you get a tiny bit of movement in this one, but most of that is accomplished by killing off characters gratuitously, particularly those who have behaved honorably. And that's it.  No wonder he writes so slowly! He's great at starting things off...and very bad at keeping them going. This book rehashes a lot of previous material, to the extent of copying whole paragraphs from Book 4. Frankly, I found myself frequently bored and finally frustrated. Having R.R. for middle initials is not enough to make one an author comparable to Tolkien.
5 While I understand a lot of the critics have their points... after waiting six years, there should have been SOME sort of payoff after another 1000 pages... but I just couldn't help loving the book all the same. The character stories are superb, dialog is great, the plot flies along and changes direction abruptly all the time... simply a great book, hands down. The only real negative is now having to wait another six years for the sixth book.
3 The previous volumes read easier-how do you say  flowed better. The TV series was more interesting...this volume has way less character development.
3 I really loved the first three books of George RR Martin's epic.  So when the fourth and fifth book came out in paperback, I was eager to catch up on all of the characters after the climactic events in the third novel.I was disappointed by the pacing and character development of the fourth and fifth novel.  The fourth and fifth book were meant to be written as a one super-big book, and that should have confirmed for me my worst suspicion: the author has just written too much and is in much need of an editor.  Pacing seemed sluggish, and the characters did not really make any meaningful changes as far as I could tell.  Interweaving storylines were interesting upon first reading, but soon felt a bit too contrived.I'm no stranger to long books, as most every novel I read is at least 600 pages long.  I love classics like Count of Monte Cristo and Les Miserables, and I love more modern authors who tend towards longer books (Shantaram, Frank Herbert, Neal Stephenson, and Iain Banks).  Martin's first three in the series are classics...but I doubt I will return to these two or the final two once they are published.
5 I have a love/hate relationship with this whole series. They are well written, in depth, full of suspense and just plain epic but at the same time every character I love seems to die. I also don't really enjoy most of the chapters featuring Dany, I feel the author let her storyline get a little sloppy.
5 Again, this is the best thing going right now. When I finished this book I was desperate for the next installment and remain so to this day. Although [SPOILER ALERT] Danerys needs to get the hell back to Westeros so she can take back the throne.
4 If you're reading the series, you will read this book and you will swallow the bitter pill that it doesn't take us quite where (or as far) as we expected, and you will probably still be there ready for more when Winds of Winter comes out.  I found this one a little less engaging, a little sluggish, and a little more frustrating in terms of story arc.  It's still a very good book, and it still continues one of my favorite series.  The real test will now be if Winds of Winter can pick up the pace and re-engage me in the characters and the story as the previous books did.  If you were already struggling with the series, then this one might be your last.  Or you might tell yourself that, anyway.  When the next volume does come out, I'll wager it'll be hard not to pick it up to see where all this set-up is leading us...
5 I have about six of these &#34;Beautiful&#34; cookbooks, and I love them.  They ARE beautiful in a coffee table picture book sense, and the recipes are well crafted.  I often have &#34;theme&#34; dinner parties, and I bought this one for a Texas party.
5 LOVE this cookbook!!  Really, really yummy recipes and beautiful pictures of various areas of Texas.  I've really enjoyed reading the short history at the beginning of each section on the different parts of Texas as well.  The book was in excellent condition - the outside cover showing very minor wear and the inside pages in perfect condition.  The book jacket was missing, but that was not a big deal to me.  The price was VERY reasonable as well.  A new copy would have cost at least 4 times what I paid.
5 This is one of the best, and one of the most beautiful, cookbooks I have ever seen or used. Great recipes, great pictures!
5 I'm more and more impressed with each cook book I receive from this series.  The recipe directions are easy to follow, the food is great and the pictures are almost National Geographic like.  I really liked this one because I'm more familiar with the types of recipes, being that I'm a resident in the U.S. I'm looking forward to more cooking with this wonderful book!
5 Two books with same name, but not the same quality of recipes.  This one has, to me, TRUE Texas flavors.  I am truely supprised at the difference between the two books.  Do not make a mistake and get the one that was first published in the mid 1980's.  Until a friend recently told me about a recipe he tried form "Texas the Beautiful", I immediately went to my copy and discovered this recipe was not in it, a call back to Texas, and we both discovered much to our supprise that there were two completely versions.  If you like simple, generic,"back of soup can"  recipes then the first is for you, if for bold Texas flavors, then this is the one.
5 Good solid recipes. I am a seasoned cook and have tried a half dozen of the recipes in this book.  They are not too difficult to execute...but mostly, I just like to look at the pictures. This would make a great gift.
5 I now own four books from the "Beautiful Cookbook" series.  This is by far my favorite.  The food stylists and photographers for this particular book have raised the bar to a dizzying height.  This melange of simple and upscale recipes is presented as down-to-earth...Texas-style.  You can almost smell and taste the beautiful food.  The stylish photos are works of art.The recipes range from the traditional basics to "new Texas cuisine."  Try to imagine a chilled "Cream of Tomatillo Soup" served in a bowl of ice...with edible flowers and herbs encased in the ice.  (The ice bowl is easy to make!)Does "Hot Crackered Texas Crab with Pecans" sound good?  Or "Chili-and-Cheese Corn Husk Muffins with Pumpkin-Seed Topping"?  What about "Chorizo-Stuffed Poblanos with Mango Salsa" or "Texas Hot-Pepper Shrimp with Avocado Salsa"?  And for dessert, how about "Churros with Cinnamon-Pecan Ice Cream" or "Blueberry Creme Brulee with Rose Geranium"?I could go on and on about the food and the presentation.  These tempting and colorful dishes can all be made by the novice cook who enjoys the preparation.
5 I collect cookbooks and happy to include this in my collection.  I have reviewed the book and plan on trying several recipes with my new clay pot.
5 The book explains the different types of clay cookware available.  It also tells how to clean and maintain this type of cookware.  It contains lots of great recipes easy enough for even the most beginning cooks ro master.
5 One recent Christmas, we gave each of our children's families a clay cooker, which came with a small recipe book, but they complained that the books did not have illustrations and that there were not enough ideas. This Christmas, I bought each of them and myself this little gem of a cookbook, much to our group's satisfaction. We're looking forward to trying each of the recipes and sharing our own extrapolations of the wonderful ideas in the book.
4 This book gives a terrific base-line for clay pot beginners like myself. I found it easy to understand, easy to follow and the meals come out terrific each time. Of course, we have now started to embellish the recipes with our own "improvements", but each recipe in the book is a winner. It is a must have if you own a clay pot to cook in.
5 Bought this as a Christmas gift, along with a clay-pot roaster, for friends who enjoy cooking. It's a lovely book, and my friends said the recipes were excellent.
3 The interesting receipes will have to wait until I find a pot to cook in. The one that I ordered arrived in a 100 pieces. They did a much better job of protecting the book during shipment.
3 This is a pretty basic cookbook for something labeled &#34;best&#34;. Basic recipes, basic ingredients, nothing special. I don't know if that means clay pot cooking is a forgotten skill or what.
4 I bought this at the same time as the Romertopt book and was glad I did. It added to the variety of recipes and I tried several with great success!
5 I bought a clay pot after hearing and reading people just rave and rave about them. The first meal came out underdone. The next came out burnt beyond belief. I just couldn't get it right, even though I was following the online recipes I had printed out. So for a while, I just ignored my Romertopf and wished I hadn't spent so much on something I would never use. One day, I saw this book in my recommendations and decided to buy it, hoping I could dust off my clay pot and actually use it again. Once I got the book, I decided to try a whole roasted chicken. I followed the recipe in the book and OMG it came out amazing, perfect, delicious...I cannot go on enough about how great it was. Everything I have made since using this book as a guide has come out just as great.
5 Good easy instructions for great meals. It has become a real family favorite.  You can even adapt to crock pot cooking with few adjustments. Double duty cooking!
5 For some really good and easy recipes this is the book for you. The only drawback to the book is that there is no nutritional information after each recipe.If this is a must for yiu, then skip the book.For me, it was not a deal nreaker, I lost my original copy and was happy to see that it was still in print ! I enjoy cooking meals from this book, as does  my family !
5 This book is excellent! Do I really mean it, given the insightful critiques on this page with low ratings for the book?Yes, I do; and I give it 5 stars to balance out the reviews. Every dish I've made so far has been absolutely delicious--fromthe plainer whole chicken and whole turkey recipes to fancier ones like Chicken Tagine with Green Olives and Preserved Lemon andMeditteranean Fish Stew. I can't wait to try out more recipes, my only regret being that the book is a small compendum rather than a large one with lots of recipes. What you eat, however, will be good!So add this to your collection and enjoy it.
3 A nice cookbook, good pictures, interesting, but more complicated than anticipated.  I passed it on to the library book sale.
5 This cookbook is interesting and informative about balsamic vinegar. And the recipes are wonderful. Have tried several and love them all.Highly recommend it.
5 Loved this little book on my favorite cooking ingredient. Beautiful recipes, lovely photography and would be pefect for your cookbook collection or to give to a friend.
4 Designed for those of us who love the taste of "balsamic vinegar" but don't know much about it (I didn't even know it came from grapes!), this beautifully illustrated niche book is full of fascinating historical tidbits and some tantalizing recipes.  Once limited to wealthy families of Modena and Reggio in Italy, the syrupy, sweet-sour treasure known as aceto balsamico was regarded as an heirloom, included in a daughter's dowry, and given out in small vials to particularly honored guests.  Even now, the real thing, dating from 1650, can sell for as much as $535 for 3 oz., enough to fill only six tablespoons.In explaining how the Reggiano consortium has certified balsamico tradizionale since 1987, the author describes the various grades in heady terms usually reserved only for fine wines, making them sound so tempting that one longs for the chance to sample them, despite their prohibitive prices.  The recipes are zesty (even if one must make them with the imitation balsamico they sell in supermarkets) and, for the most part, simple enough to inspire the reader to think of adjusting some family favorites by adding a splash of balsamic vinegar.  The Italian Gazpacho, Spicy Blueberry Chutney for curries, the Mediterranean Vegetable Stew with Parmesan Polenta, and the Tomato and Mozzarella Pizza with Balsamic Pesto are some of the savory delights here, though I'll take a pass on the desserts.  An excellent book for the adventurous cook, though one might wish for more than just 44 recipes.  Mary Whipple
5 This book had a lot of good information for me. the item was in good shape almost new. It gave me ideas as how to use basamic vinegar in various ways. AS I have not used it in cooking before. great photos.
5 This cute little book, full of pleasant photos, is worth its purchase price for the Mango and Crystallized Ginger Tea Bread recipe alone.
4 I bought this book years ago and still page through it for recipes.  This is a sweet little recipe book with wonderful photos throughout.  I have tried several of the recipes with much success.  It is a small book, though, so do not expect history, serving hints or calorie counts.  The scones and strawberry jam recipes are terrific.  Now that I have changed my diet to totally vegetarian, I have revised a couple of the scone recipes to fit my needs and still have success.
2 I love a good strong cup of tea...not to mention a buttery scone.  The recipes in this book are too fancy and time consuming for me ...and most of the ingredients are difficult to find.  Must be nice if you live in a universe where you can actually find the time to throw tea parties such as  these.  I wish I hadn't purchased...but live and learn.
5 I purchased this book as part of a gift.  I previewed it and got one myself.  Amazon has a good variety of cookbooks.  Delivery was quick.
4 Tea time every afternoon at 4 pm at my house.  The goodies in this book are delightful but dangerous to the waistline.  You really should consider a dinner time around 8 pm (I usually eat at 6:30).  Tea time often spoils my appetite for dinner.  But, I love it.
5 I have hers in hardcover on one of my shelves too.  Love the way she includes past life information in her books.
2 The book provided lightweight diversion when waiting for busses or when nothing is on the TV, the setting, storyline and characters were cozy in a twee, Olde English way, but the weak writing style really got in the way. The prose is littered with cliches and lazy terminology, including adjectives as 'lovely' and 'ordinary'. These words (unless used in dialogue) is inexcusable in a novel. I could not immerse myself in the story or feel concerned about what what happened next, although I ploughed onwards to the end. I also feel an opportunity had been missed to make Mike Sinclair, the rector more sinister and interesting. He was the best element of the story and held it (albeit a little) together. Sadly, the characters were flat and the story was too long.
1 it's really hard to take anything about it seriously.  I've read several other Barbara Erskine books starting with Lady of Hay, and have finally come to the conclusion that either that book was a complete fluke or I wasn't sufficiently observant when I read it years ago, because I thought it was a very original and satisfying book that expertly wove the past and present together into a compelling whole and I have not been able to say the same about any of her other books I've read, though until this one, I haven't felt as if my intelligence actually was being insulted.This book is extremely formulaic and full of stereotypes, not characters.  The ghostly incidents in the book are absolutely ludicrous and anyone who takes any serious interest in ghosts and possession will wonder how Barbara Erskine could possibly have done any research in either matter.  I realize there is such a thing as suspension of disbelief, but when there are SO many books and TV shows out there on haunted locations and how ephemeral the viewing of ghosts truly is, it's a bit much to expect readers to buy, even in a book of fiction, that there is a town where the ghosts basically appear on demand.But the worst thing about this book to me was how insulting it was to the concept of Wicca.  I am not even Wiccan, but the heavy-handed inaccurate depiction of Wicca compared to "Good guys are Christian" mentality stunned me.But I guess Barbara Erskine knows what sells - this book is as over-the-top and overblown as it gets.
2 I loved Barbara Erskine's Midnight Is A Lonely Place, and House of Echoes. I count them among my favorite books in spite of what I feel are weak, tacked on endings that seem as if the author had simply run out of ideas and thrown up her hands in defeat.The stories themselves were great, suitably spooky and they made a sort of sense...insofar as these things ever do make sense. Ms. Erskine even won my eternal gratitude in that she refrained from overdosing us with "romance" just because these stories had female protagonists AND weren't gore splashed "horror" novels.In short, now that Barbara Michaels is no longer writing ghost stories I was happy to find Barbara Erskine.Hiding From The Light was, however, a terrible disappointment.Characters who put themselves directly in front of runaway trains and then act shocked that they get run down tend to bore and annoy me...er...that would be Sarah.I KNOW that the story must go on, and that peril must be created for the heroine somehow but poor Ms. Erskine seems to have forgotten that tension is only sustained when the heroine seems to wish to AVOID placing herself in harm's way!The saddest part of it all is that I really enjoyed the "ghost story" part of this tale. Had Erskine stuck with the adventures of the ghost hunter T.V. crew, or simply with the attempts to keep the dead Witch Finder General (how's THAT for a job title) under control it might have made more sense.The plotline of the modern day heroine who is being acted on by forces she doesn't even KNOW exist seemed a very good excuse for putting a heroine in danger, and therefore worked in the context of the story without making you wish to slap the poor woman senseless.I won't even go into the ugly lies hurled at Wicca in this book. Holy, moley, I'm a Catholic and I was turned off, especially since I can't for the life of me see how a connection with and a reverence for nature is synonymous with evil, but that is niether here nor there. I fear, however, that in the not too distant future this book will seem as bigotted and wretched as old stories with evil depictions of Jewish or Catholic people seem now.In short, in spite of recognizing Ms. Erskine's undisputed talent for creating a shivvery, ghostly scene, the unlikely and stupid characters made this book difficult for me to enjoy. It's back to re-reading Midnight and House of Echoes for this kid.I really don't like it when cats get killed in my fiction either. No harm to children or cats is a cardinal rule and alas this book broke that rule too.Sigh...I'm hoping Barbara's next effort is more enjoyable.
5 Page after page, this book draws you through, a real page turner and a &#34;I can't put this down&#34; type of book, I did love it!
5 Up to her usual standard, a must read that keeps you wanting more. Look forward to getting the next book of hers.
4 I have been a fan of this author ever since I read her wonderful bestselling book, "Lady of Hay". So, I looked forward to reading this, her latest book, which has supernatural portents and characters from another place and time.In this book, the mid-seventeenth century and the present converge. Ghosts from the time of Oliver Cromwell, when Matthew Hopkins, the Witchfinder General, unjustly persecuted women in some rural communities in North Essex for being witches, are stirring. With Halloween on the horizon, it is only a matter of time before they make their presence felt.Emma Dickinson, a high-powered business executive finds herself inexorably drawn to a quaint cottage in a rural community in North Essex, where, as a child, she had spent some time. Leaving behind her lover and significant other, she buys her dream cottage, which long ago belonged to a herbalist named Liza who met her end at the hands of the Witchfinder General. When Emma moves into the cottage, she begins having a series of nightmares of a past that she cannot bear to remember.Unbeknownst to her, Mike Sinclair, the handsome new rector of her parish, likewise finds himself consumed by images of the past. A voice in his head interjects concepts and feelings that are alien to Mike. He is at a loss to explain what is happening and does not know that he is barreling towards a climax that will be decisive in determining whether the forces of evil or good will prevail.The author, a master storyteller, weaves a tale that is engaging, but the quality of the writing, however, is uneven, and some of the characters are not fully-fleshed. Moreover, the book could have benefited from some better editing. Nonetheless, while the book falls somewhat short of the standards that this author herself has set, it is still a moderately entertaining book that fans of the author will, in some measure, enjoy.
3 For reasons that are not entirely clear to her, Emma feels compelled to purchase a little cottage she remembers, in the village where her family used to summer. In the process, she leaves behind her "high flying" London career and her posh fiance. Emma devotes herself to fixing the house up, becoming accustomed to life on her own, and introducing herself to her  rural community. She loves her new home, but something seems seriously amiss. Terrifying nightmares, strange goings on in the abandoned churchyard, apparitions, voices in her head, weird weather - but Emma will not be frightened off. As summer turns to fall, she becomes deeply embroiled in a perilous paranormal situation, one that can only end in disaster if she cannot stand and fight.Hiding from the Light involves two sets of characters from two centuries, the mystery centering upon the witch hunt prosecuted by the infamous Matthew Hopkins. In parts, the writing descends into melodrama, and some of the characters are laughably hackneyed, but the bones of the story are good, with some sections quite effective. Recommended to readers who enjoy spooky but not overly gory tales of hauntings.
5 ... and possession and witches if you read this book.I've been a huge Barbara Erskine fan since reading Lady of Hay. Unfortunately this book (at least the regular-size type edition) has not been released for sale in the United States yet. Fortunately I was able to order it through Amazon.uk.This is a long, virtual door-stopper size book - at just over 540 pages, this hardcover is a hefty read. Though there were a few spots where it did lag a tiny bit, the plot was well done and the action continued to move at a brisk pace keeping my interest through the entire book.Emma Dickson is a successful business woman living in London with her fianc&eacute; Piers. During a visit to her dentist, she leafs through a magazine and sees a cottage for sale on the Essex coast. It's a house she remembers from her childhood summers in the country. She immediately senses that she must buy the house. Piers wants nothing to do with it. He loves their life in London and flatly refuses to even look at the cottage. Emma goes out to the country herself, falls immediately in love with the house, and puts in an offer for it. She buys it against the wishes of her fianc&eacute;, quits her job, and leaves Piers behind in the city. ...the excitement is just about to begin for Emma.The cottage Emma bought is haunted, as is the local shop, by long-dead spirits who were once in a heated battle - one was a witch (the ghost in Emma's cottage) prosecuted by the Witch Finder General Matthew Hopkins (the ghost in the local shop). The spirits of these people begin a war against each other using the living players in the tiny village, pitting one against the other. Slowly a tide of evil builds in the town. Senseless crimes are committed. Life in the village is thrown out of balance. To restore the balance the age-old battle between warring spirits needs to end.I don't want to spoil the story by telling any more of this tale. Suffice it to say, this is a very well written ghost story. You will believe in ghosts when you read it. The tales of the persecuted witches is thoroughly engrossing, the glimpses into the past are seamless, and the ending is so well crafted that you will believe it could all so easily happen. This was a highly enjoyable read and is a keeper of the best kind.
5 What fun! Safe to read at home, but if I was staying at a hotel/home/building that was reputed to be haunted, I'd save this one for later. It took a good couple of hundred pages to set the scenes and the characters, but then things took off and I couldn't put the book down. In some ways I can see cutting some of those characters and still keep the main story, but I loved the whole book anyway.Don't let the page count deter you, the paperback was 700+ but with so many short chapters, leaving half pages blank leading into the next chapter, it was a very quick, albeit enjoyable read.
4 I really enjoyed this book, it is a page turner, it made me want to keep reading. The story line was one of the best I have read of hers.  I love the mixture of supernatural themes and history. Well worth it!
5 What "improvements" have been made for the Greenway Ed edition?  There are already major differences in punctuation, word choices, and scene breaks between the original Collins and Dodd Mead (SO MANY STEPS TO DEATH) editions of this novel. There are further differences between the Dodd Mead editions republished by Random House/Avenel and the Dodd Mead editions republished by Simon & Shuster/Pocket.  There are further additions still in the Bantam, Berkley, Signet, and Black Dog & Leventhal editions.  For every publishing house putting out her works, there seem to be a new batch of editors altering Agatha Christie's words and the sound of her voice.  What's the matter with these publishers? Whose voice do they think we want to hear when we sit down to a novel by Agatha Christie? And what will she sound like twenty years from now? It's frightening that her estate has failed to see the importance of guarding her words as she wrote them.  Please tell me I'm not the only one here who senses that a crime has been committed.
4 I really enjoy this particular Agatha Christie story. Very different from many of her stories, set in the Middle East with a very strong female character.
5 I listened to this during a long drive from the Bay area to southern California and it certainly made the miles go faster (without my vehicle speed going over the legal limit).I thoroughly enjoyed the story and the character voices were excellently produced.I will certainly look for more titles from this producer.
4 Hilary Craven, the heroine of this story, wishes to commit suicide.  The sleeping pills are on her bedside table and all is ready for self-imposed death when a knock on the door changes her plans.  A young man tells her the story of a nuclear physicist who has disappeared.  Hilary, intrigued by the drama, agrees to impersonate the scientist's wife and begins an improbable masquerade that leads her deep into Africa to an unknown destination.This is a book you will probably want to read in one sitting because of its breathless excitement which culminates in a surprising ending.
4 Most of Agatha Christie novels are murder mysteries. They follow the usual murder mystery formula. Someone is murdered. Enter the detective who must solve the mystery before the murderer strikes again.Destination Unknown is different. It is more of a thriller than a mystery. There are deaths, but it is different. And in a total good way. This was a nice break from the murder mysteries and kept me reading until the last paragraph.Definitely recommend it for all Agatha Christie fans.
5 A very different read than usual. Some might not like it because of this. Author's need to experiment with genre's and it is our right to not read them or not enjoy them. But we shouldn't criticize the author for trying something new.I found the end a bit rushed after the long build up. It wasn't my favorite but still a good read!Who do you trust?
5 Too bad you can't give a book 0 stars,  I would if I could.  I read this book and found it SO boring (this might be because I read it when I was 10).  I couldn't remember what I had read at the top of the page before I  go to the bottom! This just proves how boring it was.  And believe me, I  was reading other mysteries at the time so I know a good one when I see it.  Agatha Christie was NOT a good one.
1 Let me start by saying I love Agathie Christie, she's one of my guilty pleasures. There's nothing cosier that sitting in a lovely warm living room reading an Christie novel while it's raining outside.That being said, this novel is very odd and uninspiring. It's not one of her typical murder mysteries...and it's all very farfetched and just barely comes together in the end.Fans of her usual material might seem a bit baffled by this 'novel'. This probably would have made a fine screenplay...but there's not enough coherence or guts to it, to make it a good novel as such. The characters also, are rather forgettable. The climax to the novel as well, is all rather odd and unimpressive.A fast read notheless.
3 In the 1920s and 1930s Agatha Christie often created novels that were more "thriller" than "mystery"--but as time passed she became less and less interested in such material.  1954's DESTINATION UNKNOWN (also published as SO MANY STEPS TO DEATH) is one of her few such novels from the latter half of her career.The novel has a topical story line that references the Cold War, defections, and even the notorious House Unamerican Activities Committee.  In the aftermath of her child's death and a painful divorce, Hilary Craven travels to the Middle East in an effort to escape her past--and when this fails determines to kill herself.  But her attempt at suicide is foiled when she is confronted with an intelligence officer aware of her intention, an intelligence officer who makes her an unusual proposal: if you are so determined to die, why not do it in a way that would serve your country?  A nuclear scientist has defected; his wife, rushing to join him, has died in a plane crash.  And Hilary, intrigued, agrees to take the wife's place in an effort to trace the missing scientist and uncover the intent behind his disappearance.  It is a mission from which she is unlikely to return alive.Although the premise is interesting, the resulting novel reads rather like the outline for a minor Alfred Hitchcock film.  Christie writes with her usual expertise, but the characters here are not greatly memorable and the story itself falls down a bit toward the novel's conclusion.  Still, it is a fast and fun read, and fans of the writer will likely enjoy it as a change of pace from her more typical fare.  Mildly recommended.--GFT (Amazon reviewer)--
2 The scientist Thomas Betterton, a brilliant young American who developed the ZE Fission technology that can be very important for modern warfare, has disappeared suddenly out of England. Has he been kidnapped or did he depart out of free will to work for the enemy? If Betterton's wife asks for permission to leave the country for a relaxing trip to Morocco, she gets followed by security agent Jessop. It all turns bad when her plane crashes on its way to Cassablanca. Nevertheless she succeeds in continuing her trip, but is not fully aware into which beehive she stumbles.First of all it must be stated clearly that this is not a detective story, but an atempt at an espionage novel. When Agatha published Destination Unknown in 1954, Ian Flemming had just created his famous James Bond character in the novel Casino Royale. Although Agatha clearly has the intention of making the plot flamboyant and bursting with action, she never succeeds in coming close to the fantastic plots that Flemming created. It is clear that the specialty of the Queen of Crime lies in the typical whodunit with Poirot and Marple as the key-characters and not in novels of espionage. The plot of Destination Unknown is straightforward and, although some admirable attempts were made to surprise the reader, lacks the level of suspense that normally characterizes this type of thriller.This book certainly does not belong to Agatha Christie's highlights. But then again, it is still remarkable that seen the enormous size of her oeuvre, she only wrote but a few really bad books.
5 Not the usual Christie fare, this spy story keeps you in suspense from page 1.  I thought it was well done, although the plot is highly improbable.  Like most Christie's work, it focuses more on the psychological aspect than anything else.  The writing is good.  I could see several serious philosophical questions addressed, in a light style through the conversations and thoughts of the protagonists.  Being a scientist myself, I truly appreciated this piece.
4 This 1955 novel is a departure from her more well known cosy series books.  This one has none of her more familiar characters like Poirot or Marple, the setting is mostly the North African desert and centers on a James Bond type conspiracy complete with secret hideout and mysterious, fabulously wealthy mastermind.Hilary Craven has been defeated by life, her daughter has died, her husband has left her and she has nothing left to live for.  She has decided to leave England and in an out-of-the-way spot in Morocco end it all.  Circumstances intervene and instead of a quiet end in a lonely hotel room Hilary finds herself cast in the role of secret agent.This is a rather standard thriller type novel.  Although a departure from Christie's usual fare there are still many of her more familiar motifs.  The 'hero' is a single woman off on a adventure (like MAN IN THE BROWN SUIT), there is also a 'master criminal' (like the Tommy and Tuppence series or PASSENGER TO FRANKFURT) and much of the action takes place in an isolated, contained environment.  As always in Christie's work the clues are all there for the reader to follow right up to the surprise ending.
4 Another one of Christie's espionage potboilers contains one of her best female protagonists. Hillary Craven starts out a tragic figure and becomes by the end, a clever, determined and complex character. Slight comparisons to Passenger to Frankfurt, which expands on the disappearing scientist thread more chillingly. As usual, Agatha tops off the adventure with some nice final twists.
3 I'm not much of a fan of the thriller genre - there's usually so much detailed intrigue that I can't even keep up with what's happening, let alone figure out what's really going on. So hooray for Agatha Christie! Her thrillers are plot-focused (rather than designed to show off how clever she thinks she is), admirably economical, and contain some really appealing characters.Hilary Craven is a woman who has lost her husband and child, and is seeking escape by travelling to Morocco. But once there, she discovers that her problems are within her - that there is no escape. She decides to end her life, but is interrupted by the practical Mr Jessop. Jessop has previously been encountered investigating the disappearance of Thomas Betterton, another brilliant scientist who has vanished without a trace. He suggests that if Hilary is so bent on death, she could make herself useful to him while she seeks it. Deciding that she's up to the challenge and convinced that death is what she really wants, Hilary impersonates the wife of Thomas Betterton and heads off into the unknown. She waits for Mrs Betterton's mysterious allies to contact her and take her to join her "husband", knowing she will be beyond help if her ruse is discovered. And once she is contacted, then the fun really begins.Hilary is a great character, the mystery she gets caught up in is a satisfying one, and as with all Christie novels, there is a great sense of era as the concerns and foibles of the 1950s (when this book was written) are brought to life.
5 I know this book has an indifferent reputation and it is sometimes compared unfavorably to Christie's preceding thriller, THEY CAME TO BAGHDAD.  But over the years I've come to prefer DU to BAGHDAD, maybe as I've grown older and more reflective.  The insouciant and devil may care heroine of BAGHDAD, Victoria Jones, was once more appealing to me, and the social comedy of that book remains a delight.  But now I am in a Hilary Craven state of mind.  If you ask me, Hilary Craven is one of Christie's greatest accomplishments as a character, and her gradual transformation during the events of her "ritualized suicide" is so skillfully done it's hard to see how it could be improved.At first she is a frightened, despondent mess, as a result of catastrophes in her personal life, a broken marriage, and the death of her only child, a little girl.  She keeps obsessing about Brenda, the dead girl, and visualizing the pathetic tiny mound of her grave.  She decides to commit suicide and nothing is going to stop her.  Christie takes you deep inside Hilary's mind, and her decision seems perfectly rational and even moral, and then fate knocks at her door.  In a way we've heard Christie tell this story before, because a would-be suicide turns into the hero of TOWARDS ZERO, and we get some idea of her philosophy on the subject--don't kill yourself because of the butterfly effect, and you never know when you might save someone else's life if only you live.  DESTINATION UNKNOWN shows signs of Christie's interest in French existentialism, and the questions it asks are pretty deep ones.  What is the price of personal freedom?  Is freedom an illusion?  In paradise--real or imagined--is there any freedom of choice?  If humans are infinitely adaptable and can get used to anything, where is the spark that separates us from the animals?  Is identity itself a learned response?
4 One of Christie's more atypical books, Destination Unknown is much more of a spy thriller than a traditional murder mystery. Brilliant scientists are mysteriously disappearing from all over the world, and the British secret service races to discover where they've gone and why.Hilary Craven, a strong and lovely young Englishwoman who is traveling to Morocco to escape from the desperate tragedy of her life, finally realizes that she is trying to escape from herself and the pain she carries with her, so she decides to end her life. Hilary's blazing red hair turns out to be a surprising gift, however, and at this point the Secret Service makes contact with her. Hilary is sent off into the ancient cities of Africa on a wild and dangerous mission replete with the near-certainty of failure and death.Destination Unknown is a colorful and vivid spy thriller remarkable for its well-paced character development, as Hilary progresses from brokenness and utter despair to strength and courage.
5 A thriller type.  Her knowledge of the middle east from her husband's excavations, Max Mallowan, puts her--and us--in the picture.  Wonderful fun.Often underrated by Agatha purists.
5 Speaking from the point of view of someone who has so far read only one Agatha Christie novel as of yet, Destination Unknown being it, I have to say it's definitely not what I was expecting. The writing style was sometimes a bit hard to understand but that's probably just the time difference, so nothing to say there. I've heard that it's one of Christie's more adventure-esque novels and not as good as her others, but being a lover of the adventure/mystery blend myself, I found out actually quite interesting despite the obvious lack of dark rooms and bodies on the floor. A very different writer telling the same story might have bored me out of the book, but Christie managed to spin it in such a way that you didn't get bored of anything. Overall, I really liked this book and I can guarantee that I'll be back for more Christie later! :)
4 Destination Unknown is a departure from Agatha Christie's usual work in that it is not a whodunit set in England.  Instead, it is one of her espionage-type works.  (I say "espionage-type" because it starts out feeling like a cold-war spy thriller, but ends up being something else.  I won't say any more so as not to spoil it for anyone).Of course, there is no Hercule Poirot or Miss Marple here, nor is there any of the slight quirkiness and charm that is often a trait of Christie's mysteries.  Instead, Destination Unknown has a more serious feel that shows well Christie's writing skill.I enjoyed this primarily because I liked the main character, Hillary Craven.  Main characters make or break books, and in this case I connected with  Hillary right off and that affinity and connection held throughout the rest of the book.As mysteries go, I have to rate this one as slightly better than average.  The book starts out with strong suspense and good pacing that continues up until Hillary arrives at her "destination."  From that point the story stalls slightly until the end, when Christie throws in twists and turns in rapid succession.  The whole plot is far-fetched and not very realistic, but it is fun and entertaining and keeps you wondering what is going to happen.The narrator is so-so.  She does well enough with most of the voices, although I didn't care for her hoarse, whispery rendition of a couple of the male characters.  She didn't do all that well with the American voices, either, but then I have yet to hear a British narrator who can do an American accent well.All in all an entertaining story, with Christie's typical happy ending.
5 As an unapologetic, die-hard Christie fan, I loved this book.  However, it was one of her later ones and is not a murder mystery.  Rather it is a sort of spy thriller.  The story is that scientists have been disappearing from their posts all over the world, just after WWII.  A wife of one of the disappeared men announced her intention to take a trip for her nerves.  On the way she dies, and the police set up another red-haired woman who resembles her to take her place.  This imposter is taken on a journey to an unknown destination in Africa to meet up with her husband.  The trip was described so well that I fell into it and almost felt as if I were along for the ride.  I think it had to be based on actual trips she took herself. Once she reaches her destination, she finds herself trapped with a man who is not her husband but who is willing to keep up the pretense for reasons of his own.  How she is finally rescued and falls for one of her fellow captors concludes the story.  The plot has the trademark Christie twist at the end, but it is admittedly not the mystery she is known for.  The remarkable thing about this book is that Christie finally indulges her desire to express her philosphies of life, which she always wanted to do, but was restrained by her publishers.  I marked the bits of philosophy which really didn't relate to the plot and found many of them.  A lot of this book sounds autobiographical and may reveal more of Christie's true self that her official autobiography.  Absolutely fascinating  and irresistable to a Christie fan like me.
4 An excellent mystery, Agatha Christie in great form, keeps us guessing almost all the way to the end - however, the ending is rather too improbably dramatic for my taste.
5 Most of Agatha Christie's books deal with established characters, such as Poirot and Marple.  But, there are a few that stand alone.  Interestingly, most of them focus on powerful people who want to rule the world.  Destination Unknown and They Came to Bagdad are two of the best known.  Some of her works featuring the power-hungry also include an established character (The Rule of Four and Poirot).In Destination Unknown, written during the height of the Cold War, the reader could be lulled into thinking at the outset that it is a cold war novel between East and West.  The reader will be fooled!  It is instead a novel about scientists and others seeking a utopian world where they can work unfettered by governments.  Eventually they discover the illusiveness of their searcb and become  pawns in a "new society" created by a megalomanic.Christie mixes a touch of murder and international intrigue into this great read!
4 While best known for her mysteries featuring her famous sleuths Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple, Agatha Christie wrote many works that did not involve them and often touched on a wide array of topics.  &#34;Destination Unknown&#34; is one of those works that touches upon the fears of Communism during the Cold War.  It is an intriguing thriller that will keep readers curious.The story begins with Jessop, a British security agent, trying to discover why so many of the world's best scientists have been disappearing.  After questioning Olive Betterton, the wife of the most recent missing brilliant mind, Jessop is certain she will lead them to her husband,  But when her plane crashes in Morocco and Olive is on her deathbed, Jessop knows he needs another plan.  Enter Hilary Craven, a young woman who looks similar enough to Olive Betterton to fool anyone not familiar with her and with a sorrowful enough past that leaves her fearless of danger and death.  She agrees to pose as Olive Betterton but soon finds herself in over her head when she and four others are whisked away in the middle of the night to a strange complex in the middle of the desert.  Olive a.k.a. Hilary is about to be reunited with her husband, but will he accept this stranger as his wife or give her away?  Can she find the answers that Jessop and the authorities of other countries have been looking for?  Or will she get swept along with the currents of propaganda that have swayed others, far more brilliant than she?&#34;Destination Unknown&#34; is a fast paced read and a welcome departure from Christie's other mysteries.  The fear of Hilary's pretense being discovered creates enough suspense to keep the story moving.  The incorporation of the fear and lure of communism is an interesting facet that Christie deftly explores.
3 Whenever Agatha Christie stepped away from her usual detectives Hercules Poirot and Miss Marple, the entire tone of her novels would often shift from mysteries (often called "cozies" on account of their English village settings) to espionage/conspiracy thrillers. This is especially true of "Destination Unknown" which spans several countries and a lengthy passage of time, with special agents, government officials and wealthy masterminds making up (most of) its cast.It deals with the scenario of several international scientists disappearing without a trace. International governments are getting concerned as to where they've all gone, and whether they're being kidnapped or going of their own volition. The most recent disappearance is that of Thomas Betterson, who leaves a potential lead in the form of his wife Olive. The officials in charge of the case are certain that she knows more than she's letting on, but are finding her a tough nut to crack...Hilary Craven has nothing to live for. After her daughter dies and her husband leaves her for another woman, she prepares to commit suicide. However, she is just about to overdose on sleeping pills when she hears a knock at her hotel door. It is a perfect stranger who saw her buying a large quantity of sleeping pills and who has a proposition for her. If she does in fact long for death, why not go out in a blaze of glory? British agents have been tailing Mrs Betterson to Morocco hoping that she would lead them to her husband, only for her to die in a plane crash. Since Hilary has a passing resemblance to the dead woman, would she be willing to take her place and hopefully discover what happened to the missing scientists?The set-up is ridiculously unlikely, and yet utterly compelling. Christie draws out the suspense of where Hilary is going and what she will find when she gets there to perfection, crafting a dream-like atmosphere that is nonetheless grounded in reality by the devastating planning of the secret organization that whisks Hilary and her fellow passengers into the unknown. It would be hugely remiss to discuss what it awaiting Hilary on her strange adventure, but I suppose it's fair to say that after such a magnificent setup, any revelation comes as something of a disappointment. Yet perhaps that's the point, as Christie once again draws upon her oft-used theme of the inherent small-mindedness of megalomania and the strength of those dismissed as ordinary."Destination Unknown" is certainly not one of Christie's best books. Though most of her mysteries demand a re-read in order to pick up on the clues and red herrings strewn throughout the plot, the enjoyment of "Destination Unknown" hinges on the suspense of Hilary's journey. Once over, there's little reason to revisit it, despite the last-minute shoehorning in of a mystery that is only tangentially connected to the rest of the plot. There are a couple of loose ends and some characters that remain unaccounted for, but on the whole it makes for an intriguing but light read.Much like a cross between "They Came to Baghdad" and "Passenger to Frankfurt" (with a dash of "Toward Zero" thrown in, what with a wannabe-suicide finding a new purpose in life) Christie draws heavily on her own travelling experiences to map Hilary's journey and her own belief system to explore the nature of power, freedom, progress and knowledge - raising some weighty philosophical questions along the way.
4 For those who had enjoyed children adventure books like those written by Enid Blyton or Capt WE Johns, this book wouldhave fit right in.Unlike other novels by the writer, this book is not a mysterybook but an adventure book.  There is no who-done-it, thoughthere are few clues left around, there is no crime actually defined.Scientists from the West have gone missing.  When the wife of one such scientist went on a holiday, supposedly to recover from the trauma, British agents had her tailed, suspecting she could lead them to the whereabouts of the missing scientists.  But when her plane crashed and she was seriously injured, the trail appeared to go cold.  Enter Hilary Craven, a suicidal woman who bore a passing resemblance.  Offered a more exciting way to die in an almost certainly fatal missiong, she eagerly took the chance.Not knowing what she could expect to find, the British agents could brief her little except to play-it-by-ear.  As they hoped, she was accepted as the supposed wife, and led to be with her supposed husband.  But as closely as the British agents trailed her, the adversary was a step ahead to outsmart the shadowers and Hilary found herself in an unexpected place, with even more unexpected encounters.Would she survive, or would she be exposed as an impostor?  The strangely diverse people she had for travelling companions on her way to the lair of the enemy made her wonder if the whole business was what it really appeared to be.In Hilary, the writer had a perfect character for such a mission, a person who had no desire for self preservation, and could mold herself into another being who had a dual purpose in life, one as a impostor wife, another as an undercover agent.To paraphrase a line from a popular song, when she fooled the others, she fooled herself as well and through the ordeal, she actually became the force which pushed others to cling on to hope, and eventually, regaining her sense and purpose of existence.A highly enjoyable book, in the cast of adolescent adventure but written for adults.
2 I agree with those reviewers that believe that this is not Agathat's best work, far from it. Her foray is mystery and this books attempts to be a thriller, which doesn't work at all. I cannot say that the writing is bad but this entire book is just not interesting. Her other books that have to do with world organizations are much better although also couldn't be compared to her regular setting of a family murder. So much of the plot just doesn't make sense and apart from the three main characters everyone else remain hazy, which is never the case in any of her other books. I have the entire collection and must say that this is her most unsuccessful literary attempt.
5 This is not the book that Agatha Christie wrote.  There are major differences in punctuation, word choices, and scene breaks between the original Collins and Dodd Mead editions of this novel. There are further differences between the Dodd Mead editions republished by Random House/Avenel and the Dodd Mead editions republished by Simon & Shuster/Pocket.  For every publishing house putting out her works, there seem to be a new batch of editors altering Agatha Christie's words and the sound of her voice.  Here the publishers at Collins, dissatisfied with their own earlier efforts, put still more distance between author and public with a "Library Ed" edition.  What's the matter with these publishers? Whose voice do they think we want to hear when we sit down to a novel by Agatha Christie? And what will she sound like twenty years from now? It's frightening that her estate has failed to see the importance of guarding her words as she wrote them.  Please tell me I'm not the only one here who senses that a crime has been committed.
5 This is a little different from the typically fun, but frivolous Agatha Christie story.  The main characters are more finely drawn than in most of her books, whether short stories or novels.  The action takes place in a variety of venues and is definitely intriguing, not easily penetrated.  I think even those who don't care to read Christie, considering her work &#34;mind snacks,&#34; should give this a try.
4 When I was a teenager, I loved this book. It's not standard for Christie, no, but it had such a wonderful feeling of hidden menace, and a larger world just beyond the reader's sight. Stafford Nye was extremely likeable; I wish Christie had written more about him.I always felt that the book was an abridged version of what it should have been, but it triggered my imagination in such a way that I'll always be fond of it.
1 I rarely able to choose the worst books of an author. But if I have to choose the worst of Christie, this one will be it. The spy story did not interest me at all. I tried to finish it, since I'm a big fan of her, but it was hard not to fall asleep.
4 Agatha Christie wrote several novels that deal with international organizations trying to take over the world.  While I prefer her works set in the cozy country estates with families full of suspects, this is an enjoyable foray into this type of her work. Tones of neo-Nazism, drug trafficking, international finance, and a scientific discovery that could change the world are some of the elements that make up this story.The characters are interesting:  Sir Stafford Nye, an unambitious member of the British diplomatic corps caught up in this caper; his great-aunt Matilda, an aristocratic lady reminiscent of Miss Marple in that she has a remarkable memory of things that happened long ago; a young girl with three identities who fears for her life, and a young man rumored to be the son of Adolph Hitler are among the characters that come to life in this novel.If you like international intrigue, stories about spies and world domination, I think you will enjoy this book.
3 In all of Agatha Christie's 85 novels, I have managed to read two back to back that are not only very much alike, but don't follow the usual murder mystery genre.I found "Passenger to Frankfurt" to be very different. It follows more a genre of being international intrique. Reading it I felt like I was reading a "Robert Ludlum".This book follows a lot of the themes of Hitler "fanatic-ism" and there is even an uncovering that maybe Hitler didn't die and instead was exchanged for an imposter and lived the rest of his days in South America.There is a note in the front of this book from Agatha Christie to the reader, explaining how the novel is very much fantasy, and that is totally true. It could happen, possibly, but it seems unreal in many ways as well.It definitely hasn't been my favourite. I wasn't on the edge of my seat and everything only started making sense about 3/4 of the way through, and I'm not sure I really understood anything by the end of it.I've heard people say that before about this one.On wikipedia Robert Barnard is quoted as saying : "Robert Barnard: "The last of the thrillers, and one that slides from the unlikely to the inconceivable and finally lands up in incomprehensible muddle. Prizes should be offered to readers who can explain the ending."Yes not quite the usual from Ms Christie, but I shall see what the next one I pick up has to offer.
3 I have to be in a particular mood to read &#34;Passenger to Frankfurt,&#34; because it is, as Agatha plainly says in her introduction, &#34;An Extravaganza.&#34; You'll get to experience a little of a German airport; a lot of an ancient German &#34;schloss;&#34; a lovely German forest; Wagnerian music; several interesting characters & several grotesque ones; and a little about how the British Secret service works.  It is not a parlor mystery like most of hers; it's more like an adventure.  But one thing you should know:  If you want a really good analysis of Hitler & the Nazis, you will get one here.  Agatha was a chemist's dispenser in both World Wars & she knew.
1 I'm vacationing in Sam Miguel de Allende. It's rainy season. And I thought I'd reward myself with a little Agatha Christie between my more academic reading. What a huge misstep! I'm only have way through, and I thought let me see if others on Amazon have reacted as poorly as I have to this work. They have!So far this dreary novel sidesteps logic, is extremely talky, there is no suspense, and politically it comes off as a right wing attack on youth culture and the anti-war movement. Agatha, you have never disappointed me before, although I did notice a few hints of anti-Semitism ( I can't remember now in which mysteries), but then I thought I must be imagining it.Now I'm at page 151 and am forcing myself to continue because you brought me so much joy in the past. Maybe the rest of this tome (tomb??) will redeem itself. But for those of you who still want to adore Madame Christie, make believe PASSENGER TO FRANKFURT doesn't exist.
1 This book opens with an intriguing situation, one in which the central character goes out on a limb and takes up a preposterous proposal from a total stranger. Instead of drawing in with a question and then gradually exposing a clever answer, the book just keeps piling up question after question after question. After awhile, the questions are not of the charitable sort. It is not just that the story is preposterous. It is that I finished with no idea what on earth THAT was all about. I'm not even sure what she was trying to say. There wasn't a character in it for whom I felt any affection, either, although a lot of them would be exceedingly hard to live with. I got very tired of the old aunt who was supposedly a bit shallow and intellectually slow and who was yet so extremely insightful at the same time. I wish that in the end it that someone had "discovered" that the old bat was pulling everyone's leg the whole time, but that never happened. Likewise, I had hoped that the author was going to spring it off on us at the last minute, letting us know what all those odd leads were about, that she was surely not as dotty as she seemed to be, but that never happened, either.It's a book that few of us have ever heard of. Let's just say: There is Reason for That.
3 Book Club ReviewPassenger to Frankfurtby Agatha ChristieOur book club's book for February 2008 was PASSENGER TO FRANKFURT, by Agatha Christie.Huh? you may be thinking.  And that is exactly why we decided to read this book.  We have been reading a lot of books lately by writers who are newer to the field, so we decided we would like to go back to one of the classics.  But we wanted to read a lesser-known book by one of the greats.  And thus was Passenger to Frankfurt elected.  Fortunately, it's in print as a mass-market book, so it was nice and cheap, too!This isn't a Hercule Poirot, Miss Marple, or even Tommy & Tuppence book.  Rather, it is Dame Agatha's foray into the world of the thriller, with plenty of espionage, secret identities, and even (it is rumored) the son of Adolf Hitler.In a nutshell, the plot concerns the main character of Sir Stafford Nye, who awakens after being drugged to realize that his passport has been stolen.  He remembers a  young woman who'd begged for his help and then disappeared--and then he himself is the victim of a murder attempt.  When he does find the young lady, he is dragged into a plot of international proportions, featuring NeoNazis, multiple identities, and secrets and betrayals.We felt it was interesting to see Christie in this mode.  (Interestingly, Christie notes in her preface that she considers the book an "extravaganza," far beyond the scope of her normal books.)  In some ways, the characters are ones we have seen before--including Sir Stafford's aunt Matilda, who's a bit Miss Marplesque writ large.That said, the book is of course filled with Christie's trademark twists and turns.  Because the book is a thriller, it's tough to say too much without giving away key points of the plot.  It is believable?  No, not really--but neither were those Frederick Forsyth or Jack Higgins books, either.  (Or Robert Ludlum.)  But it's great fun to read, if you can put aside your expectations of the typical Christie book.  The men in our group particularly liked the book, which is actually fairly short by thriller standards and can be gotten through in just a sitting or two.On the negative side, you can't really say that there's any major character development--the good guys are good, the bad are bad (except in cases of false identities, but you'll have to read for yourself to get that all figured out).  The plot does seem a bit convoluted at times, but isn't that what we expect from a thriller?  Christie must have had a lot of fun writing this--not just solving a "little murder" but rather getting herself up to speed on plots for world domination.The women were a little less enthusiastic, but overall we did enjoy it and recommend it as a good option for something different and fun.  We thought it was Christie's homage to Hitchcock and would have been a great film.
2 Passenger to Frankfurt was published in 1970 when author Dame Agatha Christie was 80 years old. The novel is atypical for the Queen of Crime in that it deals with a rebellion by youth. There are no drawing room murders or much character development. Think of a mismash of "Brave New World"; "1984" and dystopian views of society's future.Sir Stafford Nye is seated in the passenger lounge at the Frankfurt airport awaiting a flight to London. He is accosted by a young woman who begs to dress in his clothes so she will escape from persons seeking to murder her.She dresses in Nye's cloak and uses his passport. Nye drinks a drugged beer but is later revived. Back in London he meets the mysterious woman. She is Countess Renata Zerkowsi. Renata is part of a top secret team which is combasting the rise of a Neo-Nazi youth movement being led by a charismatic young leader named Young Siegfried.The Aryan looking young man is the son of Adolf Hitler who fled to Argentina where he married a blonde Englishwoman who gave birth to Franz Josef leader of the New World State. The boy has a Swastiza tattoo on his foot.The most interesting characters are not the pallid Nye but his Aunt Matilda. She voices many of the concerns about society held by author Christie. Also of interest is a fat old woman named Charlotte who is a doyen of the Neo-Nazi resurgence. As the novel ends Nye and Renata are planning their wedding.The novel contains long sections wherin Christie laments the state of modern society. The novel is often dull.This is one of the last Agatha Christie books I would recommend to a new reader of her countless works of fiction.
5 the merits of this work by christie lie as i see them, not in the logical procedures of the detectivews work, or spy, but in the connection between the author's style, and the reason for the novel being wriiten. christie writes, from the height of her years, that she sought to rationalize the violent changes to society, several decades after such horrors should have been expunged when ww2 ended. the world was'nt playing like a gentleman. the style chosen, is very similar to that of several noted adventure writers from sir anthony hope, whose ruritania adventures are mentioned, to sir arthur conan doyle (not much liked by christie, one should note) and specifically his story "the final problem" which is alluded to in a character which i shall not reveal.it is true, that in the late 1960's espionage novels were very different in style from those that christie knew and assimilated in the early 20century, and thus one may feel as though sir anthony hope reappeared not much changed after 90 years, but christie is well aware of the discrepancies and presents them in a playful way. the result is not only a fond farewell to a much more sensible and sporting sense of skullduggery, but a concious addmission of personal anguish at seeing all sens flee from even the world of crime, not only the world itself.nobody blamed sir arthur conan doyle when he wrote serlock holmes into the general attempt to make sense of the horrors of ww1 in "the final problem". neither did we grudge superman and tarzan when they fought hitler. can we thus grudge agatha christie's small and playful last-ditch-attempt at making sense in a world gone mad?i don't think we should, or can. this book is fun.
2 This novel follows the adventures of Ivar Frederiksen, son of a nobleman of the planet Aeneas, who has dared to challenge the authority of the Terran Empire, and as a result must flee for his life, even while searching for some way to secure his planet's freedom.  Having led a pathetically feeble revolt against an infinitely more powerful military force, Ivar has no choice but to hide among the various nomadic peoples of his planet, hoping that their innate distrust of outsiders will dissuade them from betraying him.  He gains an ally in Erannath, a large, bird-like creature from another empire, but no one can say for certain what his real agenda is.  The story climaxes when Ivar is introduced to Jaan, a prophet who is possessed by a 6-million-year-old member of the race of &quot;Elders&quot; whose archeological remains are venerated all over the planet.  Can these two men set in motion forces that will free their people before being captured by Terran police?  This reader found himself not caring well before the halfway point of this tedious book.  Indeed, the first two-thirds of the novel are painfully slow and pointless, as various characters are elaborately positioned, analyzed, and persuaded.  Although Anderson's powers of description are excellent, at times even poetic, and his use of the Elder, Caruith, is intriguing, his action scenes are too often abbreviated, or even skipped, showing us only the aftermath of the action.  It was probably a mistake to chooseFrederiksen as the main character, since he does little of significance until the very end.  Instead, he spends most of the book running and hiding, and there's very little thrill in this chase since his trackers are seldom close enough or dangerous enough to really engage the reader.  Anderson had a good enough idea for this book, showing how a rebellious young man of privilege could join forces with a working-class visionary to shake up the establishment, but he took far too long to get his story started, and by the time things really got moving, it was nearly ended.  It's hard to believe that the average reader will even finish this book, let alone enjoy it.
3 My star rankings are intended only as a comparison within the very extensive works still available by Agatha Christie.  I would say this is a fair to middlin'  late piece by her. Not a recounting of the adventures of any of her series characters, this is one of the independent works in which the lead characters are portrayed only once or twice. Focus is on a John Buchan type of hero, a diplomat with a sense of humor which has condemned him to posts of lesser status than those to which his abilities qualify him.  He is considered to be  "not serious" enough. On a layover after a mission he is confronted by a lady who makes a strange request of him. Give her his enveloping cloak and passport so that she can disguise herself as him and get on the plane to London safely or she will be killed. Intrigued, he agrees, and thus begins his great adventure. Without revealing anything of the mystery, I can say  it involves a great conspiracy to take over the world with young people organized to act in all major countries. To my way of thinking, Christie gets too involved in spelling out the terms of the conspiracy, its conception of people and its plans for the future. This leads her to keep her lead characters in abeyance through more of the book  than is good for maintaining interest in them. Most surprising is the way in which she ends the book most abruptly pretty much as if she had just gotten tired of it and closed it as  soon she could. No fan will consider any of this personal comment  reason not to read the book. Others looking to begin their reading in Dame Agatha should turn to one of the Hercule Poirot or Miss Marple books as these are more representative of her fine stories.
3 I was searching for some literary comfort food, and picked this book off of my "to be read" shelf. I thought that I had read most of the Christie novels, but picked this up when I could not for the life of me remember having read it. It was, sadly, not comforting. As you have no doubt figured out if you have read the various reviews of this book, it is by no means a typical Agatha Christie.Instead of small, character-focused, and closely examined Passenger to Frankfurt is big and surreal and (let's be honest) kind of bombastic. Featured aspects are a worldwide youth conspiracy, the return of the dangerous Germans, and a very unlikely spy thriller.I can imagine that Christie had a lot of fun writing this novel, and far be it from me to begrudge her that fun. Actually, the best part about the book for the reader is the introduction, and in the introduction you get the sense of what drove her to write something like this. The book isn't awful, really, it just isn't great-- and I am used to pretty much everything she writes being great.Passenger to Frankfurt is an interesting little oddity for the Christie fan, but probably something to skip if you are just looking for a Christie mystery. At least Christie isn't as bad as Ngaio Marsh at writing about youth culture of the 1960s/70s, so at least that's some blessing.
1 At the Frankfurt airport the diplomat Sir Stafford Nye takes an enormous risk when he gives, without questions, his flamboyant cloak and his passport to a young woman who slightly resembles himself. But the woman is desperate and tells him that it truly is a matter of life and death. She must take a seat in the airplane from Frankfurt to London and no one must know who she really is, because that would mean certain death. Later he understands that she did not exaggerate a bit when he learns who she is and what her real purpose was.Passenger to Frankfurt has nothing to recommend it; except for the study it provides of an author in declining years trying to concoct a plot that involves topics like world domination and fascism. The novel subsequently stays always one pace removed from reality and the characters seem to be as lost as any reader would be.Agatha Christie wrote this book as a birthday treat in 1970, the year she became eighty. Fans deserved a somewhat nicer present, I think. Even the publisher realized that the story would be hard to sell to the readers and insisted on the subtitle "An Extravaganza".
1 This spy adventure starts out promisingly with an airport incident that can happen to anyone.  However, it quickly degenerates into plotlessness, lack of direction, and a boring lack of suspense.  The characters are so grotesque and unrealistic, that Christie loses one of her most formidable writing weapons: the ease with which her readers (normally) connect to the characters.  I could not connect, and after the first few chapters, could care less what happened to anyone.Christie uses this novel as a platform to present her age-old world view of a secret society that is plotting for world domination.  In it you see a lot of resentment towards the young, betraying the total incomprehension this octogenarian had for the generation of the 60s and 70s.  She mixes up student protests with leftist tendencies, "violence for the sake of violence", and neo-Nazi currents, all together.  Add to that the rambling, incoherent, conversation style of most characters, and you get a befuddled mess.What makes her other novels so great is her (usually) deep understanding of human nature.  Regrettably, she doesn't show this understanding here.  The young are mere hypnotist fodder, to be brainwashed by whoever is capable of doing so.Even worse than Elephants Can Remember, the only reason to read this is to say that you're read all of Christie's books.  I just quit halfway.
1 "Passenger to Frankfurt" is quite possibly the worse book I ever finished. I've read worse books that I gave up on in frustration but this had Agatha Christie's name on it. She was a great writer. I love her stuff. Agatha wouldn't let me down. Wow was I wrong.Set in the 1960's this is a serious departure from her usual drawing room mysteries. Stafford Nye, a man working from Britain's Foreign office is approached by a woman in need of help at Frankfurt airport. After helping her out he is determined to meet her again and is rewarded by being indoctrinated into a secret government clique trying to find out about secret organization that seems to be behind the youth movement, taking flower power to anarchical violence. So far so good. Agatha is dipping into the world of James bond you think, but then it all goes wrong and I mean ALL.Stafford is quickly taken to the alpine schloss of Charlotte a grossly fat woman who is a major player in the movement but the schloss, followers etc falling into a Wagnerian/neo-Nazi theme seems more like a Bond movie villain, gross and over the top and you have no idea how she is a `hidden' leader since everyone knows about her. From there Stafford drops out of the picture as the reader is given the insight to various government cabinet meetings by way of plot exposition which says the world is going to hell in a hand basket as the youth movement is unifying countries, destroying airports etc etc. and yet old ladies easily travel about Europe oblivious to all this.Individual scenes hold up. Christie can write dialogue and set things out but the connection between the scenes, the development of the plot, they are not `bad' they are non-existent. Imagine watching a James Bond film and half way through, you stop following Bond and the entire film is then seen from Miss Moneypenny's desk and you will have a reasonable idea of what a frustrating mess this is.At first you think maybe it was Dame Agatha making a comment on the `hippies' of the 60's she didn't understand but this soon slips by the boards and by the last page you realize there isn't an end. You have no resolution or even an understanding if there was a resolution off stage. It's as if there were *many* other chapters but Christie forgot to send them to the printer.In the end this is a mess, a waste of time and money and talent that should never have seen the light of day. An early departure from her usual style as she steps into the world of Ian Fleming starts out well but half way through it completely falls apart. If you love mysteries, if you love spy stories, if you love Agatha Christie if you love the freaking spoken word-stay the hell away from this mess!
3 This was my favorite Anderson novel. Dark and foreboding gothic feel to life on the run. Although the setting was a distant planet,  I wouldn't call this story core, nor necessarily memorable science fiction, in the Asimovian classification. It could have been set in Afghanistan, or more appropriately, prehistoric northern Europe, with a futuristic set of props. Further, it was a little difficult to establish plot, but gave me a sense of a caravan or covered wagon train on the run in the American West. Still, I now wish I had kept my copy, I would be reading it again.
1 First off, let me say that i am a huge and dedicated fan of the great Dame Agatha Chrisite. I have read almost all her books, and i think she is the greatest mystery writer ever.However, this rather fantastical effort is a departure from her usual murder mysteries into the murky world of espionage and the discovery of an anarchistic conspiracy run by neo-Nazis. The net effect is an amateurish and boring plot burdened by superfluous characters and a lack of exposition.The main character seems to be likable Sir Stafford Nye, who is actually quite an interesting persona, until he is inexplicably dumped halfway through the book in favour of a fly-on-the-wall observation of various Cabinet meetings that are essentially redundant in telling the reader that the danger faced is very serious and mysterious. There are also long, abstract and irrelevant dialogues between mono-dimensional characters that make Agatha Christie seem at sea with a genre that is apparently too big for her.When the mastermind behind the conspiracy is uncovered, we see a brief flash of the old Christie, as the culprit is someone whom the reader never suspects. However, the epilogue, instead of explaining the culprit's motives or the fates of the various conspirators is instead a humorous yet unsatisfactory marriage between Sir Stafford and another character.Several times during the narrative, I found the courage and fortitude to continue only by telling myself that the ending would be as brilliant and fulfilling as all her previous novels, yet once again, I was thoroughly disappointed with this sad excuse for a novel
1 As with the other reviewers that gave this work a low rating, I am also a fan.Perhaps, as some have said, it is the departure from the much loved Poirot, Marple and even Tommy and Tuppence that makes this a less than enjoyable read.In any event, the book started out fine but soon found its' way into a plot that was so convoluted and unbelievable that I finally gave up.I did skip to the end and found that even there, the wrap-up was nothing that gave me reason to regret the time I saved by not reading the remainder of the book.
4 This 1970 novel is definitely not one of Christie's usual cozy style of mystery.  It is, instead, a thriller type of story involving a world-wide conspiracy of Neo Nazis that has much more in common with James Bond than Hercule Poirot.While returning from a trip to far east for the Foreign Office, Sir Stafford Nye was approached by a young woman who had an interesting request.  She wanted to borrow his passport and distinctive traveling cloak to escape killers who were stalking her.  Sir Stafford agreed to help her which set a strange and exciting adventure in motion. Within a few weeks Sir Stafford found himself on a trail that lead throughout England, to Germany and beyond.  His fellow travelers included the beautiful woman that set things in motion, scientists, diplomats, mystery men and his Great Aunt Matilda and one of her old school mates.Even though this is a departure from Christie's usual work it is still a well crafted story, full of red herrings and interesting quirky characters as one would expect from Dame Agatha.  We are also treated to a visit from Mr. Robinson, the shadowy figure of international intrigue that has appeared in some earlier works.
1 This book is sort of a sequel to "The People of the Wind." It takes place many years after the first book and doesn't involve any of the same characters. It is a sequel only in that it takes place in the same universe and explores the same alien races.Unfortunately, the dialogue in this book is so poorly written as to make the book unreadable. In fact, I couldn't finish it. I tried but I just had to give up. I'm not sure what effect Anderson was trying to achieve but it didn't work.This is one for the trash bin.
3 Not my favorite Christie.  I have nearly all of her books and have read most of them.  I had a hard time getting through this one; it is not like most of the others. It's not terrible, but not a must-read.
4 I really liked this story and the plot was exceptional. The only thing that upset me was the sort of muddled ending. It felt rushed and hurried. She should have left the mystery open with no conclusion. That might have worked better. It was nice to see Mr Robinson again and his trail of money theories. If you don't expect the usual murder mystery, jump into this on different terms and enjoy the excellent narrative style and as usual, the more than fascinating characters. That grotesque Charlotte woman was a real kick in the pants
1 This mystery is too slowly paced to be of much joy for a reader. However, it is vintage Christie so it is worth reading as a mystery if one cares to make the slog.
4 I remnember when this book came out and I, a child at the time, knew something was sadly wrong with Agatha Christie.  For years I couldn't look this book in the face.  But after reading Laura Thompson's new biography of Christie, in which Thompson writes vigorously of PASSENGER as Christie's late, brilliant modernist masterpiece, I decided to give it another shot.  This time I decided to read it backwards, hoping to be able to follow the action a little better if I knew what to look for.Do you know, it works very well this way!I remain sympathetic to the complaint of the reader from April 2003 who said that a large group of good guys (none of them the book's three main good characters) trap a pair of the bad guys.  You would think that at least one of the main people (Stafford Nye, Matilda or Renata) would show up at the finale in the Scottish highlands but I guess not.  I was still shocked out of my wits at the unmasking!  And then, reading backwards, I discovered that I had many, many chapters still to go before the other unmasking, when you find out about the big Hitler cult of the golden Siegfried boy from South America!  So for an ordinary reader this would come about halfway through the book the other way, and then you'd be treading water while Admiral Blunt met with Mr. Robinson and Mr. Horsham met with Edward Altamount, et cetera, et cetera, lots of conversations, most of them quite grave.I also realized that at heart PASSENGER is a sort of rewrite of Christie's 1958 play VERDICT, her famous flop play which still holds a special place in my heart.  PASSENGER devolves, liek VERDICT, into the story of a refugee woman called Lisa, escaped from Hitler's terror, who becomes the assistant to a great scientist based in the British Isles, and who falls in love with him even though he is fairly distant to her.  This sort of Celia Johnson passion must have meant a lot to Christie, and here she gives Lisa (in VERDICT her name was Lisa, too!) the happy ending she was otherwise denied.  I had the satisfying sense of a door closing, that perfect click when something unsettled finds its own true way home.
2 In There is a Tide, Poirot remarks to Superintendent Spence that it's always the human interest that gets him. I think that is what I like so much about Agatha Christie's books - her incisive and almost brutal analyses of all the people in her books. This is especially well achieved in her books about murders within families. Unfortunately, that's also what this book lacks.Passenger to Frankfurt seems to be Agatha Christie's attempt to write a thriller. I am not sure how many of these non-murder mystery books she's written; this is the first one I've read. It follows a global conspiracy to control the world, reviving Nazism along the way. The protagonist is a British diplomat, who is aided by a beautiful female spy.The book features some traditional Christie trademarks, like the couple falling in love, and some incisive commentary about the players in the conspiracy. However, most of it felt muddled and incomprehensible, and a little dated. I think Christie's brand of sensationalism works really well for small towns, but doesn't translate well to global events. I also didn't really understand how each event led to the next, and there were way too many characters introduced, so I couldn't keep track of who was who. The narrative wasn't cohesive, with viewpoints being switched erratically.I'd stick to Christie's murder mysteries.
2 I was very disappointed by this book.  I am a great fan of Christie's writing (I named my cat Jane Marple) and I could not be more ready to enjoy something that she wrote.  In this case, however, I repeatedly put the book down and walked away from it, only finishing it because I wanted to see how it ended.  Christie wrote it late in her career and the best explanation that I can come up with was that she was coasting on her success and not putting as much effort into this as in her earlier books.  Passenger to Frankfurt is a spy novel rather than a murder mystery. It bears a strong resemblance to The Big Four, a very successful earlier novel.  Both plots center on a sinister organization bent on world domination, a threadbare idea at best.  It works in Four because of the obvious care that Christie put into creating the intricate plot which, while complicated, can be easily followed; and into the characters, the hero being Hercule Poirot who was already a well developed personality.  No such effort was spent on this book.  Passenger opens in an airport where Sir Stafford Nye, a minor diplomat is petitioned for help by a young woman who says that she will be killed if he doesn't lend her his cape and passport.  He does, and the action moves from there.  The book is not doomed from the start.  As I said, Christie can make this sort of thing work and she leaves herself some excellent openings.  The main trouble with the book is that it tries to cover too much and tell too little.  Christie seems so unwilling to give anything away that large segments of the action are left out and throughout most of the book the reader has no idea who the good guys and the bad guys really are, even down to the heroes.  By the middle of the book the plot has gotten fairly absurd.  This secret society has instigated a youth movement worldwide, spearheaded by a handsome young man who they claim to be the son of Hitler.  That in itself might not be so bad, if she hadn't pushed it on to have these youth take over all of South America, force Chicago under martial law, et cetera.  There are also long paragraphs in which the author goes on and on, philosophizing about the young.  Since the book is copyrighted 1970, it occurred to me that this might at least in part be inspired by the popularity of public protest among young people at that time.I know better than to give away the ending but I will say that I found it very contrived and I didn't feel that she had given the reader enough information to make it really fair.The saving grace of this book is the characters. While some are woefully underdeveloped, others make excellent proof of Christie's talent in this area.  The best by far is Sir Nye's Great-Aunt Matilda.  Sharp old maids have always been this author's specialty and the parts in which she appears seem more like genuine Christie than anything else in the book.
5 Following up "The Rebel Worlds", one of the better Terran Empire stories, was an interesting move.  Removing Dominic Flandry, one of his most famous characters, from the return visit was a gutsy one.  Most of the Terran Empire era stories work because they have someone with personality to spare at the helm driving the action in the plot.  Turning the spotlight on other people runs the risk of losing us entirely if we're not emotionally invested enough in the stakes at hand.  And, as if to prove a point he never set out to make, that almost happens.Still, it makes sense.  Flandry rarely visited the same place twice and examining events in the aftermath of one of the more heated incidents in the saga.  And the premise is sound: Aeneas as a planet is a bit shellshocked after discovering that not only did their rebellion fail but that the whole rebellion may have been a Mersian plot to get back at the Empire that only got as far as it did because it got out of hand and ran away from the people who initiated it.  While they try to come to grips with it as a people, meanwhile the local government from the Empire on the ground is figuring out how they can smooth things over, bring them fully back into the Empire and not be, you know, hated.To do this, Anderson divides the plot into three as we follow Ivan, a "Firstling" who can be used to spark a new rebellion or bring everyone together depending on who gets to him first, Desai, the local Terran commander who doesn't want to make everyone miserable but has to ensure that calmer rule prevails and the Empire gets its way, and Jaan, a former shoemaker who has apparently become possessed by the godlike "Builders" and is spreading the word that the decision everyone makes can bring the whole world to transcendence.  We then proceed to watch all three wander around somewhat aimlessly.This isn't entirely true.  But the bulk of the novel oscillates between Desai figuring out the best way to move forward, Jaan having constant visions of a philosophical nature and Ivan mostly running from place to place experiencing all the various cultures of the planet.  Along the way everyone debates with everyone they encounter the implications of past and future actions, and attempt to discover everyone's motivations and how that can affect things.  It's all very interesting but not really viscerally exciting, especially because while Ivan is on the run, it never quite feels that way.  There's very little sense of urgency to his portions of the plot and since which way he will jump is the central node the story pivots on, it sucks a bit of the life out of things.In that sense, and I rarely say this, the book probably needs to be longer.  The various elements percolate and circle each other, but there's a constant sense of things about to happen as opposed to events actually transpiring and by the time events do begin to occur, the book is basically over and we're into the cleanup and aftermath.  What it probably needed was a deeper examination of the world and the cultures, as well as a sharper sense of the stakes needed, of a world about to tip over the edge and not sure which way it's going to fall.  Anderson still excels in realizing that worlds are not crafted of a single monolithic culture (a rarity in SF) and populates the planet with a few distinct sets of peoples.  Unfortunately it leads to a bit of a travelogue sense of things, where Ivan finishes hanging out with the local gypsies and then proceeds to pal around with the analogues for Eastern mystics, and so on.  That breakneck sense of things about to go wrong that characterized "The Rebel Worlds" is missing, and while it makes the novel a quiet and ruminative piece, I'm not entirely sure that's what he set out to do.Yet, it has its moments.  He gets great mileage out of including Aycharaych, Flandry's mortal enemy.  Having seen him in other stories, as soon as he pops up its a red flag that something is about to go wrong and there's a delicious moment of intensity where the Terrans realize that the guy they just let walk out the door is probably the most dangerous person on the planet and they need to go track him down.  Yet it's another sign of the relaxed pace of the novel that the urgency such a situation engenders falls by the wayside and winds up being submerged until the very end.  Also having Aycharaych involved tends to telegraph the ultimate twist of the book but I don't think that aspect of the plot was ever more than a feint anyway.Still, what Anderson does he does so well it pretty much salvages the lack of excitement.  He's got a better grasp of how galactic politics would work than most of his contemporaries did, and he writes aliens with their own distinctive world-views that aren't immediately understandable.  Aycharaych livens things up with menace, and the presence of a xenobiological of the bird-like Ythrians adds another layer to scenes that would normally be just Ivan walking around and waiting for the plot to catch up to him.If there is a complaint I would make in retrospect (keeping in mind these novels are long written and Anderson long and sadly departed from us) its that this section of the saga dealing with the Terran Empire is a bit monotone in its adversaries.  When we get to the meat of it, it is yet another Mersian plot, just like every other story in this sequence.  When read all broken apart it probably isn't as noticeable (especially since Anderson wrote hundreds of other books) but when you're reading them in order it takes the element of surprise away a bit and replaces it with "Oh, them again."But it's a good example on how to write a nice, concise political thriller set in the far future, and what it lacks in action it makes up for in all the other qualities Anderson brought to his writing.  His skill in that respect is kind of invisible, the kind you don't realize how well he's doing it until you see someone else doing it poorly.
5 "Passenger to Frankfurt," when it was first published, was advertised as Christie's 80th book for her 80th year.  It was one of the last books she wrote, and it was published when she turned 80.  It should be one of the last books of hers that the reader should take on, because it is not classic Christie, but is rather a look inside her head, one a devoted fan like me is eager to see.  She says, "There is the insidious cult of permissiveness, there is the increasing cult of violence.  Violence not as a means of gaining money, but violence for the love of violence."  It was written in the late 60's, published in 1970, at a time when there was a great deal of youth unrest in the world.  At that time there were also rumors that Hitler may not be dead.  As she usually did, she wrote for the times in this book.  It is a spy story about the possibility of Hitler's surviving son trying to follow in his father's footsteps.  It talks about wicked people taking advantage of the naive youth to take over the world.  It has a lot of characters who tend to be unconnected and is much slower than usual.  Nevertheless it was a smashing success at the time.  As always her writing is skillful and thoughtful.  It is well worth reading, but is better for the reader who has already fallen in love with Agatha.
5 I have a battered copy of Passenger to Frankfurt. I should have kept count of how many air miles it has logged with me and others I have loaned it to. This is not your average Agatha Christie mystery. It reads like a Balkan romance, only the time period is wrong. The hints of nobility, mistaken identity, and damsel in distress all combine to make entertaining reading. One is faintly reminded of the Scarlet Pimpernel by the larger-than-life hero. He wears a cape, no kidding! Part of his disguise is his outrageous dress. It is fantastical, but then any story would be that postulates the re-birth of the Third Reich.
1 I've always been a huge Agatha Christie fan, but this book is a complete departure from her usual work and I hate to say it, but it falls short. I always finish reading a book if I start it, but there were times when I was really tempted to just put this one down. If you're looking for classic Christie, this is probably not the book for you. I found the beginning quite good, but ended up plodding through the rest of it.
2 With over 80 detective novels to her credit, not to mention an enormous number of short stories, plays and even romance novels under the pseudonym Mary Westmacott, Agatha Christie is, by any conceivable standard, a prolific author. Therefore, it follows as a logical inevitability that something she wrote must be classed as "the best" and something else as "the worst". I can't claim to have read everything the good lady wrote but, of those novels that I have read, "Passenger to Frankfurt" easily qualifies as the worst of the bunch.Stafford Nye, a rather shiftless, easygoing member of Britain's diplomatic corps who, by his own admission, enjoys a good joke and takes life rather less than seriously, encounters a mysterious woman in the airport in Frankfurt. Appealing to his chivalrous instincts and his desire for a bit of an adventure, she persuades him to let her steal his passport and boarding pass and use them to travel to England to avoid what she claims would be her likely murder if she travelled to Switzerland on her previously intended route.Starting from this preposterously unlikely opening scenario, Christie takes us on a pointless, meandering, achingly repetitive "thriller" that actually constitutes a personal diatribe - the aging dowager authoress's post 1960s current outlook on the world as she rather bleakly perceived it. Neo-fascism, youth rebellion, drugs, violence, armament smuggling, hippies, skinheads and megalomaniacal financial tycoons bent on world domination all make their appearance in a novel whose plot never truly crystallizes into anything concrete.The current Wikipedia article on "Passenger to Frankfurt" quotes Robert Barnard, a crime writer and contemporary of Agatha Christie, who categorized this novel as "the last of the thrillers, and one that slides from the unlikely to the inconceivable and finally lands up in incomprehensible muddle."I couldn't agree more. Not recommended.Paul Weiss
5 this book goes practically nowhere at all, and is slightly confusing really, as to whose side everyone is on, etc.But, it is not the bad book that most of these reviews seem to make it out as.In all honesty, it really doesnt deserve the five star rating i have given it. In fact, four stars is a more accurate estimation of it's quality, but i have given it five stars to &quot;raise the average&quot;. because it really doesnt deserve the two and a bit stars which it currently has.This book has some real plusses. It is brilliantly written. The language Christie uses is probably the best of all her novels. It is more well written and literary than some of them. There are some great characters (Stafford Nye, Mary Anne, Countess Wauldsausen (who we see unfortunately little of)) who really inspire interest in what is a rather perplexing plot. Perplexing why? Because there is actuall no real plot. It goes almost nowhere, and seems a bit pointless. Just written as a device to air some of Christie's views on the way society is sliding down the drain.Which is where the book does the major credit. The social observations, passages about the state of the world, its climate, its politics, the attitude of its people, its governments, is intensely interesting. Christie's take on the new &quot;youth&quot; is very interesting. Anarchy and rebellion ar ethe order of the day, and they do permeate this book with a strange sense of fear. Fear for the future, and what it holds for us in this strangely unstable world.This plot has a huge scope, exploring diplomacy, politics, forms of rule, government, vision for the future, and the state of the world. In that, it is truly excellent. The foreboding, doom, hopelessness of things is brought across well. This book also has a high count of people &quot;just trying to do the right thing&quot; in spite of so many people who disagree with them.so, as a plot driven novel, its not good. But, as a novel driven by ideas and notions about the state of world politics, then it is excellent. It's interesting, thought-provoking, with some great characters, and a nice prose style.A very different Christie book, and for all it's faults, it is one of the &quot;great&quot; ones. (As opposed to one of the &quot;excellent&quot; or &quot;good&quot; ones.)
4 While Agatha Christie is best known for her mysteries featuring Hercule Poirot and Jane Marple, she also tried her hand at other stories that weren't straightforward mysteries.  Such is the case with "Passenger to Frankfurt", a novel that could more appropriately be termed a thriller, but also one that doesn't quite live up to Dame Christie's usual standards.  From the very beginning, the novel has an unusual premise, but as the story progresses, the plot becomes too sidetracked with tangential stories and characters.Sir Stafford Nye arrives at Frankfurt Airport due to a fog delay; as he sits waiting for his flight back to England, he speaks with a mysterious young woman who has a proposition for him - she needs to get into England unnoticed or she will be killed, and wishes to borrow his passport and cloak.  Sir Stafford Nye, wishing for a little adventure, accepts the deal, only to come up against more questions than answers on his return.  He seeks out this passenger to try to find out the truth, only to find himself swept up and recruited for some political intrigue.  Always game, Sir Stafford Nye agrees to help out this mysterious woman, and his government, to unveil a plot that reeks of world domination.And that is exactly where the plot of "Passenger to Frankfurt" gets sidetracked: the first portion of the book is excellently crafted and mysterious, a testament to Christie's ability to weave an opening that keeps you in suspense, but the story begins to fall apart after Sir Stafford Nye accepts his new role as a secret agent.  The main problem is that these two characters who've been developed so far almost completely disappear from the book, and the reader becomes a third wheel at meetings of important government people as they try to discover the mastermind behind this conspiracy.  Instead of her well-crafted and intricately ingenious mysteries, the last half of "Passenger to Frankfurt" lacks almost any intrigue, and reads like a convoluted castoff from the Cold War, with a plot that involves neo-Nazis living in Argentina and striking up the world's youth to invest in total anarchy.There are some intriguing things that get said along the way: perhaps Christie just bit off more than she could chew with this novel, which reads too often like disparate storylines.  The resolution comes too quickly, there is no build up to the epilogue, and very little to tie all of the threads together.  I can very easily understand why many people do not like this book, but as a fan of Christie's writing, it is interesting to see her take on a different style.
3 This books seem to be  failed James Bond type spy mystery with neonazis.Even the romance is bollixed between the two central upper class English types.The young Siegfried is a Wagnerian  operatic  leitmotif that forms a centralplot element. Even the secret weapon  is nothing deadly...She seems to have completely misunderstood the youth movements of the 1960's.
3 Let's be clear, this is not one of Christie's brilliant works. It is, however, entirely different from any other book she ever wrote. She tells us, before the novel begins, that this book is a farce. It is an improbable scenario that actually could exist in the world. A fantastical hypothetical exploration of a &#34;what if&#34; scenario, Admittedly, it is sluggish at times, but I am glad that I plowed through those moments to the end. While the end wraps up surprisingly fast and has a couple loose ends dangling, overall it is satisfactory conclusion to her work. If you can get through the slow parts, it is worth a read.
5 ... and I'm surprised it hasn't received more attention. A few years after  the rebellion of &quot;The Rebel Worlds,&quot; Imperial commissioner  Chunderban Desai is trying to reintegrate the planet Aeneas into the Terran  Empire. Ivar Fredricksen, scion of an imprtant family, gets a bunch of  &quot;freedom fighters&quot; slaughtered by the Marines, and has to flee  across the world's widely divergent subcultures, accompanied by an Ythrian  whose motives are far from clear. He faces questions that his patriotic  idealism can't answer so easily -- What is the nature of freedom? Of faith?  Can their price be too high? (Flandry has an offstage cameo, and Aycharaych  a major role.) Perhaps you won't agree with the resolution, but you won't  be able to avoid thinking about it.
5 Has anyone seen Miss Marple on the Tele? i love it its on channel 9 masterpiece Mystery i loved the show!MarcieMacyMarcie
1 I'm sure the 7 short stories by Agatha Christie are excellent as usual.  The problem is that if you are looking for the Audio Edition read by JOAN HICKSON, this is NOT read by her.  Amazon is listing that she reads it, but this information is incorrect.  If you look carefully at the picture provided it shows that it is read by Geraldine McEwan.  This may be a fine rendition, but it is not THE Miss Marple as performed by Joan Hickson in audio and TV performances.
5 Another great read of Miss Marple and her figuring out all the details, right down to the smallest one.  I love this character, and I never tire of reading her.
3 Well after maybe a 35 year hiatus between my last reading of the venerable Dame of Crime Fiction, I thought it was time to head back down to St Mary Mead and see what all the fuss was about.The easiest option for me was to have a crack at a few of her Miss Marple short stories and having picked up this charity shop bargain for the humungous sum of 25p when out and about with my wife and youngest daughter on Monday, I decided to bump the dame off.......sorry, bump her up the queue and get started.6 stories &#8211; 142 pages &#8211; 2-3 hours reading time.Well I can add another female author to the tally and possibly can tick a box on my silver bingo card for my Vintage Mystery challenge, I will check later. Two bonus plusses.Verdict......well I didn't manage to guess the culprit or guilty party or unravel the mystery in any of the tales before the big reveal, so that was good. And AC can certainly paint a vivid picture for you of her characters; in this particular instance a bed-bound spinster.........with a good deal of greyish-yellow hair untidily wound around her head and erupting into curls, the whole thing looked like a bird&#8217;s nest of which no self-respecting bird could be proud. So another tick there. Thirdly, most of the stories engaged me and had me speeding along to the end, so I can&#8217;t in all honesty feign indifference.I think what struck me was how unsympathetic most of her victims and villains all appeared to be. In the case of the hidden legacy, I didn't like old Uncle Henry&#8217;s beneficiaries and was half hoping that Miss Marple was unable (or perhaps more entertainingly) unwilling to solve the riddle and therefore deprive the horrible, vile rats of their inheritance. I guess Marple though couldn't possibly dare to fail. There&#8217;s something a little bit unappealing to me about someone who has to be shown to be the cleverest person in the room, all the time. She might just be a little too smug and self-satisfied for me to tolerate too much of her. Time will tell; maybe a longer exposure to our elderly spinster&#8217;s charms will seduce me and have me swooning helplessly in admiration? The 4.50 from Paddington may seal the deal! I&#8217;m prepared to be wooed.Last observation, I&#8217;m unsure when these were originally written &#8211; this collection was originally published in 1979, but there are probably too many servants and mistresses, or gentry-types and underlings for me to want to spend too much time in their company. A bit too dated, a bit too Upstairs-Downstairs, a bit too class conscious and a bit too genteel for me. Each to their own, but I will probably not read too many of her other books.Anyway I must dash......tea and scone time in the drawing room, nanny&#8217;s just rung the bell.......... yummy &#8211; so toodle pips!3 from 5I bought my copy second-hand recently.
5 This is a collection of nine short stories, one of which does not feature Miss Marple.  I always think crime short stories must be one of the most difficult genres to write as there is not space to develop character or show a police investigation.These stories make use of someone telling a story - often to Miss Marple.  In one case it is her doctor who writes a story and gives it to her to cheer her up when she's feeling down.  Naturally she works out what has happened.I enjoyed all these stories and was particularly taken with `The Dressmaker's Doll', which is really quite spooky and the reader gets a real sense of the possibly evil propensities of the doll concerned.  I also liked the last story in the collection - `Greenshaw's Folly' which features a particularly ingenious murder.
5 Another of her wonderful works and I always enjoy them.  They are the kind of stories that make good reading over and over.
5 A wonderful combination of Christie and Marple.  I'm glad she didn't elaboratge on Miss Marple's death, like she did Poirot's.
5 Trying to outwit Agatha is fun and good brain exercise. The characters and settings are so well developed and described. Anyone who is curious about human nature and relationships should read Christie.
4 The Kindle version has 9 stories instead of 8.  They add "Greenshaw's Folly" from "Adventures of the Christmas Pudding".  It also has additional material about Miss Marple novels.  I enjoyed several of the stories, such as "Sanctuary", but found others to be absurd.  The "Dressmaker's Doll" and "In a Mirror Darkly" where really about the supernatural, quite unlike what I come to expect from Agatha Christie, where the supernatural always ends up having a logical explanation.  I was waiting in both cases for Poirot or Miss Marple to come in and explain it, but both stories end abruptly leaving many questions unanswered.
4 I am a big fan of Agatha Christie...have read and reread most of her mysteries.  Still no one can match her in this venue.
5 I never get tired of Agatha Christie and read her stories over and over.  This was a great addition to my kindle library.
5 Fine new readings (and especially by Miss Hickson and Miss Massey) of Agatha Christie's last explorations of Miss Marple's world.
5 Since Agatha Christie is one of my favourite authors, there is nothing I can say that will do her work justice!! She is amazing and also gives us an insight into the early 20th century Britain.  She is a first class writer and keeps her readers engrossed, never fails to satisfy.
5 Book arrived in good shape and on time.  I look forward to reading this series!  Thank you!
5 Love agatha, it's not one to focus on the gore so much as the who, why, and the psychology of the characters.
5 I love Agatha Christie's books - read and reread so many of them.  Miss Marple is one of my very favorite characters - I enjoyed this book . . . again.
4 I have always been a fan of the Miss Marple stories and this is a good addition to my collection of reading.
4 I liked all the cases and am always amazed at the writer's ability to lay out the story and when it comes to the conclusion, I am never disappointed in any of them.
4 No one can do characterizations like Dame Christie, and she can even do these remarkably well within the confines of a short story.  This little book of Miss Marple short stories is a wonderful cap to the entire Miss Marple series.  I had read some of them individually, but there were some I had not read before, and I enjoyed them all.  My own particular favourite though was "The Case of the Perfect Maid" (an oxymoron if there ever was one).  It is remarkable how Ms. Christie can typecast each of her wonderful characters so quickly, and provide us with tricky and intricate mysteries at the same time.
3 Not one of Agatha Christie's better works but still throughly enjoyed it. Couple of the stories were a bit off beat.
3 Well,part of the plot is a little bit predictable and the other part is not very logical. Difficult to compare this book to other great classics as Muder in the orient express or Cat between pidgeons.Either way, an interesting and dynamic book that will not allow you to get tired before you reach the last page.
5 Whose work are we actually reading at this point?  There were major differences in punctuation, word choices, and scene breaks between the original Collins and Dodd Mead editions of this novel. There were further differences between the Dodd Mead editions republished by Random House/Avenel and the Dodd Mead editions republished by Simon & Shuster/Pocket.  There are further additions still in the recent Signet, Berkley, and Leventhal and Black editions.  For every publishing house putting out her works, there seem to be a new batch of editors altering Agatha Christie's words and the sound of her voice.  Here the publishers at Collins, dissatisfied with their own earlier efforts, put still more distance between author and public with a "New Ed" edition.  What's the matter with these publishers? Whose voice do they think we want to hear when we sit down to a novel by Agatha Christie? And what will she sound like twenty years from now? It's frightening that her estate has failed to see the importance of guarding her words as she wrote them.  Please tell me I'm not the only one here who senses that a crime has been committed.
4 I only wish there were more Hercule Poirot books because I think I've read them all.  Oh, except for the &#34;last one.&#34;  I haven't read that yet.  Saving it for special occasion.  You know the one that was found after Christie died.  The Third Girl certainly isn't her best - but what could compete with Orient Express or one of my own favorites - Murder in the Clouds.But this one is good because it brings back the apple-eating mystery writer.  I always see her as a good way for Christie to voice her own opinions on the writing process.
3 I have mixed feelings about this book.  The plot was pretty complex and hard to figure out, and I was surprised by the ending, all of which I love.  I enjoy most Christie novels because they are "cozy" mysteries.  However, this one was not so cozy.  Usually the people in her books act very differently from people today.  They act like ladies and gentlemen, with old fashioned manners and style of dress, and are concerned about things like honor and reputation.  This novel dealt with young people doing drugs, having affairs,  and dressing in the grunge style, and there was a bit of espionage.  So while it was entertaining, it was not much of an escape for me.
4 This book, first published in 1966, gives us a very different look at London than the wonderful novels Christie wrote in the 40's did.  Poirot amongst the swinging Bohemians?  Well, it happens.  Christie and Poirot both changed with the times and the result is interesting, although probably not her best work.The term &quot;third girl&quot; refers to a way of leasing flats, very similar to the term &quot;roommates&quot; in the US.  One girl rents a flat, then advertises for a second and third girl to share accommodations and expenses.Ariadne Oliver once more assists Poirot in this tale of impersonation, drugs, smuggling, forgery, blackmail, and a young girl who can't remember committing a murder.This is a great commentary on English life in the sixties and, as always, excellent plotting and character development in the Christie tradition.
3 This novel, written in the 60s, is not, in my opinion, one of her best. The three stars, however, is a Christie rating. It is still better than a lot of modern mysteries out there. My main problem was the vagueness at the beginning of the book, which led to temporary confusion as to who the third girl actually was. The writer Ariadne Oliver is also a vague character (and annoying). Christie does a valiant job trying to reflect the Beatnik era and obviously did her homework on the drugs du jour. Still, the overall work lacks coherence. Like Poirot, I was well and truly stumped (much time is given to the detective's mental processes). When the ins and outs of the mystery were finally revealed, much of it seemed far-fetched. I much preferredSleeping Murder, a Miss Marple mystery, andThey Came to Baghdad.
4 It's not one of her VERY best but it has long been one of my personal favorites because Mrs. Oliver is Poirot's &#34;Hastings,&#34; & their combination is fascinating.  If you want to find out about &#34;Mod England&#34; of the 1960's, there's a lot here about that too. Of course, there's the usual convoluted plot and interesting characters.  And it was WONDERFUL to read big print & not strain to enjoy a novel!!  Betty Willard.
3 Most of Agath Christie's works are fast paced and suspenseful.  In  contrast, Third Girl made me want to put it down and count how many pages  till the end!The thing that bored me about Third Girl was how the older  characters in it kept saying things like &quot;teenagers these days.&quot;  This book was written in the 60s, and that's when most of Agatha Christie's  worst books were written.The plot was ok, but makes you think you have  the answer so you might stop reading it in the middle.  The ending was  really good, but the middle kept repeating the same clues over and over.If you are planning to sit down for a couple hours and read a book, I  guess you could read Third Girl.  But if you are busy, you won't be able to  finish it.
5 Yet another great mystery from Agatha Christie. I love her work. There is always enough of a plot twits to keep you satisfied, but not baffled.
5 Third Girl is a late Agatha Christie murder mystery novel being published in 1966. It would make a fine introduction to Christie and Poirot for someone who has never perused one of Dame Agatha's many novels.The Plot: A young plain girl named Norma Restarick knocks on the door of Hercule Poirot's quarters one fine morning when the Belgian detective is enjoying a superb breakfast. Norma tells Poirot she believes she has murdered someone but cannot remember the heinous act. Norma lives with two other young women in a London flat.These women are named: Claudia Reece Hollland and Frances Carey. Claudia is a well organized person who works for Norma's father who is a wealthy businessman; Frances is a socialite who works at an art gallery and pals around with beatniks. Her boyfried is David Baker whose nickname is the "Peacock." He has a record of petty crime and dresses like a Regency buck. Norma's stepmother Mary was almost poisoned to death with weed killer. A middle-aged woman in the apartment flat where the three girls live jumps out of a window. Who pushed her out of the window?A young Doctor named Stillingfleet falls in love with Norma. He seeks to prove her innocent of murder. Poirot is ably assisted in this case by Ariadne Oliver a detective novelist who closely resembles Agatha Christie. The plot deals with drugs, forgery, false identity and murder. It is an intriguing case showing Agatha Christie could produce a top notch murder mystery into the 1960s.I picked up this novel feeling blue one Saturday morning and read it in one day. It cheered me up as I marveled at the ability of Christie to tell a great story featuring two of my favorite of her characters: Poirot and Olvier. Marvelous fun!
5 I've been a Christie fan since 8th grade and have read them all so many times that I always remember whodunit. Nevertheless, I find them a relaxing and enjoyable read when I'm taking a break from more weighty fiction.This book features two of my favorites- Hercules Poirot and Ariadne Oliver.  When a young girl comes to see Poirot and confesses she might have committed a murder before running out claiming he was too old to help her, Poirot is on the case.  As he tracks down the identity of the girl and searches for a death that might fit the bill, Mrs. Oliver add bits and pieces of important information that help him solve the case.  The final solution is one I never saw coming (the first time I read the book at least)- a very satisfying mystery indeed!
4 Most readers agree that "Third Girl" is not one of Agatha Christie's best. Nevertheless, it is well worth reading.The plot is clever (but with significant flaws); the characters good; the writing starts out excellent -- sharp and with Miss Christie's light-hearted, often self-depreciating humor -- but about a quarter of the way through the book it gets wordy and what humor remains seems strained.In other Hercule Poirot books, we do not get a glimpse of his thought processes until he explains everything in the last chapter.  Here we get the opportunity to see him struggling, almost dispirited, as he tries to make sense of all the information he has received. I admire Miss Christie for her willingness to experiment, but I think the result was unfortunate.Don't concern yourself that "Third Girl" is not among the most memorable of the Hercule Poirot books.  Just read and enjoy!
4 &#34;Third Girl&#34; is a historical mystery set in 1966 in England (though it was a contemporary mystery when it was written). It's a clue-based puzzle mystery, and there were plenty of clues. It was mainly a matter of figuring out how the author was going to put them all together as it could have gone several ways. I accurately guessed several elements of whodunit and why, but I had a few things slightly off as well.It felt like less happened in this book than happens in most of Christie's books. Also, some elements of the story weren't fully explained or clearly resolved (though the main whodunit was fully explained). So the puzzle was fun, but the story wasn't as strong as many of Christie's other novels.There was no bad language. There were no sex scenes. Overall, I'd recommend this book to Christie fans and fans of puzzle mysteries.
4 Agatha Christie offers her readers a strange little mystery.  A young woman shows up at Hercule Poirot's door and insists that she thinks that she has committed murder.  True to  most Christie mystery books, the author brings in a half dozen or so of interesting suspects all with their own possible motives and quirks.  In this particular plot, however, Christie spends some time showing Poirot's own particular way of laying out all the facts in front of him like an imaginary puzzle.  He is vexed to no end in his pursuit of the missing pattern...missing papers, paintings, a Peacock, a travel-happy father, a alcoholic woman who throws herself (or is pushed?) from a balcony, etc.  The ever-confident Ariadne Oliver shows up to help out our hero in uncovering the specifics.  Georges, Poirots' manservant, and Miss Lemon, his secretary, also show up in this volume of the Poirot series.  This mystery is a bit slower than some of the greater and more classic Christie mysteries, but having the opportunity to scrutinize the fastidiousness of the Belgian detective's mind will satisfy most serious Poirot fans.
4 Hercule Poirot has just completed his analysis of great writers of detective fiction when he is interrupted by Miss Restarick, an unimpressive lass of twenty or so with long straggly hair. The young girl starts by explaining that she might have killed someone, but before Poirot can ask more information, she says she's changed her mind and must leave. Before she closes the door, she adds "You are too old. Nobody told me you were so old... I'm really very sorry." Poirot is intrigued by the girl, and enlists Mrs. Oliver's help in investigating Miss Restarick. The detective duo soon discovers that not only is the girl nowhere to be found, but that no one seems to care that she is missing.In his thirtieth appearance in a novel, Hercule Poirot is claimed to be too old. But that is surely not what the reader will think of the author's wit and cleverness. At the age of seventy-five Agatha Christie still succeeds in composing a quite entertaining mystery. Admittedly The Third Girl is not one of her masterpieces, but it still has the basic ingredients of a good detective story. The things that have changed more dramatically, in comparison to the novels she wrote in the 30's, are the flamboyant characters that make up the story. It is clear that Agatha Christie does not totally agree with the way teenagers are beginning to behave in the sixties. All they seem interested in is "sniffing snow", "swallowing LSD" and "using hemp". Surely, this is an exaggeration in which Agatha Christie reveals slowly losing touch with modern age.Nevertheless Poirot is as absurd and as able as ever, which pulls this story out of the pool of mediocrity. And be warned: the book starts of with a vital clue, so try to avoid reading the denouement while blaming yourself: "I should have known it!"
4 Mrs. Oliver, Agatha's parody of herself, joins Poirot in unraveling a murder where none seems to have happened.  This is the most action I have seen of Mrs. Oliver.  Mr. Goby has a brief appearance, too.  Overall, it is an enjoyable read and exercise for the brain.  It kept me guessing to the very end, though it is possible to reach the conclusion independently.  There is a good amount of repetitiveness in the writing.  I also wondered how did certain people get to know certain facts.  E.g., Mrs. Oliver learns something.  The next day, Poirot knows it, even though they haven't talked about it (to our knowledge).  So it's not a perfect mystery, but fun to read nevertheless.
4 I'm currently a bit hooked on classic mysteries (blame it on PBS's 'Mystery' series), and looking through my horde of books, I found Agatha Christie's "Third Girl", a 1966 work featuring Christie's famed Hercule Poirot. What is immediately striking is the setting of the novel; mod 1966 England, an odd place for Poirot who is, at least on TV, ususally associated with the 1930s and '40s. Also unexpected is Christie's kind narrative which is an impressive unbiased view of the era's youth drug culture; she speaks of junkiedom as if it were a passing teen fad, as serious or frivolous as any other era'a hang-ups. In "Third Girl", a young girl arrives in Poirot's office and announces she may have committed a murder. She disappears before Poirot can find out anything else regarding her bizarre statement and he spends the bulk of the novel searching for her and deciphering what she meant. Although there are a series of mini-who done its throughout the book, the question really is, "Say what?" I suspect hard core fans of the genre will confidentally figure this mystery out before it's conclusion, but I was over taxed with clues, and the resolution and the path leading up to it are a bit hokey, and reliant on extremely unlikely coincidences, facts and answers seem to fall at our detective's feet, and even though the final answer is like a product in an exquisite math equation, it is still a trick question. That's ok though, it's not so much the mystery which attracts me to the genre, particularly Christie's work; it's her heroes, their mannerisms and idiosyncracies, their minds, their friends, their homes and homes away from home, like Miss Marple reading Dashiel Hammett over a cup of tea when a gunshot is heard, or Hercule Poirot delving into a chocolate layered desert while paging through an art book on French paintings, when suddenly it occurs to him who the killer must be, and he calls everybody into the room to name the murderer. I like answers in a real world of little resolve.
5 Some have considered this the worst Agatha Christie mystery. I would not go anywhere near that far. I did enjoy this story. It has its moments, such as Poirot wanting there to have been a murder. The ending completely caught me by surprise, but as usual with Christie, I felt there were enough clues given so the reader felt he could have figured it out.I will admit -- I did find the Mrs. Oliver character a bit annoying. I also feel the romance at the end was a bit contrived. Thus, I can see why some people aren't thrilled with this book. So I would read some other reviews to help determine if this is the Christie book you need to read next.
5 Poirot is grossly overweight in this film. This is not a factor in the plot and does not distract from it, but it may disconcert some viewers.A woman arrives in Poirot's office saying she wants to be "saved" and "may" have killed someone. She leaves in a huff declaring that Poirot is too old to help her. Both statements and her behavior are strange; they intrigue Poirot, and he decides to uncover what is bothering her.He discovers that his friend, a female crime novelist, calls her the third girl because she is the third female to join two others in renting an apartment. He also learns that an elderly woman was found dead in the apartment building. The police think that she committed suicide, but Poirot is convinced that she was murdered. The woman died of a knife wound. The third girl had found her mother when she was a child who had committed suicide on the girl's birthday. Her mother also died of a knife wound, and she inherited a large fortune. Her father, who had abandoned her and her mother, reappeared from Australia about two years ago. He insists that she is mentally disturbed. One of her roommates agrees.Viewers will want to discover the identity of the dead elderly woman. Who was she? Why was she killed or committed suicide? Did the third girl kill her as she believes? Is the death related in any way to her money? Is she really insane? How can Poirot solve the case?
3 To say that this is not Dame Agatha's best is an understatement. If you are a Christie fan (particularly of Ariadne Oliver) you'll probably want to read this one, otherwise look elsewhere.The story opens as Poirot has just sent his book to the publishers a young woman arrives seeking his detective services but decides that he is &quot;too old&quot;. Poirot manages to overcome his shock and elicits a few details from her before she leaves. Then Poirot goes to visit his friend author Ariadne Oliver for sympathy and information. The two sleuths then collaborate to solve the crime.In typical Christie fashion there are long hidden secrets that finally revealed, all are not as they seem, all clues are fairly laid out for the reader to follow and of course there is a surprise at the end. On the plus side of this otherwise mediocre novel Ariadne Oliver is delightful.
5 It is one of the best mysteries she's written. Even HP won't reveal what he's done to us until the very end.
5 Norma Restarick sought out Poirot her help and confessedto murder before fleeing.  With the help of Mrs. AradianeOliver, he seeks her out but she has disappeared.  Canhe and Mrs. Oliver find her before it is too late?One of Dame Agatha's best.
5 THIRD GIRL has an ending that always surprises me, andI must have read the book ten times or more, the plot if so complex I can only barely remember how it comes out.  I feel the book is a greta evocation of Swinging London of the 1960s and that it should have been filmed back then, maybe with the following cast, Rita Tushingham as poor Norma Restarick; Tom Courtenay as Dr. Stillingfleet, her psychiatrist who falls in love with her; Vanessa Redgrave could have played Frances Cary; Terence Stamp could have been David Baker, the "Peacock."I wonder if Christie ws thinking back to her own early vocal training when she gave NORMA and LOUISE their names, because of course they were famous French operas at the time Christie was studying in Paris.  "Louise" was written by Charpentier, and that becomes her last name, a coincidence no one remarks about in the novel itself.It is a book in which Christie seems to be reviewing her own astonishing career.  Mrs. Oliver suggests that she might write a book in which a child commits a murder: "Not meaning to, but just by her father telling her to give her mother a drink made of pounded up box hedge," thus neatly conflating the plots of two much earlier novels from the 1950s, CROOKED HOUSE and A POCKETFUL OF RYE.  I thought also the glamorous fresco painted on the living room wall of the flat where the three girls live, a harlequin leaping into space, harked back to one of Christie's famous characters, Harley Quin from THE MYSTERIOUS MR. QUIN and may have provoked Christie to think further about Quin, because as we know she was soon to return to him after not having written about him for 30 years, in THE HARLEQUIN TEA SET.
5 Back in the day, many years ago, reading an Agatha Christie was must reading. After reading John Curran'a book Agatha Christie's secret notebooks, I decided to re-visit Hercule Poirot. So far I have read 30 and the third girl ranks amoung the top 25. Red herrings, mystery,a story line that keeps you guessing and of course Hercule with his friend Mrs Oliver, (she is Agatha Christie's ulta ego). A missing girl, who claims she shot someone, or so she thinks, and her friends think nothing about not seeing her for days, including her family.  When Agatha wrote this book it was in the '30's, and still today it is timeless. Did she kill someone, is she really missing, and why did she think Hercule was to old to help her?
5 Third Girl: A Hercule Poirot Mystery is the unabridged audiobook adaptation of one of Agatha Christie's classic mystery novels. Three single girls are roommates in London; one is a secretary, one is an artist, and the third - who seeks help from Poirot - disappears, convinced that she is a murderer. Poirot finds and ocean of malign rumors, but uncovering hard evidence to determine whether the third girl is truthful, false, or deluded will take all his skill and determination. A gripping story of intrigue all the way through, skillfully narrated by Hugh Fraser (who played Captain Hastings, Poirot's assistant in the television adaptation of Poirot's mysteries broadcasted by A&E and PBS), Third Girl is an absolute must-have for Agatha Christie's many devotees. 6 CDs, 7 hours.
4 As with all Agatha Christie mysteries, they are the perfect escape from the every day world.  When I open to the first page, I feel like a have the opportunity to again spend some time with an old friend.
3 A young woman rudely barges into Hercule Poirot's residence claiming that she may have murdered someone. Before the Belgian sleuth can gather further information, the young lady leaves opining that Poirot is too old to be of any assistance. Disturbed and unsatisfied, Poirot tracks down the young lady and finds out, first things first, what mystery needs solving and then solves it.In many ways this book is very typical of Agatha Christie. The book relies not on action, but on gradually presenting the reader with information, including a number of blind alleys and red herrings, and then providing a rational resolution of the many facts. The setting and peopling of the book is, however, quite different from many of Christie's works. Much like Poirot in the book, it appears that Ms. Christie is trying to show her readers that older does not mean incapable of accurately observing the world. Ms. Christie drops us in 1960's London, peeking into the world of modern apartment living, avant garde art and young folks in general. Indeed, I don't recall meeting a single parson in this book. Third Girl is a fine Agatha Christie deductive mystery with a refreshing change of scenery.
5 easy to write reviews on Agatha's Poirot books... they are all excellent. This book is an early premise of the wave of psychologic thrillers with those people with apparent personality disorder. As somebody mentioned before, Agatha did it all in her time.
3 there is absolutely no possibility that this is her worst book. (I dont think she really has one...theyve all been good)but, this is certainly not one of her best. The plot tends to ramble, its very slow, and at times it can be a bit dull. (probably owing to the fact that there really doesnt seem to be mch crime involved at all, let alone a death, until almost right at the end.)But it is still a worthy effort...its an original premise, its intriguing, and the solution is clever and unexpected, as we have been led to expect from AC. If you can wade through much of the slightly dull middle section, then you will probably be quite glad you read it. Its not her best, but its not her worst, and there are certainly some enjoyable moments (in particular, Mrs Olivers following of a suspect...Mrs Oliver is my favourite of all Christie's creations.)
3 Winter had come for Agatha Christie's writing career, and although she was still penning diverting little mysteries in the 1960s, it was clear that her best work was behind her. Indeed, in this particular novel she has Ariadne Oliver, a character based heavily on Christie herself, hand in a novel to her publishers which she describes as "lousy" and "frightful," which may well have been Christie's own feelings toward many of her later books.Still, "Third Girl" starts off with an interesting premise. Christie's famous Belgian detective Hercule Poirot is relaxing at home when he's interrupted by the arrival of a young woman who wants to consult him about a murder that she *might* have committed. Intrigued, Poirot agrees to meet with Norma Restarick, a girl he describes as "an Ophelia devoid of physical attraction". However, Norma soon departs without divulging any information, dismissing Poirot as "too old."Soon enough his friend the mystery writer Ariadne Oliver explains the visitation: she met Norma at a party recently, and hearing of her strange predicament she encouraged her to go to Poirot for answers. Now that both are hooked on the mystery that surrounds `the third girl' (named so because of her living conditions with two other girls in a London flat), each collaborate on discovering just what she meant when she said that she *might* have committed a murder.What follows is the accumulation of disparate clues that refuse to form any sort of coherent pattern, much to Poirot's frustration. Eccentric family members, vain potential boyfriends, close-lipped flat mates and old school mistresses make up some of the suspects that surround the case - though as Poirot often points out, there is no actual murder to investigate. Random events and chance meetings gradually begin to link together as the novel progresses, and a pattern emerges from a wig, a suspected poisoning, a suicide, an old man's memoirs, a portrait, and of course, the third girl...Perhaps the main weakness of the story is simply that for a long time, we're not quite sure what the two detectives are trying to solve. An odd comment made by a confused young woman? It's not quite as pressing as the discovery of a dead body.Ariadne and Poirot utilize some old tricks in their separate investigations, which may bring a smile to the reader's face, and Christie seems to enjoy channeling most of her career frustrations through the character of Ariadne Oliver. The two characters bounce off each other nicely and are still in good form despite their age.However, the plot relies on several coincidences, such as Ariadne entering a caf&eacute; where Norma just happens to be dining, and some inconsistencies - at first Norma says that she and her father had quality time together before he married his second wife, later she says that her father brought her back from South America with him. There are also a couple of plot holes and a minor subplot involving Norma's great uncle and a secretary who may or may not be a spy that seems rather superfluous. For the titular character, Norma is rather devoid of any interesting characteristics. I was never particularly invested in her as a person and we never really get to know her beyond the fact that she hates her father, hates her stepmother, and hates the world in general. Remind me why I should care?It becomes increasingly apparent as the narrative goes on that Christie herself is at a loss to understand the sixties culture that surrounded her - she only knows that she doesn't like it. Poirot and Ariadne express befuddlement and disapproval at every opportunity as to the fashion, culture, ideals and activities of young people - perhaps this disconnect leads to the ineffectiveness of Norma as a sympathetic heroine considering the entire plot seems to run on a disparaging "kids these days!" premise.It's entertaining enough, but compared to the rest of Christie's literary canon, it's certainly mediocre.
4 Entertaining tale although a bit slower paced than most Agatha Christie novels. The denouement is a surprise. Worth having for relaxation.
3 What was the vain Hercule Poirot to do when a girl insisted on seeing him outside his official hours, and upon one look at him, blurted out that he was too old and left without accounting for herself?  Especially after she mentioned she might have murdered someone?Weaving together several subplots from her previous works, Agatha Christie tried to create a new setting for her recurrent characters: Hercule Poirot and Oliver Ariadne.The Third Girl referred to a term used to advertise for a third female tenant to share the rent of a London apartment.  She was also the "Orhelia devoid of physical attraction" who insulted Hercule Poirot. It was later realised from his indignant outpouring to Oliver Ariadne that she was probably the one who recommended Poirot to this girl.Thus began the mystery that might not have been a mystery. Poirot's connections to the police did not reveal any possible candidate for the murder mentioned by Norma Restarick, youthful daughter to one Andrew Restarick.  Andrew Restarick had abandoned his wife and daughter fifteen years before and left for Africa with another woman.  The deaths of his wife, then his brother, brought him back to England, with a new wife, and took over the family business.Between their visits to Norma's flat and Restarick office in London, and the visit to their home in Crosshedges, Long Basing, Poirot and Ariadne composed a picture of a family challenged by the "revolution" of the 60s.  Yet there was something beyond the normal angst, and as Poirot and Ariadne continued in their pursuit, they realised there was a very real danger.  There were gossips of guns, knives and bloody stains, but no murder victim to account for; which begged the question whether Norma was guilty, innocent or insane.But the questions like what was the danger, who was in danger and from whom, remained frustratingly vague, resisting most attempts of illumination. This is a departure from most detective genres and fans seeking a good old crime would be exasperated at the development of the story.Nonetheless, fans of Agatha Christie would be able to garner clues if they had learned how the Queen of Mystery usually placed them subtly.There were two perspectives to the deception; as a male, I uncovered the male perspective of the deception so easily that I did not realise there was a female perspective deception in place.  Certainly it was nothing to complain about for as a reader, I received my entertainment of being mystified and surprised.
4 This book is actually quite different from most of Ms. Christie's books.  We still get the same great characters and plot, and we see Hercule Poirot at the height of his powers, but it has a totally surprising ending.  It is also a really good snapshot of what the establishment thought of young people during the height of the hippie era.  The book starts with a young woman coming to Poirot's house and interrupting his breakfast.  She tells him that she thinks she may have committed a murder, and then leaves suddenly without saying anymore.  Poirot enlists the help of his friend Ariadne Oliver to try to track down who the girl was, and when they find out, they find a real "mare's nest" of a family.  Ms. Christie is such a wonderful author, and this book is certainly interesting, if different than most of hers.  She is still tops in this field, and each of her books is entertaining as well as written to get the reader to actually think.
5 I'm a die-hard Christie fan, and this was just another clever entryin her long list of great novels.  My favorite is The Pale Horse.
3 I had forgotten that Hercule Poirot was solving crimes way past the between-the-wars golden age of detective fiction.  Third Girl is set in swinging London of the mid-sixties - think Twiggy, Carnaby Street, etc..  The detective and the author are equally bemused by the changes in society.  Hercule Poirot was eccentric back in the day, but in the 60s, with his giant waxed moustache, he's outlandish.  When the Third Girl of the title looks up M. Poirot, she blurts out "You're too old!" and takes off.Poirot, of course, prevails with the help of his friend the mystery writer Ariadne Oliver, and an extensive Rolodex including people who have more of a grip on modern problems.  Still, the problems of murder are timeless and I certainly never guessed "who done it" although I at least picked up some of the clues.If you love a classic murder mystery and want to sample a 60's period piece, you will enjoy Third Girl.
3 By the time Third Girl came out, in 1966, even the author recognized that her books were not as good as they used to be.  Christie's alter ego, the scatty mystery writer Ariadne Oliver, plays a large role in Third Girl, and in one scene Mrs. Oliver addresses an imaginary publisher about her latest manuscript: "There you are, and I hope you like it!  *I* don't.  I think it's *lousy*!"  One can imagine that Christie is addressing her reading public through Mrs. Oliver.Nevertheless, even with Christie's powers on the wane, Third Girl is an agreeable read, a comfortable book for an afternoon spent on the couch by the fire.  It begins with an idea that is most intriguing: a young woman comes to Poirot and is not sure if she has committed a murder or not.  Of course, we all have to wonder, how is it possible that she does not know?  There are a few twists and turns and there is also Christie's take on life in the early sixties, which is interesting in itself.Unfortunately, Third Girl lacks the crisp writing that can be found in many of Christie's earlier books.  The dialogue rambles, and both Poirot and Oliver and even some of the other characters sound like garrulous, disapproving old ladies. There may even be some holes in the plot: How did Poirot get Restarick's stationery? And why had Norma never seen the earlier portrait? Still, Third Girl is a pleasant way to spend the afternoon, especially if you're already familiar with many of her other novels. But I recommend that you don't begin with this book.
5 What "improvements" have been made for the "Collins Crime" edition?  There are already major differences in punctuation, word choices, and scene breaks between the original Collins and Dodd Mead (THERE IS A TIDE) editions of this novel. There are further differences between the Dodd Mead editions republished by Random House/Avenel and the Dodd Mead editions republished by Simon & Shuster/Pocket.  There are further additions still in the Signet, Bantam, Berkley, and Black Dog & Leventhal editions.  For every publishing house putting out her works, there seem to be a new batch of editors altering Agatha Christie's words and the sound of her voice.  What's the matter with these publishers? Whose voice do they think we want to hear when we sit down to a novel by Agatha Christie? And what will she sound like twenty years from now? It's frightening that her estate has failed to see the importance of guarding her words as she wrote them.  Please tell me I'm not the only one here who senses that a crime has been committed.
5 I really enjoyed this Agatha Christie novel, it was different than many of her other stories, or maybe because I had actually never read it before. I was so happy to see it available on Kindle.
5 If you like intricate and complex plots, lots of red herrings, characters who are not who they say they are, murders disguised as suicides and accidents, this could be your favorite Christie.At the center of this intruiging book is wealthy Gordon Cloade, eldest brother of a family he is devoted to and has promised to always look after.  He has amassed a fortune in business and has always maintained that his money also belongs to his family.  Although they are also successful, the other family members have come to depend on Gordon and the security he and his fortune offer.And now for the fly in the ointment:  Gordon meets Rosaleen, a young Irish widow, on an Atlantic crossing and their shipboard romance leads to a quick marriage.  Before he can bring her home to his family, Gordon is killed during a bombing raid.  Because he has not changed his will, his entire fortune passes to Rosaleen.  She and her brother go to live in his family home and, needless to say, are the target of much resentment by the family.The alternate title of this book is &quot;There Is A Tide&quot; and both titles come from the line in Julius Caesar which says &quot; There is a tide in the affairs of men when, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune.&quot;  Fortune is definitely the key to this novel and the lengths to which men and women will go to obtain one.This is vintage Christie as she proves once more that murder is always exciting when it's kept all in the family.
5 What has not been said about the greatness of a Christie novel. This is just another example of great writing. Hercule Poirot is, of course, at his best and the plot is, as ususal, sinister and entertaining.
5 I have always loved Agatha Christie, she deserves the Title, 'Queen of Mysteries.' Her characters are people we seem to have met somewhere, we trust some of them, and others we would not let out of our sight in a lighted room full of other people. I was amazed that I had never read this particular book. I do not like to give story lines away. If you are an Agatha Christie fan, it is a must read!
3 An OK story by Agatha Christie, not one of her best in my opinion. Nice read for a lazy summer day. As usual, Agatha Christie has an array of interesting characters and subtle plot twists. I do enjoy Hercule Poirot mysteries and this was one that I had not seen or read before!
4 I always enjoy an Agatha Christie story.  Hugh Frasier (Captain Hastings) is a superb reader.  For some reason I had to wipe off the CDs to get them to play without skipping.  Factory dust?  Anyway, they played fine after that.  The audiobooks that I like have been $3 to $6 less at Amazon than from the audiobook store I had been using.  Also, I have Amazon's prime shipping which has been a fantastic deal for me.  I get a lot of books, audiobooks, and other Amazon items, and prime shipping has paid for itself several times over.
4 Taken at the Flood (a quotation from Shakespeare's Julius Caesar Act 5, scene III) is a 1948 Agatha Christie murder mystery featuring her ace Belgian Detective the inimitable Hercule Poirot. The book is an intricately plotted novel told with the brilliant style of Dame Christie writing at the top of her game.The Plot: Gordon Cloade is a wealthy millionaire who dies during the London Blitz. Rosaleen Cloade is his young widow. She was previously married to Captain Robert Underhay in South Africa before he was reported dead. Rosaleen was an actress who is beautiful but less than brilliant! She and her brother David Hunter arrive in the small English village where many members of the Cloade family reside. The family is upset thast it Rosaleen who will inherit the fortune left in Gordon's will. During the course of the novel there is a suicide, a murder by the administering of a lethal amount of morphine in place of a sleeping powder bromine. The book also includes a romantic triange in which Lynn Marchmont (niece of Gordon Coade) is loved by Rowley Coad and David Hunter. The mystery has many red herrings and surprise revelations. Not everyone is whom they seem to be. Lightweight but enjoyable reading for Agatha Christie buffs and mystery fans in general.
5 Always enjoy Christie mysteries - this one is another great one to enjoy and it's irritating to have to have a certain number of words in the review.
5 As always Ms.Christie has written an excellent who done it with the Belgum find out the answer to the mystery by using his little grey cells.
5 Christie defines the essence of what it means to be a  Mystery.  She shows the reader  how a great Mystery develops clue by clue.  The greatest mystery writers,  inspire,with patient development of the plot.  Christie belongs at the top because she has developed along with the genre,
3 The Cloade family always counted on Gordon Cloade.  He was always there to help them out and they confidently expected to inherit his fortune when he died.  But when he died in an air-raid, with a new wife but no new will, the family find themselves struggling.  Times are tough in post-war Britain.  That lovely young widow, Rosalind Cloade, has everything - and maybe she'd even share it, if not for her hostile brother - while they have nothing.  It doesn't seem fair ...This is a good set-up, with a lot of intriguing possibilities.  Christie takes her usual minimalist approach, as characters are introduced, situations are described, events arise and stories start to unravel.  But there's a blocky feel to the book, as people are introduced only to be useful to the plot and then dropped as soon as their usefulness ended.  It would have been a stronger book, I think, if one character POV had been used as often as possible - Poirot himself, for example, or the underused Lynn Marchmont.  But the biggest problem with the book is ...**SPOILER ALERT**Poirot lets a man who commits manslaughter, interferes with a corpse, frames someone for murder, pays a bribe for perjury and tries to murder his fiancee get away with all that scot-free!  And the fiancee is thrilled by the man's behaviour!  This is completely out of character for Poirot, truly anti-feminist, and makes a repellent ending to what was otherwise a pretty good book.
5 While taking refuge in a London Club during an air raid Poirot tries to take his mind off the bombing going on outside by listening to the club bore tell yet another of his endless stories.  Years later the subjects of the story and the bore re-enter Poirot's life as he tries to sort out past fictions from fact to solve more recent murders.The Cloade family had always relied on Uncle Gordon and his money to make their lives more comfortable.  In post war England life was most uncomfortable so they needed Uncle Gordon (and his money) more than ever.  Unfortunately for them Uncle has married a much younger woman, then died before making provisions for any of them.  Now they needed to ask his young wife and her bother (or IS he her brother?)  for help...or did they?Surprise twists happen every few pages making what is seemed certain suddenly uncertain - rather like the post war turmoil many of the characters were experiencing.  In typical Christie fashion though, all the clues are there for the reader to ferret out before Poirot reveals all.Please note that this book is also available as THERE IS A TIDE
4 Solid, lesser known Agatha Christie title has the author's usual hallmarks, namely clean writing and a complicated but clearly described solution to the crime (or, in this case, crimes).  Added bonuses are a picturesque setting- a small isolated English village- and an unpredictable romantic subplot in addition to the unpredictable mystery.Like virtually every Agatha Christie offering, "Taken at the Flood" is a fast, engaging reading experience, with not an iota of staleness despite its being around for decades.
4 You might be able to think you know who done it here but once again, Christie makes the obvious deliberately hard to decipher. A really fine plot line contains probably Agatha's best story involving a will and the many characters fighting over the contents of it. The final twist is a delightful gem.
4 This Agatha Christie novel has a deliciously complex plot with the usual twists and turns which are uncovered by the inimitable Hercule Poirot.  A young woman named Rosaleen has married a man named Underway.  Upon Underway's death, Rosaleen remarries a wealthy man named Gordon Cloade.  He dies two weeks after the marriage, which makes Rosaleen a very wealthy widow indeed.  She and her brother come to take over Cloade's home and fortune, much to the dismay of Cloade's family who have lost a fortune to her.  Soon a man comes to town and claims that Rosaleen's first husband, Underway, is not dead, meaning Rosaleen is still married to him and so should not inherit Cloade's fortune.  People begin to die and one of the Cloade men asks for Hercule Poirot's help in solving the mystery.  Poirot interviews the people involved, gets his little gray cells working and puts together the puzzle to solve the murders.  This is another wonderful book by the world's most famous mystery author.
5 TAKEN AT THE FLOOD is one of the last, and almost the best, of Christie's run of "psychological" novels that she wrote during the 1940s, including SAD CYPRESS, SPARKLING CYANIDE, FIVE LITTLE PIGS, THE HOLLOW, and TOWARDS ZERO.  In them you can see her making  conscious effort to give her characters greater depth and emotional complexity, and in general these books, though not as fun perhaps as her earlier triumphs, repay the reader's attention with a rich array of situations in which life as it is actually lived rises to meet us as we go through each book.FLOOD concerns the plight of one cosseted middleclass family, the Cloades, who are faced with a moral and financial emergency, when their leader, wealthy old Gordon Cloade perishes in a German sir raid in London during WWII, and leaves his money to a gorgeous young Irish girl whom none of them have ever met.  Rosaleen is sweet and simpleminded, but her brother, nasty piece of work David Hunter, makes life miserable for the suddenly poor Cloade family.Christie lets us see Rosaleen Cloade in all her dimensions--her beauty, her innocence, and coupled with those, her guilt and despair.  In the opposite corner stands her opposite number, Lynn Marchmont, a country girl who's been overseas in the military and when she comes back home to her farmer fiance, suddenly finds him very humdrum, and David Hunter dangerously attractive.  But it's not just the women that Christie writes well--David Hunter is as dashing a rogue as Tom Jones, and Rowley Cloade, the man Lynn left behind when war broke out, is also appealingly characterized.  The plot is complicated, but when Poirot sorts it out, as dazzlingly simple as anything Christie ever concocted, all resting on one sinple trick of misdirection.  The point is, it wouldn't even need the murder angle to succeed at being a first-rate story of passion and denial, upper class privilege and servant class resentment.  But I have to say, every time I read it I fall for the same tricks over and over again.  What is Lynn's choice?  What does her choice of men say about her?
3 Like many murder mysteries, this one revolves around money. You see, the Cloade family was promised by their bachelor uncle that they would inherit his wealth when he dies seeing as that he has no heirs himself. Imagine their disappointment when he suddenly marries a young woman and then goes and gets himself killed in a German air-raid. Now the young bride inherits all the money...the money that the Cloades sorely need.'Taken at the Flood' was not one of Christie's best although it is enjoyable enough for a quick afternoon read. Red herrings are piled right and left to confuse the reader as per usual. And if you can spot the major clue which Christie practically signposted on page.....well, all I'm saying is that if you can spot it then you'll probably have a good hunch who did the dirty deed.Or would you?For the case IS puzzling as more bodies begin to pile up (three people die in the book). Poirot himself is confused and asks, "If A has a motive to kill C and B has a motive to kill D, would it make sense if A killed D and B killed C?"Perfect book for that 2-3 hour plane, train or car ride.
4 There is a Tide (also sold as Taken at the Flood) is a Hercule Poirot novel. It's a pretty typical (I mean that in a good way) Christie book, following the devious plots of the Cloade family and interested parties.While in a club to escape an air raid in World War II, Hercule Poirot overhears a story claiming that a man, Robert Underhay, who has been reported dead was actually intending to fake his own death and live a new life as Enoch Arden. He files it away in his brain as being interesting, and years later. something actually comes of it. Robert Underhay's young widow, Rosaleen, has married Gordon Cloade, who is an incredibly rich man. Unfortunately, he is also soon dead, killed in an air raid. The Cloade family has been dependent on Cloade's money (with his encouragement), and now all of it goes to Rosaleen. Things are complicated by a man named Enoch Arden turning up at the Cloades' home village, Warmsley Vale.This book has a million twists and turns, most of which I didn't see coming. I read somewhere that Agatha Christie often pulls up new evidence that explains everything at the end - I have never found this to be the case. Every time a new revelation was made, I realised that I should have connected the dots, but of course, my little grey cells are not Poirot's. Each clue is definitely foreshadowed. There are also plenty of red herrings, motives for murder, false alibis... everything that makes a Christie novel fun. I also enjoyed the look at post-World War II British hardships. Definitely recommended.
5 Newly demobilized from the WRNS (Women's Royal Naval Service) after World War 2, Lynn Marchmont is appalled to find what time has done to her family. After having married a young woman named Rosaleen, her rich uncle is killed by a German bomb, leaving the family cut off from the funds that they had grown accustomed to using. Now, the family hates Rosaleen and her brother, David Hunter, and David very much hates them. And when a man shows up claiming that Rosaleen long-lost first husband is actually alive and well, it seems to be the answer to the family's prayers. But, when people start dying, the whole situation turns terribly tangled. There is only one man who can untangle this mystery, and that is the great Belgian detective, Hercule Poirot!This is another excellent mystery, of just the caliber that you no doubt expect from Agatha Christie. The mystery is nice and twisted, making it totally unclear as to whom the real culprit is, and what is truly going on. I really enjoyed the mystery, and the characters - David Hunter, Lynn Marchmont, and the whole Cloade clan. This is a great mystery, one that I highly recommend!
4 Quite good.  Entertaining.  Solid Agatha, and that's saying something....
3 This book arrived in excellent condition and in a timely manner.  I always enjoy reading anything of Agatha Christie's. But this one just was not one of my favorites.
3 Set just after the end of WWII, Taken at the Flood centers on the Cloade family.  In 1946 Hercule Poirot overhears a curious story about the Cloades told by the notoriously boring old windbag of his London club.  Then, two years later, a member of the Cloade family comes to his house -- a scatty, middle-aged woman into automatic handwriting and ouija boards who said she was "spirit led" and who tried to persuade Poirot to find a supposedly dead person that she believes is alive.  But it isn't until a few weeks later, when actual murder takes place, that Poirot obeys the summons of his police officer friend and travels to the village where the Cloades live.  There, he finds a tangle of loyalties and motives, and two more people are dead before the mystery is solved.As Agatha Christie mysteries go this one is definitely mediocre, in spite of Hugh Fraser's excellent narration.  It will appeal to avid Agatha Christie fans but probably no one else.
3 Demobilized W.R.N. Lynn Marchmont returns to her home village Warmsley Vale. Lynn has been much changed by World War II, somewhat missing the adrenaline of the war, and she returns to a much-changed prospects for the future. Her millionaire uncle, Gordon Cloade, died in London during the Blitz shortly after marrying a 25-year-old Irish widow, the erstwhile Rosaleen Underhay. At her irascible brother's direction, the new Mrs. Cloade begins to cut off the many Cloade relatives who were long encouraged to rely on generous Uncle Gordon -- the perfect invitation to murder in an Agatha Christie novel.But death instead comes to a newly arrived stranger, Enoch Arden. He had attempted to blackmail Rosaleen's resentful and controlling brother David Hunter, claiming that Rosaleen's first husband isn't dead at all, making Rosaleen's second marriage -- and her claim to the Cloade fortune -- invalid. Such an eventuality would have saved the many Cloade relations who find themselves in dire financial circumstances. Needless to say, it would have sent Rosaleen and David packing without a penny. The police immediately finger David as Chief Suspect No. 1.Initially sympathetic, Lynn becomes quite the whiner when she begins to have feelings for the loathsome David Hunter. About one-fourth of the way through the book, I really did start losing patience with her. The novel's denouement shows her up to be a silly, senseless girl, although I have to admit that I never imagined who the murderer was in Taken at the Flood's twist ending. And, like all of Christie's books where Poirot doesn't take center stage until late, the novel suffers for his absence.Taken at the Flood is worth reading -- it's still Dame Agatha's, after all -- but it's certainly noThe Murder of Roger AckroydorThe Body in the Library: A Miss Marple Mystery (Miss Marple Mysteries).
4 No matter how many times I read her books they still keep me trying to guess ...who did it! I love her characters.
5 Prospective buyers will first note that this one, (like many Christie books) has been released under two different titles, "There Is a Tide" and "Taken at the Flood," which is always very confusing for folks who are trying to acquire all the Agatha Christie books. Here, I'm reviewing the 1984 Berkley paperback which is the one I own. The work was originally published in 1948.The Cloades are a quiet family, aunts, uncles, nieces, and nephews... including a doctor, a lawyer, and a farmer. They all reside in their cocoon of a sleepy English hamlet dubbed Warmsley Vale; but their financial stability and all their futures are rendered to a shambles when the generous family millionaire, Gordon Cloade, dies suddenly during a German bombing of London, just after he had taken a youthful Irish bride (Rosaleen) and after having additionally neglected to write out a new will to meet his numerous pecuniary promises to his blood relations.Rosaleen and her disruptive and controlling brother settle in at the Warmsley Vale mansion alongside the numerous remaining Cloades who have every reason to wish the new Mrs. Gordon Cloade dead so that the estate would return to them under English law. Rosaleen's brother, David, enjoys the good life until an ominous man appears at the local inn and who may be Rosaleen's supposedly dead first husband. And so, here we have all the stereotypical ingredients for murder most foul! Murders do subsequently occur (no surprise there!) and the world's greatest detective, Mr. Hercule Poirot, involves himself in resolving the mystery. (I actually think that Doyle's Sherlock Holmes and Upfield's Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte were both better but this is the lofty title which Poirot confers upon himself.)Of her 80 or so books, (and I've read them all, most multiple times), this is one of Christie's best efforts. It has layers of atmosphere, colorful characters, and never-ending surprises. And while I think that her best work was her first one,The Mysterious Affair at Styles, this one is still very strong amongst all the mysteries ever written by anyone.It's 231 pages in paperback and I hope you enjoy it as much as I have.
5 Sadly not quite famous like others, this is one of the best. Agatha Christie wrote good novels, bad novels and great novels. The great ones are wherever she told a beautiful story with beautiful characters, together with a good mystery, clues, twists and atmosphere. This is one of the great.
4 &#34;Taken at the Flood&#34; or as it was published originally in the United Sates, &#34;There is a Tide&#34; features Hercule Poirot trying to solve a mysterious murder that would have benefitted many people.  With so many possible motives, the clues are a massive tangle, and only Poirot's inimitable grey cells can organize them.  &#34;Taken at the Flood&#34; is a fast-paced thrilling whodunit that will leave readers guessing to the very end.Old Gordon Cloade's family had much to gain from his death.  He had long made it know that upon his death his family members would benefit from his great wealth so that they did not have to worry about money during his lifetime - he would always help them out.  Yet no one was prepared for Gordon's marriage to a young woman nor his subsequent death during an air raid in London, a death that left all his money to his widow and her money hungry brother.  Therefore, perhaps with just cause, the Cloades detest this new bride, seeing her as a barrier to their gaining their rightful inheritance.  So when a stranger appears in the town of Warmsley Vale with the news that the widowed Mrs. Cloade may have a first husband who is still alive, the family jumps at the chance that the money might be theirs.  When the stranger is found murdered, the immediate suspect is Rosaleen's brother, David, a mysterious man whom many assume may not be her actual brother.  Yet Rosalenn claims she has never seen the dead man before and the star witness that testifies to the opposite is found dead from suicide.  Poirot knows something strange is afoot and tries his hardest to protect Rosaleen from the greedy Cloade family members who have a wealth of problems - embezzlement, drug addiction - but a dearth of money to help themselves out.  Who really benefitted from the stranger's death and did he really need to die?From the get-go, nothing about the case arranges itself neatly in Poirot's mind.  He feels that the victim and the method are all wrong.  Readers get to join him for the ride to uncover the truth of the matter.  Is David who he says he is?  Would certain members of the Cloade family murder to get their hands on Gordon's money?  These are all questions Poirot must solve before too many others lose their life.  &#34;Taken at the Flood&#34; is an intriguing mystery with just as many twists as one would expect from a Christie work.  After such an incredible buildup and amount of clues, the ending seems rather rushed and almost unsatisfactory.  However, the ride is worth it to uncover the real truth to these muddled mess.
3 &#34;Taken at the Flood&#34; is a novel of money and self-entitlement.  When a rich man dies unexpectedly in an air raid, all his money falls into the hand of his new bride and her domineering brother.  To the family, who have come to rely on his wealth, this comes as a terrible blow.  When plots to regain the money lead to tragedy, legendary detective Hercule Poirot is called upon to untangle passion from cold-blooded calculation.Maybe it's because I read too much Christie, but the core revelation was staring me in the face from the beginning, so I was not entirely surprised by the ending.  But whereas the mystery aspect was unsatisfying, I did enjoy the psychology of the book, especially the quiet desperation of the family.  I usually enjoy Christie's  romantic subplots, but this one left a sour taste in my mouth.  Still, I enjoyed this story on the whole.
4 During the WWII, Hercule Poirot sits out an air raid in a London Club, trying to distract his nerves from the bombing by listening to the waffling story of a club member, who recounts the marriage of his friend Robert Underhay and the young Rosaleen Hunter. A strange sort of fellow, his old friend considers out loud the possibility of Underhay faking his own death in order to free Rosaleen from her less-than-happy marriage. It is not until several years after this little anecdote that the story will reemerge in Poirot's life in surprising circumstances.Gordon Cloade has always promised his assorted brothers, in-laws, nephews and nieces that they would be well looked after during their lifetimes, both before and after his death. However, after an impulsive marriage to a much younger woman, Cloade is killed in an air raid before getting the chance to alter his will in order to continue his financial support of the rest of the family. Without a new will, his entire fortune is automatically inherited by his new wife, Rosaleen (and by proxy, her brother David). Needless to say, the rest of the family is not impressed.The title of the novel is taken from Shakespeare's "Julius Caesar": "There is a tide in the affairs of men, which taken at the flood leads on to fortune..." and it is certainly this inexorable pull toward fortune that makes up the primary motivation of the suspects in the novel. The Cloades dearly need the money, but although Rosaleen is something of a pushover, her brother David is certainly not about to give up his newfound fortune (and in the meantime is finding the uncomfortable situation of the family rather amusing).In the middle of all this is young Lynn Marchmont, a demobilized Wren who is engaged to Rawley Cloade, but has her head turned by David. Bored with the return to her humdrum life and caught in the usual "all girls want bad boys" mindset, Lynn watches the mystery unfold with interest as Hercule Poirot arrives on the scene and begins to investigate the murder of the man known only as `Enoch Arden', who seems to have contacted certain family members with pertinent information regarding Cloade's legacy and Rosaleen's marital status...What unfolds is one of Christie's most sophisticated and complex plots, one that includes blackmail, mistaken identity, family secrets, conspiracies, lies and murder most foul. Although this is certainly a strong story, it does have somewhat weaker characterization, the suspects are thinly drawn stereotypes and even Poirot himself feels somewhat subdued this time around. As for Lynn Marchmont...well, by the end of the story I was wondering if perhaps she has some sort of mental disorder considering her taste in men. You'll know what I mean when you read the final pages (and no, I haven't given anything away).Christie seldom made commentaries on the war, and yet here takes the chance to explore some of the problems of social and financial reconstruction during the war; such as young people returning from the war and finding life too dull in comparison, the rising post-war taxes that sapped away most family's nest eggs, and the resentment of those who were left behind to tend to the land whilst others took up the fighting. It creates an interesting little window on the past and those that lived through these particular years.All in all, this is one of my favourite Christie mysteries: a swift pace, an intriguing setup, and yet another of her twist endings that caught me complete off-guard.
5 This is one of the most original mystery of all times.  Agatha Christie treated the readers to not one, not two, but three deaths, each death being a very clever deception!  The final outcome is almost guaranteed to please all mystery fans.  The fourth deception is the title, which I personally thought seriously failed to convey anything meaningful to the contents.During an air raid in London, World War 2, Poirot happened to overhear a Major Porter musing over a news report he just read.  Mr Gordon Cloade, rich old man and once thought to be a confirmed bachelor, had married a young girl Rosaleen shortly before being hit by enemy bombing of London.  The widow and her brother were the only people succesfully rescued, the rest of the household staff perished and Gordon Cloade did not awaken though the rescuers dug him out too.Major Porter mused that he had known the first husband of Rosaleen in Africa, a colonial by the name of Robert Underhay.  The couple realised that the marriage was a mistake.  Pious Roman Catholic Underhay confided in Porter that he might do an "Enoch Arden" (in reference to Alfred Tennyson's poem of the same name), letting the world think he was dead and enabling Rosaleen to move on with her life.  Whatever the case, word came to the colonial office that Underhay died in the outbacks and later, Rosaleen had a lightning marriage with rich Gordon Cloade, only to be widowed again shortly.The story moved on to a year after the end of the war and life in Britain was difficult for most people, not the least to other members of the Cloade family.  Gordon Cloade was the financial protector who had actively encouraged the other Cloades to venture out on their own, tacitly promising financial backings to pick them up if they fall or to take care of them.  The quick succession of his marriage and death meant that all his money went into a trust for his widow instead.  Though the Cloades were not parasitic, one by one, they ran into difficulties in post-war Britain, ranging from a housewife whose pre-war investments shrank, to a farmer struggling to make his farm viable, even those in the medical and legal profession had financial problems.  They might have come to terms with the apparently simple-minded Rosaleen but for her outrightly hostile brother David Hunter.Things became very interesting when a man arrived in their village claiming to be Enoch Arden.  An inn's maid overheard David Hunter being blackmailed with news of Underhay still being alive.  Shortly afterwards, Enoch Arden was found murdered.Agatha Christie normally provided readers with one strong highly involved enigmatic girl who was either instrumental in the plot or in providing insights, such as Elinor Carlisle in Sad Cypress, Joanna Burton in The Moving Finger, and Veronica Cray in The Hollow.  It was a rare treat in this novel that she had two such female characters: Frances Cloade, wife of Jeremy Cloade the lawyer who was determined to save her husband at all cost and show him that she loved him and had not married because he saved her father before, and Lynn Marchmont, a discharged WREN trying to decide if she still wanted to marry Rowland Cloade the farmer who stayed behind during the war to farm the land, or it was a different person she wanted.Agatha Christie's female characters were always more interesting than her males, their insight, sheer determination and tenacity would quickly dispel the myth of women being the weaker sex.In a true Christie style, readers were given a glimpse that each of branch of the Cloade family had something to hide.  In a novel twist, none apparently is what could usually be guessed.This book ranks with one of Christie's must-read, along with Death on the Nile and Murder On The Orient Express.
4 Agatha Christie is such a master at her chosen genre, that mystery novels are continually judged against her extensive body of work.  And well they should be.  She keeps her readers guessing right up until the end, over and over again.  She is still truly the Grande Dame of mystey fiction writers, and her work will be around for a long time to come.  In this book we have Hercule Poirot visiting a small village called Warmsley Vale.  He finds himself in a real tangled mess that concerns various members of a certain family that lives in this out-of-the-way spot.  The ending is a real surprise, and we the readers have such fun getting there.  No one can match Ms. Christie's cunning and ingenious plots, and this book does not disappoint.
5 Her last book, this enjoyable mystery revolves around a presentation of Macbeth (mostly called "the play" by the superstitious cast who feel there is a curse of sorts attached to any presentation of this work of the Bard). Fascinating characters, notably a weapons master, Gaston Sears, who not only insists on manufacturing a bona fide claymore (he uses the technically accurate term, claidheamh-mor, for the deadly two-handed blade) for use, he also choreographs the fight scene. As the director Peregrine seeks to quell any superstitious nonsense, a series of pranks occur (dummy head showing up in odd places as well as a decapitated rat), the play starts off without a hitch. Sadly, this does not remain the case, and Inspectors Alleyn and Fox must show up later when the dummy head of Macbeth on the claymore turns out to be the REAL head of Dougal Macdougal, who was playing the part. Added to the intrigue is that fact that the criminally insane father of the young actor William actually had beheaded the wife of one of the other actors and was committed to an asylum for life.The case is finally solved as a result of the young playmates of William's selection of toy soldiers to act out the parts, helping Alleyn to identify who did and how it was done. You'll have to read this well-crafted story to find out, but I can tell you this - BEWARE THE POWER OF THE CLAIDHEAMH-MOR!
5 Book arrived on time, in good condition.  I enjoyed it as I have all the Marsh books.
4 Dame Ngaio Marsh is remembered as the author of 32 classic detective novels featuring Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn. She was known as one of the four "Queens of Crime" for her monumental contribution to crime fiction in the 1920s and '30s. Crime novels were her bread and butter but her true love was the theater; after spending her early years as an actress she had a huge influence in the development of professional theater in her native New Zealand. Shakespearean productions were her passion.Light Thickenswas her final novel, published in the year of her death, 1982. It has all the hallmarks of the genre while depending for much of its interest on its mise-en-scene: a production of Macbeth at the Dolphin Theater in London. The book opens in the Dolphin where owner Peregrine Jay is assembling his cast for the first meeting. The scene works well in the introduction of the characters and Jay's vision for the production.Marsh's books generally involve a lot of story before the crime manifests itself, and this one is no exception. The old superstitions about the play's unluckiness weave through the first half of the book as the rehearsals take shape. Stagecraft details are authoritative and fascinating; the costumes are suggestive of clan tartan, the witches are played for maximum evil, the closely choreographed sword fights are rehearsed with huge Scottish claymores to the pounding beat of Verdi's Anvil Chorus.Since this IS after all a detective novel, it won't spoil your fun if I tell you that there are accidents involving fake dripping heads, culminating in a REAL dripping head on a pike on opening night. Enter Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn. Investigation. Resolution. Curtain.There are better detective books by Dame Ngaio Marsh; my own favorite isClutch of Constables (Roderick Alleyn Mysteries). None does a better job, though, of blending the two fields in which her skill was unquestioned: theater and the crime novel. That's the element that endearsLight Thickensto so many readers. A passing knowledge of the Scottish Play may add to your enjoyment but if you don't know it, you can get what you need from Peregrine Jay's production notes. As to the superstition, you'll have to decide for yourself whether you dare to speak the name MACBETH.Linda Bulger, 2008
4 Marsh mysteries frequently involve murders associated with the arts, esp. the theater.  This one's about an enactment of Macbeth.  She also tends to insert something of her native New Zealand and, indeed, there is an interesting Maori in the play.  The majority of this book, her last one, describes the production of the play.  I think your reaction to the book will reflect your interest in the details presented prior to the murder.  The characters, as well as the description of the intracacies of theater, were IMHO quite interesting and colorful.  Of course, Chief Superintendent Alleyn just happens to be in the audience when the murder is committed--not for the 1st time either!  The mystery is not particularly satisfying and can, I believe, be solved by the reader with relative ease, but the involvement of the children adds some interest to its unraveling.  To the mystery purist, this book may not satisfy, however.  But, considering Marsh's matured writing style, it's an easy read and, IMHO, a fun book due to its dramatic descriptions.
4 I enjoyed this Ngaio Marsh (1895-1982) entry a great deal, albeit it's not representative of her very best works such asFalse Scent (Roderick Alleyn Mysteries), which is yet another theatrical murder mystery, also featuring Scotland Yard's Inspector Roderick Alleyn.Marsh, a New Zealander, was herself a director of theater so in this instance she naturally established an extensive wallpaper of details before she got around to knocking off her victim. I didn't mind this at all since her background for the mystery was so competently conveyed.The story is essentially that Theater Director Peregrine Jay is putting on a top-notch production of "Macbeth," a play which reputedly brings bad luck to its principals. An apparent Herculean swing by some unknown cast or crew member's huge sword (a "Claymore" which has a difficult Scottish pronunciation and which is additionally said to have powers of its own!) brings the impending fear of doom to a head. And even though Inspector Alleyn was in the audience watching the play when the murder occurred, he still has a tough time sorting this one out.I think that it would probably have been nice to have had just a little more of Inspector Alleyn and slightly less of the theater director, but it is what it is. I highly recommend this one for any enthusiast of Ngaio Marsh or, for British cozy murder mystery fans in general.
5 &quot;Light Thickens&quot; is Ngaio Marsh's last novel and one of her best. The mystery centers around a production of &quot;Macbeth&quot; at the Dolphin Theatre in London. Most of those involved in the play are  superstitious to varying degrees about the bad-luck curse traditionally  associated with &quot;Macbeth.&quot; Even to say the play's name is  considered dangerous, so it's referred to as &quot;the Scots play.&quot;  During rehearsals someone starts playing gruesome practical jokes. And  somebody is sending out anonymous messages about a likable and talented  child actor whose father is the Hampstead Chopper, a notorious serial  killer confined in the Broadmoor asylum. One night, during a performance  attended by Chief Superintendent Roderick Alleyn, a grisly murder involving  a ceremonial sword occurs just before the final curtain. If you like  traditional British cozies with mostly pleasant characters, you'll probably  enjoy this mystery, and if you're also a Shakespeare aficionado, you'll  enjoy it even more.
5 If you're looking for a cookbook that gives you authentic Thai dishes, then this is your book. From simple fried rice to mangoes and sticky rice this book has it all. If you are a fan of amazing Thai food then this book is a worthwhile addition to your cookbook library.
5 Not only did the book come right away but it is as beautiful as I thought it would be.  The recipes are wonderful.  Books and Beads by Betty - - thank you for your prompt service - - Wish everyone were like you!!!
5 More of a coffee table book, but there are some recipies I will use. Other books in this series I will use more.
5 My husband and I love the recipes in this book!  We have finally found the perfect Pad Thai recipe in this book after searching for about 5 years.The price of this book is a little on the steep side but if you consider  how much it costs to go out to Thai you can make back the price in 3 meals  or less.  The price was our deterrent before we purchase this book but now  that we have it we can't stop using it.  The wonderful photography and  glossary are added bonuses.The food is perfect in spiciness all though  I am sure others would suggest adding more chilis.  One of our other  favorites is the green chili crab dish.  I made this for my in-laws and it  received rave reviews.  Being from Seattle, we especially enjoy all the  seafood dishes.Enjoy this book because it is a feast for they eyes and  stomach.
1 I purchased this book based on the 31 5 star reviews. After a trip to Thailand, I wanted to learn to cook the food. I am disappointed. The format is TOO BIG 10x14"to be practical as a cookbook. Also the recipes are short on techniques--just the ingredients and basic cooking instructions. I'm donating this book to Goodwill and purchasing a real Thai cookbook.
5 I think the only serious competition for this book isThai Food, and I would cautiously award the blue ribbon to this book, if only because it contains lots and lots of recipes that I have actually seen and tasted, whileThai Foodseems to have a lot of recipes like "Beef and Mangosteen Soup," which I have never heard of, much less tasted.  I suspect that a lot of this may be Royal Thai Cuisine, which is undoubtedly delicious but rather requires a kitchen full of servants.(!)This book, on the other hand, shows you how to cook such everyday items as "Pork Fried Rice" (and their version looks GREAT) plus dozens of other items.  In fact, if you know of a Thai dish and cannot find it in this book, that will be a big exception.Full marks for the lovely photographs as well!  Just leafing through this wonderful book will make you hungry.
4 Haven't tried any of the numerous recipes, but the book is indeed beautiful. Got it because other reviewers mentioned that the recipes were relatively authentic. I'm optimistically expecting to find most or all of the ingredients (tamarind leaves?!) here in the San Francisco bay area.
5 This has to be one of the most beautiful cookbooks I have ever seen. Very well suited for a coffee table book. It's recipes are organized by region. Fantastic color photography.  You will be very happy with this if you like Thai cooking or are looking for a gift for someone who is.
5 I have other great Thai cookbooks, but they don't havethe beautiful photos of what the food should look like asthis book does.
5 I bought this cookbook for my husband for christmas and he has tried several recipes so far, which we absolutely love!  The art and photography found in this book was beautiful and we enjoyed reading about the history of Thailand.  This cookbook provides a nice background of the country, which makes the recipes special and unique.  These recipes are full of flavors that most people aren't accustomed to, but are delicious and refreshing!
5 I have lived in Thailand and this book is the best cookbook I have found in the US.  It made me very happy to be able to see Thai foods that are not offered in Thai restaurants in the US and not seen in other Thai cookbooks.  Now I can finally have my Nam Gabi and Soup No Mai.  (The spelling is different in the book.)  I was happy to see both the Roman lettering and the true Thai word for the dish.  It helps me figure out what the dish is and jogs my memory when reading the Thai.  Thai food is great and I'm happy to see the recipes and the Thai regional information included.
5 so my new rescue dog, chewed up about 15 cookbooks while I was at work. This one is a favorite and I do use it quite a bit. Although the chewed up book was useable I wanted a new one, so this is the replacement. This book has beautiful pictures and a good history of Thailand. It includes recipes for the curry paste and other condiments as well.
5 This is an outstanding cookbook and a must for any avid Thai cook. My wife is Thai and when she saw this book, she was shocked to see some recipes that she have not seen (and had) since she was in Thailand many moons ago. I was very impressed and very delighted with this book and I strongly recommend it. The recipes, if carried out to the letter, are authentic and worth trying.That said. The book is too large and bulky to carry with you to the kitchen while you are preparing dishes. Additionally, the pages are glossy and for sure you don't want set it on the kitchen counter. In order to preserve the book condition, it is best that you write down the recipe on paper. I am not deducting any points because of this incovenience though I wish to take off a quarter point for that.Overall, I am very pleased.
5 A large format Thai cookbook with amazing photos, and wonderful recipes. I was able to recognize all my favorites as well as find some new ones to try.  You really won't go wrong with this book. Would make a great gift for someone (or for yourself).
4 I thoroughly enjoyed &quot;Sahara&quot;. It was the first Clive Cussler novel I have read and I'm certainly coming back for more. The reason I  liked it is because of it's full-blown action - how it is very hard to put  down and how it has a suave yet clever hero, Dirk Pitt. It was interesting  to me how Cussler could tie together those three events - President Lincoln  assasination, a pilot that dissapeared over the desert, and a deadly amount  of red tide that could threaten the world's oxygen supply - that gave me  more respect for the story. And, though it was not  or does not carry much  of a message, I would reccomend it to action-loving readers who enjoy a  grand adventure and story like I do.
1 The audio cassette of &quot;Sahara&quot; was so bad, in my opinion, that it does not deserve a review from someone of my caliber.My wife and I put it in the car when we went on an overnighter to get away from the kids a week or so ago.  We listened to it for about 20 minutes into the drive and then shut it off, it was so lame.I finished it a while later on my commute to and from work.  After having finished it, all I can say is that I am glad I do not have to listen to Tom Wompat try and sound like the sexy Eva Rojas anymore, it was almost nauseating.This is my second Clive Cussler book in the last month and I have to say he is not as good as I remember him.  I remember really liking &quot;Treasure&quot; quite a few years ago when I was still a kid.I have now listened to &quot;Sahara&quot; and have read &quot;Shock Wave&quot; in the last month and both have been so unbelievable that they were actually funny at times.
4 What a premise and terrific subplots !  OK, OK...so it is a bit far-fetched, but that is what good fiction does, it stretched the imagination to possible what-ifs and if onlys'.  Lots of the usual twists and turns, but again, Cussler has given us an involved tale with characters we can visualize and a locale that always evokes possibilities.  Cussler is a terrific storyteller and I like to think I have helped pay for his car collection...well, maybe a few gallons of car wax !If you are looking for a book that makes a great beach read or one of those books to cuddle up with on a cold night, this is the book - out of his many works. Enjoy !
4 Cussler is never better in his storytelling than when he incorporates an historical event into his novels and at the beginning of 'Sahara' we are smack in the middle of the Civil War. At first you may wonder what it has to do with Dirk Pitt and events in Africa, but don't worry...Clive has a rabbit up his sleeve and when he produces the surprise, it'll give you goosebumps! 'Sahara' has one of Pitt's most nasty adversaries (but then again, aren't they ALL bad??) and has more action per page than any other adventure novel available today. Action after suspense after thrills--this novel literally has it all. The deadly plague infesting the ocean certainly sounds catastrophic, but with Dirk and Al on the case, one thing is for sure: a good time will be had by anyone who cracks the pages of this fine action/adventure/thriller. There are a few gaping holes of reality herewe all know that Clive takes certain liberties , but for all the action and excitement we cut him some slack. You will see Cussler at the top of his form in a story as exciting and fun as anything else in his amazing list of accomplishments. A darn good read.
5 Clive does the leg work to keep you into his books and I just can't get enough of them Seems he just loves to keep you thiunking
4 OK, I have read EVERY Dirk Pitt novel Clive Cussler has written, so I definitely qualify to review his books.  I enjoy how Cussler pushes the technological envelope in each new story, even a little over the top; I also enjoy how Dirk Pitt is the ruthless hero (only to baddies, not to beautiful women) we've all wished our movie action heroes could be.  If you've read more than one Dirk Pitt novel, you know what I'm talking about.  No need to elaborate so as not to ruin it for others less fortunate.By the way, I appreciate how he writes himself into nearly every novel.  Don't criticize - you'd do it too if you knew how to make a living writing.I enjoyed Sahara immensely.  Cussler has a way of getting you to say, &quot;Hmmm...could that be what really happened?&quot;I usually leave a LOT of room for authors to play with the rules of technology and even the laws of physics now and then.However, despite Cussler's quality, I can't ignore this one:If you are dehydrated to the point of death - no, wait, even if you are dehydrated significantly less than to the point of death - you don't simply drink quarts and quarts of water and in a matter of minutes fully recover, shake the dust off, and sally forth on your merry way.  Even somewhat dehydrated, you will be on a table with an IV in your arm for several hours.  I know this firsthand.  Technology is one thing; medical accuracy is another.Nonetheless...A very good book, typical Cussler.
5 From two unlikely historical prologues which seem to be unrelated, through Egypt and a red tide of death . . .Dirk Pitt and friends are back once again! This is a book that I would recommend to any thriller fan, be they a diehard Cussler fan like myself or totally unfamiliar. Prepare for impact as Dirk and co. combat a ruthless French industrialist who has done a total jerry-built job of a toxic waste disposal plant in the Malian Sahara and is using people presumed dead as slaves in a mine which makes the Unit 731 WW2 experiments look like a pinprick! How Dirk and Al manage to be in the right place at the right time, and meet their creator in an amusing cameo role . . . I don`t know! The best is yet to come but I won`t give away the ending, which does get you thinking . Overall, one which is impossible to put down! Another classic Cussler treat, and one of his best. Lunacy, action, great `set pieces` and `imaginative effects` - this would make a superb movie actually!
5 I had a lot of fun reading Sahara.A little far fetched, but that'sd Dirk Pitt.I would recommend this book.
1 Okay, so I'm not a Cussler fan and read the book on a dare.  This book is laughable.  The writing is inept, the plot facile.  The dialog is unintentionally hilarious.  It is a mystery to me why so many people read  Cussler.  Hey, I'm no literary snob, but even for escapist literature  Sahara is just dreadful.  After I read this book I was inspired to host a  &quot;Clive Cussler&quot; writing contest. Needless to say, the entrants  were better than the inspiration!
2 I wanted to try out another adventure writer other than the ones I've been reading. I thought I'd give Clive Cussler a try since I read Raise The Titanic.The setups in the beginning were long-winded and gave absolutely no relation to the story whatsoever till somewhere towards the end of the book. It served to confuse the readers greatly until strangely and coincidentally enough the Dirk Pitt chances upon them.The book is full of male bravado and machoism. It was shameless in the way Clive included himself into the novel as one of the characters searching for the lost ship. At the same time, the people who seem not to die or get injured miraculously is Dirk Pitt. Everyone else he knows dies.The plot itself was very round about, back and forth and linear. I hope the movie would prove a better watch. Otherwise, some interesting facts about survival in the Sahara that's about it.
4 Another Dirk Pitt adventure which entertains and astounds the reader.  I saw the movie first and was disappointed to see the departure from the story after reading the book.  I was looking forward to the literary description of events in the movie to find they were not there. But as they say, the book is better than the movie, and it is true for Sahara.  I have read every book in order to this point and have not been let down yet.  Thankfully Cussler has not fallen into the Clancy trap of repeating storylines with minor adjustments.  Hopefully it continues.
5 This book in the Dirk Pitt series is probably the most action-packed, full of adrenaline and gun-blazing frenzy! Instantly addicting. And it has probably become the most talked-about with the movie being just around the corner. Check it out before the movie is released! It'll make you thirsty for more!
3 I.  INTERESTING- There is some history in this book.  How can you tie in the civil war, aviation history, deadly epidemics and present day Saharan Africa?  Clive Cussler does it, and I found it very interesting.  By no means is this a historical novel, and the drive of the story is adventure, not history.  But I appreciated the research that the author did to enhance the story.  Apparently the author has led an exciting life deeply rooted in history, and he puts his experience in and passion for history in this story.II.  LONG- The book is long.  Some books are long because of the number of pages.  But this book is long for other reasons.  I quickly grew tired of the story, and stories like these are often very predictable.  The story is long as well because of the female character.  Her relationship with Dirk Pitt is as believable as the ridiculous story line.III.  ACTION FILLED-  This book is packed with action.  Sometimes the action is clever- other times it is disappointingly foreseeable.  The story is not plot-driven, it is not character-driven, the story is clearly driven by the action.IV.  CORNY- While reading this book, I couldn't help but remember by childhood days, reading the Hardy Boys.  Every Hardy Boys story had the same exact story line, with just different circumstances, people and places.  This book followed the same, easy to predict story line.  Adding to the corniness is the implausibility of the story, Dirk defies the odds about 12 too many times.  This is the sacrifice the author has to make in order to have fun, fast adventure.I don't regret reading Sahara, but I probably will not read another Cussler book again.  Following the book, the 2005 movie is heavy in action, but light in plot.
5 My Grandad got me into Cussler. I'd eagerly wait for him to finish the latest installment, so I could then read it.Now I can buy my own copy and with Sahara, Cussler is as brilliant as ever. Dirk foils a plot to wipe out all sea life, rescues the beautiful Eva Rojas and takes on a bunch of cannibals. It is all delivered with the direct panache of all Cussler novels and even though you know it's all going to end well, its how Dirk achieves it that makes it so much fun. A true thriller.
5 This is a beautifully written yarn that makes the unbelievable seem somehow plausible. I absolutely love this story.If you have friends that rave about Clive Cusslers books, read this book and understand why.
5 The best by far. I've read many Dirk Pitt novels, and Sahara is my favorite, followed closely by Vixen 03 and Night Probe. Cussler has done a great job tying together three seemingly obscure story lines, not all of which made it into the movie, obviously (sorry Abe!). For some reason I didn't think the villian (General Kazim) or the love interest (Eva Rojas) were necessarily the best (same can be said for the movie! LOL), but it was the plot and all the hidden gems along the way that make this a great read.
5 Are they making a movie from this?  I'm waiting to hear.  Enough said.
5 I'm a lifelong Cussler fan since the late 70's when I first read 'Raise The Titanic' and felt (and still feel) that it was one of the best adventure stories written.  Cussler seems to never write a bad story...however some are just better than others. 'Sahara' is one such story.  From the opening pages when a Confederate Ironclad takes on a mysterious guest and set's sail to places unknown...to the deadly plague seeping into the ocean off the coast of Africa threatening to destroy all sea life... to a really nasty bad guy (who really get's what is coming to him ala Pitt's fiendish imagination...) this has just about anything and everything an adventure novel should have.  I read somewhere recently that Cussler isn't the Sultan of Suspense, he's the Emperor of Action and I'd have to agree.  Swift plotting with a cast of characters you just GOTTA like and a story worthy of Cussler's best.  I particularly enjoyed Pitt &amp; Giordino's travails through the desert near death, and their discovery there.  As a true Dirk Pitt fan, I urge you to get to know this guy.  Bigger, better and more creative than James Bond, Pitt is more like a cross between Bond &amp; an ocean-going Indiana Jones. You get the best of nifty gadgets plus the swashbuckling adventure that makes Indiana Jones so fun--it's ALL HERE and in abundance, too.  Another discovery in the desert is also worth the price of the book, too.  'Sahara' is a fantastic fun yarn and one YOU need to take as soon as possible.  Trust me, you'll be glad you did.
5 Sahara written by Clive Cussler is the eleventh in a series of Dirk Pitt adventure-fiction books and this one is a very compelling story that really grips the reader, making an engaging story till the end.Clive Cussler works some amazing threads in this book, like an iron-clad Confederate named "Texas" in 1865 as it fights through a Federal blockade and then vanishes in the Atlantic.  Next, in 1931 an Australian aviatrix Kitty Mannock vanishes mysteriously in the middle of the Sahara while making an attemp to fly from London to Capetown.These mysteries are only the start, as Cussler works his magic of mysery further, it is 1995 as the hero Dirk Pitt is called to find a Pharaoh's funeral barge buried in the bottom of the Nile.  Now, we find our hero on an African adventure like none ever experienced before.  An adventure that takes Dirk Pit and company on a hunt for a mysterious disease, and the source of unprecedented pollution as they investigate through Africa.Of course, there has to be a villian, or this wouldn't be a Dirk Pitt save-the-world adventure, as we find out this time it's a French billionare named Yves Massarde and of course, the local African connection is General Zateb Kazim the brutal despot... corrupt to the core and makes life hell on Earth for the West African nation of Mali and the world as pollution is leaking and is threatening to extinguish all sea life... and man as well.Clive Cussler has set-up this Dirk Pitt adventure very well as you are captivated in this action-adventure and you are pulling for Pitt to make the connections and solve this engrossing story.  Pitt takes a trip up the Niger River and is met with resistance, but with resplendent resolutness Pitt takes on the villany, but is captured.Now, the story gets to a fever pitch, as Cussler weaves this story making twists and turns in the plot, never forgetting about action and excitement.  As Pitt escapes and treks across the Sahara, Cussler's set-up makes for a tale like none other.You will not be disappointed reading this book... this is a classic Dirk Pitt trashes the bad guys and he always gets the girl adventure.
5 ...Read the book.  This is probably one of Cussler's best novels, by and large it is very entertaining as long as you have the ability to suspend disbelief for periods of time.  Cussler sets up some awesome action sequences in this story, putting Dirk Pitt and the NUMA guys in trouble on rivers in Africa, towns in Africa, diamond mines, the Sahara desert, a French ForeignLegion fort, a waste disposal plant, none of which can stop them from pursuing the truth and owning some bad guys in the process.  There is even some zombie type action in here too.  The intro bit with the Confederate Ironclad CSS Texas on the James River is some rousing reading, and will hook you right into the story.  Take your thinking cap off and let your inner-eye cinema run wild while reading this and I can almost guarantee you will have a good time....
5 Cussler is just a great entertaining storyteller.What I like best is in the beginning of many of his books he throws in a historical event and ties his characters around it.You are thinking how is this going to have anything to do with the story I am reading but not to worry he always comes thru in a most imaginative way.I have been a fan since reading Raise the Titanic. Sahara is one of his best efforts imo and I think you will really have wonderful adventurous read peppered with memorable characters and look for Cussler to do his own Alfred Hitchcock imitation.There is a reason he is so popular and I hope I have gave a review deserving of all the hours he has given me reading.
2 I don't know how I feel about this one. I enjoyed reading it in the same way I might enjoy watching whatever made-for-tv movie might be playing on USA on a random weeknight. My main complaint about the book was its totally bad way of giving information by way of really bad exposition. Most authors seem to be able to reveal things in a clever way that comes naturally in the story.Often it is the equivelant of writing a character who comes out and says  "It's good to have you home; I see that you have sucessfully driven to work and accomplished your tasks there. By the bag in your hand I can tell that you have gone to the store and purchased the bananas, tomatoes, and pie crusts that we needed."
5 Find out what its like to cross a dessert, find a crashed airplane from the 1930's and even solve the mystery of a Confederate IronClad in the middle of a dry African dessert! All in a day for Dirk Pitt.
3 This was fun to read.  I didn't expect it to be anything like the movie and it wasn't, so I wasn't disappointed.  I could care less about Mali so I didn't stress out about his characterization of it.  I mean, you can't take this stuff seriously because he does say that the moon landing is a farce and that Stanton hated Lincoln (which was not exactly true, they had profound respect for each other)..  So I just went along for the ride and had fun with it.It is what it is...this isn't a book that will be in the classics section of the library but it was easy to read and a nice break from my regular tome.
4 This was my second Dirk Pitt book (a scaled down version of Inca Gold is the other) and I thought it was really fun. The action is almost non stop and keeps you on your toes. There is also a lot of fun comic relief when Dirk and Giordino are dealing with the bad guys. I do however think the book went on for too long and a 100 pages could easily have been cut out as some of the action scenes dialogue get a little overbearing. Dirk Pitt is a great character but he's a little too perfect and it would be nice to see at least a few flaws in him.With that said this book was just an enjoyable book. I'm a strong believer that everyone every now and then needs to read a book just for fun and if you love action and adventure then this fits the bill.P.S. The ending with the Texas and who was on the ship is a bit farfetched even for fiction but take it with a grain of salt and you can easily look past it.GREAT FUN!!!!!!!!
4 This is my first time reading a Clive Cussler novel and I loved it!!  Yeah there is romance in there but not so much to make you gag and the action is just superb! Dirk and Al are quite the team: strong, intelligent, and humorous.There is the too much detail thing.  My English teacher always says there is no such thing as too much detail.  And well I think Mr. Cussler just proved her wrong with that.  But anyways it became such a drag with so much detail but I still love the book and the movie for that matter.  But they just dont seem to parallel; they just collide.  But that's okay because I still like them anyways.
5 This is possibly my most favorite Dirk Pitt Adventure.  Is it possible that Abraham Lincoln was actually kidnapped by the Confederate Army?  Cussler makes you wonder if it could have happened...just maybe.  I was thoroughly entertained throughout this book - the villians were excellent, Cussler made a personal appearance, I loved the way Kitty Mannock came into the equation, and the last stand at the fort was exceptionally face-paced.  Can Dirk and Al save the world's seas from an environmental catastrophe and still have time to save the girt?  Of course!  And that's what makes it so much fun.
5 One of the best Cussler books I have read.  Great fun to read.
4 This is the first Clive Cussler book I have ever read. Reading some of the reviews, I see some people didn't like this book, but I actually enjoyed this book a lot. I had been going through the bargain bin of books at the local store and found this book as a marked-down paperback. I read the back of the book and it sounded interesting, so I picked it up. And I enjoyed it more than I thought I would.Yes, a certain suspension of disbelief is required to enjoy this book, especially the part with Abraham Lincoln. But overall the story is well-paced, the characters fun, and the action interesting. There's just so much great stuff going on, I really did love this book. It might not be for everyone, but if you're looking for an action and adventure book with colorful characters, fun scenes, and some pretty cool historical trivia, you should enjoy this book. I give it a solid 4.5/5 stars.
4 Clive Cussler's novels are hokey and weird..... but I'm addicted. Where else can you get a shoot-em-up adventure and a way-over-the-top James Bond-esque hero combined with oceanography, history, and archeology? The plot of this one makes you wonder what Mr. Cussler was smoking, but is still delightfully entertaining. Abe Lincoln's body is resting on a Confederate ironclad in the middle of the Sahara desert and only Dirk Pitt can save the day and stop the rich industrialist polluting the oceans.
1 This book was near the beginning of the end for Cussler as far as I'm concerned. It's quite simply too stupid for words. Here his dialogue reaches new lows and the storyline is even too ridiculous for him. Ouch....bad book, bad.
1 The last time I read Clive Cussler was around twenty years ago, and the experience had not exactly had me wanting to read more.  Time, however, dulls the memory, and I'm a different reader than I once was.  When I had the opportunity to read Sahara, therefore, I was hopeful that the reading experience would be pleasant; alas, such hopes were to be crushed.  Sahara is not a good book, and reading it, I wonder exactly what makes Cussler such a popular author; maybe it's his exotic locales and his almost non-stop action; it certain isn't his ability to write.Sahara begins with a pair of prologues, the first dealing with a Confederate warship disappearing at the end of the Civil War, the second focusing on a female pilot crashing in the Sahara back in the 1930s.  We then go to modern times, where Dirk Pitt is called in to investigate a toxic waste runoff that threatens a biological catastrophe that could kill all humanity.  Standing in his way is an evil dictator in Mali who is almost cartoonish in his cruelty and an equally vicious billionaire.  Pitt's adventures will lead him throughout the Sahara in a series of adventures that bring him closer to the truth while battling soldiers and the hostile desert.What about the prologue material?  It turns out to have almost nothing to do with the main story.  The crashed plane is a mere plot device to rescue characters at an opportune moment, and the lost ship contributes even less, only really reappearing in something of an epilogue, in which we get some ludicrous distortion of history.  In literary terms, one is a deus ex machina, the other a non sequitir, and any time either one of these appears in a story, it is a substantial weakness.  With both, you have truly bad writing.The characters themselves are stiff and generally one-dimensional.  The villains are laughable clich&eacute;s and many of the heroes are little better, and between pure good and pure evil there is a Sahara of sorts with no one to be found.  Then there is Dirk Pitt.  A godlike man who never flinches from danger and always prevails.  Even when we are not seeing him beat the odds, we are having other characters praise him.There is enough cheesy dialogue to open a deli, but on the plus side, Cussler does have a decent (though not great) ability to describe settings, and his action sequences are often interesting if not really exciting.  Unfortunately, the chief virtue in this book is to make other books seem better in comparison.  For those who think I'm being overly hostile, read the far superior adventure stories of authors such as Wilbur Smith, Ken Follett or even Jon Land.  There are better authors out there; if Sahara is typical Clive Cussler, I strongly recommend skipping his books and going elsewhere.
3 This is Clive Cussler, his books are far fetched, incredible and over the top. But they are also a lot of fun, if you adjust your expectations a little bit. They are adventure romps where the good guys (Mr Dirk Pitt in this case) can take anything and solve any riddle (and always get the girl in the process).Reading this will not increase your IQ or expand your literary horizons, but it will provide a few hours of entertainment.Most of Cussler books are similar, so if you must read one, Sahara is one of the best.
3 Ok - so I read this after watching the movie (always a mistake in my opinion).  While my husband really likes Clive Cussler books... and Dale Brown... and Tom Clancy and the rest of the usual suspects, I tend to steer away from them.  Sahara (the book AND the movie) were interesting and kept my attention, BUT - I was a bit disappointed by the way Cussler tends to "describe" things and events (in the book).  My best attempt to explain would be this:  The Hardy Boys beat things up in their books, with a minimum of fuss and nonsense.  Which leaves you with a short, fist-filled book.  That's rather like the way Cussler writes.  When his main character, Dirk Pitt, is figuring out an alternative solution to a problem, Cussler usually describes only the conclusion of Pitt's thoughts, and leaves his emphasis on the action that is encountered in executing Pitt's plan.  I prefer books that explain things to the reader, especially a character's thoughts and rationalizations.  Sahara is a worthwhile read, filled with sand and derring-do.  It's also rather fantastic in nature (as it is supposed to be - rather like a James Bond novel).  The main characters always survive against incredible odds, and the plethora of contacts that they pull in to help is unbelievable (literally).  And Pitt always gets the girl.  (literally).  All in all, a fun but predictable novel.
4 With a great historical plot twist, Clive Cussler has gotten back in line with a wonderfully written Dirk Pitt novel.  Pitt is back with his NUMA cohorts to save the world from an environmental threat caused by cold and callous human beings.  Cussler would make X-Files creator Chris Carter proud with the historical twist regarding the Lincoln assassination.  It's a stretch but believable.  Worth reading.
5 This is by far and wide THE BEST Clive Cussler novel he has written. Sahara is a somewhat complex plot of intrigue, lost treasures, tyrants and human suffering where Dirk Pitt and his NUMA pals need to discover the cause of a deadly marine red tide that could spell the end of all oxygen breathing life on earth. This book is just about impossible to put down - they should make a waterproof version so you can take it in the shower with you!!!!
3 Not sure what happened with this book but I think in all, as the title says, it was about 100 pages too long and is clearly off the mark for a Cussler novel. At the end, you get the feeling that Dirk Pitt is eventually going to save the Earth from crashing into the moon with a straw and 4 pounds of cabbage.Not to trash Cussler too much because he has written some solidly mind-numbing escapism novels before that have made you feel the old &quot;USA USA&quot; chant run through your head. But this one seems to be a little further over the edge of reality than his normal work.I read Cussler as a way to not think when I read and he usually does a good job. But this novel went on a bit too long and after a while, too many things came together for the story to unfold as it did. Yeah, I know that there is always some form of historical infringement on Dirk Pitt's adventuire. But this was way too much convergence in one place.Ok, so that's that. But really this is a typical Cussler novel with a bit more &quot;stuff&quot; than usual. I'm not saying it's bad. I'm just saying it has more Cussler. Maybe he had switched from decaf that month. Maybe he had a page quota. Who knows.Anyway, Dirk and Al are there. And of course they meet up with an impractically impossible situation. And they defeat it. It's the usual stuff for these 2 guys who always seem to find their way in and out of trouble. It's fun. It's crazy. And as usual it's entertaining in the way that Cussler speaks with these 2 guys. Dialogue is always so deadpan and self-assured.And while I think that the historical stuff is a bit overdone, it still is pretty neat and it takes a good twist to bring it all together. Just because it's too much does not mean it doesn't work for the desired effect. Especially if you have no problem suspending disbelief. A lot.Would I recommend this book? Yeah, I think so. But not before you read some of the other Cussler titles first. One other reviewer said that he actually laughed at some of the plot development. Well, that's pretty much basic Cussler. Some of the coincidences are crazy, but that's the author's style.
5 This was a better than average Cussler effort in which Dirk and Al are sent down the Niger river delta into the Sahara to search for the source of a water-born toxin that is poisoning the ecosystem and the locals. This conveniently dovetails with a search for a missing civil war ship and a romance with a UN health worker. Exotic, dangerous and all around engaging.
5 This is my favorite of the Dirk Pitt series. This story is full of action and a. It of suspense as Dirk sets out to find the monitor from the civil war. The side stories in the authors books are always a second adventure within an adventure and this makes for an exciting read as they escape death multiple times all the way up until the end.
4 What's sillier and even more fun than the action-adventure movie "Sahara?"  The original Clive Cussler novel, of course.The plot is over-the-top adventure as Cussler's perrenial alter ego, Dirk Pitt battles evil polluters and saves the world; this time from a toxic waste facility in--the Sahara Desert, duh!Cussler has his usual themes including improbably preserved classic cars and subtle alterations of history.  Meanwhile, his fictitious National Underwater and Marine Agency is out there watching the ecology and keeping an eye peeled for buried treasure.There are lots of great chases, quirky characters, and twists and turns.  Cussler's prose never bogs down.  If you like a potboiler, this may be literally closer it than any other book!Read, enjoy, have fun! You don't have to read all the Dirk Pitt novels to enjoy just this one!And no, this book is unrelated to the eponymous Humphrey Bogart movie!
5 its been 10 years since I read this book and I still haven't found another book that excited me like this one.
5 This is clive Cussler at his best. First off, the introduction with the Confederate ironclad is great. Next, the setting, the Sahara desert and an African river, are both very intriguing and great settings. Then, the plot is riveting and will keep you glued to this book for hours. This is the best Dirk Pitt adventure that I've read so far. The villain, as always, is great and the ending is the finest I've read.
5 if anymone came to me asked me, 'sir, which clive cussler book would you recommend to me?' i would doff my bowler hat back and reply: 'Sahara'. Sahara without a doubt in my mind is one of the best cussler moves written at his height. this is more gungho than the others and is more American, like a rambo movie.its got great ideas as well as some great historical ideas. if the only critism i have it is that it is bit overlong,but still great.
5 Anything Clive Cussler writes is great to me.  This, although older, I had missed and loved being able to secure it.  Thank you for the great service.  I live most of the year in Mexico and cannot easily receive things but your service is wonderful.
5 Now, don't get me wrong; all of CC's books are great; all four stars or  better.  Sahara, however, contains two of the best Cussler/Pitt scenes in  his books: on the river(battle and confinement) and defending the  fort(battle and Giordino train conductor).  My personsal favorite Dirk  book.
2 I don't know what I find more incredible:That a man who claims to be a writer wrote this book,a publisher actually published it,readers actually paid for it.I have never seen more childish, adolescent prose in book published by a major publisher. It was so bad, I put it down around page 180, only kept going that long because I kept thinking "There has to be something to this if this guy's so popular".Some people who liked the books even though the writing is bad say the action sequences and descriptions of foreign countries make up for it. I disagree. The action was not believable and the descriptions are shallower than seeing a country from  group tour bus window.
5 This is only the second book I've read by Clive Cussler (the other one being RAISE THE TITANIC) and I'd say this one is a lot better. I really don't see how this couldn't be his best overall. This had everything. From mystery to adventure to suspense. It has it all. Mainly it's about Dirk Pitt, Al Giordino, and some other character that I can't remember exactly. They're trying to find this contamination in the ocean which could kill off everything on this earth in a very short time. That's the basic plot. However, their are TONS of other tie-ins. Everything from the gold-mining cave to Al and Dirk's adventure through the Sahara desert to a sunken Civil war ship in Africa. Storytelling doesn't get much better than this. You have to read this if you like really good and fun books.
2 "Sahara" was one of the more disappointing Dirk Pitt novels I've read.  It follows the usual Cussler mold: some secret historical event or treasure forms the background of the novel, Pitt saves the life of a beautiful woman and then helps her with some unrelated problem that threatens the world, Pitt ends up finding the treasure/secret historical event, Pitt makes love to the woman and everything turns out great.This book follows that pattern, but it's missing a lot of the flare and excitement that I usually find in novels.  I didn't find Pitt's love interest very appealing in this story, and there didn't seem much of a connection.  It was more of a "well, there's a beautiful girl lying on the beach, I guess I'll make her my love interest for this story."  The story was pretty bland as well.  The title centers around Pitt being trapped in the Sahara desert with his sidekick, Al Giordino and being chased by a generic ruthless dictator.  I found the location really boring, and there didn't seem to be anything in this story I couldn't find from any B action movie on cable late at night.  Lastly, I was really disappointed with the "historical twist."  Usually this is one of the great things about a Dirk Pitt novel, but this one was really far-fetched and cheesy, and didn't invoke any excitement from me."Sahara" can be looked on as a "filler chapter" in an otherwise great book (The Dirk Pitt series).  There is no character development and you will miss nothing by skipping over this book and going to the next in the series.  I wouldn't call it a bad book at all, just pretty boring and not up to the usual level of excitement I've come to expect from Clive Cussler.
4 I recently caught the trailer to the movie adaptation of 'Sahara' to be released later this year.  Upon seeing this trailer, the story looked like a lot of fun so I immediately purchased the book.  I agree with a lot of the reviewers in that some of the dialogue is very cliche' and "cheesy", but let's face it, as I think any writer will attest, dialogue is not an easy thing to do. I've also read where people think Dirk Pitt is very over the top, almost to the point of being unbelievable, but really, isn't James Bond, or Indiana Jones for instance the same type of character?  Yet, people love those two. Besides that however, this book was tremendous fun, and the way Cussler weaves different events in history past, together with the plot for his hero, Dirk Pitt, is truly fascinating.  I enjoyed the book enough where I will pick up another Dirk Pitt adventure whenever the opportunity arises!
4 This being my third Clive Cussler novel, I was both entertained and annoyed while reading it. The historical parts interested me, and Cussler has a clever way of making you forget things you read at the beginning of the book, so that it's surprising at the end. Other than that, it follows the classic formula Cussler uses for all of his novels. Suave, charming hero with the same repetitive one-liners, faithful but uninspiring sidekick, near death experiences, and finally winning the day with some unbelievable and ridiculously clever (to the extent that it hurts) plot. Good for a laugh, but not much else.
2 Ever hear the phrase "suspension of disbelief"?  You'll need a truckload of it for this book.  The story is entertaining enough; I can see why it was made into a movie.  But you'll need to turn off the logical part of your brain as the invincible, superhuman Dirk Pitt achieves one utterly implausible escape after another.Cussler finally lost me when Dirk and his pal, after wandering in the Sahara Desert for days with no food or water, discover a crashed airplane and manage to rebuild it into a "land yacht."  They ride it to safety and are restored to perfect health in moments after guzzling some water.  Oh, please ...This was my first Clive Cussler novel, and I suspect it will be my last.
5 If you liked the movie, you'll LOVE the book.  Much more exciting.  A must read.
5 This is one of Clive Cusslers' best! A great adventure, including treasure hunting, history, and a biological melt down. The movie, Sahara, which is an off-shoot based on this book, with a slightly different twist, is incredible as well. With Dirk Pitt, Al Giordino, Rudy Gunn and Colonel Sandecker, you can't go wrong with this one.
4 I have read almost all of the Pitts except for Treasure.  This book was very good.  I give it 4 stars.  Its gonna be a movie next spring!!!
4 Clive Cussler is a master of the modern thriller. Cussler is in a rarified group of authors who have the ability to pack in minute technical detail without bogging readers down. This is a pulse pounding, page turning read!
4 I first read this book in 1993.  I haven't stopped reading Clive Cussler since.  I really enjoyed how he tied history into a current tale. Though they were some stretchers, I appreciated how he made it come to life.Dirk Pitt is one of the most pre-eminent characters in literature today.  The story line is simple, well crafted with believable and creative characters.
5 The Lowdown: Arguably Clive Cussler's most popular novel besides "Raise the Titanic!," and coincidentally the only other Pitt book besides "Raise the Titanic!" to be made into a major motion picture.The Plot: After rescuing a beautiful WHO doctor from assassins in Egypt, Dirk Pitt finds himself investigating a red tide in the Niger river. Both Pitt and his WHO friend Eva begin to discover that a French zillionaire's "solar detoxification" plant that supposedly destroys toxic waste is actually dumping waste in Mali with the aid of de-facto dictator General Zateb Kazim, and will do anything to keep it a secret, including kill them.The Pros: This book, simply put, is an epic adventure to save the world from the nastiest villains you've ever read about. Dirk finds himself in some seriously intense situations, getting enslaved in a gold mine, almost dying trying to cross the Sahara with Giordino, almost killing Eva to prevent her from being ravaged by the Malian military. Other Highlights include a spectacular fire-fight on the Niger river, a jury-rigged airplane ride through the desert, and Dirk's final confrontation with arch-fiend Yves Massarde (oh, poetic justice!).The Cons: There is very little to complain about in this book, Cussler is on top of his game in Sahara. The obligatory scenes with squabbling politicians are always a bit of a bore, and the idea of a red tide that can destroy the entire planet is a bit much to take. The only other bugaboo is that the "treasure hunt" aspect of the story with the missing ironclad has almost nothing to do with the main plot.
5 Lots of great recipes. I've tried several and they are absolutely delicious. I was suprised how small the book was though.
4 this book is visually beautiful / but the size of the book will make it hard to cook with even with a cookbook stand. It is small.
5 Don't be fooled by the small size of this cookbook.  It packs many great recipes between it's covers.  From beverages to desserts with everything in between this is a gem for delicious mexican recipes, yet is feasible with a moderate level of culinary skills.  I bought the first book in this series several months ago and have been consistently pleased with each new addition.
5 I was so skeptical of this book, but I got the used version of it, and do not regret it one bit. These are the types of recipes I was looking for. Comida tipica Latina, nothing better than this. Recipes are awesome and right on, not this fusion nonsense, with apples in Salsa, :). Worth the buy.
5 Very good recipes very well explained very rich regional dishes very good pictures I really liked, I recommend it. Great Mexican food
3 The book is small, and some of the recipes are uninspired. But there are also some interesting recipes that contain ideas I wouldn't have thought of.
5 While I have not made anything from this book yet, I can tell the recipes in here are the real deal. I grew up in a Mexican household, but I can never seem to duplicate what we used to eat because I did not take notes while in the kitchen. This book has the recipes wirtten down just as I remember them (only now I have the measurements to make them taste right). There is no modern twists or fusion mixes, just straight-forward, authentic recipes the way they were meant to be eaten.
5 There is a lot of variety in this book, it has some beautiful pictures with great tips, fun to use
5 This book at first appears to be small when you get it and I will admit it is. However there are some good traditional mexican recipes in this book such as refried beans, fried plantains with honey and cream, Tomatillo sauce, Tortilla chips, Empanadas and Mushrooms and even soft tacos with chicken.There are several more recipes in the book some of which I might enjoy. I know there are bigger books out there but if you want to start small with mexican cooking this is a good place to start.
5 I just got this book today and it is so great!! The recipes look delicious and I am going to try several for dinner tonight!  I also love the small size, as it packs a lot of recipes and doesn't take up valuable counter space in my kitchen.  The food looks really authentic and has awesome pictures with almost every recipe!  Def worth every penny!!
5 French born and 4th generation provenale, I take pride in the cuisine from my homeland and I have to confess I was a little wary about what I would find in this book. Well, the authors did a wonderful job at promoting  the gastronomic traditions of Provence without betraying them. My  grand-mother, our family's head-cook, and our culinary inspiration would  have given her seal of approval without hesitation, would she have been  around to discover this wonderful recipe collection and it is with her and  my homeland in mind that I enjoy preparing the recipes featured in this  excellent collection for my own enjoyment and the one of my (American)  husband and our friends.
5 Love cookbooks with pictures so I know how the finished product will turn out.  The combinations of herbs with vegetables and meats makes for good cooking and eating.
5 "Provence, The Beautiful Cookbook" by Richard Olney is a beautiful coffee table book filled with exquisite views and mouth-watering authentic dishes from this region of France.Every time I look through this book, I feel like I am on an actual journey to Provence.  And each time, I close this book, I feel a strong yearning to actually see this part of France with my own eyes!This book is divided into food chapters, like most cookbooks, but also, there are chapters about different areas within this region: Alpes-Maritimes; Soups and Starters; Alpes-de-Haute-Provence; Fish and Shellfish; Vaucluse; Meat, Poultry and Gram; Bouches-du-Rhone; Vegetables and Grains; Var; and Desserts.A wonderful book for lovers of Provence!
4 I like this book, but it does point out one weakness in Provencal cooking...a slight lack of variety. There are multiple gratin recipes, good fish dishes, etc. It also doesn't shy away from organ meats, etc., much like the region itself. Like all the books in this visually stunning series, this one has lovely photography.
5 This is not only a cookbook, it's an exquisite coffee table book, which is where it is now permanently sitting.
5 I was a little suspicious of the series.  After all, should we trust a book more suitably sized for the coffee table than for the kitchen counter?  But my mistrust was misguided. The food is wonderful.  All people have  assumptions about &quot;others,&quot; and one of the assumptions Americans  make about the French is that their food is very difficult to prepare and  relies on expensive ingredients.  The truth is that French food need not be  difficult and that it is a cuisine that recognizes the beauty of each  season.  Since my children bought this book for me, we have been building  seasonal rituals around it.  For example, we get salt anchovies from the  neighborhood Italian deli for our Christmas eve appetizer. At Mardi Gras,  we make the oreilles found in this book, which are the pastries sold as  &quot;pig's ears&quot; or &quot;angel wings&quot; in the last days before  Lent by Polish bakeries in Detroit.  Depending on the bakery, they were  known as &quot;pig's ears&quot; or &quot;angels wings.&quot;  My only  criticism of the book is that I feel the need to keep it open in the dining  room, lest kitchen grease spoils it.
5 This cookbook contains easy-to-follow, authentic recipes from the Mediterranean. Even when the recipes are modified to accommodate multiple regional interpretations of a dish, the tastes and textures remain authentic. I'd gladly buy more books from The Beautiful Cookbook series.
5 'Mediterranean the Beautiful Cookbook: Authentic Recipes from the Mediterranean Lands' is one of those special books written by Joyce Goldstein that is so extensive in its survey of the various countries and the qualities that make them unique that it serves as a fine travelogue as well as offering some of the most tempting samplings of cuisines from this region ever assembled: and remember this 'region includes Italian, Provencal France and coastal Spain, Turkey, the Middle East and northern Africa, Greece and the Balkans!As each country is visited there are extensive notes about the countries, their relationship and influences, and the flora and fauna that inform the cuisines from food scholar Ayla Aygar. The photography is as superb, both of the landscapes and cities and the people AND of course the foods.The recipes offered here are unique in that they are geared toward healthy eating - something not all cookbooks from other countries include!  Here are recipes easily carried out in the standard American kitchen with information on how to find ingredients locally.  The writing is casually refined and the recipes are easy to follow.For a book that will encourage the reader to extend that trip to one country to enjoy the kaleidoscopic magnificence of the entire Mediterranean this richly illustrated volume is on the top of the list. Buy it before it slips out of print!  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, December 05
4 I purchased 5 books in this "series" over time and just ordered more from Amazon.  I have a strong interest in cooking but have been weeding cookbooks out.  Still, I bought these for numbers of reasons including the quality and uniqueness of the books as well as for the recipes.These books are oversized (14" X 10"); conceptually a "coffee table book" format.  Some are hard cover versions; more recent versions are soft cover.  Soft covers have no other compromises per quality of the pages, photos and content.  However, the size and softer covers make them less flexible to store.They all have gorgeous photos of the areas from which the recipes are taken.  Included are a few pages summarizing the history of how various foods came to the areas and how food preferences transitioned throughout history.  As another overview point, many recipes are one full page and each page has large color photos of the finished dish(es).  Glossaries and indices are located at the end of each book. These are not travel or restaurant guides; yet, they can inspire a desire to check flight schedules.When I purchased this book, I had in mind food from Greece and a few other countries.  Check a map (there's one included in the book).  This book has recipes from all the countries touching the Mediterranean Sea.  With so many countries, you could guess that this isn't all inclusive (thus the reason for my "4" rating to assure this is known), but there's a variety of recipes from the different countries in each section.  Most recipes have an overview about the dish; and, some have different versions per how it is cooked in the various countries.The book is organized in this order: Appetizers; Breads; Soups and Shellfish; Meats Poultry and Game; Vegetables, Pasta and Grains; Desserts, Preserves and Beverages.  Each category is preceded by a more detailed overview of food in the varied countries or areas but each food category does have a variety of recipes from the various countries.  The country sections are: Spain; France; Italy; Greece and the Balkans; Turkey; the Middle East; and North Africa.  The Glossary has some recipes for some items if you can't find them prepared in your local markets.I've used these books as reference guides for various dishes,for the recipes,and for "just learning more about food" and cooking throughout the world.  Regardless of how many cook books you own, for those regions of interest, I would expect most people who enjoy cooking as a hobby or as a passion would enjoy these books to various degrees.
5 My neighbors Tom and Julia who know my passion for the Mediterranean region gave me this book yesterday as a surprise gift. I have traveled the world, tasted many different cuisines and I came to a conclusion that when it comes to La Dolce Vita, Joie de Vivre and Good Food, nothing compares to tasty, healthy Mediterranean diet and life style. I am telling you folks, it's the best in the world. This book is a good representation of the cuisines from the region and has many delicious recipes from Turkey to Italy, from Israel to Tunisia. Especially those mouthwatering Turkish recipes in this book are easy to make. The book also has wonderful colored photos of the region accompanied by articles on each country in the area.The Turkish cuisine which has long been rated by European experts as one of the best in the world together with French and Chinese, is not all that known in this country. This is partly due to the small size of the Turkish American society and partly the lack of publicity on Turkish resort towns in North America. However with this book, you do not have to wait until you visit Istanbul to try those dishes. This is one book you'll use over and over again, even if you immigrate to Europe, because the recipes in this book contain measurements both in English and metric.This is the third cookbook we have in our collection by Joyce Goldstein and I can tell you that, this experienced cookbook author together with co-author Ayla Algar have outdone themselves in this book.
5 This large format softcover book has beautiful pictures of various locations in the Mediterranean, as well as great pictures of almost every dish for which there is a recipe.  The recipes are easy to follow, measurements in English and metric, with a helpful notation about the recipe at the start of each one.  More importantly, they are useful dishes that you can acutally cook, not one of those books with 20 different ways to cook octopus. Where a particular local indgrediant is probably not available stateside, a creditable alternative is given. The book looks tasty to the eye, and the recipes are tasty as well. I am particularly fond of Turkish food and this cuisine is well represented, just as the other Mediterranean countires are.
4 Really coffee table quality with beautiful pictures.  Only drawback is that it is very large and would be awkward on my kitchen counter as I have a really small kitchen if I wanted to have it open to cook a recipe.  It is a cross between the Tess Mallos Middle Eastern cook book and the old Time-Life series.  Lots of narrative of local customs along with lovely photographs. A really nice addition to my cook books.
3 This book is a fun book to keep on hand.Most of the phrases are bizarre...like Sometimes I get this urge to conquer large parts of europe (interdum feror cupidine partium magnarum Europae vincendarum)but it is still a fun book.I especially enjoy throwing in some latin phrases in email correspondence with friends to keep them guessing.
5 I bought this book while taking a Latin Class with a good yet slightly  dull teacher. During break we would write little Latin Phrases on the board  such as: Nescio qomodo illud in sinum meum intraverit. Really made the  class much better.
5 . . . but that's only because the common rabble would have loved it!  Henry Beard has given the Latin enthusiast (and aspiring perennial pest) a laugh-a-minute phrasebook that tells you how to say just about everything from &quot;Darn!  There goes my beeper!&quot; to &quot;I'll have a hamburger, French Fries, and a thick shake.&quot;  The entries are all conveniently sorted out into twelve categories -- separated by some really funny drawings -- such as &quot;Lingua Latina Conlocutioni&quot;  (Conversational Latin) and &quot;Lingua Latina Vitae Communi&quot; (Social Latin), which makes finding the perfect greeting, or insult, a lot easier.  There's even a handy little pronunciation guide so you'd be able to say what you want in perfect Latin.  So the next time you find yourself in ancient Rome, be ready to beat the loquacious Cicero down with some good old-fashioned small talk by having a copy of &quot;Lingua Latina Occasionibus Omnibus&quot; tucked somewhere in your toga!
5 Imagine my surprise when I opened this book, thinking it was going to be a standard Latin phrase book, and encountered: In dentibus anticis frastrum magnam spinaciae habes (You have a big piece of spinach stuck in your teeth.) By the time I'd leafed my way through Excuses: Hostes alienigeni me abduxeunt. Qui annus est? (I was kidnapped by aliens. What year is it?), Curses: Utinam barbari spatium proprium tuum invadant!(May barbarians invade your personal space!), and Table Talk: Noli ludere alimento! Memento Carthiginienses esurientes!(Don't play with your food. Remember the starving Carthaginians!), I was laughing so hard I was seized with an attack of the hiccups, which I still have not recovered from.(I should have read the author's bio first. Henry Beard was the co-founder of the National Lampoon. That pretty much says it all.)If you know anybody who has studied Latin, this book would make an absolutely stupendous gift. (My birthday is coming up soon ... just in case you were wondering.) Even if you haven't studied Latin, this book is guaranteed to tickle your funny bone.Radicitus, comes!(Radical, dude!)
5 This wonderful little book was presented to me many years ago after I had completed a Latin seminar. It was a wonderful gift, and I have found much use for the various phrases, and an extraordinary amount of humour that can be derived from the blandest of statements when translated into Latin. For example, the innocuous phrase 'Darn! There goes my beeper!' becomes quite funny in Latin:Heu! Tintinnuntius meus sonat!One has visions of Caesar fumbling through his tunic for some beeping object.So, if you need a little Latin on the golf course (Alterum ictum faciam); on the tennis court (minime latum!), at the beach when spotting a shark (Pistrix! Pistrix!), or you just need to say Illud Latine dici non potest (you can't say that in Latin), you'll be prepared with this volume.It even comes with a section on what to say when at the Vatican (where it might truly come in handy). For instance you might need to say 'Ubi possum potiri petasi similis isti?' when passing a cardinal or nun (translation: Where can I get a hat like that?).So, don't waste your time on watching reruns of Insula Gilliganis or game shows such as Periculum and Rota Fortunae -- pick up this book today, and merge the worlds past and present.Die dulci fruere. (Have a nice day.)
4 To put a little fun into studying Latin it fills the bill just fine.  I would recommend it as a supplemental reading.
5 I have never written a book review before I've finished a book but this one has had me in stitches since I opened the front cover. After seeing it on the shelf of my local bookstore I picked it up and "Latin for all Occasions" has made my day.Where else can one read lines like "Prehende uxorem meam, sis!" ("Take my wife, please!") or "Braccae tuae hiant" ("Your fly is open"). For those who have studied Latin or who simply have an appreciation for it, this book is for you. As for me, "Velim sumere Mariam Sanguinariam, sis" ("I'll have a Bloody Mary, please").
5 This is a rather unusual book, with all manner of everyday and bizarre sayings nicely translated into Latin for your amusement/education/use at a dinner party.  Just as with his very funny &quot;French for Cats&quot;, the real humour lies in the really odd things he has taken the time to translate - things like &quot;I believe that Elvis is still alive&quot;.It is a good fun coffee table book, and a must for any serious collector of great humour books.
5 I am currently a Latin student, and will be using this book to amuse and annoy my teacher.Latin is one of my favorite subjects, and this is certainly a great addition to your textbooks.Vale, lacerte!
5 This is a funny book.  I was so surprized to see it could be used for Modern satire.  My husband and I have shared a few great laughs.
5 I highly recommend picking up this book as well as its companion volume &#34;Latin for Even More Occasions.&#34;  Latin scholars will find them useful as well as humorous, as the English phrases translated are usually familiar ones, and so the Latin declension endings and syntax become more clearly defined.  Perfect for your Latin-loving high school or college student, or even for the casual linguist looking for highbrowed humor.
5 this little book has pictures with ideas for garnishments; not just syrup and butter.  I am one who is inspired by the pictures; I won't by a cookbook without it and looking at the pictures in this book makes you want to start cooking!  The first recipe I tried turned out great tasting  too, plus no hard to find ingredients.
5 I just received this book in the mail today and the recipes look like they will be quite delicious.  The recipes do not look complicated either.
5 This recipe book is small and short but represents a wide variety of recipes. The pictures are beautiful and the recipes are clear. I love the inclusion of savory recipes.
4 this is a great book really informativenice pages and great recipesthe price was very good and it hada great selection of recipes in a wide range offood choicesaz
5 Have tried several of the recipes - always good.  Have gifted the book twice with a waffle maker and a couple of utensils - great shower gift.  Biggest reason for me to own it - display it front and center of my cookbook collection.  It is attractive and very small - a great addition with fabulous pictures to accompany delicious recipes.
5 I purchased this book to use in a gift basket. I put it with a waffle maker and some flavored syrup. It was a good finishing touch for the basket which I donated to a local nursing home for them to raffle off.
5 Yum, some interesting recipes!
5 I loved it. I read a great deal while traveling but only write review that are five stars as I don't have time for anythingless. This book I found to be very well put together, and researched, there might have been a few bumps or places I might have said maybe, but in general and as a whole, I love it and will recommend it to others. I am a member of the Aspen Book Club in Colorado, the Brooklyn Hatters Book Club, "The Manhattan Book club" the European book club and the Linnenbach Readers (Book) club. I have to say that I am on the move, on the road so often that read has become an outlet and using Amazons reader a great way to reduce the hours, 5 cheers to this author, I am very happy with this book and will recommend it to others.
3 gave these with a waffle maker so it was the perfect accompaniment. very very small book with few pages, haven't tried recipes
5 In Double Lives, Professor Koch meticulously details the manipulation by the Soviets' master propagandist Willi Munzenberg of thousands of European and American progressive intellectuals in the inner-war period of the 1920s and 1930s by his vast publishing network and interlocking front organizations under the covert direction of the Communist International (Comintern) and the Soviet secret services of the NKVD and the GRU.He particularly concentrates upon the intellectual elite that fell under Munzenberg's sway in this cultural war against the West.This includes such persons as Ernest Hemingway, John Steinbeck, Andre' Malraux, Andre' Gide, Pablo Picasso, Dorothy Parker, George Grosz, Lincoln Steffens, John Dos Passos, Bertolt Brecht, Lillian Hellman, Dashiell Hammett and Sidney and Beatrice Webb.This volume shatters myth after historical myth of this critical period.Munzenberg, Koch states, "developed what may well be the leading moral illusion of the twentieth century: the notion that in the modern age the principal arena of the moral life, the true realm of good and evil, is political."The notion that - the ethical is the political - and that the highest form of ethical expression was "anti-fascism," - with the Soviet Union as the publicly-identified, ideologically most dedicated opponent of fascism, thus holding the moral high ground.This myth was actually built upon the basest of lies.As Koch demonstrates, from the earliest days of the National Socialist regime in Germany, beginning with the Reichstag Fire less than a month after Hitler became Chancellor, a sinister covert relationship existed between Nazi secret intelligence and their Soviet counterpart.This clandestine cooperation continued throughout the decade: Hitler's massacre of Ernst Rohm and his S. A. leadership in the Night of the Long Knives; Stalin's terror purge of CPSU party members, feckless intellectuals, military officers (most notably Field Marshal Tukhachevsky's betrayal by documents forged in a Gestapo laboratory), and the murder of tens of millions of ordinary Soviet citizens, reaching its culmination in the Hitler-Stalin Non-Aggression Pact of August, 1939.Publicly the Soviet Union and their international Popular Front network (of what were secretly designated "useful idiots" or "Innocents' Clubs") preached "anti-fascism."Covertly Stalin sought accommodation, appeasement, and eventual alliance with Hitler.Besides fascinating details dealing with the duplicitous Reichstag Fire trials, the Cambridge Five British espionage scandal, the Spanish Civil War as an international component to Stalin's Great Terror, and finally Muzenberg's own mysterious murder, one of the most intriguing aspects of Koch's study involves the use of women espionage agents."Many of the `Muzenberg-men' were women. The Russian writer and historian Nina Berberova writes with astringent authority about a cohort of agents or near-agents, the women whom she calls the `Ladies of the Kremlin."These were women who became influential figures in European and American intellectual life partly on their own, but above all through the men in their lives. The men, most often, were famous writers, `spokesmen for the West,' Meanwhile, the consorts whom they most trusted were guided by the Soviet services."Leading this list were two members of the minor Russian aristocracy: the Baroness Moura Budberg, who was mistress to both Maxim Gorky and H. G. Wells, and the Princess Maria Pavlova Koudachova. Moura Budberg's links to the Soviets were shadowy, and remained secret for decades, until they were at last exposed by the Russian historian Arkady Vaksberg in his 1997 book, The Gorky Secret. We have more certain knowledge about the Princess Koudachova, who first became secretary, later mistress, wife, and at last widow to the once enormously celebrated pacifist novelist Romain Rolland."Maria Pavlova Koudachova was an agent directly under Soviet secret service control. There is some questionable evidence to suggest that she was trained and assigned to Rolland's life even before she left Russia after the Revolution. . . That she was a secret service operative, however, and one expressly planted in Rolland's life, cannot be doubted. Babette Gross (common-law wife of Willi Munzenberg) put it to me plainly in the summer of 1989. `She was an apparatchik,' she said flatly. `And she ran him.'" (Koch, page 28).Koch proceeds to discuss other women deep within the Communist apparat, such as the American Ella Winter, and their distinguished men of distinction.In Winter's case, the men were pioneer muckraking journalist Lincoln Steffens, and upon his death, Hollywood screenwriter Donald Ogden Stewart, part of Hemingway's circle immortalized in The Sun Also Rises.Stewart was the Academy Award-winning author of The Philadelphia Story, and one of the highest-paid screenwriters of the day, notes Kenneth Lloyd Billingsley in Hollywood Party: How Communism Seduced the American Film Industry in the 1930s and 1940s, Crown Forum, 1998. He was also one of "the most vociferous guardians of the Party line," especially through the vexatious days of the Nazi-Soviet Pact (Billingsley, page 82).Upon reading these various accounts a pattern soon develops.The profiles were remarkably similar.The men were all internationally known novelists, artists, playwrights, etc. celebrated for their independence of mind, their supposed integrity of spirit, but in actuality men who were manipulated by their muses.The technique proved very successful in this inner war period.There is no reason to believe that the Communist intelligence services ceased to use such agents of influence during the years of the Cold War."Yoko Ono, phone your office."
2 Over all an interesting but fatally flawed book.The writing is, in parts, truly appaling. Some of the sweeping statements made throughout the book, that certain individuals or their wives were obviously stalinist agents working for the undermining of america or western society, are unsupported or utter conjecture.  Indeed parts of the book read like a rant against leftist intellectuals and writers, leveling accusations and condemnations at them solely on the basis that they were leftist, therefore obviously they were the tools of stalin.  Trying to link the cambridge spies to Munzenberg on the flimsiest of evidence seems like stretching reality to create the legend of munzenberg rather than recounting the history of the man.Reading some of the other reviews it seems that this book appeals to those people that seemly already share a deep distrust and loathing of "dangerous left-wing academics" that seem to be trying to undermine american values.  This book will no doubt provide barbecue talking points for white collar red-necks so they can heap scorn upon and ignore any academic or spokesperson that questions the status-quo.  They will be able to discount any person that does not agree with their own "elightened" position on the grounds that they/their university/institute/etc was established or funded by the soviets to produce nothing but anti-american propaganda and can therefore be ignored.So, an interesting book, putting forward very interesting ideas, but sadly poorly written, in parts poorly researched and comes across as a damnatio of C20th intellectuals.  Overall this book would appeal to the america, god and guns brigade.
5 Probably the most astonishing item in this book comes from the author's interview with Babette (Willi Muenzenberg's wife) at the age of 91.  She was by no means senile; she was ancient, but in top form.  She had long ago abandoned Communism and become a sharp critic of that murderous ideology.  But she knew where the corpses were buried.  When our author asked her, "But what about Sacco and Vanzetti?", she just gave him a little smile and said, "That was Willi's idea."What?!?!  How could that possibly be true?The explanation lies in this book, which will really make you dizzy as you recognize the items of Soviet disinformation one at a time.  It finally turns into a case of "wheels within wheels," where the dedicated enemies Hitler and Stalin nevertheless wind up cooperating with one another in a sort of Satanic waltz.  For example: Hitler wanted to eliminate a large number of German Communists.  No problem, said Stalin, and provided him with a list of German Communists that Stalin wanted dead.If you read this book, you will suddenly come to a very different understanding of historical reality.  For example, if you read that Felix Frankfurter and Lincoln Steffens both loudly and publicly deplored the execution of Sacco and Vanzetti, you will understand why.This is an extremely valuable book which belongs on the shelf of anyone interested in the history of the twentieth century.
5 As archives and witnesses in formerly Communist lands have become available to historians, we better understand the significance played by Western intellectuals promoting the Soviet agenda.  In Double Lives:  Stalin, Willi Munzenberg and the Seduction of the Intellectuals (New York:  Enigma Books, 2004; completely revised and updated), Stephen Koch details the tangled web of espionage and subversion spun by one of Lenin's and Stalin's premier agents, Willi Munzenberg, a German communist who "covertly directed propaganda operations in the West" (p. 5).  He mastered both the arts of spreading propaganda and enlisting fellow travelers, shaping public opinion through various "Popular Front" mechanisms to garner support for the Soviet position."He wanted to instill the feeling, like a truth of nature, that seriously to criticize or challenge soviet policy was the unfailing mark of a bad, bigoted, and probably stupid person, while support was equally infallible proof of a forward-looking mind committed to all that was best for humanity and marked by an uplifting refinement of sensibility" (p. 15).  He did so by co-opting public opinion in democratic countries and then denying he'd actually done so.  "He organized in all the media:  newspapers, film, radio, books, magazines, the theater.  Every kind of `opinion maker' was involved:  writers, artists, actors, commentators, priests, ministers, professors, `business leaders,' scientists, psychologists, anyone at all whose opinion the public was likely to respect" (p. 15).He shrewdly manipulated scores of left-leaning intellectuals, fellow travelers whom he disdainfully called the "innocents."  He played upon man's hunger for righteousness, for an inner sense of making the world a better place.  "More than perhaps any other person of his era, he developed what may well be the leading moral illusion of the twentieth century;  the notion that in the modern age the principal arena of the moral life, the true realm of good and evil, is politics" (p. 20).  Thus the "lost generation" of the `20s--writers and artists such as Lincoln Steffens and John Dos Passos, Ernest Hemingway, Bertolt Brecht and a cadre of Hollywood screenwriters and wealthy donors cultivated by another Soviet agent, Otto Katz--were Munzenberg's primary targets.Hemingway, an "unchallenged celebrity" in the `20s and `30s, was as important to Munzenberg as Andre Gide (the French novelist).  His literary style, providing a model for scores of writers, elicited an acclaim from all quarters.  He became "the most influential moralist of the Word in his era," and, consequently, "all three of the principal leaders of the Hollywood Popular Front--Lillian Hellman, Dashiel Hammett, and Dorothy Parker--were writers whose prose vulgarized Hemingway's style" (p. 309).  Hemingway's prominent role in supporting the Republicans in the Spanish Civil War opened the door for Soviet apparatchiks looking for propaganda opportunities.  He was not himself a communist, only one of the "useful idiots" so easily manipulated by Munzenberg's men.Since the Bolsheviks saw America as a serious threat to their endeavors, it was necessary to awaken a "worldwide anti-Americanism," to "instill a reflexive loathing of the United States and its people" (p. 41).  Alienated intellectuals, looking for righteous causes, were easily massaged by Munzenberg's ministrations.  The celebrated Sacco-Vanzetti case, for example, was almost wholly his creation, and he worked through a committee led by Gardner "Pat" Jackson, a prominent liberal of the day who persuaded Marion Frankfurter, the wife of Felix Frankfurter, a Harvard law professor who later became a Supreme Court Justice, to rally support for the accused killers.  When Sacco and Vanzetti were executed, Professor Frankfurter wrote an impassioned defense of them that appeared in the Atlantic and was widely circulated to assail the injustices of the American judicial system.During the `20s and `30s Munzenberg also promoted pacifism in the West, seeing it as a way to weaken (and if possible disarm) the democracies that might oppose the USSR.  Communists, of course were not pacifists!  They relished "class war" and attained their dictatorial goals through violence.  But they knew how "peace" and "non-violence" appeal to idealists, so they frequently worked through "innocents" intent on making the world a paradise through good intentions.  Bolsheviks such as Munzenberg thus easily found cooperative mouthpieces for their cause among Quakers and like-minded liberal Christians who made opposition to all war an item of faith.The world changed dramatically when Hitler seized power in the `30s.  Munzenberg fled his native Germany and found refuge in Paris, where he continued his subversive activities, promoting the Soviet agenda.  The Reichstag Fire in Berlin, for example, generated an enormous propaganda war as various factions (both Nazi and Communist) were blamed and political advantages gained in the aftermath.  Sitting in exile in Switzerland, Thomas Mann, the great German novelist, concluded that "'in the final analysis the origin of the fire may itself remain as mysterious and elusive as the intellectual and subjective line dividing National Socialism from communism.  As I see it, the unconscious meaning of the trial lies in its exposure of the closeness, the kinship, yes even the identity of National Socialism and communism.  Its "fruit" will be to push to absurdity the hatred between the two camps and their idiotic determination to annihilate each other, when in fact there is no need for such enmity.  They are kindred though divergent manifestations of one and the same historical situation, the same political world, and are even less separable than are capitalism and Marxism.  Symbolic outbreaks like the Reichstag going up in flames are, we sense, even if we cannot prove it, their joint work'" (pp. 132-133).In England, Munzenberg's apparatus drew wealthy, privileged students into the "Cambridge Conspiracy."  Similar work was done in "every country of interest to the Bolsheviks" (p. 180).  In America, recruiters targeted Ivy League colleges.  Elite, gifted youngsters easily adopt an "adversary" or "counter-cultural" stance regarding the "establishment" that enables them to live so comfortably.  This adversary culture appeals especially to "vigorous intellectual and artistic" youngsters who relish a radicalism that seems to represent "freedom and truth."  They want to "tear aside the bourgeois faade" and stand strong for "the deepest truth" ever known (p. 189).  Thus young men in England such as Guy Burgess and Kim Philby, Americans including Alger Hiss and Michael Straight (whose family owned the New Republic magazine) were recruited for the communist cause.  Young women too played an invaluable role.  Ella Winter served as Felix Frankfurter's secretary at the 1919 Paris Peace Conference, "guided the steps" of her first husband, the famous muckraker, Lincoln Steffens, and ultimately became "one of the most trusted party agents for the West Coast," working with special effectiveness within the Hollywood community.Given their elite standing, these youngsters naturally enjoyed easy entry into the highest realms of government, academe, the media and arts.  And they were ordered to ever support the Soviet cause and undermine Western democracies.  They were, of course, never to admit this.  Willi Munzenberg's widow, Babette Gross (an invaluable source for this book) remembered these agents' approach:  "You do not endorse Stalin.  You do not call yourself a Communist.  You do not declare your love for the regime.  You do not call on people to support the Soviets.  Ever.  Under any circumstances" (p. 249).  Rather:  "You claim to be an independent-minded idealist.  You don't really understand politics, but you think the little guy is getting a lousy break.  You believe in open-mindedness.  You are shocked, frightened by what is going on right here on our own country.  You are frightened by the racism, by the oppression of the workingman" (p. 250).  But in fact, all of these agents took their orders from Moscow!In time Munzenberg, along with virtually all veteran Bolsheviks, fell from Stalin's favor.  He managed to avoid execution through various shrewd maneuvers, but he died (hanged under mysterious circumstances) soon after German forces invaded France in 1940.  Double Lives reads much like a mystery novel, but it deals with some of the most historically significant currents of the 20th century.
5 I'm glad that I bought my own personal copy of this incredible piece of research written from a critical perspective and well-written stylistically at that.  If only all cultural criticism were as incisive as this.
5 Anyone interested in the ideas that have shaped the cultural and political face of the 20th century should read this book, because it sheds an uncompromising light on the activities which went on behind the scenes and identifies the strings which were being pulled to move the actors on the stage.  More often than not the players remained completely unaware of the objectives they helped to promote, and their public was led by the nose, impressed by the cultural celebrities that showed them the way.Stephen Koch's book, now available in its second printing (may there be a third!) highlights the communist undercover propaganda activities in the West that formed Moscow's ideological spearhead in the 1920s and 1930s.  It tells the often tragic stories of the men and women doing the work who thought they were helping to create a better world and often ended up dangling from Stalin's gallows or as non-entities in the endless plains of the Gulag.In the early days of the Bolshevik empire, this propaganda was aimed primarily at the capitalist countries, it was to promote the cause of the forgotten masses, to fight the lost but glorious causes of victims like Sacco and Vanzetti, to eliminate local rivals and to establish goodwill in intellectual circles.  Capitalism was, obviously, the class enemy number one, but intially the campaign lacked a political foe, although Italian fascism, another liberatory ideology that sprang up after the first World War had at least given the enemy a name.From that point of view, Hitler's sudden rise in Germany, spurred by the Depression which struck Germany hardest of all industrialized nations, was a godsend for communist cause.  Now there was a way for Moscow to get a free entry ticket into the ruling circles of the Capitalist world.  Stalin could now sell to the society he was trying to eliminate a glossy magazine describing Hitler's evil deeds, and the pitch was made so much easier because the claims could be verified on the spot - not many people toured the Soviet Union unaccompanied by local "guides".  Anyone, more or less, was able to travel to Berlin or into the German provinces to view the astonishing - and to many people threatening - changes that were taking place there. For most observers it was preferable to get their goosebumps closer to home, in an environment they knew fairly well rather than attempt to satisfy their curiosity by visiting the Red Empire.The person who had forged Moscow's propaganda organization abroad from the very beginning and who had immediately identified the new objectives by producing the "Brown Book" which blamed the Reichstag fire on the Nazi's themselves, was Willi Muenzenberg, a man born in Germany and one of Lenin's personal aides.  Stalin supplied him with whatever means he needed to seduce the intellectual elites, both in Europe and in America, leaving to Willi the choice of the treatment - money, women, publicity - to be aplied in each particular case, be it Bertolt Brecht or Dorothy Parker, Ernest Hemingway or Picasso, Andr? Malraux or the Mann family.Anything that would disparage Hitler and his ideas would be used to advantage; the result was a world-wide political constellation of strange bedfellows, fundamentally opposed each other.  At a critical moment it created a common groundswell which engulfed the center of Europe and pushed the rest of the continent to the edge of an abyss where it was to remain for half a century.  To achieve his ends, Willi and the all-too-willing writers he had bought in one way or another were not afraid to use the Lie on a grand scale.  Paris was their HQ. According to Stephen Koch, Malraux' report of a trip to Berlin he undertook in early 1934 to secure the release of Dimitroff was a fabrication and a fraud (p. 129f).  Koch states that the "Oberfohren memorandum", supposedly a German account of the horrors perpetrated by the SA and published in the Manchester Guardian, was a "pure piece of black propaganda" (p. 157) written by one of M?nzenberg's men.  Countless other such fabrications were circulated and poisoned the soul of western culture and civilization.By 1939, once the Hitler-Stalin pact had allowed the great European War to start, however, Muenzenberg became expendable like so many other communists who fell from grace.  Stalin eliminated the international activities which Moscow had so strongly promoted for more than two decades.  When the German army moved into France, Willi fled south from Paris but never reached a safe haven in Switzerland or Spain.  Many months later, his dead body was found in a forest on his escape route.  Stephen Koch is hesitant as to how Willi died, whether by his own hands or by those of Stalin's men.  He also allows for a Blitzaktion of the Gestapo, but this is unconvincing, because the Wehrmacht had not yet reached that area and even if the Germans had been looking for him and been aware of his whereabouts in those tumultuous days of the collapse of France, they would certainly not have failed to interrogate such an important personality before any act of revenge, whereas the Soviet Union, for both political and tactical reasons, would have been most eager to silence him at the first opportunity.In spite of a few questionable theses, "Double Lives" is a highly recommendable book which can be placed alongside Christopher Andrew's "Mitrokhin Archive" and St?phane Courtois' "Black Book of Communism" without any reservations.
4 For the Wagner enthusiast a must read, if you can get past the verbosity.  Here is no musical analysis; this volume has nothing in common with the numerous leitmotif anthologies that have been written (and recorded) since the composer's day.  Rather it is a view of the music dramas in terms of the psychological and philosophical motivations of the characters.  Serious Wagner scholars may challenge Tanner's conclusions whereby he views all the works as coming out of a common theme - hero and rescue, and the role of art.  Tanner sees the operas from Das Rheingold on as working through the pessimistic lenses of Schopenhauer and Nietzsche.Oddly, there is no mention of "Die Sieger," Wagner's prose sketch of a Hindu/Buddhist drama which closely matches Parsifal. Rather Tanner views Parsifal entirely in Christian terms, ignoring the subtle Buddhist themes. Indeed Wagner became interested in eastern religion, vegetarianism and antivivisectionism.  Tanner makes no mention of this, and gives scant attention to Wagner's devotion to the Greek dramatists.  Since Wagner was a gifted composer it seems unlikely that his operas can be given a just account without fully describing his use of music to fill out the psychological and philosophical aspects of the dramas.Other reviewers have commented on the incomprehensible style in which this book is written.  Did Tanner attempt to imitate Wagner's prose with some choice Anglicanisms thrown in for good measure ("vouchsafe" - really?).  Occasionally sentences seem to sag under their own weight defying common rules of grammar.In much of the Wagner literature, there is often a rather shallow discussion of the dramas in terms of character and message.  Tanner seeks to remedy this, and hopefully others will follow his path as well.
5 Michael Tanner, a British philosopher, who has written about Nitzsche, offers an analysis of Wagner and his works. I do not recommend this book as an introductory biography of Wagner. Rather, Tanner discusses the controversy surrounding Wagner. He notes that Wagner's "genuine anti-Semitism," womanizing, and both left wing and right wing politics would be forgiven if his critics didn't find something in his music to reinforce their hostility towards him. This observation encapsulizes the mystique surrounding Wagner. Just about everything about him, from his personal life, to his philosophy, to his music arouses passion.After analyzing Wagner in general, Tanner does an opera by opera review, concentrating on the meaning and philosophical underpinnings of each. This is no entry level plot summary; rather, Tanner dissects Wagner's works on a deeper level. In reading this book, it would be helpful if the reader was already familiar with Wagner's operas. Tanner covers Wagner's earlier operas which were fairly traditional with melodic area's and duets, and traces his evolution to the great musical dramatist that he became, culminating in the four opera Ring Cycle. If you seek to familiarize yourself with Wagner, this book is probably not for you. If you seek to gain an understanding of Wagner, this book is highly recommended.
5 If only all Wagner criticism/analysis was as sane as this little volume...Simply put, this ranks near the top of the mountain of books on Richard Wagner, and certainly as one the very best books about him released within the last 10 years.Tanner gives some incredible insights, such as seeing Tristan und Isolde as a humanist "religious" work; this insight spurred an entire book (also well worth checking-out), called Death-Devoted Heart, by noted philosopher, Roger Scruton.Perhaps the greatest value that this excellent book possesses is Tanner's rebuttal of the usual criticisms of Wagner. Everybody "knows" the Wagner was an amoral Casanova with proto-Nazi tendencies. Actually, the truth is far more interesting, and while Tanner doesn't whitewash Wagner's repulsive anti-Semitism, he brings it into considerably sharper focus than most Wagner scribes.This is a welcome antidote to the shrill screeds that seem to be churned out constantly by the anti-Wagner lobby, while at the same time a measured and sober look at Wagner's artistic achievements. Highly recommended!
3 While the concepts in this book are edifying, the language in which it is written is, at times, almost incomprehensible. One wonders whether the author first wrote this in German and then translated it into English, and then while translating added parenthetical asides that hadn't occurred to him in the original writing.
3 This book takes a very pro-Wagner attitude. The author is obviously erudite, being dean of Christ College, Cambridge. He knows his stuff. He generally defends Wagner from the criticisms of him, though he doesn't deny that Wagner had flaws.The sentences are needlessly long and complex. This book cries out for a more aggressive editor. The content is good though.This book is comparable to Bryan Magee's &#34;The Tristan Chord: Wagner and Philosophy,&#34; not in content but in approach. Magee also takes a very pro-Wagern, apologetic approach.
5 Michael Tanner has produced a gem of a book. Tanner brings his philosophical skills to bear on the meanings to be found in Wagner's music dramas. While I strongly disagree with Tanner's somewhat Nietzschean philosophical positions I have found engaging with his thought on Wagner most valuable. It is interesting to contrast his atheistic interpretation of Parsifal with Lucy Beckett's defence of the idea that it is a profoundly Christian work. Whoever is right, Tanner writes beautifully and always makes his points in an intellegient and often convincing manner. If you like Wagner's music and want to know more - read it (his book on Nietzsche's good too).
5 this is one of the best if not the best book on urban survival i have ever read this is a must have.
2 Wow. This book is definitely comprehensive. Wiseman's book on Wilderness Survival is great for people to survive in the wilderness on nothing. This book is written for people in Britain that have never seen civilization. I guess I was looking for a type of survival book to cover how to survive in an urban setting in a major disaster. This book covers everything from "don't eat moth balls" to "don't plant willow trees too close to your house or you might weaken your foundation". Most of the stuff is ridiculous common sense.The one area I was interested in was Self-Defense. Unfortunately this was just a lot of British Law stuff.Overall the book is pretty comprehensive but more or less ridiculous. You have to be insane to read it cover to cover. And if you're not, you will be by the time you finish it.
4 Well written and nicely illustrated, this book is a quality work.  Yes,even a serious approach to survival in any environment - except urban and suburban environments.  I am impressed.  Using the suggestions contained could be life saving for people lost in wild environments.  And I think hard core survivalists will treasure this book.
5 If you're expecting a book on how to actually survive in an urban setting after a disaster, forget this book and cross it off your list.  This book is a sundry book on how to tell what kinds of screwdrivers are which (page 121) to cycling safety (page 362)to what kind of dog is which (pages 458-459) I guess this book might be good for a hapless housewife, but even that is doubtful.
5 Urban life is unique in many ways. Life can be easy one day and tough the next. Urban life presents unique problems: stress, pollution, robberies, and so on. Life in the urban environment can also be pleasurable by being socially involved, and enjoying a well-paid job.The book Urban Survival is about how to survive day-by-day in the urban world. Unlike other survival books, Urban Survival is not so much about the "worst" case, but rather common mistakes that can be made and how to prevent such mistakes from happening. Most of the facts are common sense, but they can be easily overlooked in the urban world. The book ranges from common do-it-yourself accidents to the more extreme such as robberies and terrorism and natural disasters. The book makes a good effort to keep your home secure from hazards from both inside and outside. The book isn't about how to make your home a fortified fortress capable of stopping a massive invasion and arming yourself with the latest weaponry (as a matter of fact, the book is against using a gun for defensive reasons since it's very well possible that the weapon can be used against you or hurt someone you don't intend to hurt). No, this book is about how to enjoy your life in the urban world while keeping in mind about safely and playing it safe. Basically, it's better to be safe than sorry.I recommend this book to anyone living in the urban world. I think there are a lot of great tips in this book and some of them well make you say, "Well duh!"
5 GREAT book, like brand new. I HATE that I have to write such a long description, that's Amazons fault not the sellers.
1 This book is a tragic waste of time and is representative of the Cowering European Ethos that will destroy that continent.  It is written primarily for an ignorant British audience consisting of people too simple to understand basic principles of home improvement and too cowardly to defend themselves.  More than half the book consists of keeping yourself safe from your own house falling apart.  The rest of the book tells you stupid things like, "a brick in your house could be considered an offensive (illegal) weapon." I'm sure this is true in the half-wit nanny state Across the Pond, but not so much in what's left of the Land of the Free.  If you want a good picture of the mindset that allowed a bunch of punks to riot in London this Summer while everyone stood politely and helplessly by, take a look at this book. This was the first item I borrowed from the Kindle Lending Library and I am so happy I paid nothing for it because it is a literary vampire that will suck the life force out of anyone misfortunate enough to buy it.Sorry to go on so much about this book, but in 400+ reviews I've done on Amazon, this is the worst thing I've seen so far.  I wish there was a Zero Star option.
5 Once again Mr. Wiseman has put out a thoroughly useful, practical and comprehensive book. It will help everyone who reads it.
1 This was such a let down. I can't understand why anyone would give this book five stars. This really has nothing to do with survival. I read the description and table of contents before buying, which lead me to believe that this book would offer practical advice for living in the city when things get dangerous. It does not. This is only a book for a person without common sense advising how to live within a normal day without killing or maiming yourself with your own stupidity. The best information was the section on first aid. However, if you ever took a babysitting course or did any sort of boy scouts or girl scouts, you already know more than what is in this book.
3 I bought this book expecting it to be about SHTF type urban survival. I was wrong. This book is basically a guide to living in your house. It might not be that bad, except most of it is written for Brits, so it is irrelevant at times. Still, it has some useful knowledge and would be handy to have around.
5 This book is great as a condensed version of the original.  It is great for taking along on hikes or other trips where you don't have the space or weight available for larger guides.  The print is small if that bothers you, but it is necessarily so.  This is a great starter gift for kids who want to explore the outdoors safely, and a great guide to leave in your car or backpack, just in case of a Bug Out situation.
5 If you go out on a regular basis, or feel like macGyber-JasonBourne-Survivor, you should get this handbook. Very complete, covers almost every topic with useful and easy tips and dos.
5 There is a lot of overlap with the John Lofty Wiseman's other survival manual, but that's because you need to know a lot of the same things in a crisis situation whether you're in an urban or wilderness situation. This survival book adds a bunch of things that the other book doesn't have--how to deal with terrorist acts like a hijacking, natural disasters like a tsunami, dangerous dogs, and all kinds of other stuff. This is the kind of reference that you might look through just for fun to learn a few things, but it's all an essential home reference that you'll be damn glad you have close at hand if all hell breaks loose or even if there's just one of those minor, everyday disasters.
5 SAS Urban Survival HandbookThe envelpope was torn open. Hopefully nothing was removed from envelope. I bet this paperback weights about 2 lbs, or pretty close. Has everything you could need from pictures on identifing different poisonous plants, to pictures of the Fireman's lift. Then goes into details about restricted items for sea travel, also prohibited items also.  What is the difference? I guess I better read that.LOL  Even has area about dangerous dogs, hijacking, tsunami, and influenza. Easy to follow instructions, easy to understand illistrations. Like I said. It has everything you need in this book. I will keep it with my "Just in Case supplies" commonly known as survival supplies.
4 Note - This is a "pocket size" version of the original 1996 edition, which was printed in a double column format. While containing half the number of pages, the original edition was bulkier and less amenable to be carried around.Survival in the context of both editions refers to the survival from everyday hazards - falls, house fires, floods, burglaries, muggings and alike. It is not oriented to urban survivalists. The book is much more of an everyday safety manual; with advise on fire safety, electrical safety, safety using ladders and hand tools, general first aid, and common poisons that exist around the house. There are sections on home security and a little about self-defense (with drawings showing things like defending against a choking attack and the proper way to punch without damaging your hand). I found the sections on poisonous plants, fungi, insects and snakes to be very useful, especially the one on plants as children often eat them and it is important to realize that many are highly poisonous.The book is divided into twelve sections:1. Essentials (covering general things like what should be in an urban survival kit and having the proper mindset and everyday things like pollution...)2. Safety First - Home safety (fire, CO, electrical, water, chemicals...)3. DIY/craft hazards (tool safety, including protective clothing...)4. Poisons (Chemicals, safe storage...)5. Fire (fire facts, escape techniques...)6. Security (Home security, workplace security, computer security...)7. Work & Play (playgrounds, barbecues, sports safety...)8. Transit (driving techniques, air travel, cycling ...)9. Self Defense (the law, being arrested, techniques, animal attacks...)10. Terrorism (threats, targets, evacuation...)11. Disasters (natural disasters including earthquakes, tsunami, hurricane, tornado, flood, lighting and drought, emergency supplies...)12. Health (childhood diseases, parasites, life saving techniques...)Also note that this is a UK book and it uses British terms. For instance, what is called the boot of a car in the UK is the trunk in the US. The electrical plugs are also those of the UK and the voltage is 220 rather than 110 in the US. However, these differences are minor and I do not feel limit the use of the book for an American audience. I think that the least useful section for a US reader is the four pages devoted to the legal aspects of self-defense, as this applies to the laws of the UK. While generally applicable to the US the specifics are different and differ somewhat from US state to state.All in all I liked this book, but much of the information is just common sense and well known by almost everyone. However, there is so much information in the book that most people should find some interesting new material. I found the book to be useful for everyday hazards and to be a good reference source. However, covering the breath of topics that it does, it does not go very deeply into any one of them. Furthermore, there is no bibliography, there are no references to sources where additional information can be gathered and the book lacks an index. This, and the general common sense nature of much of the material made this a four-star, rather than a five-star, book for me. Those looking for more detailed information of any of the topics covered in the book may be disappointed and would therefore rate it lower.
5 I enjoyed the book even though I do not live in a city I always have it with me when I go. Keep it in your car. You never know I when you might need it.
3 OK book. Doesn't have a ton of useful info I though. It had trouble holding my attention. But the SAS survival Guide is awesome.
4 This book gives one a good over all view of Myanmar without being just a travel log. The story is interesting and the adventures the young couple experience are credible.
2 The author went to Burma already with his mind made up; things were bad and he was going to see more bad things and talk to people with bad experiences, and have bad experiences himself, and have a thoroughly miserable time the whole time he was there. And he managed to do just that. In no way at all was his writing "beautiful" or "poetic." But he managed to miss the beautiful and poetic side of the amazing Burmese people in the country he visited. Not a good introduction to this much-misunderstood country or the resilient people who live there.
5 I was captivated by the book from the first story to the end.  Ni Ni's short life was a snapshot of the helplessness, courage and tragedy of the Burmese people under the rule of a brutal, corrupt and repressive regime.  The search of an old basket weaved the stories and observations very nicely together.  It was quietly powerful, a non-provocative, dignified and compassionate account of Burma.  Throughout the book, I felt anger, sadness, admiration and humbleness.  I was charmed by the generosity, friendliness, sincerity, warmth, hospitality, honesty, dignity and courage of the people.  I wish the tourists and merchants could show more consideration and respect to Burmese people, culture, resources, environment and heritage.  We would be no better than the foreigner who used Ni Ni and discarded her after use, who took without caring what he took away.  The nation deserves better and this book helps us to understand its plight and hope.
3 This book is indisputably well written.  But it taught me nothing about Burma I didn't already know and it was rather dull in much of the book.  The author uses small stories about different characters to tell the story of Burma's recent history and repressive practices, but the stories just aren't that interesting in many cases.  Captivating this book is not.  I didn't find it to be travel literature or politically informative, and as fiction it was concise but lackluster.Paul
5 This book taught me more than I could dream it would. The writing, especially the character development, is on power with Hemingway. It is much more than a travel book, and it is a must read for anyone who hopes to understand today's Burma. Rory MacLean deserves a Nobel Prize for Literature this tom.
4 If 'The History of Celtic Britain and Ireland' is at all of interest to you, then I highly recommend this book. The author has got a real feel for the subject. Sometimes you are along with him on a journey into areas of Celtic history where he travels to get the personal feel of the place. It is not a dry read at all, quite the opposite -- real humor, grief, other emotions are communicated -- a magical experience at times. Sometimes the thread of the story takes the reader from ancient times, now the 18th century, now again in pre-history. I do not mind that, actually, but some might not get why the author finds that kind of narration necessary. I read just before this book, "Arthur and the Lost Kingdoms", and I did not expect as much repetition from that book in "The Sea Kingdoms" as I found; it is not entire chapters used over, but simply some illustrations, never much more that a paragraph of material, and always reworded a little. To summarize, I find this to be an excellent history, as its title promises, with some ideosyncrasies that are not a big hurdle for an interested reader.
5 My third book by this author. A happy and sad book, about English genocide against the Celtic peoples, and the beautiful differences and commonalities amongst the Celtic nations, who were made foreigners by the sais in their own countries. Remarkable book. If you have a drop of Celtic blood in you, this must be read.
4 This is an excellent survey history of Celtic Britain, focusing as the author said on the people who already lived there when the Romans arrived. It is not the standard narrative structure, rather a series of themed narratives based on specific aspects of the Welsh, Scots, and Irish. (With some fun side trips to Cornwall and Man.) There are some fun facts and interesting Celtic spin put on the events I learned about in school from the Anglosphere POV. It's a good chatty history that should appeal to Celtic-background readers on both sides of the Atlantic, who are not ready for weighty scholarly research.My only complaint is that I have read two other books Mr. Moffat published at a later date (Border Reivers, The Faded Map), and he cribbed sections from this one into those to fill them, instead of producing new material. So some of the information and anecdotes here were redundant, although they fitted in well enough here. For a first-time reader for Mr Moffat's work I reccommend starting with this one, then moving on to the more regionally specific works.
5 I found this to be a completely enjoyable survey of history from the Celtic perspective. I suppose some might call it revisionist, but then it is demonstrated in the book that it is the history written by the conquerors that is truly revisionist. Do not get the impression that this is an over glorification of some mytho-historic Celtic past- for the author shows little tolerance for the fuzzy-minded romantic inventions of the revived Druid orders, Sir Walter Scott, and the New Agers. This is an accurate assessment of the actual Celtic past and it is quite fascinating enough.The book starts with the "dream time" back before the Romans. Around 1000 B.C. the Celts burst out of their homeland north of the Alps. Indeed it is shown how the Celtic tribes ranged from the British Isles to the Iberian Peninsula to southern Poland to central Turkey- usually on horseback. This is reflected in place names even to the current day  (the names of the rivers Danube, Rhine, and Rhone are all of Celtic origin.) Even Gallipoli means "city of the Celts." The Celts were the first masters of Europe- they even sacked Rome in 390 B.C. In fact, considering that the heyday of Celtic culture was so long ago it is remarkable that their culture and identity has survived at all into modern times.However, the central focus of the book is the British Isles. The author actually walked, drove, and sailed the region to get a feel for what survives of a distinct Celtic heritage (and especially the Gaelic language.) This was necessary since standard Anglo-Saxon histories tend to distort, minimize, or ignore the fact that Celts once ruled the British Isles. The conqueror's perspective was land based. The Celtic perspective was from the sea. In fact, one quickly sees that far from being pushed to isolated remote strongholds, the native Britons were actually quite effectively linked by the sea (from the Lords of the Isles in the Hebrides, to the Isle of Man, to Wales, to Cornwall, to Ireland- all were so interconnected as to be positively cosmopolitan in comparison to the inland kingdoms of the Saxons. It even seems that it was Irish or Celto-Viking voyagers that discovered and first colonized Iceland- and possibly first discovered the New World.There is just so much fascinating information from the Scots settlement of Scotland from Ireland, to how the Irish saved Christianity and civilization in Western Europe during the Dark Ages, to the various brutally crushed Celtic uprisings through history, to present day remnants and the best place to experience them for yourself. This is a marvelous overview of history and I know if I ever make it across the sea I will have this book in my back pocket.
5 Alistair Moffat has produced in this work one of the most intriguing and informative history books I have read in some time, covering the Celtic peoples, history, and traditions of Scotland, Wales, Ireland, Cornwall, and the Isle of Man (and to a much lesser extent Brittany in northern France) as well as of England itself. Too often the history of the British Isles is the history of the English, and in this book he seeks to show an entire element of British history now largely forgotten.Very importantly Moffat defines just what the term Celtic means. Celts are not defined by their race or by their place of birth; rather the Celts of Britain are a speech community. At one time an older version of Welsh was spoken all over the island of Britain and Irish Gaelic was the common tongue of Ireland; they were both cousin languages, sharing syntax and vocabulary, though later becoming mutually unintelligible. The very language of the Celts has often been at the core of their identity from early times, as the Celts have long believed that if their language fell from use that their nation - whether Welsh, Irish, or other - would from fade from history. The opponents of the Celts understood this and for centuries have attacked their language, seeking to eliminate its use from government, the courts, churches and schools, full well realizing that to fully dominate the Celts they had to be rid of their unifying and defining language. As the author summarizes; the war for Britain "was as much a war of words as of blood and steel."Celts were also linked by the sea, hence the title of this book. For centuries the sea was a much better highway than land, and once the ocean linked a Celtic community that stretched to mainland Europe, including modern Portugal, Spain, and France. Indeed the sea was often the focus of much more effort than land, with castles once constructed more to guard stretches of sea rather than areas of land, and the powerful Lord of the Isles starting in the mid-14th century ruling his Sea Kingdom from a movable court at sea, with the islands of Islay and Tiree serving as an administrative center and granary respectively.Very often we see in this book that the story of the Celtic peoples is the story for the war for Britain. The Romans, the Anglo-Saxons, the Normans, the English, and the British won that war he writes, a victory more or less complete by the end of the18th century. This is a history written by the victors; too often the side of the losers was not told, or improperly told, aided by the fact that the Celts were largely a non-literate (though not illiterate) culture, greatly valuing oral tradition but for the most part not embracers of the written word. Indeed Moffat spends much time analyzing the English and modern view that only written sources should be valued and oral sources are automatically suspect, a view that has cost the world a vast store of history, culture, and literature.The Celtic lands were by no means completely non-literate; in a striking paradox the Irish monks were noted producers of written material, preserving much ancient Greek and Roman knowledge and literature that might have otherwise been lost. Indeed the saga of the Celtic and particularly Irish monks fills several fascinating chapters; members of this group may have even visited North America prior to Columbus.Today the Celtic speech community is largely extinct. Cornish and Manx possess no native speakers, the ancient words only on the lips of enthusiasts. Scots Gaelic will likely become extinct within a generation and Irish is in decline as well; only Welsh shows any real strength. Efforts are being made to preserve the Celtic languages, not out of any "weird, woolly, quaint, or daft" dream of supplanting English, but merely to seek to preserve ancient traditions and knowledge of Celtic history and culture. Language preservation is all the more important when one realizes that Celtic history often lacks obvious ruins, with little to compare to say the Valley of the Kings or the Parthenon.Perhaps even more damaging Moffat writes is that Celtic history is in serious dangerous of being reduced to quaint local color and comfortable entertainment, something more suited to the tourist trade and Hollywood than real history, and unfortunately much Celtic history that is known to the public is a fairly recent invention. The Highland Clearances of the 19th century saw the removal of thousands from the Scottish Highlands, leading to the myth - much embraced by many from Victorian painters to modern filmmakers - of the lonely, windswept, majestic wilderness that was an entirely artificial creation. The kilt most well known today is more properly called the feileadh beag or small kilt and is actually the creation of an 18th century English factory owner to aid employees in his ironworks; even the word kilt is from the Danish kilte, which means "to tuck up." Even the tradition of identifying certain tartan patterns (or setts) with certain clan names dates largely back to a book published in 1842 that was largely made-up. The much-loved Welsh tradition of the Gorsedd, a three-day convention of bards and druids, was mostly made up by Edward Williams (who later called himself Iolo Morgannwg), a skilled 18th century Welsh scholar who created much of what is popularly thought of about bards and particularly the Druids (though interweaving so much actual history, rituals, and literature that it has taken entire academic careers to distinguish fact from his fancy). Even when it became known that his (and that of another proponent of druidism, William Price) culture never really existed as such, many still embraced their efforts as part of a national Welsh revival and something decidedly un-English.A fascinating book, covering many aspects of the Celts; from the bold Border Reivers to the real Rob Roy to Irish nationalism to Cornish wrestling.
5 Written from an American's perspective this book was one of the most shocking exposes of the dreadful, Soviet communist system that killed millions of its own people from its inception in 1917. Dolgun shares from his heart and is brutally honest about everything that he did and that was done to him. I couldn't put this book down, and though it is long with small print, I will read it again and again to remind myself of the power of the human spirit combined with God's mercy can sustain a man in the most treacherous circumstances. This story is not for the faint of heart...it will break your heart but also encourage you to never give up, no matter how bleak life may be. AWESOME! AWESOME! AWESOME!
5 Dolgun's many years in the Soviet Gulag makes his story very unique.  This book will change your life and your view of modern history!  An absolutely shocking and disheartening look into life in the Soviet Union before perestroika.This memoir and Varlam Shalamov's book &quot;Kolyma Tales&quot; are the best books I have ever read about the Gulag!
5 Dolgun's tale has countless reviews giving it 5 stars and I concur. There is no need for me to give you a summary description. What I can add is that I have read countless gulag tales and this is one of the best. It is filled with lessons on survival. Dolgun was not a hero, but he clearly was a survivor. My other gulag readings confirm that everything he endured rings true. The tale is both disturbing and enlightening. An American citizen-employee of the American Embassy is kidnapped by the KGB, subjected to brutal torture, sentenced to 25 years in the gulags and the US does virtually nothing to free him. Furthermore, after he is freed from the gulags, high US officials discouraged efforts by Dolgun's sister to help him flee to the USA. The lesson to be learned here is that the USSR  was the evil doer but incompetence and weakness on the part of US bureaucrats enabled that evil.
5 During a walk one day in Moscow, NYC-born twenty-two-year old employee of the American Embassy in Moscow, Alexander Dolgun, was kidnapped and taken to "the Lubyanka prison, headquarters of the MGB." Initially, thinking what a great tale he'd have to tell (having seen the inside of such a famous place), knowing he hadn't committed a crime, he was unafraid, maybe even a little bit...excited. But it wasn't long before he was imprisoned, interrogated, tortured, and sentenced under (p 19) "Article 58, sections 6, 8, 10, etc. of the Soviet Criminal Code...espionage, political terrorism, anti-Soviet propaganda, etc., etc." to imprisonment in a forced labor camp. By the time of the "thaw," when many prisoners were released including Dolgun, he had spent eight year of his life in forced labor camps. Twenty-three long years passed from the day of his kidnapping until he was able to again set foot on American soil. After his release from prison, he met Solzhenitsyn, who interviewed him while writing The Gulag Archipelago. He was especially interested in Dolgun because (p 348) "he had never...met a sane survivor of Sukhanovka." Like Solzhenitsyn, Dolgun had an amazing memory and was able to recall minute details of much of his imprisonment. Forced to stay up for days at a time with little or no sleep during his interrogation sessions, he was beaten, sent to solitary confinement, and tortured for not signing a document stating that he had committed illegal acts. He proudly writes of his ability to survive without signing anything incriminating anyone else (although some of his acquaintances did succumbed to the pressure). When he finally was released, he found out that his mother, also picked up, tortured, and imprisoned, went mad due to her experience. Not long after their reunion, she was sent to a psychiatric hospital with the diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia. She remained there for the rest of her life. There were very few Americans in the GULAG. At times, he was able to use that fact to his advantage, although others were wary of him, believing he must have been a spy.He recounts the experience of being transported to and between prisons, interactions and friendships with other prisoners, the day to day drudgery of trying to stay alive under horrendous conditions which involved trying to meet ridiculously high work quotas for extremely strenuous jobs while in a constant state of starvation and often, sickness. Fortunately, he was able to work in the prison hospital at times as a feldsher (even performing minor surgery). He also did his share of hard labor, but was ingenious enough to get extra food by secretly doing sideline work like by making metal spoons. Dolgun's story is one of many wonderfully tragic memoirs about an often-overlooked issue: Stalin's forced labor camps. Also good: Journey into the Whirlwind by Eugenia Semyonovna Ginzburg, Man is Wolf to Man by Janusz Bardach, One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (partially based on the experiences of Dolgun's friend, George Tenno) and The Gulag Archipelago by Alexander Solzhenitsyn, and, probably my favorite, Kolyma Tales by Varlam Shalomov.
5 I enjoy the genre of adventure stories with a few exceptions.  Most mountain-climbing books leave me numbly wondering why people are so stupid. ...That said, I really enjoy these Man vs. World accounts.  This book is the tale of an American kidnapped by the Soviets and held in Russia for years.  His tale of the tortures he and his fellow prisoners endure will make you question how a man can survive so much with his sanity intact.Dolgun does a wonderful job portraying prison life and despair and how prisoners cope with horrific limitations.  His accounts of the people and places he experienced in Russia are as penetrating as a Dostoyevsky or Dickens.  If you're interested in the Gulag, this is a much more accessible work than any of those by Sozhenitsyn with the exception of "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich".  That account is fictional; this account is not.I note that you can buy a good used copy for a buck here on Amazon.  Spend that buck and be amazed that this book didn't make anyone's top 5 list of adventure stories.
5 How ironic that such a fascinating and important book is out of print and number 2.8 million on the Amazon best seller list. There have been many books on the Soviet Gulag, but to my knowledge this is the only one about the experiences of an American who actually was imprisoned in the Gulag. The Soviet approach to oppressing people was far more diabolically sophisticated than that of the Nazis which was crude in comparison and who mainly relied on extermination camps, mass killings, and torture usually for the purpose of extracting information.  While the Nazis were torturing their enemies, the Soviets tortured pretty much anyone who fell into their hands whether friend or foe. They used violence too, but their system also relied on psychological violence.It was not unusual for a prisoner who ended up in the Gulag to run across the very person who had interrogated them when they were arrested and who was now a prisoner too.  Many of the prisoners were Red Army officers who had distinguished themselves in battle, but now Stalin was concerned they had seen too much of how other countries lived.When Dolgun was first picked up on the streets of Moscow, he was taken to the notorious Lubianka prison.  One of his captors opened a small door to a tiny chamber smaller than a phone booth and impossible to stand up in and shoved Dolgun inside without a word of how long he might remain there. Prisoners were issued prison clothes that included hugely oversized trousers with no belt.  It was not possible to walk without one hand holding up the trousers.  The Soviets rightly believed this would deter escapes.  This book is filled with this kind of detail.Not only is this book an up-close look at Stalinism at its worst, but it's a magnificent story of survival on the part of Dolgun. Many of the inmates of the Gulag were not there for politics but for being members of the substantial Soviet criminal underworld. Dolgun is fortunate to be befriended by this group and gives us a fascinating picture of criminal society within the Gulag.There is so much more to this book, but I'll leave that for the reader to discover.  You don't need knowledge of history, politics, or the Soviet Union to enjoy this book.  It's a window into the extreme paranoia of the USSR -- a paranoia that flowed directly from the Emperor of paranoia, Joseph Stalin.
4 The book hits you like a slap to the face.  Right from page 1.  Some of the ordeals Alexander Dolgun goes through are mind boggling.Beyond the story of a man who endures everything, I also enjoyed the narrative on the internal problems of the Soviet communist system.  Whereas most of my knowledge of the USSR is based on the American Media, this book put a face and a heart around cold war russians.The book began to drag near then end, but overall an amazing book.  I would recommend this book to anyone interested in Survival, simple torture, and Cold-War Russia.
5 I chose to read this book after reading the written review by Stuart Paine.  I thought that any book that made a man cry must be extraordinary, and I was right.  The things we were taught in college about Russian History pales in comparison to the writings of Mr. Dolgun.  I was appalled at the conditions in the Gulag that he wrote of, and amazed at the ways in which the prisoners managed to maintain their sanity and faith. This is a must read for any thinking person.
5 I read this book as a classroom assignment in my senior year of high school in 1979 and it left a profound impression on me. I think it should be required reading for teens. After reading this book I have NEVER taken freedom for granted.
4 The book looks more like a proof of a concept (writing a novel without a single E) than anything else. Georges Perec was also fond of creating rebuses and crossword puzzles, and this book looks like one of those. It gives no more emotional pleasure than solving crossword in the morning newspaper, although one can be proud if the crossword was difficult. Well, this one probably was, but there is nothing more than a coldy executed technique of a brilliant author. One crucial ingredient - heart - appears to be missing, not just a certain vowel. The book can be admired, but liked? Probably, not...
5 Six plus six plus four months ago, I bought a book: A Void.  Originally, an author (G. P*r*c) first thought of A Void (or La Disparition) in 1967.  In 1994, it was brought out from a country at a north Atlantic location in which Franais is usually a normal way of articulating in writing and out loud and into a form of communication which most inhabitants of this country (US of A) know.  This translator was a Mr.  Adair.  This book is a highly fantastic book.  A linguistic madman who thought it up was choosing to put A Void on papyrus without a symbol in a form of communication, this missing fifth symbol.  This author, or madman, was brilliant and did it without any faults, as did translator Adair.  Why? I don't know.  Author was crazy as a fox is crazy.In this book, this Void, I found no lack of things for stimulation of my mind.  In fact, Void is not a void at all.  Pagination # 104:`Twas upon a midnight tristful, I sat poring, wan and wistfulThrough many a quant and curious listful of my consorts slain.&quot;Aha!&quot; you shout out (not vocalizing too loudly, I wish), &quot;that's a translation of an 18-stanza rhyming story by--&quot;But I cannot put to papyrus what you shout.  I can, though, say that A Void lists author of rhyming as &quot;Arthur Gordon Pym,&quot; thus naming a man from a work that this actual author did not finish.  (Two or 3 of a group would say this man was too full of phobia at his own construction, &agrave; la an individual of physics, biology, and so on, in Mary's horror story about a monstrous guy known as Frank  in a common-drinking-glass  [I ask your pardon for this bad pun].) That rhyming is uno of many mind-stimulating &quot;yummy things&quot; you'll find in this book, which riffs on such works as Moby Dick, Milton's &quot;Utopia&quot; Lost, &quot;Bill Bard's&quot; Danish King Jr.,  and many classic puzzling/frightful works.Only complaint: whodunit halts, stops at finish: author can't hold on to organizing thoughts to make whodunit work.In conclusion: look at this book.
5 Whatever happened to the French novel?  There was the immediate postwar era, when once could read Camus, Sartre's post-"Nausea" novels, the rise of Jean Genet.  But in the fifties and sixties, the "nouveau roman" developed, which in the hands of Robbe-Gillet, Sarraute and Butor, sought to deconstruct the possibilities of fictions, and which in the hands of such writers as Robbe-Gillet, Sarraute, and Butor.  The result was very complex and subtle and elaborate, with much on the ontological significance of the novel.  But it was not the sort of fiction that people liked to read, and it left most English speaking critics very cold.  The late Georges Perec was connected to this sort of school, and at least one intelligent English critic has thought that Perec wrote some of the most boring novels of the twentieth century.  This book, however, is manifestly not one of them.  Indeed it's a remarkable hoot, at times quite funny, and throughout consistently ingenious and clever.  What Perec has written is a lipogram, a book which follows a special grammatical rule.  In this case there are no "e"s in the entire work.  Writing such a book is incredibly difficult, and translating it into another language would appear to be impossible.  Fortunately this is not the case, as Gilbert Adair has demonstrably shown.  There has been at least one lipogram in English that includes no e, and the unimaginative writer, when he wished to have his characters talk, only used "said."  Adair, rather helpfully, prefers to use the present tense.  Certain words in French, such as "juif", "mort" and "Amour" have to be replaced with unusual English equivalents.The result is an incredibly strange novel.  At times the sentences are full of proper nouns that exist for no purpose than their e-less nature.  At other times the necessary twists and turns are odd and unusual, and the result feels like you are reading a book of palindromes.  (Another Perec specialty, and he wrote the longest ever, 5,000 words long).  But more often there are brilliant flights of baroque fancy, such as the dinner Augustus Clifford prepares for his unfortunate guests on p. 115.  The plot starts with France in chaos, and an insomniac critic Anton Vowl, who goes missing.  His friends find strange notes and letters.  They find his lipogramatic versions of Edgar Allen Poe's "The Raven," Shelley's "Ozymandias," and Vowl's version of the most famous soliliquoy in English ("Living or not Living:  that is what I ask).  But gradually a plot begins to develop, in a way worthy of "A Manuscript found in Saragossa."Can Vowl's friends find out who or what is behind the strange deaths and disappearances?  Who stabbed an Arab solicitor who smoked a cigar in a zoo, and then absconded with his corpse?  What is the secret of the strange ruby-like zahir that brings death to those who mention it?  What secret does a carp named Jonah carry within himself?  Why does Clifford's son, Douglas Haig, die a horrible death while dressed as the murdered father in Mozart's "Don Giovanni?"  Why is one of the chapters missing?  There is an especially vicious Albanian brigand who who we learn, long after his death, has been particularly humiliated, along with the lust of his life.  But there are important moral lessons as well.  The novel agrees with Jefferson and Danton that primogeniture is a really, really bad idea.  Also, there are certain perversions that one should never undertake, especially when your brother is trying to dynamite you.  And why is the French title of the work the same as the certificates the Vichy regime gave to those inquiring about those deported to Auchwitz, one of those being Perec's mother?  There are strange secret baths, the most incredible revelations, the oddest connections between the characters are revealed, and wealthy Ottomans who are turned into peanut butter sundaes.  There is deliberate anachronism and the solution is not entirely coherent.  But be aware that the villian is not among the characters who in the course of the novel attempt or succeed at murder and manslaughter.  As a novel, "A Void" is not at the height of Calvino and Garcia Marquez, who provide love, compassion and hope to their magical games.  But this is a better novel than "Pale Fire" and comparable to Borges and Pavic, a Faberge Egg novel in which something nasty ticks.
5 For thos allrgic to th vowl, " ", this is a grat rad!!  Th chaptr paraphrasing Dgar Alln Po's "Th Ravn", is worth th pric of th ntir book, by itslf.Don't worry, just taking away that non-consonant is NOT how it works...  This book is a joy for individuals that thrill to word-play.
1 The gimmick of this book and its translation is that it doesn't use the letter 'e' anywhere in the story. To make up for that, the writer uses 3 or 4 words to describe what a single word containing the letter 'e' would have described succinctly and more adequately. So the book is a jumbled mass of text that is difficult to read and even more difficult to care about the story or the characters. I got through 30 pages before I stopped reading. It was hard to go from reading Atonement by Ian McEwan to this frivolous mess of a book. Worst part was it took 2 weeks to arrive from an overseas book seller, and the wait was not worth it. I almost gave this book as a Christmas present... got lucky I decided against it even before trying to read it.
5 In little less then 24 hours, the 16th-century young Lady Dacre arrives at the castle she has inherited on the Scots/English border, compels a wandering stranger to defend her tenants against roving brigands, falls for him (almost) and watches him leave.Although this sounds like a bodice-ripper romance, it's rather the opposite - a fierce, violent, even macho story of the terribly violent world of the &quot;Border Counties&quot; of the 16th century, told in an authentic dialect by Father Luis, a retainer of the Dacre family.McDonald-Fraser's novella (barely 150 pages) is remarkable for its economy; within a few paragraphs we have the main characters compellingly described and developed; within a few pages Waitabout (the stranger who defends her) has dashed off to save the village, within a chapter or two a terrible violent battle has erupted.  The pace is breathtaking but not at the expense of fully realized characters.I will say, though, that the archaic Scottish dialect is not easy going at first; stick with it though, if you get in 10 pages you will not be able to put it down!
3 This is a fine work of historical research and theological analysis that also happens to be a great love story too.  It's the love story that keeps the reader slogging through the mud of the former two ---quite an accomplishment.  But when the actual historical fragments on which the book were based were exhausted, the book ended too, bang. What the Hell happened to the lovers?
5 Dynamite read. Not  long enough. I wanted more of these amazing characters and more story. None the less, if the reiver is something that interests you as it does me, then read Fraser here, and enjoy.
4 I enjoyed the story very much, however I have been reading a lot about the Borders and Reivers and am interested in the period.  My Father found the action slow in coming and ended up setting it aside in favor of a good western.  I have to agree that the action was a bit sparse, but I enjoyed the fleshing out of the characters and the weaving of the backdrop.  I look forward to reading more of his writing.
5 Being a George MacDonald Fraser fan, I have exhausted his works and have not found his equal for historically based hijinks. Follow Candlemass Road with the really wild The Reavers and you will be well versed in the times and temperament of the Borders - but be prepared to laugh heartedly with the Reavers.
5 I have read a lot of novels in my life.  This is one of the best.  It is a different type of book but it details a simple story which illustrates human nature.  All of the readers who asked that Fraser finish his story which resulted in a slapstick followup (which I pretend does not exist) are just unwilling to accept a realistic ending to what is a near perfect story.  I have a copy of the first edition in hardcover and it is not a book that I will lend.I like the Flashman novels and Quartered Safe Out Here is excellent but I think this book is Fraser's masterpiece. If you like historical fiction then this is a must read.
5 George MacDonald Fraser is the best of the Border historians.  It as if he had ridden with the Reivers in their heyday.  His fiction is every bit as compelling.  I have a library copy of this book which had been given to me as a gift because of the prominence of the Border Reivers in my own historical fiction.  I wanted a clean copy for my special library,(without tobacco stains and who knows what)  and this is it.
5 Well you should read this.  I'm curious how it never got much of a play in the USA, but then his brilliant memoir of WW II, &#34;Quartered Safe Out Here,&#34; was missed too.  Like some other positive reviewers I would have liked a different ending, but this isn't &#34;Captain Blood.&#34;  Read it and wonder. It's quite remarkable.
5 There really is no feeling like that of picking up an as-yet-unread novel by George MacDonald Fraser.  It is one of delicious certainty:  you will be entertained, you will be informed, and you will be charmed.  Unfortunately I can only expect to have this experience a couple of more times in my life, as there just isn't that much left of his that I haven't read anymore.  Alas, alas, alas.The locale in this one is the wild English/Scottish borderlands in 1598.  Although England was mostly settled and Scotland was mostly settled, the midlands--under the jurisdiction of neither--were not, and bands of thieves and brigands--reivers--roamed about, terrorizing the countryside.For characters there is Luis Guevara, the teller of the tale and the meek priest of the Dacre estate, located in the middle of these badlands;  there is Lord Ralph Dacre, the white-haired, crimson-clad Red Bull, Lord of the Estate, and scourge of the thieves;  there is Lady Margaret Dacre, sharp-witted, fire-breathing, and newly come to the estate after the untimely death of her father;  and there is finally Archie Noble Waitabout, a broken man, thief, and he who proved to be the Great Lady's protector.For plot there is the death of the Red Bull, "shot  . . . through with calivers, nine balls in his body, and he let die by the roadside."  Lady Margaret, bred in courtly London, comes to the estate and on the date of her arrival finds that the thieves are already attempting to reinstitute their filthy blackmail on her timid villagers.  Those charged with helping her find excuses not to, for various reasons, but primarily because of their unstated fear of the dreaded Nixon clan.  She turns to the imprisoned Waitabout, who in exchange for his life, agrees to go to the village and defend it.For language, there is the incomparable GMF, this time using the lingo of an educated Scot of the 16th Century, duplicating the feat of his bravura linguistic performance in Black Ajax.  And there is his descriptive power, here, the narrator's first view of the village:  "A sorry pack they were, the men-folk stout enough but dirty and ill-clad, the women as slatternly as I ever saw, and if there were three pairs of shoon among them it was enough."And the description of the battle itself, enough to make your blood run cold:  "There was a great commotion about the bearded Nixon, him that was the leader and called Ill Will, and they tugged him all ways, some saying he should hang and others for having at him with their blades . . . they dragged him to the great dunghill that lay beside the cattle pen, and there heaved him up, and drave him down head foremost into the filth, and held him there."There you have it, another great GMF novel, this one without the romantic playfulness of the Flashman novels, but still with the driving narrative, expert use of the language, and superb research.  You cannot go wrong with this author.  He has easily reached the stature of his heroes:  Stevenson, Doyle, Sabatini, and Dumas.  Indeed, he may stand above them.
4 Don't expect an amusing romp &agrave; la "Flashman" with this compelling novella. Told by an elderly Catholic priest many years after the event, it's a dark and bitter tale about the triumph of pride and ruthless expediency over honour and moral precepts.Only one law applies in the Anglo-Scottish borderlands of the C16th, the "Law of the Marches", meaning "might is right". Raids and random, brutal violence are a way of life, and a constant sense of fear and trepidation prevails among both Scottish and English settlers.Sir Ralph "Red Bull" Dacre, iron-fisted ruler of the estate of Askerton in Cumberland for many years, has been ambushed and killed.His heiress, the young Lady Margaret, arrives to find her father's retainers dispersed and her inheritance under imminent threat from Scottish reivers. Beautiful but devious, arrogant and not used to having her will thwarted, Margaret is a true daughter of the Border, and prepared to use any means to hold her lands.The means are at hand in the person of the versatile rogue Archie Noble, currently being held  prisoner in her cellars on a charge of thievery. She offers him a choice: a speedy hanging from a nearby chestnut tree, or to lead a "forlorn hope" counter-attack upon the expected invaders, in which case she will stand surety against the consequences.Not surprisingly he takes the latter option and succeeds beyond expectation, but then the lady makes a further offer---The abrupt ending mirrors the reader's gasp of stunned disbelief at a final shocking betrayal of trust, and adds impact to a powerful and memorable little story.
4 Towards the end of his life George McDonald Fraser wrote this memoir of his experiences as a very young man fighting in the last battles of the Burma campaign. He acknowledges the unreliablity of his memory - the result not of age but of being a young private (later a lance corporal) in the chaos of war. His memory of contacts with the enemy in battle is very clear, he writes, but he needed to refer to regimental histories in order to make sense of these memories in the broader narrative of the campaign - something to which he would never have been privy at the time.The result is a remarkable book - funny, exciting and moving by turns as he recounts his life in Nine Section, a Scot in the midst of Cumbrians. He remained to the end of his life, he notes, a man of his times, a product of imperial Britain, unforgiving of the Japanese (the repeated use of the term "Jap" drives home this point) and unapologetic of these facts. His honesty about this and about how the war was fought is an important aspect of the book, fundamental to presenting a clear sighted but affectionate portrait of the sort of men who served. Paradoxically this also leads to points where he rails against aspects of the modern world - European Union, and a perceived "softness" on criminals for example - perhaps honest about what he felt but, unlike the rest of the book, little to do with considered experience.These quibbles aside this is an exceptional book, beautifully written and a fine tribute to the men Fraser served with and the generation who defeated European fascism and Japanese militarism.
5 George MacDonald Fraser's memoir of his service as an enlisted man in the "Black Cat Division" in the Burma Campaign. Written forty years after the fact in the 80s Fraser vividly describes the experience of fighting "the Jap" in Burma, by all accounts the worst theater in WWII. The book as everything, in places it is laugh out loud funny, and in others you might have trouble seeing the print because of the dampness of your eyes.Fraser has the remarkable ability to make us feel like we know the other members of his squad. When I finished the book, I began to miss Nixon, Grand Arse and the others.Keegan described Quartered Safe Out Here as "one of the great personal memoirs of the Second World War", all I've got to say is "One of?", ha, it is the best, at least the best I've read.
3 A good firsthand account of a man's experience with the British infantry in Burma near the end of the war. It is marred not by the casual racism of the day encountered in the course of the story but by the author's apparent endorsement of its perseverance into today. An additional problem is the author's incessant petulant whining about how much young people today petulantly whine, allegedly encouraged by a wimpy press and overindulgent parents, teachers and psychologists.
5 Fraser's is one of the finest war memoirs I've ever read, and for so many reasons.  He has a gift for illustrating the life of the combat soldier in ways that are at once terrifying, hilarious, and sometimes just plain  bizarre.  His discovery in the field that he had a gift for brewing tea is  unforgettable, as is his account of falling down a well in the middle of a  battle, his comrades cracking jokes about it as the chaos and noise of  battle rages all around them.  Among the most remarkable things about  Fraser's book are his comparisons between the official histories of what  happened with what he actually experienced; the official history of one  engagement, for example, records only that a tank was destroyed and so many  men killed or wounded on each side, but Fraser describes what that burning  tank SMELLED like and how it attracted the attention of Japanese soldiers  throughout the night.  These are the things we rarely get from ordinary  histories of battles and wars.  His book does not reduce the soldiers to a  list of statistics.  One learns to care about them or loathe them almost as  much as Fraser did.The final few chapters are particularly sobering.  We owe so much to the men and women who fought and served in  this war.  Fraser's book has many important and enduring lessons for all of us, but particularly for those of us born in the postwar boom.  Highly, highly recommended!
4 Before Fraser became well known for his &quot;Flashman&quot; series of comic historical novels, he was an enlisted man in the 17th Division of the 14th Indian Army during WWII. Almost 50 years later, he recounts his wartime experience in Burma from the perspective of his section of about eight or so men, all from Cumbria in NW England. With his many writerly gifts, he gives a mostly unvarnished account of what he did and saw, capturing battle actions and anecdotes with sharp and often witty prose.Fraser's account is very much a personal one, and throughout the book he rails against contemporary mores and broader political correctness concerning the war. He is quite open about how the British forces believed themselves to be superior beings compared to the Japanese they fought-and points to Japanese POW camps as a vindication of this. Similarly, he reports the campfire discussions after his unit saw newsreels from liberated concentration camps, in which all agreed that Germany needed to be razed to the ground. Fraser himself provides an emphatic defense of the use of nuclear bombs on Japan. And in his defense, it is true that the latest scholarship on the subject is in agreement that Japan was not on the brink of surrender at the time.Beyond these larger issues, the memoir is perhaps at its best when telling the smaller stories. The character of his Cumbrian comrades, the descriptions of various &quot;native&quot; units such as the Gurkhas, Pathans, Sikhs, and especially a hilarious description of the Army's East African drivers. There's a great bit where he falls down a well in the middle of an attack, and another great part where an uneducated Sergeant borrows his copy of Shakespeare's Henry V and definitively concludes that Shakespeare had been a soldier. My favorite bit though, was when he is sent to teach the PIAT (British version of the bazooka) to a guerilla unit led by a character straight out of Monty Python. Cpt. &quot;Grief&quot; was one of those crazy commando-type officers who spoke in a running &quot;rah rah&quot; style, thought that war was great fun, and was totally deadly.Although at times Fraser's conservative crankiness gets old, and at times his slips into over-sentimentality, its kind of hard to begrudge him those faults-having done his service, he's earned the right to grumble. Overall, the memoir is a great taste of &quot;the forgotten war&quot; in Asia and an excellent example of the infantryman-level view of the war.
3 Mildly interesting memoir of Burma in WW II, but I would call it more of a character study of members of the author's unit than &#34;a harrowing tale.&#34; If you don't expect a lot, you'll probably find it okay, but I kept waiting for &#34;the good parts.&#34; They aren't there, it's just the &#34;same old, same old&#34; all the way through.
5 This is a lively account of the author's wartime experience in Burma. His depiction of the characters and action are vivid and engaging, while capturing the essence of Army life for a young enlisted man at the front. The description of the Gurkhas alone is worth the price of the book. The author and his fellow soldiers deserve a heartfelt salute!
5 This is not your so called war stories.  It is about a man and the men he served with without any liberal gibberish (see his references to more modern times)and the fact that wars happen and will happen, just or unjust depending on one's views.  But, they won't go away like some Utopian dreamers think just because other "Utopians" weren't up to it.  There were so many pages that hit me in the gut because one could so readily identify with things on the page.  I never expected such a great book from a journalist / media person which proves that there is good in every crowd.  I salute Fraser and I wish I could tell him so in person.
5 This is an outstanding true story of the Burma war, with none of the malarky that passes for reporting these days. The author does not excuse or whitewash "Jap", as he calls him, and does not engage in soul-searching about tactics used to defeat a brutal enemy. When compared to the all-out determination of the entire British (and American) nation to win, the near-treasonous undercutting of their own country since the end of WW II by Liberals of all stripes becomes even more despicable. This is a fine story of the bravery and confusion of war from the foot soldier's point of view.
4 I agree with the reviews below that the autobiographical portions of QUARTERED SAFE OUT HERE constitute an outstanding memoir of the jungle fighting in Burma.  Fraser excels at capturing the nuances of day-to-day existence in an extraordinary situation.  I loved the way he recreates the regional dialect of his fellow soldiers, enumerates the items in his backpack, and describes the combat as a matter-of-fact, exhausting business of sights, sounds, and smells, which culminates in the deaths of a few British soldiers and a great many more Japanese.My reservations come because of the passages devoted to lambasting what Fraser sees as "politically correct" postwar critics.  These make up perhaps only 5% of the overall narrative, but they recur regularly, and I think they're too much.  In them, Fraser clearly has an axe to grind.  He stops being the delightfully ambiguous author of the Flashman books who realizes that his protagonist is simultaneously a coward and a hero.  Instead, he's grumpy grandpa snarking through a holiday party about the in-laws he doesn't like.  It's a letdown.  The book would have been better had he downplayed or deleted those portions, because the combat narrative is strong enough to stand on its own and make its own points, the way E.B. Sledge's gut-churning descriptions of Peleliu and Okinawa in WITH THE OLD BREED stand on their own.I love the Flashman books, and I'm very fond of 95% of QUARTERED SAFE OUT HERE.  But the denunciations flaw the book.I write this, by the way, as the son of a Pacific war veteran who never forgave the Japanese, either.  But somehow Dad managed not to interrupt his war stories to unload on modern critics.  I wish Fraser had done likewise.
5 If you wish to understand the common British soldier in World War II, his virtues and his vices, this book is essential.  In spare prose the author, a celebrated novelist, recalls his service in Burma as an enlisted man in the British Army.  As he conjures up his long ago comrades, their marches, the food they ate, their fights with the enemy and each other, the reader gains much needed insight into a world that is rapidly slipping from living memory.  A fitting tribute to the tough British &quot;Tommies&quot; who did more than their share in rescuing the world from the evil of the Axis in World War II.  Funny, exciting, moving, this is a book that I predict will join the ranks of other classic military memoirs such as Graves' Good-bye To All That.  For an added treat read this book in tandem with Field Marshal Slim's memoir Defeat Into Victory.
5 I too wrote a book about a war some 40 years after the event, but I didn't come close to capturing the experience as well as GMF. Attitudes change about the need to fight wars but the hard memories never fade among those who were there. Feeling sorry for old soldiers, one generation to another, doesn't mean much to us old sods.I have a very hard time reacting positively when I hear "thank you for your service," because I have no idea what it means.Still, I share a perpetual bond with comrades I remember in filthy uniforms, stained with blood and sweat, clinging to an M16 held together with tape. I remember them all, even if some weren't very likeable. All are easy to love.This book puts competitors like Red Badge of Courage to shame.
5 Fraser was, is gone, but he left us this gem. His time during the war, battling the Japanese in Burma. He makes incredible and sadly true correlations between the neo liberal now and then back in the 1940s. Please read this book, and know what life was like, and how times have changed, and maybe not for the best. This is not to say this is a sad story, it's not, but is a fantastic read.
5 I've been a fan of G. M. Fraser since the 1970s and I was not at all disappointed by this superb memoir of his experiences as a soldier in the British Army in Burma at the tail end of WWII. Fraser, a historian as well as a novelist, brings color and emotion to this story, making you feel as if you are right beside him in battle. His unit saw relatively little action, and much of the book is devoted to descriptions: equipment and clothing, military history, and humorous anecdotes, but all of it is told in Fraser's charming, eloquent and very funny style, that of a grandfather regaling the tots in front of a fire, brandy and cheroot in hand. Among other talents, Fraser is a master of dialect, portraying the Cumberland English of his comrades, as well as a few other accents. The book is not all humor, though: Fraser describes killing enemies and watching friends die in battle, and he pontificates at length on war, soldiering, and how views have changed during the passing decades. While you may not agree with some of his opinions (I don't), it is enjoyable to read and thought-provoking without being annoying. I came away from it feeling as though I had been there and had made a friend. Sad to say, Fraser died in 2009, and the final pages of the book have the finality of a man closing out the last chapter of his life. Altogether a fascinating book.
4 This book gives a well-written account of the British army fighting the Japanese in Burma.  His descriptions of things like close combat, night patrols, and fighting in tropical weather are vivid.  It's a good exposition of a corner of WWII that the historians, particularly American ones, seem to have largely overlooked.
5 George MacDonald Fraser, who has written many successful fiction books based on well researched history quite often starring his very British Flashman character, writes a chronicle of his own personal experiences in the final stages of WWII fighting the Japanese as a 19 year old member of a rifle company that is composed of a handful of men run by a sergeant and a corporal. Fraser, who just recently passed away, writes of his first hand experiences in a very descriptive personal way, capturing the various English dialects of his fellow citizen soldiers expressing all their frustrations of life in harsh conditions in the jungle dealing with swamps, leaches, mosquitoes, questionable orders but generally good leadership although sometimes well questioned by the troops.  Fraser gives you an excellent description of what it was like in the field, mixed with the real humor from the men who bonded close together, although having their differences with occasional culture clashes; they generally endure their punishment with a delightful sarcasm. And Fraser gives you the full flavor of the different troops in the field such as the courageous Gurkha soldiers, Indians and native tribesmen that fight with the British while also interacting with the tribes inhabiting the Burma jungles often caught between the two sides.  Fraser does not write a political correct book and he is quite clear about that, which makes the book a realistic read, he echoes what the troops in the field really felt and he makes no bones how they felt about their enemy. An excellent picture of very young and veteran soldiers in the field that gives you the feel for the tremendous challenges and conditions they faced.
5 This is just a peach of a book about the war in Burma and the swan song of the Old Army of the British Raj. The author who wrote the outstanding Flashman series of novels does just as well here. The only Ironic thing is the cover of the book. Which shows the American General & West Pointer "Vinegar" Joe Stillwell walking out of Burma with his staff after the Japanese Conquest of Burma.
5 It is difficult to write a review of a man's heart felt narrative of his experiences during combat.  I can simply say that it is truly worth reading.
5 Fraser has a superb facility with words:  his Flashman series (including The American, with Flashman in his still-lecherous dotage) is certainly one of the greatest set of historical military fiction.  Quartered Safe Out Here shares the same fine qualities as the Flashman books--drama, humor, and heroism (which in Flashman's case was almost invariably accidental or at least reluctantly unintended).  This is a very personal account:  you're not going to get great battles and sweeping victories.  His section was 10 men, including himself as a 19-year-old private, albeit a private who had several times been promoted then demoted back to private.  The section is mostly Cumbrian (Fraser, from across the Scottish border, is a bit of an alien).  The heavy Cumbrian accent takes getting used to, but Fraser translates with numerous footnotes, and the accent actually becomes delightfully endearing.The Burma Campaign is seen through Fraser's eyes.  He does, writing many years after the events, have the Official History, and he tries to reconcile his memory of things with the Official History.  At times he's right and the OH is wrong.  So you get a sharply narrow view of what's going on, unlike, say, Field Marshall Slim's account Defeat Into Victory, where the larger view is at hand.  Fraser's world is his section, with his wonderfully-drawn mates Grandarse (not his real name) and others.  Fraser describes his own feelings and uncertainties.  Contact with the Japanese was usually sparse, but at times took on a frighteningly close immediacy, confronting enemy soldiers just a few feet away.  Contact with allies was less sparse, but there was never the "big picture":  everything was very local.  Privates followed orders, and didn't need to see the larger view, unlike officers.  Lieutenants and up (even sergeants, for that matter) needed to be aware of other platoons, companies, divisions.  It's an effective view, and very poignant.If you want a history of the Burma Campaign, try Slim, or a similar book.  But if you want a very personal, very up-front account, you will appreciate this superb memoir.
5 I had frist read the Authors novels about that cad Flashman & was immediately hooked on his great writing skills and historical research. (I just wish that I could write 1/10 as well as he.)Then I have discovered this gem of a book about his time in the 14th Army fighting the Japanese in Burma during War Two as a young enlisted man. It is just marvelous in that it gives one the feeling of the grit, heat, dirt and loss of war without drowning one in self pity while being in the Border Regiment.This book is one of the best war story of a British Tommy that I have ever read. The book is well worth the time and coin!
5 The author, while beautifully detailing a forgotten war in Burma during WWII, captures the essence of small unit fighting.  Anyone who leads men in combat must read this book to better appreciate why "loyalty down" and personal courage matter.
5 A frank and totally absorbing account of Britain's WWII Burma campaign from the perspective of a buck private (and later, lance corporal).  Although this was essentially a side show to the war, the fear, the terror, the privations, the ferocity of fighting were as great here as in any theater--and are very convincingly described.Fraser's skill as a writer (he is the author of the Flashman series and a serious history of the Scotch/English border strife) is abundantly on display; this book is a real page turner. In fact, I enjoyed it so much I immediately ordered those Fraser books I don't already own.
5 I happened by chance to come across this book when searching for the Flashman series, which I'm reading now.  I have read many non-fiction accounts of war, from WWI to Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom.  The WWII European theater of operations usually trumps the Pacific, and only in the last few years have I started to delve into this area.  Recommended books are "Rising Sun" and "The Rape of Nanking".The Burma campaign is not as well documented, and this is a welcome book to the canon.This book, although not perhaps a classic, is incredibly diverse and true to life.  The one overriding issue for me was the writing in the vernacular of the British soldiers, including Scots.  For an American, it is difficult to translate what's written into coherent meaning, at times.  For the most part, I was able to do so; however, there were some passages that I simply read over, not knowing exactly was said, even in context.This, perhaps, is a minor drawback; but it does make it more real.I highly recommend this book, particularly for lovers of true war stories.
5 Most of you know GMF from his Flashman series.  A few will have ventured into the McAuslan triology and from those tales gathered that Mr. Fraser is a WWII vet.  Well, this is his war memoir and a more sobering tale of battle, sacrifice, and stone-willed perseverance you will not find.  I could go on at length about the plethora of merits this book contains, but I'll pause to mention just one.  Quartered Safe dares to talk about the racism of war in politically incorrect terms and explain why so many veterans of the Pacific War came away with a hatred of the Japanese that was not easily quenched.  This is rough stuff and it should be required reading for all Baby Boomers through Gen X'ers.
4 George MacDonald Fraser writes of his service in Burma during WWII. It's definitely differentExample. page 215`Ey, Grandarse, `ear w'at they're sayin' on't wireless? The yanks `ave dropped a bomb the size of a pencil on Tokyo an' it's blown the whole fookin' place tae bits!Oh, aye. W'at were they aimin' at - `Ong Kong?""Ah'm tellin' ye! Joost one lal bomb, an' they reckon `alf Japan's in fookin' flames. That;s w'at they're sayin'!""W'ee's sayin'?""Ivverybody, man! Ah'm tellin' ye, it's on't wireless! Ey, they reckon Jap'll pack in. It'll be th' end o' the war!""Girraway? Do them yeller-skinned boogers oot theer knaw that?""Aw, bloody `ell `Oo can they, ye daft booger! They `evn't got the fookin' wireless, `ev they?""Aweer, then . Ah's keepin' me `eid down until the Yanks've dropped a few more pencils on Tokyo. An' w'en them boogers oot theer'ev packed in, Ah'll believe ye.?"Aw, Ah's wastin' me time talkin tae you! `Ey, Foshie, `ear aboot the Yanks? They've dropped a secret weapon on Tokyo, `an the whole fookin' toon's wiped oot!""`Igh bloody time. W'ee's smeukin', then? Awoy, Kock, gi's one o' yer H.Q. Coompany fags, ye mean booger!"It was a fine sunny morning when the news, in it's garbled form, ran round the battalion, and if it changed the world, it didn't change Nine Section.  They sat on the floor of the basha, backs to the wall, supping chah and being skeptical. "Secret weapon" was an expression bandied about with cynical humor all through the war; Foshie's socks and Granndarse's flatulence, those were secret weapons, and super-bombs were the stuff of fantasy. I didn't believe it, that first day, although from the talk at company H.Q. it was fairly clear that something big had happened, or was about to."I'm off to read Paul Fussell's Wartime: Understanding and Behavior in the Second World War
5 --  Though Fraser wrote this personal memoir of the Burma campaign decades after the war, it is fresh, direct and frank.  This is one of the standout memoirs of the Second World War, one of the best by an ordinary soldier.--  The Burma campaign never got the same attention as the fighting in Europe and the Pacific.  Fraser tells us why the victory of the British 14th Army under General Slim under arduous conditions in the jungle was just as heroic.--  A Scot in The Border Regiment, his rendering of conversations in Cumbrian dialect are more than engaging -- here and there you'll laugh out loud.  For Americans who tend to think only of "Brits," getting a feel for men from the different regions of Great Britain is an agreeable dimension of this book.  So too is his respect for the Gurkhas and the soldiers of the Indian Army.--  Anyone thinking through the issues related to the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki needs to read Fraser's view from the infantry.  He challenged sentimental or lazy thinking on how the war might better have unfolded without the shock of the bombs.Tip:  If you have a choice, buy the second edition of this book, which includes a chapter on the celebration of VJ+50 by the men of his old regiment, and their families.  It will tug your heart.-30-
5 Americans are not given many opporutnities to see WWII from a Tommie point of view (If you do not know what a Tommie is, this book is not for you).  I picked up interesting nuggets about General Slim and the Japanese Army, but the main value is in view point and atmospherics.Not for everyone, but anyone who has read the Flashman series should get a sense of the author behind it all.
4 George MacDonald Fraser's flawed, but interesting and entertaining recollection of his service in Burma during the latter stages of WW II are well worth reading on their own merit and especially so for his legion ofFlashman: A Novelreaders. Some slice of that readership will be particularly interested to see whether the memoir reveals just how much Flashman reflected the real thinking of the author. Fraser expressed his disdain for such modern "PC" readers in a piece excerpted in The Daily Mail around the time of his death in 2008 from another memoir he wrote about his experiences as a movie screenwriter calledThe Light's on at Signpost. Ouch.Fraser's recollections come with a few drawbacks worth noting. For some reason, Fraser felt compelled to explain why he was writing this book. One would think that a book about a famous author's service in Burma would not really require such explanation.  I suppose what he really meant was "why was he writing it after all those years?" - the personal history was not published until 1992 and had been written recently from memory and not based on any contemporaneous notes or early draft.Fraser explains that firstly he is recording what may be the "last great battle in the last great war". Such an utterance of sodden nonsense is disappointing coming from the author of the Flashman books - that, if anything, establish humanity's ready willingness to blow one another's brains out (See e.g.Flashman and the Redskins). He fears that the battle has been forgotten, but gives a hint of his real motive when he laments the changed "attitudes to war". Fraser also notes that he is offering a soldier's view of the Burma campaign rather than the already well-told officer's view.Fraser slips off the rails, however, when he further justifies his book by an attack on Paul Fussell'sWartime: Understanding and Behavior in the Second World War- or rather a review of that book. As becomes clear in reading Fraser's war memoir, he and Fussell experienced war - or recall their war experiences - in profoundly different ways (Fussell wrote Wartime in 1989.). Fussell was severely psychologically damaged by his war experiences (as well as physically wounded). Fussell set out to knock down many of the myths of WW II, the so-called Good War, and Fraser is outraged by such attitudes (not outraged enough to have actually read the book, however). Fraser is intent on preserving as many of the myths as possible (which he denies are myths). More unsettling is Fraser's adamant unwillingness to accept that other soldiers experienced the war in starkly different terms (He flatly states Fussell presents "a view which is false".).Fraser's tale focuses on his 8-man 'section' (equivalent to a US squad) of his platoon. He does not use the soldiers' actual names for reasons that are not entirely convincing. Like Flashman, Fraser was working from memory, but unlike Flashy, Fraser does not have an omniscient editor adding historical footnotes and correcting his lapses of memory. Not using real names does not add to the reader's confidence.One final bit of carping: Fraser was clearly offended that views of war had changed, even among soldiers, and just will not let it drop. He cites modern soldiers' confessing fear in battle to the "disgusting inquisition of war reporters". In his day, that "was simply not done." Perhaps so, at least in his own section, but Fraser should heed his own counsel. He has earlier warned against trying to view WW II experiences through the outlook of today; he should have inferred the corollary that viewing current actions through the outlook of 70 years ago is just as likely to lead to misunderstanding and incomprehension.Nonetheless, as a devoted fan of the Flashman books, I think other devotees will also enjoy the book. Fraser's trademark dexterous use of the language employed by his Cumberland 'marras' (mates) brings the characters vividly to life. He introduces the reader to topics little known but of historical importance (aside from the Burma campaign itself there is the battle of Imphal and Kohima that stopped the 1944 Japanese invasion of India). The writing is crisp and a joy to read. In addition to Fussell's Wartime, I would also suggest that the reader try E.B. Sledge's memoirWith the Old Breed: At Peleliu and Okinawa. Readers may also enjoy Fraser's lesser known works of historical fiction based on his later WW II experiences in the Middle East,The Complete McAuslan: All the Hilarious McAuslan Stories in One Volume.
5 2001's "Quartered Safe Out Here" is George MacDonald Fraser's superbly written and moving recollection of his service wtih the British 14th Army in the Burma Theater at the close of the Second World War.Fraser was a 19 year-old private, fresh from a "public" school education and assigned to an infantry section full of seasoned veterans in one of the most dangerous combat zones of the war.  A journalist and novelist later in life, Fraser didn't get around to writing about his wartime experiences until half a century after the fact.  As a result, his narrative is admittedly episodic.  Fraser makes an effort to place his often vivid recollections in context provided by the official history, but this account is in no way meant to be a unit or campaign history.Fraser is that unfortunately rare type, an infantry private with real writing skills. His section mates become living, breathing characters to the reader.  His impressions of the jungle, the heat, the monsoons, and combat with the Japanese are heartbreakingly real. The respect of the 14th Army for its commander, future Field Marshal Bill Slim, shines through.  Fraser's portraits of British, Indian, and Gurkha soldiers are by turns funny and awe-inspiring in capturing their stoic professionalism under conditions of boredom and terror.  His observations of the attitudes and expectations of his fellow soldiers provide some pungent perspective on just how much the world has changed since 1945."Quartered Safe Out Here" is very highly recommended as a superbly written and brutally honest account of a forgotten theater of World War II, a reading experience for the casual reader and the student of history alike.
5 What with George Orwell loose about the shop in the 1920s, and some true head-cases as described by Fraser crashing about the underbrush in the war, it is little wonder that apart from Mrs Aun Soon Kyi, modern Burmese seem to have gone bonkers.  For it was in Burma that the British found themselves engaged in an anticolonialist struggle against Japan's brand of colonialism, without meaning to do much more than protect India.  Why it was necessary to protect India was apparently forgotten, and indeed, the British presence in the Middle East in the immediate post-war period was in order to ensure coaling and oiling stations for ships traveling to dear old India, and, as I have said, nobody really knew why it was necessary to go to the coral strand, apart from the central heating issue back home.The British empire was an Enchanted Glass that was still in existence when I was an American lad which had quite outlived its usefulness, and Fraser served its last moments of military semi-glory in the war.  ...George MacDonald Fraser is a curious case.  As a writer he is far more talented than many writers who've gone on to commercial success and Hollywood, yet Fraser's audience seems limited to fans.  He does not seem to go beyond a certain point.I believe this is because Fraser expresses an "English-ness" with which many actual Englishmen are uncomfortable.  His stories are informed by a sort of irony that was perhaps perfected in the British middle and upper classes between the wars as a result of the horrific experiences of what is still known, in Britain, as the Great War.This is an essentially subaltern irony that speaks truth to power and which manages to display a consciousness ultimately at variance with dominant paradigms.  Rather than reinforcing the military and industrial disciplines which were expressed in the treatment of Royal Navy other ranks during the conflict with Napoleon, like Patrick O'Brien, Fraser's characters go with the flow, as we Americans say, with an eye for the main chance.Thus Fraser is quite comfortable to recount, in detail, just how and why the ordinary British soldier voted Churchill out in '45, and the extraordinarily decent and humane Clement Attlee, in.Every so often in our republic and Britain, the electorate acts in its own interests.  ...Fraser's British soldiers elected a Labor pol in '45 because while Winston was quite useful for frightening the Germans, he'd established beyond a doubt in the interwar period that he was completely incompetent at domestic affairs, the economy, and the concerns of the Missus back home about the drains.The average ranker may not have known that Winston returned England to the gold standard in '25, one of the stupidest moves ever made in the UK's economic policy and one that caused a general strike a few years on.  But he knew that Winston had been forced to "wander in the wilderness" in the 1930s for a [dang] good reason, and not as part of any hero's journey.  Winston had been forced into Sheol because he was a hazard to life and limb.I realize that we Americans are supposed to idolize Churchill, but there are quite enough admirable Britons, George MacDonald Fraser among them, who deserve a ten-foot high statue in Lake Havasu City, Arizona, far more than Lady Thatcher (don't get me started.)
4 The author of the Flashman series gives his account, from the ground level, of the campaign in Burma with his beloved Nine Section.  This war memoir is fascinating for several reasons.  First, Fraser is, for all intents and purposes, Flashman himself: the broad racial delineations, the bald admiration for famous generals, the unabashed Imperialist fervor mixed with rational analysis of battle, even the fear of waiting before battle and the mad adrenaline rush afterwards.  It strikes me that Flashy isn't a character at all, just Fraser himself, made a bit more cowardly, and set in the Victorian era.  For Fraser is one of the last of the old unreconstructed crotchety men of the empire: the book is vehemently non-PC.  Fraser admits that he still feels hatred for the Japs (as he calls the enemy), even preferring not to sit by them in public places today.  The '40s propaganda image of the Jap as "an evil, misshapen, buck-toothed barbarian who looked and behaved like something sub-Stone Age" is Fraser's image of them to a T.  (Which might say something about his abilities to assess things rationally, since by his own admission civilized lights mustn't shine much in war, or you'll lose; and his section committed what would be called war crimes today; obviously, both sides harbored the same kind of racist illusions, but Fraser can't see that).  He bemoans many other facets of modern mores as well (like "counseling" and "war guilt"), but the main thrust of the book is the sometimes funny, sometimes appalling, obviously soul- changing experience that was war.  It's a superb war memoir, peppered with odd characters and vivid battle scenes, and a very important record of what the average foot-soldier felt at the time.
5 I had to force myself to put this book down and go to bed.  Once I started in, I couldn't put this book down.  This is a soldier's story, not a history lesson.  Anyone looking for a treatise on jungle warfare, or the conduct of the War in Burma will have to look elsewhere.  This book tells the story of one young man's experience in Burma, the section, squad to American readers, he served with, how they lived, their interactions with each other, and sadly, how many of them died.  This is an honest, up close and personal account of the face of war.  There's no romance, no heroics, no holding forth on the virtues of the British soldier as opposed to the Japanese soldier, just a frank and unflinching look at what the author saw and experienced.This is a must read for anyone with any delusions of revisionist history of World War II in Asia.
5 I got this book to read about Burma. Frankly, there is not much here distinctive to that country. Instead, I came away with an answer to something that has puzzled me for years.Post Battle Traumatic Stress gets a lot of press. Men I have known who fought in the front lines of some of the most savage battles in Asia in the 20th century seem to have escaped this problem. (I recall a tribesman from Java who was drafted to become a Japanese paratrooper: he told me with a bit too much relish about chopping up Allied soldiers with his sword.)  Even those who were bombed and starved into capitulation, or were chased out of their homeland, are at peace with themselves, having done their duty.Fraser, who has certainly done his duty, points out the responsibility the press must bear for creating PBTS. Tell someone often enough that he is wounded, and he will feel pain.The social climate can also wound a soldier. When the Asian soldiers I mentioned returned to their societies, they were honored and respected. Note the scene in Quiet Flows the Don where the young man go once again to listen to an elder tell his story about battles long past. Several of my Atayal neighbors were put in the front lines of the Japanese army; the Tribe still holds them in honor, not that they fought for Hirohito, but that they did their duty honorably.America has not always been so. Read the Red Badge of Courage, where the young soldier is so eager to test himself in battle. Even a wound, horrible to contemplate in the days surgeons were aptly called Sawbones, was not the end of the world if it were honorable and entitled the old veteran to hold court sitting on a cracker barrel.Has Western society civilized itself to the point where our psyches can no longer bear the taking of lives? Well, look at the popular TV shows and movies, or the best-selling video games where you go out and hack as many players as possible to death. Not that killing is good, but that a compassionate society can salve wounds. Wounds are salved with compassion, not by voyeuristic probing.
5 If I could I would like to praise this book in the only way how; by saying that it reads like a book written by a real person not a war hero.  Fraser's observations about the Japanese willingness to fight also need to be taken into account.Overall-You will read it in one sitting that is how engaging it is.
5 Very nice to hear Fraser in his own voice. A must read for all the Flashman addicts scattered profusely across the globe, but a very good read in its own right. One of the best personal memoirs from the war I've read, especially from a junior enlisted man. Quite a bit of humor, but a fair amount of fear and fatigue as well. Fraser's comments on his view of Hiroshima, from the point of view of a soldier who would have continued to soldier on had Japan not surrendered are worth reflecting on, but are more convoluted than one might think.
5 George MacDonald Fraser, creator of the Flashman series takes on not 19th Century history, but rather himself this time out. Here, in just over 200 pages, he paints a highly evocative picture of the British Tommy slugging his way through Burma and to victory in 1945. His memory he admits, has its gaps. He recalls meeting General Slim, the famed commander of the 14th Army, but cannot recall the day. He can't remember what he was doing on V-J day. But he recalls details, but not the dates of them; a 15 inch centipede in his tent, when his canoe floundered on the Sittang, when Nine section captured its first Japanese POW, he definitely remembers a section member taking the man's watch.These are probably fallible memories, but it's their honesty that makes Fraser human, and it's what makes this memoir worth reading.Fraser has captured the enlisted man's war in Burma for all time. It would be nice to see an 8th Army veteran recall the Desert War.Fraser also like Audie Murphy's &quot;To Hell and Back&quot; uses a great deal of dialogue in catching the eccentrities of the Cumbrian borderers of his section. He changes their names (Murphy did too) something common in war memoirs. However, American readers might stumble over what the men are saying, but while GMF admits that it's not an exact reconstruction of what was spoken, &quot;most of it {the dialogue) obviously is not...it is entirely faithful in gist, subject and style.&quot; This is of course, true, but one feels that GMF caught the higher truth of what life was like and as it was lived in the British Army in Burma. The eminent historian John Keegan rates &quot;Quartered Safe Out Here&quot; better than Manchester's &quot;Goodbye Darkness&quot; and E.B. Sledge's &quot;With the Old Breed,&quot; an opinion I do not necessarily share, but I do admire this book tremendously.This is a great introduction to the war in Burma and a wonderful glimpse into life in the British Army in World War II.
5 I found Fraser's memoir of his Second World War experiences in Burma to be both entertaining and enlightening. He frankly discusses the viewpoint of the British soldier in far-off (from Britain) Burma during the latter years of the Second World War. I found the discussions regarding "war crimes" to be refreshingly honest and the book is worth the price for Fraser's viewpoint regarding the use of the Atomic bombs to end the war in the Pacific. Reader's on both sides of this argument would do well to consider Fraser's experience and viewpoint. I listened to the audible audio version of this book and found it to be well done if a bit hard to follow the various accents.
5 George MacDonald Fraser has written one of the few memoirs of the Burma campaign penned by an enlisted soldier. The author served with the famed 17th Indian 'Black Cat' Division at the capture and siege of Meiktila, through the battle of Pyawbwe and saw a final skirmish with remnents of Japanese forces at the Sittang Bend. His description of the life and attitudes (much of which would now be termed politically incorrect) of the average British soldier fighting in Burma is priceless. What I found particularly enjoyable is how he kept the conversation of his fellow soldiers in the vernacular of their home in Cumberland. Some may find it difficult to follow but it lends a definite air of authenticity. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the Burma campaign or wanting to read a great war memoir.
5 This book had been brought to my attention by the author John McKinna ("The Sen-Toku Raid" and others) when it was learned we  both had been combat infantry. And a great recommendation it was. The name of the book was taken from a Rudyard Kipling phrase in "Gunga Din", and outlines the infantryman's life during the final days of WWII as the Black Cat Division pushed down the Burma road towards Rangoon.His book is unique in that it recounts the perspective of the war-fighter on the ground, who's entire knowledge of a world conflict is about 300 yards. At one point, he described every piece of equipment on his person, a bit of historical information I found of great interest.Interspersed with this narrative however, was Fraser's meticulous research of after action reports of the units involved to weave a mosaic for the reader that helped round out the full picture of the campaign itself.Overall, a great read.
5 It's been years since I first read "Quartered Safe Out Here" by the creator of Harry Paget Flashman, VC. (And I won't rehash everything the previous reviewers have written.) Having read and reread all of the Flashman novels before picking it up, and being a card carrying Flashmaniac myself, I was very anxious to know more about GMF. This book certainly didn't disappoint me. After I had finished it, though, I wanted to find out more. I didn't realize I'd have to wait until December 2002 to finally read the next chapter in the life of GMF in "The Light's On At Signpost" (which I found at amazon.com.uk for 20.13GBP). The two books are quite different, except for Fraser's Anti-PC rants, the one tells the story of a young GMF serving in WWII and the other an older, but still funny, GMF telling tales of his years writing movie scripts in Hollywood and the famous and not-so-famous people he worked with during those years. At the end of "The Light's On At Signpost,"  he briefly writes more about his family, his schooling in Scotland, and how he became a writer. GMF is almost 78 now (He was born on April 2, 1925.)  and I only hope he will live long and write more wonderfully funny books.
5 Great WWII story by a man who has not succumbed to political correctness. If you can live with that, you will love it. He tells the story as it actually happened, Japs and all. You really feel that you understand the soldier's lot after you have read this book.
5 Even when you want them too...Ok, just kidding. But that is the sort of cynical joke old Fraser would appreciate.Old soldiers tales are a neglected genre but one thousands of years old, a genre that has produced such classics as Anabasis, and Seven Pillers of Wisdom. While Quartered Safe Out Here does not rise to that level, it is a gem in it's own right.If there is one word that describes this book, it is authenticity. Fraser sounds like an old soldier. The book reads, not like an intellectual telling of the strange customs of His Majesties Servants, but like what you would expect a veteran telling tales at a pub to sound like. A comparatively well educated, Old Soldier, but an Old Soldier nonetheless and no different from others.In this book, Fraser tells of his service with the Border Regiment. These are as he puts it, "A martial race of men"; with the fatalistic acceptance of bloodshed, grimly practical outlook on war, and piratical spirit of the Anglo-scottish frontier brigands of yore. As well as the constant grumbling which sounds most soldierly. Fraser mixes with his comrades well. He is often harsh in his outlook, but he does not glorify war and certainly does not pretend it is enjoyabale. Nor does he display the fashionable horror at war which in some writers seems to be an obligatory assurance to the reader rather then an expression of a writer's true outlook. War is a job to Fraser and it was as well that it be done right. He seems to have a rather grim personality and a cynical sense of irony which may grate on some, but sounds like one made coarse by the stress of battle. In other words he sounds believable. His means of narrative is also believable. He gives scenes as they appear in his memory, some banal, some humorous or carrying a bit of pathos. And sometimes even a minor degree of romance(yes, statistically it has to happen like the movies SOMETIMES)as when he hears a man singing the regimental song during an assault on a Japanese position, and comments that he really did hear it sung in battle and that was something worth telling about. Of course Fraser follows by telling how one of his comrades told the singer to shut up. So much for romance.Those who are uneasy with the values of previous generations might find it hard to take. Fraser is comfortable with his dislike of the Japanese, approves of the British Empire, and has an innate dislike of change and though some readers can accept that not all will. Like Tommy Atkins in Kipling's poem, he could be a rude fellow sometimes but he was there when he was needed and our generation owes something to him.In any case it was a well written work, that shows a convincing picture of what it was like to do service in those times. Many writings have been written which told of the lives of soldiers. This one tells what it is to be a soldier. And tells it well and enjoyably. To think of Quartered Safe Out Here as giving profound messages would be wrong. Fraser is not shy about his opinions but his opinions, whatever their value, have been heard before and are not either more or less valid because of his experiences. Rather, Fraser gives an authentic picture of what it was like. You can feel your feet ache from the endless marching, feel the weight of your knapsack on your back, smell the smell of death and experience the many and various fears that constitute a soldier's life. It is a great book and well worth your time.
4 At times you can smell the gunpowder, which is exactly what you want in a first-person war story.The author's somewhat amateurish writing style detracted from what could have been a better book. I found some of the dialect a bit overdone, also.Still, it's a good book. If you had half stars, I'd give it three and a half.
4 I really liked this memoir because it talked about one of the campaigns of World War II that Americans just don't hear as much about. In addition, Fraser discussed his role in the fighting in a way that was both clear and realistic. He admits that many of the details are hazy at best after this many years, but the things he remembers are related in a way that brings the other men in his Section to memorable life. Fraser does not shy away from the more grisly aspects of his service, nor does he dwell on them unnecessarily.
5 This is one of the few biographys of WWII that has had me laughing out loud - the carrot incident was all too credible, and the well incident just so unexpected. GMFs turn of phrase and timing makes these naturally funny incidents hilarious.I especially appreciated the detailed descriptions of the details of daily life for a rifleman in the 1940s - too often those nuts and bolts details get glossed over, and without them it becomes increasingly difficult to really visualise the trials and tribulations of the frontline.GMF is undoubtedly an iconoclast - his opinions are very strongly his own, from the worth of a Thompson vs a SMLE, or the atomic bombs, to the claggage a modern rifleman must lug about the place. While you may not agree with his opinions, they cannot be dismissed out of hand. I don't agree with, for example, his opinion on all the crud a rifleman has to carry now, but I really had to examine my own thoughts and reasons before I felt comfortable with that.Overall this is an outstanding biography of the rifleman's lot. I strongly recommend it in conjunction with "The Recollections of Rifleman Bowlby" and "And no Birds Sang".
5 I read this entire book with a smile on my face, punctuated by frequent outbursts of laughter. George MacDonald Fraser's memories of his WWII service with the British Commonwealth Army in the Burma campaign was the first of his non-Flashman works I've read. Although it's impossible to really compare two completely different literary genres, I'll just say that "Quartered Safe Out Here" was-in its own unique way- as hilarious, if not more so, than the best of the Flashman novels. The difference is that in the Flashman novels, Fraser's obvious respect for the sacrifices and achievements of the British soldier had to be viewed as a backdrop to the foreground humor while the opposite is true in this work, where the humor plays a supporting role to his tribute, which is explicit.Unlike his Flashman creation, Fraser was an honest-to-goodness war hero- courageous, honorable, and immensely proud of his country, regiment and platoon section. Like old Flashie though, Fraser cuts through the B.S. and shows no tolerance for armchair generals, civilian second guessing, and the nattering classes' politically correct sympathizing for Britain's enemies, so long as they were black, brown or yellow. It was amusing how Fraser's account of his argument with a bleeding-heart over the atomic bombing of Japan exactly echoes Flashman's dustup with a supercilious academic at the beginning of "Flashman and the Redskins". The alert reader will notice other such episodes in this memoir that seem to have found life in that series, but as Fraser noted, sometimes real life in Burma was so bizarre that he would have been laughed out of town if he had tried to slip some of those stories or dialogue into his fictional novels or screenplays. That's why I'm glad he finally got around to writing this book. It would have been a real shame if this story had not been told.Fraser details his time as a 19 year old soldier in Burma during the last months of the war. His writing is brilliant, as usual, his stories engrossing, his attention to detail is fascinating, and the characters we meet, from the lovably obscene Cumbrians to the unbelievable Captain Grief, are unforgettable, the more so for being real. Apart from the entertainment value, which is considerable, Fraser's insights into the nature of war and the warrior are poignant and valuable as a historical record of, and paean to, a lost Britain. He bemoans the fact that that Britain (not to mention America) has been replaced by a therapeutic society of hypersensitive p.c. twits who have been severed from the warrior tradition and stoic ethos which made their existence possible in the first place. As with most of Fraser's books, it's not for someone who thinks that the world has improved much in the last 50 years. What else is there to say? This is simply a great book. Read it and love it.
5 As a long-time fan of Fraser, I agree with all of the positive comments made by other reviewers (and respectfuly disagree with the few negative comments, even though I am sympathic to the politics involved).No one familiar with Fraser's writing will require much, if any, incentive to read this masterpiece. But for those not familiar with his work, I am going to take the liberty of copying a passage from QSOH that I have sent to a number of colleagues when they talked about sports, film, or other popular "heros":"I was not the only one in the section guilty of suppressio veri over the night's work, but Stanley had a much more creditable reason for his reticence.He had been in the o.p. [observation post] with Wells, and when Jap arrived they had cut out for the [barbed] wire.  Stanley had made it into the perimeter, only to find that there was no sign of Wells.  So he had slipped out again, without a word to anyone, when the fighting was at its height, into the Jap-infested dark, to look for him. By sheer luck he found him, near the o.p., dying of bayonet wounds; there was no way of helping him, but Stanley had stayed with him; he could have sought cover himself, but he didn't.  I supposed he brought the dead man in at dawn, but my informant - who was not Stanley himself - wasn't sure of all the details: he had only learned the bare facts months later.I lost touch with Stanley after the war. We served together for most of the rest of the campaign, and he is one of the few men of whom I can say that we literally fought side by side (that came later), but I never knew him well; the picture of the tall, quiet, fair youth is not as sharp in my mind as that of Grandarse or Nick or most of the others. But whenever I hear the word "hero" loosely used, as it so often is of professional athletes and media celebrities and people who may have done no more than wear uniform for a while, I think of Stanley going back into the dark."[Oh, and Fraser's description of the Ghurkas alone is worth the Price of Admission. Trust me.]
5 Quartered Safe Out Here is one of the best combat memoirs I've read. It ranks with One Bullet Away and With the Old Breed among the finest military writing ever published. And like those two books, Fraser's has a unique character that makes it unforgettable.Fraser served with the British Army in Burma in 1945. He fought through the country's "dry belt" and into the thick jungles of the south. Fraser points out repeatedly that, though top-down military histories quickly assert that the Japanese were finished in the Burma theatre by 1945, the Japanese he fought were canny, tenacious, and by no means aware that they were losing. Battles and skirmishes were ferocious and bloody, and Fraser saw many men die in what are now regarded as the closing stages of a backwater campaign. In addition to the battles and ambushes, there were accidents and at least one terrible case of friendly fire. The effects each death had on the men in Fraser's section are profoundly moving.Fraser had enormous affection for the men he served with and this affection shows through on every page. Each member of his section is fully fleshed-out and carefully characterized. By the end of the book the reader seldom needs dialogue tags to know who is speaking. Fraser remembers his old mates with vivid clarity and he imparts those memories to the reader.Memory, in fact, is a major theme of his book. Fraser writes repeatedly of what he does and does not remember, and why. He points out the incredible minutiae he remembers from the heat of battle--falling into a well in the middle of a firefight, or the long seconds counting down a live grenade's fuse--but does not remember enormous chunks of time--such as, in the same battle, the actual crossing of a broad, open field across which the Japanese were hitting them with machine guns and artillery. Fraser is candid and blunt about his memories, and the result is an intense, honest memoir.In addition to Fraser's candor and honesty, two more traits make his book well worth reading. First, despite its heavy subject matter, Quartered Safe Out Here is a hilariously funny book. When Fraser falls down a well in the middle of an assault and his sergeant accosts him from above, or when he spends his last few days in Burma before leaving for officer's training in the company of an apparently loony commando leader, I laughed myself to tears. Second, Fraser's opinions on current (early '90s) affairs--which are strong, and legion--are point, well-argued, and still relevant. I could go on, but you really should read the book.Highly recommended.
5 As a young man, George MacDonald Fraser was a "ranker" (enlisted man) assigned to the 17th (Black Cat) Division of the British 14th Indian Army as it pursued the Japanese south through Burma after the latter's resounding defeat at the gates of India, at Imphal. Fraser's narrative history of his personal contribution to this campaign is QUARTERED SAFE OUT HERE.Written decades after the fact, this book does not pretend to be a comprehensive history of the Burma Theater in the last months of World War II. Rather, it's the war from the perspective of Nine Section in which Fraser fought, first as a Private, then Lance Corporal. (A "section" is the smallest operating unit of an infantry platoon, i.e. 8-10 men.) Besides being a vivid retelling of the author's recollections to the extent that he remembers, it's also an intimate portrait of the organization, weapons, tactics and camaraderie of the British Army at section level at that time, place, and conflict.  It's a story told with the humor, intelligence and introspection that comes with maturity and hindsight. And, though some of Fraser's bitterness towards his old foe occasionally shows, age does dull the sharp edges."I remember watching, a year or two ago, televised interviews with old Japanese soldiers who had fought in the war ... sitting in their gardens in their sports shirts, blinking cheerfully in the sunlight, reminiscing in throat-clearing croaks about battles long ago. It crossed my mind: were any of you on the Pyawbwe slope, and lived to tell the tale? Well, if they did, at this time of day I don't mind."Fraser is a truly gifted writer.  After VJ Day, he applied for, and was awarded, a commission as a subaltern (2nd Lieutenant) in a Scottish Highland division posted to the Middle East. In this capacity, his experiences served as the basis for his quite wonderful and comedic McAuslan series of fictional stories (collected and available from Amazon.co.uk in THE COMPLETE MCAUSLAN). I unreservedly recommend both of these two books to anyone who has ever served in any branch of the armed forces, no matter what country. I myself was in the U.S. Navy, and Fraser's works are in the "can't put down" category.
5 The author describes his experiences of life with the dour, no-nonsense, Cumbrian ( an area of North-west England, known for its down-to-earth approach to life ) regiment, fighting close combat against the Japanese in Burma - the forgotten army in the forgotten war. This is definitely a man's book, the disparaging humour between the men being characteristic of the British army, and better than hours of contemporary "comedy".The descriptions of the child-like yet deadly (to the Japanese) gurkhas and charismatic Field Marshal Slim are inspirational. On one occasion a small gurkha band holds a position against wave after wave of suicidal Japanese assaults; then it's discovered they don't have a single round of ammunition between them, relying rather on their weapon of choice - the "kukri" - curved machete-like knife - leaving piles of Japanese dead all around them.There is a hilarious portrayal of a type unique to the British army - the eccentric upper-class officer, who has no fear of danger, takes the war as something of fun, and is absolutely deadly in his effectiveness towards the enemy.In my opinion this is a unique, precious book - to be treasured - showing war in the raw, as it really was, with real people, right up against the battlezone. These guys just got on with the job. Buy this book. You will read it with relish, and return to it when you need an uplift. Sheer pleasure.
4 GMF was an amazing writer, with an ability to put the reader in the thick of it. He was also, a marvelously reactionary old coot, whom I would dearly have loved to listen to over a pint. The rants are the price to pay for the history lesson, and it is the price I've paid a time or two locally. Perhaps the work was too close, as they say. Read it, hear the voice from '43--'45, and wish his shade well.
5 It is not often you see this many reviews all of which are 5 stars so when one does you pretty much know that this is a special book.  All the reviews for the book are spot on. It rings of authenticity, something that it is usually difficult for a writer do but when you finish this book you have a feeling about this man and his experiences with Nine Section that, at least for me, I never felt before and I have read many military history books.  Nine Section is 10 men, like an American army squad led my a non-commissioned officer who is more of of the men rather than an officer.  There is no big picture here, just what faced this one small group of men in a very difficult time and place.Fraser's description of the 50th anniversary of VJ Day and his reluctant participation was very moving.His commentary on the "spirtual hypochondria" of the modern world was absolutely accurate. (pg. 89-90)  I loved his comment on intrusive modern television journalists when he said, "I can regret, though, that there were no modern television "journalists" transported back in time to ask Grandarse (a Nine Section soldier): "How did you FEEL when you saw Corporal Little shot dead?"  I would have like to have heard his reply."
5 I can't add to the superlatives below. His short adventure with Captain Grief alone, is worth the price of this book. After reading all the &quot;Flashman&quot; epics this is a revealing look at the author as a  young man at war. Swims upstream against the current PC versions of the  last days of WWII, and is a moving tribute to the men of a forgotten  theater of that war. Shabash!  GMF
4 This book is not a history of the Burma campaign, but a memoir of a tiny portion of it, from the Battle of Meiktile to mopping up operations after Operation Dracula. The author is very forthright about the sketchiness of his memory of events a half century earlier.  He was a young private and then a corporal in a section of infantry that was part of the 17th Indian Division.  His aim, and the considerable charm of the book, is to portray the men in his section--their attitudes, their speech, their humor, and now and then their courage.  One quickly gets to recognize them, and to share Fraser's affection for them--and so it is a genuine shock when now and then one of them is killed or wounded.Unfortunately from time to time he lapses from a veteran's tenderness into an old soldier's rant about the degenerate customs and revisionist views of the current day.  It is natural enough, I suppose, for an elderly author, but it puts the reader through increasingly dense sections of his opinions about non-Burmese subjects--the dropping of the atomic bombs, the lack of respect for stiff upper lips, the pop-psych interrogations of  TV journalists....  It is not so much a question of whether his opinions are correct, or politically correct, as it is a question of whether those curmudgeonly passages add to the flavor of the work or dilute it.
5 Enough has been said by others. Suffice to say, this is one book that I have given away more often than any other - and have bought to replace more often than any other! It is also the book that those friends and I enjoy discussing more than any other over a pint. Thank you George MacDonald Fraser.
4 good book, just didn't hold my attention.bought it due to the author and his &#34;Flashman&#34; series.Good tale of woe during WWII in the CBI theater, but just lost my attention.
5 George Macdonald Fraser has written an utterly gripping and unforgettable memoir of the war in Burma, where he served with a company of men mainly from Cumberland.  His comrades are vividly described so that you feel you have known them yourself, and it is a terrible shock when nearly halfway through the book one of them is killed during a bloody nighttime battle.  There are richly comic passages too, like the time the section is given the job of gathering up provisions from an air drop, and return laden with stolen booty, or the time they are terrorised by a giant centipede, or the time Fraser falls down a well.  Every time I read this book I find myself wishing that I had been one of those young men fighting my way through the jungle, which is completely crazy, as the closest I've ever come to combat is seperating two squabbling toddlers.  By the end of the book, when Fraser leaves to become an officer, I feel as sad as if I was saying goodbye to my own friends, and I can never hear the tune &quot;bye-bye blackbird&quot; without substituting the Burma version &quot;you've been out with Sun-Yat-Sen, you won't go out with him again, Shanghai bye-bye!&quot; The most astonishing thing is that he was only nineteen when he was performing incredible acts of courage in the jungle, eventually even having to lead the section himself.  An extraordinary story, told bu a superb writer.  Read it and laugh.  Read it and weep.  Read it and wish you were there too.  Oh, just read it!
5 There are a few personal accounts of war and its impact on a man that stand out in the sea of such literature -- works such as "Goodbye to All That," "Homage to Catalonia," and "The Men I Killed."  "Quartered Safe Out Here" has now joined that short list.  MacDonald Fraser is the acclaimed author of the Flashman series of historical fiction, but here he reveals his own experience as an infantryman in merciless combat against the Japanese in Burma.  Here is an all-too-vivid recollection of the fear, pain, discomfort and -- yes -- the pleasure of comradeship among the common soldiers who win or lose ALL wars.  MacDonald Fraser reminds us that wars are not just "politics by other means," wars are about young men -- their lives, their deaths, and their friendships.  As one reviewer said, MacDonald Fraser "has raised a memorial" with this book.  Read it!
5 I ordered this book because of a favorable mention in the Wall Street Journal. The favorable mention was entirely justified.  Fraser's descriptions of small unit infantry actions in the 1945 battles along the Rangoon Road are interesting enough.  But the reason to read the book is its elegiac tone for many things in England that were--and never will be again.
5 George MacDonald Fraser, best known for his Flashman novels, and, in my opinion, one of our best writers, gives us here his nearly fifty-year-old memories of his service in Burma in 1945.There is so much to like about this book that it's difficult to know where to begin.  There is Fraser's absolute honesty about his fears, his mistakes, his attitude toward the Japanese, and the virtues and vices of his comrades.  There is his ability to place his unit's activities within the context of larger campaigns and yet give a vivid impression of what fighting with his unit must have been like.  There is his brief but compelling portrait of General William Slim, for whom he has an unabashed admiration.  There are moments of low humor, of heroism, and of tragic loss of life, and there is an unapologetic pride in what he, his comrades, and the rest of the British and Allied forces accomplished.This is one of the best books that I have ever read, and I recommend that you make it one of yours.
5 Very good account of British army against the Japanese in the jungles of Burma, leading to the defeat of Japanese army.
5 If you're looking for history that lives, for a first-hand account of what war is really like - or can be - or for an often poignant, often entertaining, occasionally shocking reminder of the bravery and courage of soldiers who have barely escaped childhood, you'll have to look long and hard for better than this.Fraser gives us 'the other side of the coin' - there's no chest-beating 'War Is Bad' sentimentality here, no complaining, no self-pity.  He brings vividly to life a group of comrades who fought because they believed in something, who would have carried on fighting if asked to, and who died, forgotten or demeaned through revisionist histories, for the freedoms and rights that we enjoy today.But he gives us even more:  as you'd expect from such a classy best-selling author, he gives us a riviting, fast-paced soldier's tale, something that were it not true would easily sit with any novel on the shelves of your local bookshop.  He gives us something which, when all's said and done, is absolutely readable.  And for that, as much as anything else, you should want to buy this book.
5 This wonderful autobiography of Frazer's wartime experiences with British forces in Burma should be compulsory reading in military training schools. The book contains all of the hallmarks of fluid writing, natural dialogue and a fine storytelling sense that readers of Frazer's Flashman books know well. But here too is a compassion for the ordinary soldier and a realistic accounting of how Frazer's companions thought, felt and fought their way through one of the harshest battlegrounds of the Second World War.Some of Frazer's views -- about the Japanese, about the treatment of prisoners of war, about how soldiers regarded war dead from their own numbers -- may make contemporary readers uncomfortable. But the book is all the more valuable because of Frazer's willingness to recount what he remembers from the time rather than to sugar-coat or glamorise some difficult truths.I would have liked to read 'Quartered Safe Out Here' some years earlier when my father, a Second World War veteran, was still alive.  The books gives an insight into the thinking and experiences of a remarkable generation of people. I could not recommend it more strongly for those interested in the psychology of conflict or in the experiences of the Second World War generation.
5 I found this very touching. A tale of adversity, melded with stoicism. It is neither pro- war or anti- war.  Just matter of fact- we had a job to do and we made the best of it.Strongly recommended
5 I first read this book back in the 90s, when it was much harder to find, and it is without question the best memoir of WWII (or any other war), I have ever encountered. I am not a huge fan of Fraser's fiction, but here the writing is powerful, deeply personal, unsparing and poignant while being precise.Most important, this book conveys what it is really like to live outside the bubble that so many people who are the beneficiaries of the heroism described in this book cocoon themselves in. This is Real Life and we forget, dismiss, or ignore these lessons at our peril.A profound, and profoundly important, book.
5 While I agree with the reviewer who criticized the soapbox entries in Fraser's book about WWII in Burma, I can't subtract a star for that flaw.  I think most of those entries were worth saying, though I'd prefer to have seen them in footnotes or gathered as an epilogue.The book is realistic, grim in part, hilarious in part (Fraser's account of his first operation as a corporal with his gang had me laughing out loud), realistic throughout.  I think he captures the essence of soldiers in the grinding, often miserable, front lines.
4 I count myself a true fan of The Flashman Series by George MacDonald Fraser and so could not resist picking up his own memoirs of the Burma campaign in WWII when I saw it in a London bookstore. I was not disappointed. Fraser writes so warmly of his experiences with his Unit of Cumberland soldiers as they fought their way toward Rangoon. There is the hardness of battle worn veterans in mortal combat with a deadly enemy levied by a camaraderie and slowly gained respect for men in the far end of the world isolated except for each other's company. Fraser spares nothing relative to the cruelty and also to the role of luck in who makes it and who doesn't and his battle and combat writing is superb. What sets this war memoir apart is his willingness to record dialogue between military comrades , much of it written in a Cumbrian dialect that brings his former comrades to life and makes this such an engaging read. It's the camp life, tea time discussions that you'll remember more than the battles and movement of troops. This may not be the best WWII memoir but it certainly a fine one written by a remarkably gifted writer and I enjoyed it very much.
2 Quartered Safe Out Here was far from the best personal accounts of participation in WWII.  It does not hold a candle to Eugene Sledge's, With the Old Breed.  Quartered is slow moving, without much real action.  Much of the action in the campaign seems to take place on other fronts, and this is mostly about "camp life".
5 While Britain was ingloriously kicked out of SE Asia in 1941, their soldiers seemed to exemplify the worst effects of years of defeat and despair. The debacle of Burma and Singapore and the debilitating effects of defeat infected both the British, Indian and Commonwealth armies. After the defeats and the long road back is where George Mac Fraser comes in.The British and Indian Armies has been integrated trained and tested in the rugged battles of Imphal and Kohima. The Black Cat Division full of men from mostly Cumbria, are ready to be tested in the long road back to Rangoon. Fraser recounts his role in the big push to capture most of Burma and then the mop-up operations with British Special Forces in the closing weeks of the war.Fraser's autobiographical writing is characteristically wry and at times cynically humourous. At other times he evinces what one may call the "ugly" side of the racist feeling of the enemy that filled the heads of both sides in this conflict. Like a lot of authors of the same era, Japanese are "Japs" and they are a lesser form of humanity. Lesser because they kill, rape and murder and kill British POWs to a degree that the British soldier (and any normal human being) finds shocking. What happens is, in turn, a dehumanisation of the British/ Indian soldier and any notion of him being a gentlemanly warrior. Quarter is neither asked nor given. Killing Japs and more Japs becomes the end in itself. When the initial offence breaks the backs of the main line of Japanese defence, the Gurkhas hunt Japanese with their long Kukris, Indian troops kill Japanese wounded, and the British go for vengence.At the end of the book Fraser is aware of the mentality engendered on him and his men. He makes no apologies for it. In one of his more famous quotes he asks if the British soldier fully cognizent of what the A Bomb would do the Japanese women and children would withhold bombing if giving the choice. He answers that if it could in some way end the suffering on the Burma Front by shortening the hell they faced, then the British Soldier would join in a single chorus that "yes use the damned thing...."It is chilling in the sense what this war in the jungle did to them. Fighting far from home in a jungle with sparse rations, rotting clothes, little rest, constant wet of the monsoons or constant dryness of the central plains --- the wasting of the body and the mind is much in evidence in this book.Fraser also loved his mates and the times he spent with them. Those days around fires on the Central Plains the intial rush to capture Rangoon before the Monsoon rains is very poetically detailed by this warrior Scot. Seven years after reading this book I can still remember his description of when the chase ends and the first drops of the monsoon rains come as the weary troops rest on the road to Rangoon.The British Warrior poet is a much more developed genre than its American counterpart. In this war there are many good British haunting memoirs about the Burma Front and the "Fogotten War."But this is still one of the best and stays with you a very long time.
2 The author chose to use the British colloquial accents, phonetically, which was as difficult to read as if it were in German. This book was obviously written for the British reader, but the American reader would spend a goodly portion of his time trying to pronounce words and phrases and than understand the entire sentence. The Burma campaign is all but foreign to the American public, more so than the history of the Eastern Front during WWII. We obviously have not given credit to our allies, especially when we have a General MacArthur in the vicinity. There are better books on the Burma campaign written for the American reader.
5 This memoir reads as though you're eavesdropping on a winding, beer-fueled monologue at the local VFW, or whatever the British equivalent is.George MacDonald Fraser became an accomplished author in the post-war years, but began his adult life as an infantry man in Burma in the final six months of the Second World War.  He waited a full half-century before penning his reminiscences.  It is highly entertaining, a wonderful portal into common life in the British army, and all told with a curmudgeonly punch, reminding me of Dana Carvey's 1990s SNL character "Grumpy Old Man" (e.g. we marched uphill in the rain under constant mortar fire from the Japs...and we liked it!).For students of military history - or the Second World War, specifically - "Quartered Safe Out Here" has several things to offer.  First, it puts classic, narrative military campaign histories in perspective, with Fraser stressing that when you read "X division encountered slight resistance" it may have been the most eventful and terrifying experience of the entire war for some group of young men who engaged in that resistance.  It also shines a light on a forgotten front at a time when most were celebrating the defeat of Hitler and hardly gave the Japanese much thought, further demonstrating that all war experiences at the grunt-level is personal and intimate.  It occurred to me that Fraser would probably strongly endorse the arguments made by Jonathan Shay in "Achilles in Vietnam," a penetrating look at small unit dynamics during extending close combat experience.Second, the author clearly wrote this book, in part at least, as a response to what he sees as contemporary revisionism on the war and specifically the feelings and motivations of those who fought it.  Fraser, for one, is unreconstructed - and proudly so.  Even fifty years after the fact, he still refers to the Japanese as "Japs" and candidly admits that he doesn't like sitting next them on airplanes and refuses to buy their cars.  Moreover, he feels no remorse or pity for anything the Japanese may have suffered during the 14th Army's roll through Burma, and that lack of war guilt extends to the dropping of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki.  Fraser seems keen to leave this powerfully written testament for current and future academics to wrestle with the next time they want to reinterpret how "the greatest generation" got on during the horror of the Second World War.Finally, Fraser writes with rare skill and clarity, especially his ability to capture the tone and vernacular of his unit mates, nearly all of whom were Cumbrian (the author is Scottish and was thus known as "Jock" by the men).  I'm writing this review from southern Afghanistan where I'm serving mostly with British soldiers, so this aspect of the book resonated strongly with me.  In fact, I'm not sure I would have even been able to read MacDonald's phonetic spelling of the Cumbrian patois if I hadn't been immersed in a sea of working class British accents myself.Depending on your politics, this book may not be for you.  But if you love war memoirs, "Quartered Safe Out Here" is not to be missed.
5 Fraser tells the foot soldier account of the war against the Japanese as he experienced it; so, the larger battle has to be gleaned elsewhere--exactly the way war is experienced by a frontline soldier--close and local. So, I found watching some You Tube film clips of the Burma campaign added the larger context and valuable statistics about the astounding number of casualties from jungle diseases.
5 A great memoir, a different view of WWII, to all those who think Steven Speiberg told the story of the war, Read this
5 I've never read any of Fraser's Flashman books, but being a fan of wartime memoirs I thought I'd try this one. Fraser has an awesome ear for dialogue - and dialect - that will have you reading these down-in-the-trenches conversations aloud, just trying to get a sense of them. And when you do, you'll often laugh out loud; I guarantee it. A very self-effacing and modest man about his wartime efforts in Burma, Fraser's thoughtful narrative about his 9 Section's hijinks just shines! And after making you laugh and giggle through his story, he'll finally make you cry when your read his epilogue added on the 50th anniversary of VJ-Day. I wish I could have known this man, a born storyteller, who died in January 2008. I salute you, Lance-Corporal Fraser. Thank you for your story. - Tim Bazzett, author of Soldier Boy: At Play in the ASA
5 I have greatly enjoyed the author's Flashman series, and had been unaware that he had also written this fine memoir of his service on the Burma front in 1945. Fraser takes us to the section (US equivalent, the squad) level, the cutting edge for infantry, as Section Nine battles its way through the jungles of Burma. Helpful was a glossary of Cumbrian speech and oaths. It was a campaign that is largely overlooked now, but one that demanded fierce fighting skills, and loyalty to one's squad (when they were not coming to blows, verbal or actual).The oddness of the surroundings may, perhaps, have foreshadowed the Flashman series. (I am reminded of George Orwell's "Burma Days," as presaging his later, famous political books.) And a semi-literate section member, borrowing a copy of Henry V from young Fraser (inevitably, "Jock") utters one of the most unexpected tributes to Shakespeare since the Broadway hit song, "Brush Up Your Shakespeare."Fraser's idiosnycratic comments from a distance of fifty years on such matters as the Churchill lost election of 1945, or the role of section loyalty, may jar some readers, but no one can doubt that he earned his right to make such comments. It was a hard school, albeit a school in session before the days of PTSD and IED bombs as devastating perils for today's infantry. Highly recommended.
5 "Quartered Safe Out Here", by George MacDonald Fraser, is Mr Fraser's memoirs of his service as a 19 year old Scottish Private (and Corporal) toward the tail end of the Burma Campaign in World War II.  Written over 50 years after the war, this book is not meant to be an exhaustive study of the campaign, but covers what he remembers of the battles he fought and gives a delightful depiction of the men he fought alongside ... and with ... in Burma against the Japanese.Early on in the book, Mr Fraser describes his memories as a long line of grey where he remembers generally what was happening but with few specifics alongside occasional bursts of vivid color where he can remember a tremendous amount of detail - and not all of it relevant.  Nearly 50 years old myself, I find that's a pretty accurate portrayal of how my older memories are, too, such as my days in college or when I was in the Service.  He fits his recollections in with a broader description of the fighting in Burma during the time he served, in a generally chronological, generally episodic manner in line with his memories.Where this book really shines is in its day-to-day depiction of the life of an infantryman in this theater.  He covers everything from the challenges of the jungle ... heat, monsoons, poisonous critters ... to what he wears and eats, and to his impressions of the many different nationalities/cultural subdivisions that fought in the 14th Army (British, Indians, Sikhs, Gurkans, Africans, and so on).  But best of all is his descriptions of his section-mates, a much more experienced, battle-hardened, and humorously sarcastic bunch, that fought and beat the Japanese.  There are also battle scenes both large and small, although as the author points out, what makes an action slight or deadly dangerous depends pretty much on your perspective; what higher headquarters may barely notice could be the most dramatic fighting of the war for the people involved.The book is refreshingly politically incorrect, which is to say honest to the era and to what the men involved truly felt and believed.  While in my experience, most veterans of the Western Front in World War II have forgiven and are reconciled to the Germans, the veterans of the Pacific front, virtually to a man, still hate the Japanese and will until their dying breath.I highly recommend this book.
5 Well-written account of fighting in Burma. There is a lot of honesty about war in this book - he doesn't sugarcoat either side. An honest book about a tough fight in a brutal war.
5 Fast 5 read. British history of the border limited from about Edward the Hammer to James I of England. Still, a history of many things and the changing aspect of English/Scots relationships. Amazingly, this conflict is not terribly clouded by the religious fervors of slightly later in time, except by the machinations of the Anglican Church against the Roman. Still, not much  of that lapsed into the borders, just plain deviltry as espoused by the inhabitants and the followers of kings. The end of the thousand years of border turmoil is in itself an epic of both government power and the jaundiced legendary romancers of later ages. NO mention of Strathclyde or Arthur or the coming of so many conquerors for centuries, but the compelling story of familial survival in a very rough environment. A personal favorite from the early seventies, it is still a most compelling read of it's times. Thanks, Harry!
3 But very confusing.  Author spends alot of time jumping around time wise and then finally outlines the 16th century from beginning to end.  While he gets the point accross that the borderlands were a dangerous neighborhood it's pretty hard to follow since it leaps from the 1520's to the 1580's and back again to the 1850's.  Even the recap of the 16th century sometimes does this.  I have read several of Fraser's historical fictions and was looking forward to reading this book.  It turned into a sluggish and tedious read
5 With all the focus on Scotland being tied to all things tartan, the peoples of the Borderlands often overlooked.  George MacDonald Fraser paints a spectacular portal into the tumultuous life of the Border Rievers and all they came in contact with.  The objective writing style favors neither Scotland nor England.  He does not attempt to justify one side or the others action- it just is what it is.  This approach fits in perfectly with the frequency in which loyalties and rivals switched sides and waged a blood feud that is still felt in parts today.  Anyone who is remotely interested in anything associated with Scotland, England, organized crime or just a good history will bask in the wonder of this spectacular book.
4 This is a very enjoyable read, and I'm not a big fan of history books.  The book is a great introduction to life on the border between Scotland and England during the 1500-1600-ish period.  Although tedious and challenging at times, I really appreciate the way the author segments the story.  His technique answered the "I wonder how...." questions that always pop up when I am reading.  This technique became challenging when the same people, families, and events were mentioned in multiple chapters (Did I mention that I'm not a big fan of history books?).  If you want to learn about the Border Riever clans and lifestyle, this is your book.
5 This is a well-written and thoroughly-researched study of the reivers on the Scottish-English border, particularly in the 16th century. (After 1603 they were ruled by the same king, so border wars stopped, but not thieving.)  Details of many raids, blood feuds, and atrocities by both sides make clear that neither side was entirely innocent or entirely guilty.  Neither the authorities in London nor those in Edinburgh knew what to do, and generally gave up on the situation.  The author names names and places, and anyone with a borderer surname needs to see what his/her ancestors or relatives were up to.  A fascinating story, well-told.  One complaint I have: I really REALLY wish Kindle books had page numbers!
5 I was very happy to receive this excellent quality book on time. I had lost my original hardback copy and was devastated. I was not sure what the  paper copy would be like, but the book is in good condition- looks new. Very good book and service. It details the history of the west Border clans in Scotland, and I am looking forward to rereading this book. The most famous ones are the Maxwells, Nixons, Johnstons, grahams and others whose facial structure remains the same today. Think of Richard Nixon, Billy Graham, and Lyndon Johnson. That is what they all looked like and still do. They led a hard life, and this gives a good historical understanding of these feuding clans. I have started but not finished it but it is an excellent book.
5 Enjoy those Wild West movies?  The ones with the shoot-outs, the cattle raids, the feuds between two rival ranchers?  How about the Hatfields and McCoys?  That All-American tradition didn't grow out of the soil of North America.  It was imported from the border of Scotland and England.  Basically the ancient kingdoms of Strathclyde and Northumbria, and after King James' Plantations in Ireland, Ulster.This borders region was the home to the Border Reivers, lowland Scots and North English Clans that raided cattle, engaged in long-running feuds and resisted the power of the King-be it the King of Scotland or the King of England.  On both sides of the border, the Reivers were more loyal to their kith and kin than either kingdom and often switched nationalities at their own convenience.This book describes the cultural scene of the Reivers and many of the highpoints of their activities and feuds. This boils down to a historical Wild West story, with steel helmets, lances, and matchlock guns rather than six shooters and cowboy hats.What is most interesting is his layout of prominent Border Reiver family names, variations on spelling, and their alliances and hostile relations with other clans.  A casual perusal through my own family tree finds such names, along with a time and place-Western Pennsylvania between 1720-1800-the timeframe and destination for many "Scots-Irish" Border Reivers that headed to America.Absolutely worth it for any person interested in history, genealogy, or just the Scots-English relationship.
3 Fraser is quite a writer - best in others of his works where he can use his talented imagination. And as a reporter of his own exploits in Burma during the war, his ability is outstanding (one should read "Quartered Safe Out Here").However, here in "Steel Bonnets" his hands are tied by tiresome reality and a remove of 400 years. Fraser admits this book is not a primer or even a text for college study, but it is a recount of his research and written with nostalgic favor since he comes from the border area himself. Mr. Fraser has great pride in his background and home, and he repeats the stories as faithfully as anyone could. The problem with "Bonnets" is that it hasn't much of a story.In the first six pages of the book all to be said is done; the remainder is elaboration on who, when and where. Bandits raid other people's farms and towns, burning, stealing, killing, etc.. Generations of upwards to thirty families continue this insanity until Scotland is joined to England in about 1605 or so with James VI and I.IF you ARE related to "border riding" English/Scots - (especially if named Graham, Johnstone, Maxwell or Armstrong, Kerr, Hume, Elliot or Nixon) then the book is well worth a look.
5 I bought this used - but you'd never know it.  It arrived timely and in perfect condition.  Wonderful history - well written.
5 I found the book to be full of information about the time period and region, yet always interesting and entertaining.  I'd recommend this as an introduction to the Borders and Border Reivers.  Very enjoyable reading.
5 This is a dense, thorough scholarly tome -- not intended for the lay reader.  Those looking for more Flashmanesque romps should go elsewhere.  This book is to a PHD dissertation as Flashman is to Action comix.  Brilliant and fascinating, but not for the weak-willed.
5 In the sixteenth century, the border between Scotland and England was the much fought-over scene of frequent warfare between the two kingdoms.  The families on both sides fell into an armed, semi-nomadic existence whose economic mainspring was raiding the other side for cattle, property, and slaves.  In "The Steel Bonnets", accomplished journalist, novelist, and historian George MacDonald Fraser takes on the challenging task of making sense of the Anglo-Scottish border reivers, as these raiders were called.  Proof of his success may lie in the fact that "The Steel Bonnets" has never been out of print since first publication in 1971.In his characteristic animated prose, Fraser lays out the background of the border area, identifies its people, and describes their distinctive lifestyle.  His narrative is commendably even-handed.  If violence, robbery, and chicanery was a way of life for the reivers, he provides the necessary context.  In a land without law, armed force was a necessity for survival.  The long conflict between border families, and with the uncertain law enforcement of the border districts, has many layers.  Fraser does his best to make sense of it all.  He makes liberal use of colorful anecdotes to move the narrative along and to characterize a complicated history.With the union of the English and Scottish crowns in 1603, the shelter of the border went away; the reivers were scourged out of existence in just ten years by a ruthless application of hanging justice.  Fraser notes the similarities of the Anglo-Scottish border in its lawless heyday with the present-day frontiers of Pakistan and Afghanistan; those responsible for pacifying that bloody border may find here some useful lessons.  "The Steel Bonnets" is very recommended as a superb example of well-written history.
5 As my command of the English language once again fails me in regards to communicating how good the author is let me just say that just as Black Ajax convinced us all that GMF missed his calling as a sports writer and Quartered Safe Out Here convinced us he should have been a lecturer talking about his experiences in Burma this current book also tells us something.GMF again missed his calling in addition to being an excellent writer of fiction as is evidenced by the Flashman series "The Steel Bonnets" shows that GMF had the makings of a serious historian.His tragic although not entirely unexpected death robbed us of one of the great authors of the 20th century.
4 This is a good history of the Border area between Scotland and England.  It moves pretty well and has a wealth of historic fact.  Knowing how well Fraser wrote I wish he'd brought more into it, possibly would have been better as fiction.  Never the less it is a good popular history.
5 When Scott says they abhorred and avoided the crime of unnecessary homicide, one can only comment that they seem to have found homicide necessary with appalling frequency.-The Steel Bonnets by George Macdonald FraserThis delightfully cynical line is one of my favorites of the book. It shows Fraser's sardonic personality as well as giving a healthy contempt for the romanticism of brigandage.In The Steel Bonnets, the author describes a world in which law was half broken, the sword was the ruler, and woe betide the weak. It is the old Anglo-scottish border. Long a frontier of war, people could not count on  normal guarentees of their survival. With civilization stolen from them, they became barbarians. And remained so for centuries. And the tales of their life still remain.The Steel Bonnets gives a picture of life on the border. It describes local customs, the techniques of raiding, as well as some of the most important clans. It is pleasingly unsentimental and does not regard border chieftains as heros simply because they were successful raiders. But it does give a fascinating portrait of their life. And it does not hide that, if border raiders were vicious, the English and Scottish governments, were not pillers of virtue either. It also gives a history of border politics and ends finnally with the brutal pacification of the region by King James, who as the author wryly acknowledges, was acting in a manner not dissimilar to his victims.The most attractive figure in the book was the Elizabethan lawman Robert Carey, who deserves to be better known, for he handled the difficult job of policing the border honestly, valiantly, and not without mercy.The Steel Bonnets is a book that is very much worth reading.
5 I once had a printed copy, not Kindle. It's a fascinating write up of an incredible piece of UK history, complete with all the warts.
5 As an history loving antipodean from family both Scottish and English - and a Nixon on one side, to boot! - this is a pure joy to read.  The Border Marches - the bit where Scotland and England used to meet, before the Act of Union - were rough, if beautiful, country populated by rougher and vicious men.  The book is pretty quiet on what the Border women were like, but one imagines that they were no shrinking violets either.  Perhaps they were the beautiful ones.There were 6 Marches, each run by a Warden, 3 on each side of the Border.  It appears that the main local industry was horse-theft, with cattle-theft, sheep-theft, arson, and robbery not far behind.  Tradition holds that the borderers were not fond of unnecessary killing, but as GMF puts it: well, they seemed to find killing necessary with troubling frequency.  These were the "reivers", and GMF - a Scotsman raised in England is telling their story, and that of the Wardens who policied them (when the Wardens were not in fact reiving themselves).GMF is best known for the fictional Flashman, but he was also the author of a lot of other stuff, including the semi-autobiograhpical McAuslan and the actually-biographical Quartered Safe Out Here. That was a good enough memoir of the Burma campaign in WWII for Max Hastings to see fit to quote it at length in his history of the Pacific War.  The Steel Bonnets is both an accurate history of sixteenth century Border country, their long kiss goodnight, and also a rip-roaring tale: history told like it is fiction, with "hot trods", blood feuds and international politics all mixed together, and topped off with a reprint of the incredible "Monition of Cursing" which is best read out loud, if you can get through it without laughing in admiration.  There are some incredible characters here, all told in GMF's dry voice which never fails to amuse, entertain and inform.This is a little piece of history which should never be forgotten, wherever the Anglo-Scottish reivers have settled themselves in the 400 years since their story ended.
4 THE STEEL BONNETS by George MacDonald Fraser is a prodigious and esoteric historical narrative about the Anglo-Scottish border. The time is the 16th century. The place and players are indicated by the book's subtitle, "The Story of the Anglo-Scottish Border Reivers", reivers being raiders. The place is more specifically the six administrative areas called Marches (3 English and 3 Scottish - West, Middle, and East on each side of the line) which straddled the border to serve as a buffer zone.Having grown up in Carlisle, the former bastion of the English West March, Fraser has written a work of love divided into five parts. In the first three, Fraser describes the genesis of the Border Marches, the Wardens, one per March, that were responsible for the maintenance of order, the raider families that lived there, and the culture and practice of violence that characterized the area. The author's catalog of depredations, based on research of contemporary records, includes murder, arson, blackmail, kidnapping, rustling, racketeering, feuding, plunder, and banditry - all made infinitely worse by the indifference and/or cynical scheming of the English and Scottish central governments which tolerated the not-infrequent participation in the mayhem by the Wardens themselves. Part 4 is a sequential narrative history of events along the Border during the 16th century, the last before James VI of Scotland united the island's thrones as James I of Great Britain. Part 5 describes this monarch's brutal suppression of both the violence and raider families of the Marches during the first decade of the 17th century, an effort that finally brought peace to the region.THE STEEL BONNETS offers a surfeit of detail. At times, as Fraser brings on stage the multitude of principal characters and attempts to unravel the maze of ever-shifting family alliances and feuds (Scot vs. Anglo, Scot vs. Scot, Anglo vs. Anglo, everybody vs. everyone), the reader may decide the author went over the top. However, the story is never uninteresting, and the social chaos is appalling.If the reader was delighted by the humor in Fraser's other books, e.g. the McAuslan and Flashman series, there may be some disappointment as this narrative is relatively straitlaced. However, even here the author's dry wit occasionally shows. Regarding the assumption of the English East March Wardenship by Henry Carey in 1588:"... his notion of Border justice was that the only good reiver was a dead one - a point of view which has much to be said for it. Possibly the fact that he suffered from gall-stones made him irritable, for he started in office as he meant to continue, by hanging Scottish thieves."And, as always, Fraser's prose is a joy to behold, as demonstrated by his closing remarks:"Only now and then, if your romantic imagination is sharp enough, there can come a little drift from the past ... most vivid of all, perhaps, in a little fellside village at night, when there is a hunter's moon and a strong wind, and the black cloud shadows hurry across the tops, and beasts stamp in the dark, and an inn door down in the village opens and slams with a blink of light, and the rough Norse voices sound and laugh and die away ... The old Border is buried a long time ago, and there is hardly a trace now to mark where the steel bonnets passed by."
4 barbarous,murderous,anarchic, happenings on the Anglo-Scottish borderlands from the 13th through 16th centuries. It was Afghanistan with kilts.
5 Best book written on the history of the Scottish Borders. Eminently readable, as good as any novel. Definitely, highly recommended.
3 It is too bad that the poor design of this book makes it difficult to read. The content is interesting and well-researched, but what with the small type and the problem of the text and maps (!)disappearing into the too-narrow gutter, reading it is a chore. When will publishers learn that while reducing the size of the type and the book itself might save them money, they risk losing readers (customers)?
5 In this wonderful look at a dark and fascinating period in Anglo-Scottish history, Fraser brings the same quirky attitude and deep appreciation of man's inherent rascality that make the "Flashman" books and his novel "Mr American" (q.v.) so iminently readable to the explication of the complex and violent history of the Border reivers.Beginning with a Foreword that, among other things, describes the jolt he got watching Richard Nixon's Inauguration on television, when he saw Lyndon Johnson, Richard Nixon and Billy Graham standing together on the platform, he explains, in typical fashion, that Johnson, Nixon and Graham are all names that figured strongly in the reiving years, and thateach, as well, wore faces that might well still be seen in the Border country today.He delves into the history of Hadrian's Wall ("Any Englishman can tell you why it was built -- 'To keep the Scots out!'"), and speculates how Anglo-Scottish history might have been changed were the Wall a few milse north or south.And then he dives off into the history of the Border and the Reivers.This is *not* a standard, dry history text, laying everything out in a straight line,with dates and battles to memorise and all the juice sucked out of it.No, Fraser skips around; first giving us an outline of the whole period, he then, in subsequent chapters, cover different aspects of the history in depth, and not necessarily chronologically.He gives us fascinating details, such as why the spiral stairs in the watch towers built by the Kerr family tended to spiral anti-clockwise instead of the usual clockwise, in the process defining and explaining the origin of the term "correy fisted".He writes of the great feuds among the reiving families, many of whom were to be found on both sides of the Border, of the practise of blackmail (somewhat different than the meaning the term has today) and in what manner one might legally pursue raiders back across the Border to attempt to retrieve one's property.Explaining the administrative setup of the Border, he describes the careers and personalities of several of the more prominent Border Wardens, lawmen assigned by both England and Scotland to keep the peace, but never given the budgets or forces they needed.He introduces us to several of the prominent reivers, including some of Sir Walter Scott's ancestors, and recounts their deeds.He analyses the economy of the Border and the reiving system, as well as anyone can, at this remove and from extant records, and shows howthis all affected the overall history ofAnglo-Scottish relations.And, for good measure, he includes the truly "Monition of Cursing" issued by the Archbishop of Glasgow against the reivers, a masterful piece of vituperation that runs four or more full pages depending on the edition.Not a history text in the classic sense, not a novel, because it's all true, Fraser has presented the reader with a corking good reading experience that opens the window on another time and place whose influences still reverberate in the world today.((About the spelling of Eliot... or Ellet ... or Eliott...: The family seemed to not mind how their name was spelt -- Fraser lists a large number of variant spellings with various permutations of "L"s and "T"s.  He then points out that almost any were acceptable -- *except*, for some reason, the double "L" and double "T", a spelling the family affected, for some reason, to despise...))
5 Until England and Scotland were united under a single king in March 1603, the border between them was, unsurprisingly, a natural place for strife and disorder.  The two countries had been at war intermittently for centuries, and many armies had passed back and forth across the border counties.  Fraser's history covers the last hundred years of the border, from 1503 to 1603, a period during which the decayed (and astonishingly corrupt) administration could never cope with the local gangs -- known as "reivers" -- who terrorized the district with cattle theft, murder, and arson.The book is very well-organized.  Fraser starts with a few pages on the long historical background, then takes about half the book to cover the reivers by topic: chapters on arms and armour; on reiving technique; on the key families and their alliances; on cross-border relations; on the administrative structure.  Fraser gives a lot of details, and plenty of quotes from the original sources (with the original spellings!).This painstaking coverage sets up the second half of the book perfectly: one hundred and forty pages that cover the history of the border chronologically through the sixteenth century.  With the details in hand, the second half is easy to follow and put in context; the writing is also clear and entertaining.The last section of the book details the uncompromising way in which King James I destroyed the reivers in a few short years after 1603.  It is a startlingly bloodthirsty story: Fraser includes quotes from blanket pardons that King James issued to some of his enforcers, which essentially say "whatever murders you did, I'm sure it was in a good cause, and you're absolved".There are separate chapters on some of the most famous events, notably the raid on Carlisle Castle that freed Kinmont Willie.  Fraser is at some pains to dispel the romantic ideas that cling to stories of the borderers -- as he points out, they were essentially a Mafia, with little of Robin Hood about them. It's clear, though, that he finds their adventurousness and style endearing and fascinating; and he writes about them so well that you are likely to feel the same way.
5 Most of us think of Elizabethan Britain as a reasonably peaceful place. Shakespeare and Marlowe writing plays, Edmund Spenser writing "The Faerie Queen," Sir Francis Bacon inventing science to replace natural philosophy, the English Renaissance.However, there was one part of Britain that underwent continuous terror and warfare, the Borders. The area lying around the border between Scotland and England was an almost lawless place. Great numbers of the people inhabiting the Border Marches lived by despoiling each other. The 16th Century was when great tribes feuded continuously among themselves, when robbery and kidnapping were everyday professions, when raiding, arson, murder and extortion were an important part of the social system. This had little to do with war between the two countries, who spent most of the century at peace with each other.  Much of the raiding was not cross-border, but rather English attacking English and Scots stealing from other Scots.  It was a way of life pursued in peace time, by people who accepted it as normal. The seamen of the first Elizabeth might sweep the world's greatest fleet off the seas, but for all the protection she could give to her Northumbrian peasants they might as well have been in Africa.While the monarchs of England and Scotland ruled the relatively secure hearts of their kingdoms, the narrow hill land between was dominated by the lance and the sword. The tribal leaders from their towers, the broken men and outlaws of the mosses, the ordinary farmers of the valleys, in their own phrase "shook loose the Border."  They continued to shake it as long as it was a political reality, practising systematic robbery and destruction on each other. History has named them the Border Reivers.Fraser explains, in very well written words, how the situation on the Borders came about. He describes the manner of people who lived there, who were the leading robber families, how they lived and ate and dressed and built their houses and so forth. He tells how the reivers practised such crimes as the protection racket, robbery and cattle rustling. He also explains about the feuding that went on. He describes how Border law operated under the March Wardens and how the two governments tried to quell the reivers. Lastly the book tells how the reiving ended when England and Scotland came under one king, and the older Borders ceased to be.
4 An interesting story, well told, about events along the border between England and Scotland.  If you want to understand the (to the foreigner) confusing and somewhat comical mutual antipathy between the Scots and the English, this is a very good place to start.
5 George MacDonald Fraser, best known for the Flashman Papers, shows he can write conventional history just as well. He is familiar with the culture, geography, history and legends of the border region, and tells a complex story relatively clearly. The best sections are at the beginning and end of the book where he explains how the &#8216;reiving century&#8217; came about at the end of the middle ages as the people of the English and Scottish marches became pawns in wider political conflict between the English and Scottish crowns, and later how the age of the reivers was swiftly brought to a close by James I. In between the main conflicts are detailed in a scholarly and entertaining way, but the overall context suffers a little as the repetitive back and forth raidings of Maxwells, Johnstones, Kerrs, Armstrongs are picked over. The chronology of the period is a difficult one to master, and only those who are already familiar with the key border events of the 16th Century will find it easy to navigate this book. Overall though, a very good  history of the Border Reivers.
1 I am an ardent student of history and particularly enjoy English and Scottish history from the period 1300-1750.  The author of this work is one of my favorites, having read most of his Flashman novels of historical fiction.  That being the case, you would think that this work would be right in my wheelhouse.  You would be wrong.Expecting interesting stories and histories of events along the English/Scottish border, I was instead confronted with a dry, turgid scholarly treatise.  Endless citing of English and Scottish village names, multiple variations of spellings and name forms, many times for the same person, illegible maps and a complete lack of any semblance of organization leaves me mystified how on earth this book has garnered so many positive ratings.  Does the author have so many relatives?Most annoying is the author's frequently employed tendency of directly quoting many of the actors in the history.  You would think this would bring an authenticity and clarity to the dialogue, but quite the opposite.  For you see, the denizens of the border didn't exactly speak the King's English as you and I know it.  For a good example, read some Robert Burns and explain to me what it says.  Page after page of quotations whose meaning can only be vaguely discerned by puzzling over context and possible meanings of words spelled only slightly similar to those with which you are familiar.  Loads of enjoyment and enlightenment ensue.This is, quite frankly, one of the worst books I have ever read.
4 Before reading this biography all I knew about Oscar Wilde was that he was oversexed and the author of The Picture of Dorian Gray.  Joseph Peace does a good job of revealing Wilde's upbringing, studies, and career.  In fact I am now reading and pondering other works of Wilde's like, De Profundis.The author seems harsh to Wilde's lovers and most forgiving of the "Wilde Life."  The book paints a picture of Oscar Wilde as a gifted artist who, as his life progressed, became a moral degenirate and a drunkard, in that order.  Wilde apparently felt and even expressed remorse, but seemed incapable of acting on it.  Yes, "We have all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God."  But, that said, Oscar Wilde was predatory in his pursuit of and obsession with younger men.  As Pearce points out, Wilde's sin destroyed his family and destroyed him.  Wilde died almost friendless and a pauper.  Wilde didn't seem so much interested in love as he did in pleasure.  What Wilde expressed on paper he was not capable of in himself.  The book is an interesting study of the decadent movement of the 19th century in art and literature, and will open the reader up to lesser known writers and artists, who were Wilde's contemporaries.  Pearce does make the reader feel sad for Wilde as he was brilliantly talented, but morally a train wreck.  Over all, not a bad read and a good introduction to the life of Oscar Wilde.
5 An amazing book, really. There is behind it a lot of researching, and a deep understanding of the human nature and of the entangled morals of Victorian England.
4 Informative and interesting with excellent profiles of Wilde and his family and those he knew.  I was particularly interested in the detail given regarding his fascination with the Roman Catholic Church.  It was explored thoroughly.
4 There seem to be two types of Oscar Wilde biographies. One, treats him like a sexual martyr and hardly gets into his huge talents at all. The other talks only about his career and treats the episode with Lord Alfred Douglass like a spot on an otherwise pristine carpet. Jospeh Pearce refuses to take either path. He looks at Oscar Wilde, the man, the artist and the broken soul. Wilde had some ideas about himself and was like Herod, fascinated by religion but was unable to stir himself to change. He a genius and was spoiled, pampered and protected by his class and talent but that left him totally unprepared for a brute of a man like the Marquiss of Queensbury.Pearce is gentle with Wilde but he doesn't excuse him. Wilde failed his wife and his sons miserably and the nameless, faceless rent boys of London weren't just props, they were shabbily used human beings. Pearce makes this all clear but he also discusses the hope of Wilde's life, his last minute conversion. Give this well written book a try. It is a completely different and fresh look at Oscar Wilde.
1 Pearce begins his book pompously: "I am convinced that [this book] penetrates to the very core of its subject."  Yet, rather than provide insight into Wilde as Pearce claims, the book is only the Reader's Digest version of Ellmann's biography.  If you are short on time and want an overview of Wilde's life and work, you could do worse.  Just don't expect perceptive analysis.
4 Wilde has a subtle and wicked sense of humour!  A good read for lovers of his works.  I expected it to be one story but it was in fact a collection of short stories
5 Classic Oscar Wilde, very witty, bitting, wonderful social commentary, and entertaining. Well worth downloading and reading again. I'm reading all of Oscar Wilde's works and highly recommend them all.
5 Short stories are a wonderful genre, and Oscar's are as good as anyone's, well, almost anyone's. This one is clearly written and the ending is surprising.
5 A humorous story published as part of a collection of stories by Wilde in 1891: Lord Arthur Saville's Crime and Other Stories .At Lady Windermere's final reception before Easter, at Bentinck House, Lady Windermere's chiromantist, Mr. Podgers is quite a hit, telling people about themselves and their fortunes.The chiromantist tells one Lord Arthur Saville that before he can marry his beloved, he must murder a distant relative. What follows is a hilarious account of Lord  Saville's various failed attempts through poison , explosives etc to do the deed, before in despair , he rather murders Mr. Podgers himself.A typically charming offbeat Wilde story with a twist in the tale.
2 i usually find Oscar Wilde's stuff to be delightfully witty and wise. Parts of this were excellent, very much up to his usual standard, but most of this book was pretty forgettable.
5 Lord Saville one night listens to a chiromantist who tells him he has to commit a crime, whose victim is supposed to be a relative of some kind, before being able to marry his love. The tale is full of humor and shows how he fails, systematically, in his enterprise, because he believes the soothsayer. But the more humoristic the tale becomes, the more desperate Lord Saville grows. Till one night he kills the chiromantist. He has finally been able to rebel against the prediction and this rebellion proves the prediction is a fake. But a second dimension appears in the tale. The chiromantist had been introduced to Lord Saville by some woman who invites such oddities to her parties to amuse the audience. She behaves as if she believed in those ominous birds that she calls lions. And Lord Saville was naive enough to accept this prediction as true and unescapable because it had been introduced to him by this particular woman, in this particular situation. Men must not fall in the traps of social tricks that some women hire to give some life to their social evenings that would be very dull otherwise. Who is wiser? The woman who "animates" her social gatherings with such attractions? Or the man who falls in the trap of believing such predictions? The other tales of the collection are all just as funny by showing how some people are able to go beyond such appearances and reach another level of being that is some kind of game and it becomes a trap to the gullible ones.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan
5 I can never tire of reading Oscar Wilde. This collection of short stories is a must read. They show his humor, wit, and intelligence.
4 I truly enjoy most of Mr. Wilde's writing.  I enjoyed reading this.  I have read most of Oscar's stories and find most of them quite a good read.
5 Enjoyed this collection of Wilde's short works. Very witty and really worth a read. Except perhaps for one, about the mystery lady.
5 Oscar Wilde is such a great writer. These are wonderful stories, especially the title one. I highly recommend this book.
3 Though thorough in an overview of the Tartan, many family and clan Tartans listed in the Scottish registry are not included. Going to the website for the country of Scotland is much more complete. Interesting reading and such in it's own way, rather disappointing for what is written in the description.
5 My grandfather has a first edition 1938 copy of this in his collection, I have have a 1960 much used and rebound twice version.  It's one I use at the first &quot;go to&quot; anytime I need a fast run down on a Clan or a Tartan, this is what I pick up.  Nifty wee book with punch!  Give the Clan Name in English and Gaelic, Motto's Old and Altered, Clan Badge with description, Origin on Clan Name, Plant Badge, War Cry and Pipe Music, with full plate colour of their tartan(s) and a surprisingly in-depth mini history for each Clan.But that is not all!  It has a short history of Scotland from Origins, moving into the development of the Clans, the ranks within a Clan and various Customs.  Has the Dress of the Tartan with several different examples.  There is a Family and Clan name, so you can see what Septs belong to what Clan(s) A Scots History Time Line and even a mini Scot-Gaelic Glossary of Place Names and one of Heraldic Terms.For a wee book its size, you cannot believe all the information in it.  A must for anyone wanting to know more about the tartans and the histories of the Highland Clans.
5 This is a classic everyone interested in tartans should have. There are an astounding number of editions available on Amazon at prices ranging from bargain basement cheap to investment level. I chose to buy an edition that I already had to replace a book that's worn from loving use. (The latter will be retired, not tossed!)
5 This is very good resourse tool to use in identifing or finding a clan tartan. Brightly colored pictures & a history on each clan tartan is included. The book is well organized & easy to use.
5 excellent book, I purchased this one as a replacement for one that I had several years ago an had misplaced.
4 Very good...lots of info on the Clans.  Great for anyone interested in Scotland and it's people!  I would recommend this to anyone who has any connection with the Scots.
5 This book focuses more on the why and how he took a photo than the technical stuff. Makes a great companion to his field guide.All of John Shaw's books are great. There is some overlap between them as he goes over the basics but they are all worth a read for any aspiring nature photographer.
5 The book like brand new and shipped very fast, I was impressed with this business.I would do business with them again.
5 If you are interested at all in nature photography, you will enjoy and benefit from any of John Shaw's works. Shaw is a clear, concise writer as well as a great photographer.  Focus On Nature is a wonderful in-depth  look at a meaningful approach to nature photography. In his usual friendly  style, Shaw teaches how to capture the environment as well as its wildlife  and how to go beyond merely identifying, &quot;headshots&quot; of animals.  He makes a good point, along with many others, that since any photographer  (who can afford it) can use a long lens, the true challenge is to capture  something much more meaningful.
5 Practical and well written book on how to improve one's photographic technique.
5 Truly inspirational and provides valuable thoughts and insigths on the merging of art with the craft of photography. Invaluable tool and on a simple level great for staring. Could even be treated as a coffee table book !!!
1 I was not impressed with this book.Very little technical data, no data on many of the excellent images in the book.The writing was flowery and arty rather than concise with information to convey.If your looking for a book to teach you something, I would not recommend this book.John Shaw's Nature Photography book is, however, outstanding.
5 This book has everything you expect in a John Shaw book and more.While there are beautiful shots and a detailed descriptions of the equipment, location and the time of that the photos where taken. The book is really more about the thought process that goes into the shot, the hardware involved, lighting, lens focusing, filters types, framing and composition.The book also details the environment weather it's a desert conditions or lush landscape, time of day and time of season and how to handle lighting, exposure and what types of filters to use based on this.He reminds us that sometimes there will be a good shot but patience will turn it into a great shot if you a willing to wait for light conditions to change. Look at your framing and composition and deciding what elements to emphasize and what to leave out or minimize. Practicing good stewardship of the environment and making sure to leave things as you found them.The photography in Focus on nature is breath taking as always. While the book pre-dates digital media it does not detract in any from the book because with the exception of the discussion of film everything else is applicable to the digital and film photographer.The book cover to cover is hi-gloss paper and all photos are in color and oh-so vibrant.I own several of Johns books and I would have to say that alll are outstanding and this is no exception.5 stars and then some.
5 John Shaw is an amazing photographer.  This is the third book of his that I have bought.  What helpful hints, though I wish that he was using Canon  instead of Nikon...I will continue to use his many wondeful ideas.I  hope that he keeps the great books coming.
5 Beautiful pictures and the lens and f-stop are included, along with an explanation of the photograph.  It was one of my best photography book purchases.
3 All of John Shaws books are thoughtfull, well written and aesthetically valuable.  This one is specifically oriented towards Shaws photographic values, i.e. what is his view of how to photograph nature. What I took away from reading "Focus on Nature" was the abstract sense of how Shaw dedicates his techniques to achieving high quality photographs. This book does not teach creativity however.  That is up to the individual.
3 The year was 1995. Irish music was wildly popular in the United States, spurring many to learn something of the Irish language. Luckily, Collins came out with this Gem pocket dictionary, English-Irish and Irish-English, to serve these thousands of new learners. It's a substantial dictionary, with 40,000 references and 60,000 translations. Not only are single lexical items defined, but idioms containing them are frequently given as well. In between the English-Irish and Irish-English sections there's a 27-page sketch of Irish grammar, mainly conjugations and declensions.Though I never reached a fluent command of Irish, I have productively used the dictionary over the years to understand Irish words and short sentences in the linguistics texts I have worked with. However, a major downside of the dictionary, as other reviewers have already commented, is that it does not give the pronunciation of Irish words with phonetic transcription. The orthography of Irish is idiosyncratic, to say the least. Without phonetic transcription, you cannot be completely sure how a word is pronounced. This makes the dictionary less than ideal for self-teaching learners who do not have constant access to a native speaker who can pronounce the words.Nonetheless, this little dictionary is economical and widely represented on the used market. While the paper on my copy has yellowed somewhat, it has not become brittle, and the vinyl cover has stood up well. Seek a copy out if you are interested in Irish.
2 While this dictionary covers many Irish words, I most dislike it because it has NO pronunciations. It gives you all these wonderful Irish words, but no way to know how they're pronounced, unless you have a hefty grip on Irish pronunciations already. It is not a dictionary for beginners.
5 A bucketload of words in a small format.  If you need pronunciation and grammar, though, this is not for you.  It is what it says, a dictionary, not a how-to book.  But if you are learning Irish, this is a great reference to have, just like your Webster's and Roget's.
3 What is good about Collins Gem? Well, there are modern terms for modern things, many probably only coined for this dictionary. Not all of them are very good, but most are good enough. Sometimes, I have been somewhat  irritated that the book has not utilised the terminology found in  &quot;Focl&oacute;ir scoile&quot; and &quot;Focl&oacute;ir P&oacute;ca&quot; extensively enough.  Besides, the choice of entries has more to do with UK and Northern Ireland  than with Ireland. And it is not only more obscure words that aren't found  - the English-Irish section often doesn't have even quite common or  everyday words.  It looks, alas, that there really isn't a quite  satisfactory pocket dictionary of Irish. If the Langenscheidt team would  try it, they would probably be able to compile one very good pocket  dictionary by combining this with Focl&oacute;ir Scoile.
5 This is a good book, with lots of words packaged into a small space.  I have run into words that I couldn't find in this book, though. However, if you are a serious student of any language you know that you can never make do with just one dictionary.  I typically have about three or four dictionaries per language.  Cross-reference your dictionaries to make sure you are getting the nuance you want from the word (I once heard a girl ask for "facil queso!"  No, no, no!(Sorry about the Spanish reference in the middle of an Irish review.  It's the point that counts, though.)).This is a good dictionary for having on your shelf full of dictionaries.
4 Collins Gem Irish Dictionary, editors S&eacute;amus Mac Math&uacute;na and Ailbhe O' Corr&aacute;in is a user friendly, comprehensive up-to-date wordlist of English-Irish to Irish-English. It's a dictionary for looking up words just like the Webster or the Oxford. It does NOT contain any pronunciations of the words in Irish. It does contain abbrevations. The middle section is useful Irish grammar that includes extensive tables of regular and irregular verbs and noun declensions and key English words makes it an invaluable reference tool. The back section contains numbers used in counting and with nouns and time.If you are learning to speak the Irish Gaelic language, I'd recommended you to try a lesson course with book that has pronunciations and a cassette to follow along. Some tips would be 'Learning Irish' by Micheal O'Siadhail, 'Irish Grammar' by Noel Mogonagle and 'Irish on Your Own' by Eamon O'Donaill. Some of these can help on the basics of learning the language. This compact source is handy to carry around with you if you're traveling. It seems to sell fairly well in Ireland where I got my copy while in Dublin. My other option to learning the language is to take a course well in a creditable school that teaches it. Also check through Eason &amp; Sons in Ireland for Gaelic textbooks. Eason.ie is an excellent source in Irish books.
2 This is an average dictionary.  It has lots of words but is virtually USELESS if you intend on speaking Gaelic as it has NO PRONUNCIATIONS FOR ANY WORDS.Do not buy this book if you are attempting to speak Gaelic.  You will be thoroughly disappointed.  If however you only want to look up Gaelic words and find out what they mean then it will do the job for you.
5 The COLLINS GEM LATIN DICTIONARY is a superb little dictionary that is superior to even other language dictionaries in the Collins Gem series. It is both a Latin - English and English - Latin dictionary, and includes several appendices on terminology of Roman cultural matters.The Latin-English portion contains nearly all words the high school student or undergrad are likely to come across. It is followed by a brief summary of Latin grammar and verse. The grammar is sufficient only for students of the most basic level of competency in Latin, but the explanation of verse is insightful and will satisfy even higher-level students. The appendix of place-names in Latin and their equivalents in English is a godsend for students who can handle texts just fine except for place-names which are missing from many larger resources.One caveat is that the dictionary seems a little too large if one is not going to be using the English - Latin section. High school students, and university students taking a course in Latin composition will find this section most helpful. Those whose use of a Latin dictionary is limited to deciphering problematic words in an otherwise clearly readable text will find an entire half of the dictionary to be unnecessary and may resent the larger size of what could be an ideally compact dictionary.For beginning students of Latin, the COLLINS GEM LATIN DICTIONARY is the dictionary to get. It is not ideal for higher level study, but students with a few years of experience should have already invested in a copy of LEWIS &amp; SHORT'S LATIN DICTIONARY.
5 Collins Gem Latin Dictionary is an excellent choice for anyone interested in Latin.  Wether you're a Latin I or a Latin III student it does not matter.  This small book measuring 3in by 4 1/2in can fit into almost any pocket &amp; can be carried almost anywhere.  These small books were common currency in my Latin class &amp; were highly recommended by the teacher.  This Latin Dictionary also proves to be very durable.  I once spilled water on the cover &amp; to my surprise it did not leak through.  Not only does this dictionary translate Latin-English &amp; English-Latin but in the back of the book is a list of key Roman dates, 7 kings of Rome, cardinal/ordinal/distributive/adverb forms of the numbers, measuring units, money (Greek &amp; Roman), &amp; geographic names.  In conclusion this is probably the best Latin dictionary ever published.  Again it is very portable, durable, &amp; factual.
5 Without a doubt, the COLLINS/GEM Latin Dictionary is in a class of its own! It is the ONLY Latin/English-English/Latin Dictionary you will need to purchase! So search NO MORE! Don't let the size deceive you; this little &quot;power-pack&quot; is chock full of WORDS from the most commonly used to those words one just looks up out of curiosity. It is certianly NOT lacking, to say the least. -- If you don't find the word you need in THIS Dictionary, chances are, you're not going to find it anywhere. -- COLLINS/GEM Latin Dictionary is the absolute BEST that I have come across. (Had I only found this one BEFORE I spent $$ on other mediocre Latin-English Dictionaries)However, we learn by our mistakes. -- Teachers and Students alike will find the Collins/Gem Latin Dictionary both extremely informative and invaluable. -- The protective vinyl cover is a definite PLUS! (Like the icing on the Cake) --~~~ DMShae
5 Not only does this dictionary have a more complete variety of words than many, but it also contains a number of helpful proper nouns which come in handy when reading a text which is heavy in allusions.  The little grammar and verse section also is a good resource to have around if something slips your mind. Using this, I've never even thoughts about buying a bigger dictionary since this has so much of what I need.
5 This small dictionary is surely the best choice for the beginners of Latin. The explainations are easy &amp; clear, and you can find most words you need as a beginner. I'm studying with &quot;Oxford Latin 1&quot; and &quot;The Complete idiot's guide....&quot;. With both books, this dictionary worked very well. Also as its small, you can have it around you all the time, which is really important. I may need another bigger one if I study Latin more deeply, but at the moment I am VERY satisfied.
5 This little book has as many words and definitions as most of the larger (and more expensive) works. It may not look impressive on the old bookshelf but it is a very useful and afordable dictionary.
5 This surprisingly small dictionary has, so far, included definitions of every word I've needed to look up through the completion of a first-year Latin course.  Irregular forms are typically listed separately, which is especially critical for those of us still struggling with Latin's abundant irregular verbs.  Many proper names are also included, which is useful in recognizing their sometimes unpredictable declensions.  The grammer and versification sections are too rudimentary to be of much help, but conversely they take up very little space.  Although the book is physically small (think "gem"), the typeface is a usuer-friendly size and font.
2 This is a very small book - only 4 x 2.5 x 2-inches at best.  You may need a magnifying glass to read the tiny print.  Lookup entry is often a single word - can be misleading.  Not a friendly companion when reading latin.
5 The above Latin expression translated means &quot;Wisdom Lies Within You Know Yourself.&quot; Never a more true statement. In todays' world, full of modern equipment, cellular phones, email, fast food and instant everything, we have long forgotten an older language, an older form of communication that has not truly disappeared from our vocabulary. Political expressions such as &quot;E Pluribus Unum (Out of many, one) are examples of how Latin has not died. A dead language ? Not in the least. Although you will not find any person speaking Latin at an office, at a school or university(perhaps at a university, but that's an exception), you will not be surprised to discover that the roots of most Western languages are based on Latin. These include Spanish, Portuguese, and Italian, Italian being the closest language to Latin. This dictionary provides a surplus of Latin words and phrases that will make you a Latin speaker in no time. Five Stars. But only for the serious minded.
5 When this dictionary came in the mail, I was dismayed at the tiny size.  Having studied French, Spanish and Korean in the past, I thought dictionaries had to be huge to be useful.  So I stuck it on the shelf.Then I came to a word I wanted a bit more information on, picked up this book, and was very pleasantly surprised.  I've literally kept it at my right side whenever studying my Latin ever since then.  It is so easy to grab and hold while keeping one's place in another book that now I can't imagine struggling with another 5-pound tome!Review by Janet Knori, author of Awakening in God
5 This book is the standard for information on survival techniques. Want to tie a knot, identify that snake, make a solar still, build shelter, find some edible berries. Its all in this one book! Its a book version of a boy scout with out the ugly uniform. Not just for survivalists its also applicable for the dad who wants to teach his son how to do a few manly things. If I could only take 3 books with me this would be my first choice.
5 A very detailed survival book, and small enough to carry with you especially in a Bug Out Bag. The book was in great condition and I got it right on time.
5 With store shelves overloaded by &quot;SAS&quot; books it's unfortunate that this little, uh, Gem can be lost in that crowd. The original format was more like a coffee table book, but for practical purposes this chunky, compact edition is not only the most convenient of those available, it is also arguably the best on the market.The manual itself is comprehensive, clearly written and with clear (if sometimes limited) illustrations, including a useful colour section; and here the colour is used for more than mere decoration as it provides essential additional information in identifying plants and animals. There is no philosophical description here, little room for the romance of the wild or the ethics of surviving. Instead, &quot;Lofty&quot; Wiseman's guide is a direct parcel of solid information aimed solely at keeping you alive in the worst of situations. Campers and outdoorsmen will find some interesting and useful sections here, but it requires a degree of knowledge and experience to sift them from those which simply must not be used outside of an emergency. This is a fascinating book to dip into, and doubtless most purchasers treat it as such, but it is also an exceptionally effective, reliable and well-crafted source of possibly vital information.
5 Outstanding in price, size, and content. Few books have been more useful to me, or resourceful. Really it covers every possible situation, and because of the afore mentioned size, it can go just about everywhere with you. Campers, survivalists, anti-governmental extremists, wanna be hunters and gatherers will all find this little baby an amazing repository of highly useful and to the point information. This thing even covers emergency childbirth for crying out loud! How can you go wrong? So while other suckers are starving to death, dying of thirst, or being eaten by sharks, you'll be relaxing and thinking about what you're going to do when you get home. Brilliant.
5 There is lots to love about this book: its tiny size, the quality printing and illustrations, and the first-rate outdoor living information throughout. It uses color especially well  in the plant and insect identification section. It's loaded with improvisational survival tips. For example, I palm sap from young stalks is an easy source of essential water and sugar; a baited cloth bag can catch eels unattended overnight. One nit: the tome lacks an index, and given it's 380 pages, one is definitely needed. Still, I give it five stars and consider this book essential for any outdoors person.
5 Delphi has become my first choice when purchasing collected works of authors and their Oscar Wilde collection is one of several I have purchased from them. I can get public domain works for free, so a seller has to offer something more to convince me to pay for something I could get free. As with Delphi's other collections, this is a first rate product. The works are in one folder, which makes my Kindle library more manageable, but other sellers offer that convenience. The comprehensive, complete public domain contents, active table of contents, numerous photographs, numerous illustrations, biographical information, contextual notes, low price, ability to receive upgrades, etc., set Delphi's collections apart and make them a bargain. The buyer who constantly gives Delphi one-star reviews must have a personal vendetta, because the product is definitely deserving of 5 stars by any objective standards. Collections where copyright laws prevent inclusion of an author's total oeuvre, are as complete as legally possible, and this is not the seller's fault and is not a fraud. The seller clearly states that non-public domain works are not included. The collections are still a bargain, and one can always supplement them by filling in the gaps from other sources. I hope Delphi continues to add more authors to their catalogue, because I prefer their collections to anyone else's. As for the works themselves, this is Oscar Wilde and that says it all--five stars!
5 I've become a fan of this writer and it's great to have so much in such a small, digital, package.  Kindle books take very little space in my Tablet.  Some times, like vacations and business trips, it's a good thing to have an entire library tag along.
5 Oscar Wilde was a self-described man of paradox. He was, simultaneously, a man very much of his time, and also very ahead of his time. He was a highly moral man who wrote clever epigrams about how good it is to be wicked ("Wickedness is a myth invented by good people to account for the curious attractiveness of others.") He was a happily married man who happily loved his two children but also led a gay life on the side and wrote hilarous satires of love and marriage ("Men marry because they are tired; women, because they are curious: both are disappointed.") This huge book, which contains practically everything that Wilde ever wrote, shows the man in all his glory. After the introduction by his son, we are first launched into Oscar's stories. His one novel, The Picture of Dorian Gray, is a classic and a masterpiece. A devastating moral tale, this one deserves to be in everyone's library. His shorter pieces, however, are of a more questionable quality. Consisting mostly of moral ancedotes dressed up in the thinly-veiled guise of fairy tales for children, these works are the least exciting part of Wilde's oeuvre and of this book, and seem to lean heavily on his oft-spouted crutch of "Art for Art's sake." After the stories, we meet Wilde in the guise he was destined for: that of a dramatist. His play were an integral and ackwnoledged part of his genius, and their influence upon modern drama was enormous. His type of high, farcial "drawing room" comedy has left a permanent mark on the stage. It is easy to see how even the modern Hollywood sitcom sprung from these plays of Wilde's. However funny and biting the satire may be, though, the high point of Oscar Wilde's plays was always his epigram-laced dialogue - whatever the plot may be. Probably the finest - and most biting - aphorist the English language has ever produced, Wilde is probably quoted - whether people realize it or not - more often than any other source in the language, aside from The Bible and Shakespeare. The Importance of Being Earnest and Salome are his ackwnoledged masterpieces, but other plays - such as A Woman of No Importance and An Ideal Husband - are very good plays as well. He also has some very fine and underrated less original works, such as The Duchess of Padua that are quite well worth reading. From here, we move into Wilde's poems. Although, as he himself admits, they sometimes contain "more rhyme than reason", there is no doubting that Wilde was a master of language, and a fine poet. He won the Newdigate Prize for Poetry while at Oxford, and his "Ballad of Reading Gaol" is one of the finest poems in existence. What's left are his essays and letters. The most famous of them - indeed, one of the most famous letters ever written - is De Profundis, his strangely moving and tragic love/hate letter to Lord Alfred Douglas from prison. This is a shocking and immensely moving piece of work, and deserves to be read by one and all for its unique look into the human psyche - particuarly that of a man under intense suffering, and possibly on the brink. The letter is fascinating, and should put a different spin on Wilde than many people inaccurately have of the man - he was obviously of a very high moral character. Several interesting essays are also included - among them are The Critic As Artist and The Decay of Lying, two masterful pieces of Plato-istic dialogue, putting Wilde's severe wit and intimidating intellectualism on full display for all to see. One may wonder how much he actually believes of what he writes, but what he writes is brilliant. Another interesting essay is The Portrait of Mr. W.H., in which Wilde puts forth an interesting and unique theory about Shakespeare's sonnets. Also, while Wilde was not generally known for his political opinions, it is quite interesting to read his essay on political and social reform, The Soul of Man Under Socialism, as well as two letters he wrote about proposed reformations of the prison system.All in all, this is a collection of masterful writings from one of the most tragically overlooked and underrated writers in the whole of literature. As another reviewer has pointed out, while Wilde rarely gets the credit he deserves for his work - and is often ignored, overlooked, or simply dismissed - his works are also widely and frequently plagarised - not to mention quoted legitimately - and were obviously extremely influential. You owe it to yourself to read the man's writings if you are not familar with his works; I guarantee you you won't regret it.
5 If I am in a bad mood, Oscar Wilde will pull me out. I have missed subway stops and stayed up too late, rereading his wonderful works. Be they hysterically funny, gut-wrenchingly sad, or simply depressing, the writing is so brilliant, I am always drawn to a higher plane. This new edition is lovely.Christina Britton Conroy, author of ONE MAN'S MUSIC
5 I'm very pleased with the book. All of Wilde's wit is right there at my fingertips. It's a handsome book, too. Thank you.
2 YES. THIS IS THE WORK OF FRUITY FRUITY FRUITY.DOESNT MEAN ITS NOTTRY A BETTER MISHAP FOR BETTYBOO LAST NOWDONT LOG ME OFFSORRYOK YEP SO WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE ME TO TYPE IN NOW?OKAY UM YES
5 Great condition. Awesome collection. As an educator, there are several items that I plan to use in class. As an avid reader, a great volume to have on the shelves. The book arrived on time and in great condition. It's a big one, and one that is great to review at random - not necessarily to read front to back. Thanks.
5 He didn't write that much, so it's easy enough to own--and read--it all. And it's all worth reading. I particularly like his literary criticism, which is just as entertaining as his fiction and drama. Sure you can pick and choose, and it's easier to read "Earnest" in a slimmer edition. But eventually (trust me), you will want it all.
5 Oscar Wilde is a genius. His social satire is as crisp and hilarious as it was when it first appeared. He is one of the very first literary loves of my life. (I was reading his stuff before I even understood many of the references, while still loving his sharp language and witty repartee!) This is an excellent collection of his works - really well-done and well-edited. I highly recommend him.
5 No comments.....it's a classic!! His tales were specially touching to me. Everybody should read at least these, just to start understanding Mr. Wilde's personality.
5 Hi!Curious thing about Oscar Wilde is that although he is frequently underrated, ignored, trivialized, forgotten or simply dismissed his works are also widely and frequently plagiarized. Not that he would care too much about that if he were alive.This book is a great collection of literary works by one of the greatest writers in the English language. Ranging from prose, fairy tales and drama through poetry to social commentary. This book has something for (almost) everyone, it is a great companion on long journeys and a breath of fresh air compared with some of the stale and stagnant ruminations of many an airport paper-back hero.Try it! it's good for the soul and the mind.regards......
5 I should write another review for Edgar Allan Poe sometime (I frequently refer to both Poe and Wilde as "The Man")...but first, Oscar Wilde's anthology.Wow, I've probably still more than half of this collection to get through, though I've read "De Profundis" (Mr. Wilde's 80-page letter to Bosie, written while he was in prison) several times. Over, and over, from beginning to end, and for some reason, it gets better and better with each read.As Oscar Wilde states himself (is there a more brilliant wit to quote?): "If one cannot enjoy reading a book over and over again, there is no use in reading it at all."I've read some of the poems, as well as "The Canterville Ghost" and "The Portrait of Dorian Gray"...I look forward to re-reading those, and discovering the gems I've missed so far!
3 Not a fan of reading plays.  For me, too difficult to read.  But I do like Oscar Wilde's works as watched either on the stage or screen.
5 The Complete Works of Irish poet Oscar Wilde, which is published by Collins, is a must for a private library. It is an excellent book even if you only want to check one of Wilde's witty quotes - and there are plenty. The book includes Wilde's only novel, The Picture of Dorian Gray, which caused a fin-de-siecle scandal about a century ago because of its underlying homoeroticism. There are also all his famous plays which he wrote and was loved for by English society such as The Importance of Being Earnest, An Ideal Husband as well as Lady Windermere's Fan. In addition, there are stories, poems (such as The Ballad of Reading Gaol - the jail he had to go to for his affair with Bosie Douglas), essays, and letters such as De Profundis. This newly illustrated centenary edition also incorporates recent revisions to the text, which probably only experts will spot.
5 Oscar Wilde can turn a phrase and write a double entendre like few others. And he is hilarious. Like Twain, he can point out our foibles and failings, make us cast our eyes down or laugh aloud, or make us cry. A man of flesh and blood and intellect, a man whose life was success and failure, applause and scandal, he could wring every emotion from his audience, having experienced them himself. Read him and weep. And laugh.
3 This book is not much larger than a paperback. I am 25 with perfect vision and I still feel I should use a magnifying lense with this book.
5 Though the print is small for those of us over 40, it's worth it - if not, it would weigh about 10 pounds!  As it is, it's a tome, but worth reading, and re-reading time and again.  It has everything - everything! - that you'll ever hear mentioned - his stories, his novels, his essay's.It would make a great gift for a young writer, as well.
5 I used this dictionary when I was teaching myself Portuguese. It is definitely not the best there is, but it's very good considering its size and portability.I especially like how it highlights both Lusitanian and Brazilian Portuguese. Although I don't like how it uses mainly British English. That makes it hard for American students to look up a word. I think it would've benefitted more from having both American and British English listed.One of the best things about this dictionary is its portability. It's so small, it can fit in your coat pocket without a proble. Another thing I like is its pronunciation guide at the beginning, complete with IPA.A very useful tool to your Portuguese mastery. I also recommend "Essential Portuguese Grammar" to go along with this dictionary.Brandon Simpson
2 This is more European Portuguese, so keep that in mind. Super small and good for travel, but I didn't get much use out of it. Just being honest.
5 Collins makes great pocket dictionaries.  They have a handheld version of their Spanish Pocket Gem that sets the bar for handheld dictionaries, so buying the Portuguese Pocket Gem (paperback) was a no-brainer.It lists colloquialism, slang, pejoratives, sets important words off from others with bolding, has verb tables in the back, has a pronounciation guide for both Continental and Brazilian Portuguese as well as English (so Portuguese speakers can find the book useful as well), and so much more.The translations and definitions are very accurate and extremely helpful, and the pronounciation of each word is essential to students of either language.An exemplary representative of the Gem dictionary series.
2 This is a VERY tiny dictionary, which makes it very difficult to read. It also is geared toward British English, which further limits its usefulness for American readers. It is compact and plastic bound, which does make it a true &quot;pocket sized&quot; book, but if you are looking for readability and overall usefulness, I would look a bit further.
5 This dictionary has two major virtues: (a) it is really small, (b) it's not paperback, but rather &quot;plasticback&quot;: the jacket is of a reasonably resistant plastic material.  I haven't found any dictionary of similar size that is as solid.  Thus, this is the dictionary I take in my travel backpack.I haven't really pondered whether it's as good as the alternatives in terms of entries and such; but I just don't have to worry as much about its getting destroyed in transit.
4 I've owned a Collins gem Portuguese dictionary since the 1970's.  I have carried it for years when I needed it.  I have worn off half the cover from use. (Yet the binding is still intact, and there are no loose pages, so you know it is of good quality.)  The 4th edition is the current edition.Having used all the various editions, and still using them all as I keep one in various places at home/office etc., I can compare the strengths and weaknesses.First of all, the Collins gem dictionary is the best portable dictionary around.  I have used or examined all of the others and thrown or given them away because the Collins is the best.  It is written clearly, has the most words, and contains as much information as possible for a small book.  It is truly pocket size, meaning it will fit in your shirt pocket.  Over the years it has gotten a little thicker due to more words, more definitions of each word, and thicker paper.  I personally think it's about a half inch too thick to be really comfortable in my shirt pocket, but unless you can find an older, thinner version with the onion skin paper, this is the best you can do.  I do have concern that the newer, thicker paper might not wear as well.  The onion skin paper seems to hold up better in my 50 year old Bible, and I wonder if this new paper will be as durable.  (I guess I'll find out in another 30-50 years)This edition (4th) has a plasticized cover so it won't break down like my 30 year old copy.  It also has more entries under each word.  For example, a common verb like the English "run" has dozens of definitions. It would be impossible to list them all in a pocket dictionary, but the latest editions have more than the earlier editions.  This makes it more likely to get an accurate translation of a word.  This edition also has better explanatory pages listing verb conjugations and the like.  Unless you could already conjugate "ser" - "to be" - how would you otherwise know that "seja", "fui", and "foram" were all forms of "ser"?  However, the dictionary still only lists "see verb ser" under these conjugations.  There is plenty of room on the line next to "fui" to define it ("I was") rather than just refer to another page.  But it continues to improve over the years.For more formal translation work, or to use on archaic literature, I use a more complete dictionary - Novo Michaelis.  Its 2 volumes are about 18 inches thick and anything but portable, however.I recommend getting books from the US or Europe, rather than Brazil.  Brazil, though fairly literate, has the lowest number of bookstores in the developed world per capita.  This lack of a market means that the in-country publications are of poor quality and poorly edited and proofread.  I rarely saw books in a Brazilian home unless they were schoolbooks, sciptures, pornography or in a teacher or intellectuals house.  Lately, Brazilian publishers have taken to just publishing crooked photocopies that are often unreadable in their books and it can be difficult to even find a brand new book that doesn't already have a broken binding or loose pages.For travel, or ordinary translation needs, this will serve quite well, and though I am quite fluent in Portuguese, I still use this most often when I need help to translate some literary word I have forgotten or never learned.  Highly recommended from this user of 30 years.
1 The picture may not tell you that since, in the picture, there is no other object to compare the dictionary with. But be warned: this is a tiny dictionary for people with exceptionally good eyesight.
5 It was perfect for my kids! They wanted a book with lots of pictures of tanks and they were very pleased! It was the perfect size and keeps them busy looking at it amd asking Dad lots of questions!
4 This paperback edition of the Jane's series is a major feat. Jane's takes all of the available information and some errors which are unforgiveable, whips them together with standard stock photos and presto, makes a WORKABLE basic guide to modern armor. There are ommissions and very poor editorial control all over the place. I wish that Jane's would have spent more time with the book. Many if not all of the pictures are the same in Tanks of The World, by David Miller. I was surprised by the number of wheeled armored vehicles in this book. Not great, but good.
5 If you are looking for up-to-date information on the tanks of the world, then this book is for you.  You will even find information on the minor tanks of the world, not just the major countries equipment.  Spend the money and get the scoop.
4 I'll confess being an early purchaser of most books Christopher Foss admits to authoring. In the fast changing world of military hardware - very few books can compete with the Jane's information series - and working as a computer modeler in combat simulations - these quick references are a must when my client (US Army) wants to see a "what if"...As a retired Army Intel Officer who provided Order of Battle information from various sources and means for a good many years - I find the book lacking - as said by others - complete classes of weapons systems - errors - and critical data for those of us who want to know as much as can be learned.For those who cannot have or afford access to more complete or classified data - this book fills a big information hole for the perpetually curious. It's best value is that of a starter book for those who formulate their opinions based on awareness of how lethal the world remains. Many people have an absolute interest - or need to recognize how nations defend themselves - and with what and from whom!For the military professional - the guide's short-comings on poor editing, weapons potential - maintenance problems, rate of fire - et al... may disappoint my technical intelligence friends - and still leave average readers bored silly with uninteresting detail. One might find this book in competition with military database sites on the Web.The Web offers many sites with staggering amounts of data. I find many websites hard to use - other than (for) quick look-ups - some sites having poor internal search engines - some are not up to date - others expouse political agendas I'd rather not support - or have as many if not more incorrect data than does this book! (Welcome to the world of intelligence!).Viewed as an entry level guide to a very complex subject - one can come away from this book with a great appreciation of the staggering size of the international arms industry, the great proliferation of arms, and the technical innovations that drives fierce competition between countries and manufacturers - not only for technical superiority - but for international sales (= survival of arms manufacturers). Jane's has had great commercial success with this series - and for good reason. It delivers broad appeal to a wide audience.Good marks for:1. Color photographs in later published versions2. List of countries who have systems in service3. Good readability4. Provides a fairly accurate history of where older weapons "go to die" or get new leases on life with modernization efforts.5. Attractive packaging for a broad commercial audience.6. A very affordable price - compared to what else is available.What were they thinking - when:1. They left out complete battlefield operating systems - such as track mounted AD weaponry, etc2. Some embarassing editing errors mentioned in great detail by other reviewers.3. They mixed paramilitary and police equipment (riot control and police vehicles) with military vehicle categories. Put 'em in their own chapters.Buy the book and be as critical or satisfied as you want. Jane's markets this to a very wide audience - with a large diversity of wants, needs and desires. Not as cheap as going to the web for data - but a good pocket reference for the military reader.
3 Just recently picked up the 2002 edition of this book (current edition as above). Great reference book for anyone interested in modern AFV's.However, there is a major omission, as the book states it contains Self Propelled Anti-Aircraft systems, but they are not included in the book. An obvious error that should be corrected either by including them in a future edition, or removing mention of them being included on the back cover (2000 edition also has this same error).Only reason for the 3 star rating. Otherwise the book is well worth the price, and has a mountain of detailed info, statistics, color photos & diagrams on most all of the AFV's being used around the world today.
5 Upon my discovery that ALL my neighbors are practicing Luciferians/Satanists, I ordered a different book by Dr. Burns and given she is so thorough in her research, I ordered this one as well.  Strange incidents have been happening to me and around the neighborhood for years, but I could never place a finger on the cause.  Sure I thought my neighbors were a bit &#34;off&#34; but it seems so many people are &#34;off&#34; these days I stupidly excused and rationalized their behavior.  Then, about a year ago one of neighbor ladies said her grandmother had been an Eastern Star.  End of the story?  After experiencing drama I won't go into here, I am now a born-again Christian and fight their witchcraft, sorcery, etc. with spiritual warfare in these biblical End Times.  Most importantly, Christians must stay in the Word of God as we &#34;fight the good fight.&#34;  Thank you, Dr. Burns.
4 If you are a fundamentalist Christian you might love this book because it will feed that self-righteous attitude of intolerance that many Christians have for everyone who does not believe exactly as they do!If you are not a Christian you may be offended by the arrogant, judgmental, holier-than thou attitude that the author portrays.  However, the information in this book is fascinating!If you are a Brother or Sister of The Order you will either be offended or amused at this pitiful attempt to discredit and slander an organization that is rich with history, knowledge and wisdom.Sadly, the author is so thoroughly brainwashed by a modern religion that was designed to control the masses, that she cannot see past the profane, exoteric levels of the symbolism of Freemasonry and OES.  She cites that pompus moron Anton LeVay, who invented his own religion and used it to perpetrate lies, myths and half truths in his so-called, Satanic Bible, back in the 1960's.  Freemasonry is a lot older than that and the symbolism of Freemasonry and OES have NOTHING to do with that nutjob LaVey!I gave this book a 4 star rating simply because the book is well researched and I enjoyed reading it.  And also because it had the opposite effect than the author intended, which was to convince people to leave the OES or refrain from joining OES.I find the symbolism of Freemasonry and OES very fascinating and educated myself on the multi-layered meanings that the symbols have.  masonry is rich with history and symbolism carried over from ancient times.  Freemasonry is a beautiful testament to our ancestors and our cultural roots, and represents and encompasses all the religions and beliefs.  All religions come from a single source and nothing presents that in a more respectful and compassionate way than Freemasonry!Peace to ALL
1 Because it did not let you look in the book you were not able to see and get a feel for the book, which is not a great book, so I beleive that is why they did not let you get a peek before buying.  I would not recommend this book.
3 This book is written more on the reference type. It has a lot of informative reading that is very true. It is not a book for reading cover to cover...It's worth the reading, not very exciting though.
1 The author obviously has not done her research, has no history or understanding of the organization.  She views Eastern Star, the Masonic organization, and many others as satanic based. She obviously is activily involved in them to have such a &#34;profound&#34; understanding of their inner working (NOT).
4 One negative is that this book at times seems to deal with Freemasonry more than OES. But then again it's understandable why the author had to spend so much time on the Freemasonry angle. A key part of this book is to show that OES and Freemasonry are intimately connected. Then she shows that Masonry has demonic/occult roots, thus OES also has occultic/demonic roots by being an outgrowth of Freemasonry.The parts that deal mainly with OES are interesting. But the parts dealing with the occultic roots of Freemasonry are absolutely riveting. The book's hundreds of footnotes show that the author put a lot of effort into putting this book together.Of course, hardcore masons and the like will hate this book for the most part. Those who are open enough to read this book from cover to cover might find this book eye-opening, as I did. This book is written from a Christian , anti-Masonic perspective, so those coming from that perspective will find this book most useful.
5 If you are a guy with testicles, you will like this book. The epic describes the adventures of a Viking, Orm, from his youth up until his last expedition. He never stays in one place for too long and is pretty much on the search for blood the the span of his lifetime. The only drawback to this book is the prattling priest, who tries to soften and dull the plot of Orm's awesome life. Push through the nagging priest part about 3/4 through the book, and you will find more bloody skulls on the other side. This is one of my favorite books of all time. It immerses you and you start to think like the author writes, because he writes in a slightly different way than we speak now. It does wonders for the brain to see this new kind of sentence structure. I think my brain grew from reading this book. The LongShips is inspiring, it makes you want to squeeze every last drop of adventure out of life as possible, to greet every stranger that walks in your path, befriend him and exploit him until your name is written with his blood on the Hall of Eternity.
5 The Long Ships is an epic adventure in the telling and the reading.  This hard to put down novel traces the life of Orm, a monumental Viking leader as he honorably battles the numerous enemies.  Within these pages we learn the code of the Norsemen, their honor and their formidable fighting ways. But all is not grimly told for there are flashes of humor, or at least what passes for Viking humor. For example, in the Viking view, a good fight to the death of one or both of the participants is certainly a worthy undertaking. Also, if one flags at the task of  rowing one of the long boats, then it is sensible to throw the slacker overboard. After reading this saga it is easy to understand why Norsemen were the rulers of Northern Europe for several centuries.  A great read.  Enjoy
5 This book is a wonderful discovery as it combines every feature I love in fine literature.It is an heroic adventure and coming of age story that excites the boy in me.  Especially in the first book, our hero travels far and wide to discover the world and himself.It is an historical novel that introduced me to an era and world that I had not discovered.  The primitive Danes and Swedes venture out for booty from richer and more civilized lands.  The advanced Moors of Spain teach their northern captives the pleasures of wealth and culture.  The hapless Irish and English fall victim to the ferocious Swedes, but turn the tables by influencing the primitives souls.  The pull of Christianity slowly spreads through the primitive land of the Swedes replacing their sylvan primitivism.  And finally, the little known incursions of the Northmen into Russia are described.It is a discussion of what it means to be advanced and civilized.  Written in the shadow of the Nazi invasion, it is a reflection on the nature of savagery and the meaning of Christian tolerance.This book deserves to be read by many, young and old.
5 Much fighting and raiding and adventuring. The sensibility of these 10th century Scandinavians is not quite contemporary but not inexplicable either. There is deadpan humor that is delicious. Read this and skip the horrible cable TV series "Vikings."
5 The Long Ships is a Viking saga of the highest order.  I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book.  I've read some Viking era history and fiction and found this book to be quite accurate to how I imagined the period.  Red Orm is a likeable character and I couldn't wait to see how his story ended.  The four parts of the book made for good dividing points and good breaks in the story line.Orm is captured during a raid when a young man and forced to row on a Viking ship to take the place of the man he killed.  Once he becomes accepted by the crew his ship is captured by Muslim pirates and he is becomes a galley slave.  Eventually he is released and entered the service of Almunsar of Spain, as a member of his personal bodyguard.  When an opportunity arises Orm and his remaining crewmates escape and return home as rich men, with weapons and gold.  For a time he enters the service of King Harald, and he even goes to England as part of an invading force.  Towards the end of the book he travels to Kiev on a quest to recover a lost trove of Bulgar gold.As a Viking tale there is plenty of sailing, rowing, plunder, sword fighting, romance, and religion.  The religious context interested me a lot.  Orm is transformed from a young boy believing in traditional Northern gods, to a valuable soldier for a Muslim world leader; and finally became a Christian in order to marry.  He followed Allah when it benefited him and when he was in "Allah's waters" and later when he tries to convert his friend to Christianity he mixes up his theologies.  He became an off the cuff Christian, and decided that Jesus made him lucky.  As the book progresses he has a priest as a best friend and doctor, but he doesn't force Christianity on his friends.  He builds a church but still held on to many of the old ways.In conclusion, to echo Chambon's introduction "it is really good."  I was swept up in the tale and felt like a shipmate on board ready for an adventure.  I wish Orm had more adventures so that the book would have lasted longer.  Definitely one I'll return to again.
5 What a fun read!  It had everything: Vikings, lost treasure, sword fights, exotic travel, pirates, and star-crossed love.  The writing in this translation was light hearted and fast moving.  Recommended for fans of light historical fiction like the Horatio Hornblower books or Princess Bride.
5 I loved this book and did not want it to end. I had read all the negative reviews and considered not getting it - but the price was right, so I did. I am very glad that I did. My only complaint is that I wanted a MAP to show where he went. I could figure out some of the places, but not the Scandinavian/Baltic ones.
4 I heartily endorse all of the accolades heaped upon this novel by the other reviewers.  It is a rollicking good tale chock full of more adventure per page than any other book I can think of.  A good measure of ironic humor adds to the fun.However, the potential reader deserves a few observations absent from the other reviews.1. Episodic:  The book is basically a fictional biography of Orm which recounts his many violent military adventures.  In most cases Orm is the aggressor.  Although some conflicts do arise as revenge for previous battles, most are stand alone events and could have occurred in any random order.  Like most serialized TV series or movie serials from the 1950s, each adventure is pretty much unrelated to the others except that usually the same protagonists fight different enemies.  Of the 50 or so "adventures" at least half a dozen are accounts by third parties that Orm meets who tell the story of their own adventures.I say this to contrast the Long Ships to other sweeping novels that some other reviewers have compared it to, such as The Count of Monte Christo, or Les Miserables.  These novels also include many adventures but they all are integrated within a single overarching conflict which organizes the entire story and gives it compelling moral force. Since these novels merit 5 stars, I have to give the Long Ships only 4.5.2. Anachronistic: Often historical novels fascinate by helping us to wonder how people in the distant past thought the way they did.  How did the Greeks and Romans produce wonderful poetry yet practice slavery and ritual murder?  What attitudes do we have today that will be similarly scorned by future generations?  To be believable, it helps if the author attempts to convey the way these figures may have actually talked and thought.  But in the Long Ships the characters speak with a clarity of thought and introspection that modern men seldom attain even in written communication.  The contents of their thought and attitudes are foreign to us, but their style of communication seems much too modern to be believable.  It may be funny and charming to hear talk of raping and pillaging spoken like Victorian gentlemen at their tea, but more realism is usually necessary for the suspension of disbelief.  I suspect actual Vikings spoke and thought more like modern biker gang members.  But them the humor would disappear.3. Narrow Focus: I admire historical novelists (Patrick O'Brien comes to mind) who attempt to infuse all aspects of daily life into their stories.  Here the long ships comes up short.  There is plenty of (what we would today call) politics, sex, religion and violence.  But never a mention, for example, of how a long ship was built or who built them.4. Satire on Religion:  The story of the Long Ships occurs during the period when attempts were being made to convert the Vikings to Christianity.  Many do become Christians but their reasons for doing so are just as silly as the old pagan superstitions they had before.  Often they keep both sets of belief.  This thread of satire is woven throughout the novel to great comic affect.Enjoy.
3 Loved the characters, and learning more about a time in history I had heard about but knew little of.  A good book!
5 English literature began with a Viking story, "Beowulf," but have you ever tried reading it? My own "Beowulf" experience led me to believe Viking literature is right down there with Viking cuisine in terms of digestibility. Imagine my surprise when I discovered a novel about Vikings, written over half a century ago, to be as thrilling, fantastic, and engaging as "The Long Ships."It's the story of Orm, a farmer's son in southern Sweden in the late 900s who one day finds himself a prisoner of a merry gang of Vikings. They quickly adopt him, and set out for adventures off the northern and southern coasts of Europe. Before the book is half over, Orm has found himself in courts from Spain to England, espoused three different religions, slain several dozen foemen, and found a princess to be his bride.Frans G. Bengtsson's novel, originally published in Sweden in 1945, showcases two things I didn't expect from a Scandinavian academic, brevity and humor. Sure, the book is nearly 500 pages long, but Bengtsson crams a lot of incident in every page, describing events in broad strokes and letting the reader's imagination do the rest. Bengtsson's style, preserved marvelously by Michael Meyer's 1954 translation, is to consciously evoke the elliptical prose of ancient Viking sagas, but in such a way as to allow for a modern, tongue-in-cheek sensibility to come through, one that reflects a Viking world, however hard-bitten, of great wit and depth."The Long Ships" is marvelously quotable: "For no man complains of the weight of the cargo, when it is his own booty that is putting strain upon the oars." Or: "Only poets can win wealth with empty hands, but then they must make better songs than other poets, and competition spoils the pleasure of composition."The book jacket includes an enthusiastic reviewer describing "man-size helpings of battle and murder, robbery and rape," which captures some of the tone of "Long Ships" but misses most of the point. Orm is no savage bandit, but a thoughtful, evolving character of great honor. The Vikings he travels with do some robbing and killing, but in a measured way. As the novel goes on, a sense of social responsibility, manifested in Orm by his adoption of a somewhat twisted form of Christianity, comes through.You might say the story of Orm is the story of the Christianizing of Scandinavia, told from a rather neutral viewpoint that respects Christianity's mellowing influence without being blind to its flaws in practice. You might also call it a straight-up adventure yarn of many threads. After a battle, Orm and his comrades may retire to a feasting hall to hear stories of brave deeds that fill pages and then never come up again. Or else we might get stories like that of a pair of jesters, forced to entertain the slayer of the king they loved, who come up with a marvelous form of vengeance right out of Monty Python.One thing you can't call "The Long Ships" is dull. Even when Orm is not actually at sea (he actually spends a good deal of time raising a family on a farm), the book stays busy. Some old enemy is trying to take his head off, or else he is having another marvelously circuitous exchange with his dyspeptic priest friend, Father Willibald.And the voyages Orm takes are a lot of fun, encompassing as they do the whole of the known world at that time, from Ireland to the Dnieper River and many points in-between. While a work of fiction, Bengtsson finds ways of introducing a lot of relevant Dark Ages history, even if some of it, like an enjoyably arch Y1K scare, may not be 100% accurate.Other books are fun to read. "The Long Ships" is a book to get lost in. You will feel like a teenager again as you take the long way home with Orm, enjoying his simpler yet wondrous time and wishing the world could have stayed so forever.
4 Very well done.  Definitely shows where Robert Low's inspiration for the Oathsworn series appears to have come from (from title character on through the story).  The dry, understated humor is excellent, as advertised.  NOTE: this is not a rock 'em, sock 'em Viking action story, but much more of an updated Saga.  The cultural insights are superb and it is overall a very enjoyable read once you get into the rhythm of the writing.
5 "The Long Ships" deserves all of the reviewer praise that it has received on this site.  When a title receives unanimous fives from more than 70 readers, you know it's something pretty special.  It has also inspired a large number of well-written reviews over the years, leaving me with little more to say than, even at more than 500 pages, it's a story that you don't want to end.  The writing is straight forward, witty and engrossing from the first page, and it makes you want to read it again and again.  Well-researched history and great entertainment.  Highly recommended.
5 This book was recommended to me by a man who can trace his blood lines back to the Vikings. I was very pleasantly surprised by how entertaining it was. The author has a wonderful sense of humor that turned what could have been dry history into a very entertaining story. I loved this book.
3 The unique style of this author gives the reader a viking era novel that does not delve into the deep Scandanavian history.  Nor does it sensationalize a fictional scenario that you cannot put down.  It is a steady as you go story that readers interested in light historical fiction would enjoy.
5 I'm about 2/3 through this book and I am so glad I read the reviews on it.  Besides learning a lot about the North countries it's been downright fun!  I'd recommend this book to just about anyone.
5 I LOVED this book. I found the recommend on Goodreads and wondered why the heck I hadn't heard of it. My book group picked it because we are all always looking for something different and this was a homerun. I thought it started a bit slowly, but it soon picked up and I quickly fell in love with the sweet Red Orm. (Yes -- this pillaging, murdering Viking is lovable.) The voice was distinct and authentic (whatever authentic can mean to a 21st century citizen). There were so many entertaining characters that I laughed aloud throughout. I love good historical fiction from nearly every period and every culture, so it's always nice to discover something different that is written this well.
5 I first read this book many years ago. It was good then, it's still good. Timeless. Viking Age fiction is a favorite of mine, and this is one of the best I've read. The movie that was made from it starred Richard Widmark, Russ Tamblyn, and Sidney Poitier, if memory serves, and I think it does, although the spelling of some of those actors' names might be slightly off. The movie was entertaining, but as is so often true of movies made from sprawling novels like THE LONG SHIPS, the book is better!
5 War and strife make for good reading, at least for men pining for the (fantasy of) days of yore where heroes-to-be would gather fellow men to pillage far away lands for adventure and booty. This is among the best of such works I have read, ranking up there with the Homeric tales and the story of the Three Kingdoms from China. These Skanians (whom at that time considered themselves Danes, a far throw from the pacifist Europeans of modern Denmark) are savage men from a harsh culture, but they are also full of humor and a sort of stoic approach to both fortune and misfortune that despite their being seamen, would make a Spartan (from Laconia) proud. The story progresses through multiple kingdoms and conveys an accurate historical depiction of cultures at the cusp of the second millenium. Religion is dealt with in a tellingly humorous manner, and it reminds one that conversions were historically based on pragmatic choices and rarely some sort of spiritual epiphany. Adherents would switch from one religion to the next as their conditions (and fortunes) demanded. Buried into this amazingly rich (and incredibly fun!) tale of adventure like a vein of gold, it is a suitable reminder of what makes us human in this day of flaring religious strife and shameless demagoguery.
5 This was a great read, excellent viking historical fiction. Interesting and funny, well worth the time and money, if your into this type thing, give it a shot.
5 Everything you could ask for in a novel; interesting well developed characters, exciting plot and good use of language. I very highly recommend it.
4 Written in a different style to more modern writers, however once got in to the writing style it was a good read
4 THIS IS A WELL WRITTEN HISTORICAL FICTIONAL ACCOUNT OF THIS ERA.  RIGHT UP THERE WITH CORNWELLS SAXON CHRONICLES AND OTHERS.
5 As many others have said, this is an epic book that is wonderful and enjoyable to read.  I had a hard time with all the Viking names but eventually you get used to that aspect.  The author is an excellent story teller.  Even though it covers many years, many characters, and many adventures, it is told in such a way that you are able to take it all in at the right pace.  Sometimes it was slow and sometimes quick paced.  Sometimes the battle scenes are recounted and other times they are skipped over.  No one aspect is examined to an extreme degree.I enjoyed reading a novel that took place so long ago and painted a much different life in which we lead today.  When men were men (and it seems the Vikings were some of the most manly of all.)  They were violent, but had honor, reason, and their own sense of right and wrong.  Just as we do today.I really did not want this book to end and it lives in my mind as if it was real.
5 This AMAZING book, written in the 1940s, translated into English in the 50's, available in English for only a year, then gone, and now re-surfaced mostly thanks to Kindle, is one of the most entertaining, fun, interesting, and subtly funny books I've read...ever.  It follows the life of Orm, a Viking who does all the usual Viking stuff - pillaging, exploring, fighting, searching for gold, etc. etc.  I'm not particularly interested in Viking history and lore, but this novel was simply gripping.The Long Ships is a book that operates on multiple levels.  For one thing, it's quite an interesting historical novel, with fictional main characters who interact with numerous real historical personages, providing an excellent feel for the time period, the key players, and Viking culture.  I now know about a thousand times more about who the Vikings were and how they lived and thought than I did before reading the book.  On another level, it's fantastic story-telling; in fact it's some of the best story-telling I've ever read.  You get lost in page after page of richly told stories of human conflict, honor, greed, lust, friendship, revenge, and redemption.  On another, and important level, it is a humorous tale, with wry and witty observations about the human condition - timeless observations about human nature that transcend the place and time of the novel.  Finally, on another level, it's a poetic saga, with beautifully-written, lyrical passages that get you flipping back a page or two to re-read what you just read, so as to re-savor the moment.  It is hard to believe that all of this could be accomplished in a single book, but there it is.The Vikings led lives of murder, pillage, rape, and mayhem, and it's all here in the book.  Yet, they also had morality - an understanding of right and wrong, a way of doing things that made sense to them and was grounded in spirituality - that is completely foreign to the modern mind but which sort of makes sense on its own alien terms.  A great strength of this book is its ability to place you inside the mindset of Viking morality so you can comprehend how it made sense to them, even if it seems (and was) horrific from a modern perspective.  As another reviewer noted, the book deals a lot with the Christianization of Scandinavia, circa 1000 AD, including the massive resistance of the Vikings to missionaries and the pressure to convert to Christianity.  This is dealt with in a very even-handed and balanced perspective; I doubt anyone could tell whether the author is particularly pro- or anti-Christian.  The zeal and tenacity of Christian missionaries to convert the heathens is presented both as pushy, naive, not purely altruistic, and destructive, but also as peace-seeking, beneficial, and redemptive.  All sides of the issue - the societal and spiritual benefits of pacification, but also the cultural cost of losing a familiar way of life as an alien moral order gradually takes hold - are explored in a thought-provoking, balanced way.Most of all, the characters are surprisingly human.  For a people who didn't even flinch at, and indeed actively sought out, extreme violence, people who would hope for a fight to the death at a wedding just to keep things lively, people whose lives were nasty, brutish and short as a result of their continual warfare and treachery, the Vikings are presented as intelligent, poetic, thoughtful people, people who if transported into today's world would be very recognizable to the modern reader, folks with hopes, dreams, and humanity.  It is very hard to reconcile the violence and mayhem of Viking culture with the humanity and likability of the characters, but somehow, improbably, it all fits together.  That is what makes this book so absolutely interesting and fun.The author has a wry sense of humor that comes through the pages over and over.  The subtle humor adds tremendously to the reading experience.Solid, flawless 5-star book on every level.
