1 I thought this book was poorly developed and depressing. Really, can anybody come up with a book that doesn't involve infidelity? This guy threw away his whole life and what was the point of this book? I thought it stunk. I can't even believe I read this tripe. stay away from this author...
3 As a retired circus performer and amateur circus historian, I read Water for Elephants with some hesitancy.  Most circus fiction is hardly worth reading, written by people who have no background in the business.  There was much play about Gruen's doing historical research for her novel at the Circus World Museum in Baraboo.  And there is a lot of interesting history in it.  But there is also some absolutely incredibly unbelieveable stuff, too.  Here are some glaring examples of what I consider to be the "goofiness" of the novel.Benzini Bros is portrayed as a 50 car railroad circus.  If you know anything about the railroad shows of the era depicted in the book this would have been second in size only to Ringling Bros.and Barnum&Bailey; Circus.  Most circuses of that time, even the smallest shows that traveled by trucks rather than by rail, had at least one elephant -- at least one!  But here is this 50 car railroad show without any!  And during the Great Depression elephants were not that hard to come by as times were tough and shows folded (went broke) and had equipment and animals, including elephants, for sale -- either by choice or by the Sheriff's gavel at forced auctions.  Just amazing that Uncle Al the owner had been unable to get an elephant until Rosy came along.Then Uncle Al  decides to blow his bookings and take his whole darn show out to where he eventually buys his elephant!!!  If there is any rule you don't break with a circus it is that you do not walk away (blow) your bookings, your route!!  If you had a circus the size of this one in the novel your daily nut (expenses) would be very great.  You cannot afford to blow your booked dates unless there was something very major like a foot and mouth disease outbreak that could cause the show to be quarantined for months.  Or the weather in the area you have been book is so bad, you cannot show because of flooding, heavy rains, snow, etc. Or you were following some other shows who have played the area and business is therefore bad.  But you just don't pack up your who show, blow booked dates, and head on out to get some new attraction!!  The way it worked (and still works) was that word of a show folding would be advertised in The Billboard, the show trade publication of the time, and buyers like Uncle Al or his agent would come out to where the defunct show's assets were going to be sold or auctioned off and then the bidding or buying would take place.  If you got your elephant, it was trucked back or loaded on to a railroad freight car and sent to wherever your show was.  But you didn't take your whole show and ship it out to pick up an elephant -- it's a wonder Uncle Al succeeded in building a 50 car show at all with this kind of management!Also I find it kind of strange that Uncle Al's show pulls up along side another, defunct show, and loads that equipment with his and Benzini Bros goes on its merry way.  And then at the end, Benzini Bros becomes the defunct show and another comes along side and loads the remains of Benzini Bros.  If you didn't know better you would think this is way shows would go out of business or be taken over by other shows.  I won't say this kind of thing didn't happen, but TWICE in the story?  Again, when a show folded, it was advertised in The Billboard as well as newpapers in the area it went defunct, and the buyers would come to buy the equipment, wagons, tents and exotic animals, etc.  Horses were not too difficult to sell as horse power was still a major factor on farms at that time.  There were dealers in used show equipment, William P. "Diamond Bill" Hall of Lancaster, Missouri being one, who bought defunct shows' equipment and animals, and then turn around and sell that stuff to other showmen who would put out a new show with it.I wouldn't have bothered to write this but for the fact that reviews I read of Water for Elephants made a big to do about its historical research and so-called accurate portayal of the depression era railroad circus.  But it is a good read if you discount all the goofiness in it.  Just remember it is fiction and the writer has taken some real liberties with her work.
5 When I read the plot of this book, I was skeptical, but I'd heard good things about it, so I gave it a try.  It hooked me and kept me reading immediately.  I loved it. Wonderful story.
5 I read this book when it first came out and completely enjoyed it.. Fast paced.. Endearing characters.. Interesting all the way around.. This was just a wonderful book..Sit back and enjoy :)Emily P.
1 I purchased this book based on the reviews.  The book was full of animal abuse and human abuse.  I was so disappointed in it and if you have a weak stomach with animal abuse, don't read it.
5 I was skeptical at first after reading some of the reviews, especially since this isn't my normal action-adventure, thriller genre. But I took a flyer after a friend said I'd really miss something special if I didn't read Water for Elephants. She was right! Now I'm telling you. Don't miss this wonderful book!
5 If you enjoyed the HBO Series Carnivale you will love this book.  It is very well researched and captures the feel of the depression. This book provides a lot of historical information while being extremely entertaining.  It also teaches a lesson in how quickly time flies.  It is an adventure, love and mystery story joined together.
4 A very endearing story told by an old man reflecting back on his time as a circus vet.  Enjoyed the insight into circus life during the Great Depression, with all its madness, tragedy, and colorful characters. High spirited with lots of drama and emotion. Predictable ending , but nonetheless satisfying.  Could easily see this one making it to the big screen using the same cast of characters from the Titanic.
1 After two hundred and fifty pages of waiting for the protagonist to do something, do anything even remotely worthy of our spending time with him, I finally gave up. It's shocking that this is what has become of American literature. It's the Oprah factor. "Oh, isn't it so romantic that this guy makes out with the bad guy's wife while the bad guy beats the elephant with a stick with a nail in it." This guy allows the elephant to be beaten on a daily basis and he's a vet and he does nothing. I don't know, maybe in the shocking ending we find out that this wimp didn't really exist or something like that, but I couldn't read another page where this ineffectual non-hero continued to do absolutely nothing. Zero. Just imagine "Grapes of Wrath" except Tom Joad turns a blind eye to workers being beaten so he can sneak around with a married woman and call her by her first name in 90% of the sentences in which he speaks to her.If you love animals of any kind, you will hate this protagonist. This book is worse than "Cold Mountain."
5 I really have no right to proclaim that one day this book will be a classic, but I am going to stick my neck out.  What a powerful read.  This book puts you into circus life in the Depression, shakes you until you are groggy and then wakes you up to find that you can't stop thinking about the story.  Ms. Gruen has obviously done her homework as she draws you into the seedy,muddy, bloody life of the circus.  Very much unlike my experiences, as a child, going to see "THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH," circus life is portrayed as something less than  glamorous.  What wonderful characters and the plot is one "big top" thrill after the other.  I will be very surprised if some Hollywood producer doesn't grab this novel and make a fantastic movie.  A book has to grab me with the first chapter for me to continue and I was grabbed during the first page. Do yourself a favor and give it a shot.  You will not be disappointed at all.
4 I enjoyed reading the book and I really liked how it all wrapped up in the end.  The only thing I didn't like was the flipping back and forth from past to present.  I didn't really see any need.  And, I wished that there wasn't a prolouge (seemed to give something away ...too soon).  Although, the characters were great and the book was fun.
5 Every so often an author will write a story that seems to have been especially for you. Sara Gruen has written this kind of story. Without question this novel, "Water for Elephants", is the best book I've read this year and for some time. The events are so real, and the characters so alive they tug at your heart, bring laughter to your lips and tears to your eyes. I absolutely loved it and I'm not an easy guy to please.
3 I listened to the unabridged audio CD version as I drove the last couple of weeks. I know that the book was (and is) a wildly popular bestseller, but I have to confess that the thought that kept nagging at me as I listened was why? I'm not saying this is a bad book. It is somewhat engaging. However, I didn't find any of the characters particularly vivid or humanly multi-dimensional. And as soon as Rosie the elephant was added to the circus, halfway through the book, I had a (correct) feeling as to where the plot line was moving, so no surprise ending. I have no idea whether circus life in the prohibition era was anything like this, so can't comment on the authenticity of the backdrop, but I found it pretty depressing. Altogether, a pretty so-so read.
5 I stumbled on this book by accident, it was on an iPad I had borrowed and was checking out the features... but it grabbed my attention from the first page and I could not put it down. I recommended it to friends who loved it just as much. It is not my usual genre, but I loved it. It had everything, tragedy, suspense, romance, and an interesting backdrop for a story. The movie was 'awwright'
3 The writing in this book is about boring and uncreative as it can get. I am not speaking about the story, which is OK, though nothing too special. But the writing style itself and the use of the English language by the author is about as dry and unimaginative as one can get.It's a fast read, and I kept waiting for the plot twist that would make the book a worthwhile read, but was left disappointed. Not a great read, but not horrible either, just very middle of the road and very forgettable. The author used to be a technical writer prior to writing this book and it shows.
3 Rooting for the underdog is easy to do today, especially when that underdog has been dealt crap in his supposed hand of cards that he brings to the poker game. So, when Sara Gruen attempts to bring us scenes from behind the scene of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth through the creaks and crevices of Jacob Jankowski's memory, does she succeed in doing so? Are you ready for a circus stunt such as this? Well then, read on! ON TO THE BIG TOP MEAT AND POTATOES OF THIS EXTRAVAGANZA AS I DARINGLY ATTEMPT TO WRITE SUCH A REVIEW!!!Just so you know, I didn't think it was the latest and greatest masterpiece that everybody else did, but I didn't think it totally sucked either. Ok, you've been fairly warned, lest I rain on your precious parade, or enlighten it, whatever the case may be for the reader.To get things started, Jacob Jankowski is ninety. Hmmm...or maybe he's ninety three. Ok, ok, he's one or the other, OK?!!? But he's got a story to tell ya, and it ain't about Ringling. It is about one man who's left with nothing after his parents are killed, and he skips out on his vet finals. And that man hops a train, and walks into a hair-raising tale that only Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth can produce in a lifetime! And once he hops this train, he's nothing, but that changes rather quickly when certain authorities learn about his experience with animals, despite not taking his final exams.From there, Jacob is treated to a world of everybody and nobodies, and sometimes the big boys who might be jealous of their wives who married the wrong man. People are supposed to water at the mouth at the tasty treats a circus can only offer, and the men are more than likely to salivate at the "cooch tent," where flesh runs rampant for a certain price. He is shown how cruel a man can be, and learns that to get what he wants out of this Main Attraction, he has to fight, and fight dirty, just like the low-lifes who run this show. And of course, there is Rosie, the lone elephant in this show, who isn't always understood, except by Jacob and his hopeful honey, Marlena. The question is, is there any easy way out of this?Unfortunately, Sara Gruen makes it a little too easy in the end, and what seems to be complex, turns just a little too easy for my taste. And in the very end, the ending is not only perfect, but Hollywood couldn't have conjured it up any better than Gruen did. I'm not sure I appreciate such an effort. I respect it, yes. The writing is spectacular. I just wish there was more to it.
4 I really enjoy Sara Gruen's ability to tell a story, and she captures circus life in a compelling way. I felt the characters were very tragic and it was difficult for me to read about so much animal abuse, eventhough I understand August was a very sick character.
2 I was given this book by a friend that insisted that I read it, "It was fabulous".  I read about 100 pages of it and set it down which is something I rarely ever do.  A couple months go by and I was at a party where a couple people again said what a great book it was.  I decided I had to give it another try so I picked it back up and continued to read it.  At the end, I still don't understand the love of this book.  I didn't care for the animal brutality and I just never connected with the characters in this book.
5 Loved this book. Though the ending is telegraphed ahead of the final chapter, the book is satisfying and fun.I played in a circus band when I was a teenager and am delighted by the author's accurate feel for circuses and descriptions of circus folks and traditions.Sara Gruen writes well. The story is solid. A very good book.
2 The highly improbable plot and characters were a disappointment.  This was not a fun book!
5 I enjoyed this book from beginning to end. It isn't often that my 20-year-old daughter and I agree on a book, but this one spanned the generations.
5 I read this book when it first came out. I picked it up at the library.  I absolutely loved it then they made a movie out of it and the movie was great too (surprise).  I love depression era books and the fact that this took you into the circus during that era was wonderful to me. Sara Gruen makes you feel you are at the circus with these characters and can see them in all their glory and sometimes not so glory.
5 I wasn't too enthusiastic about reading this, and so I chose to see the movie before deciding whether or not I wanted to purchase it. After seeing the film, I figured if the book is anything like the movie it wouldn't be half bad. The book is A MILLION times better. I read it in a few days and was absolutely hooked from cover to cover. As the book progresses, you find yourself feeling everything Jacob feels: guilt, love, affection, worry etc. Gruen did an awesome job bringing the story to life and the characters Rosie and Kinko were definitely an added bonus. I would recommend this to just about anyone old enough to handle a few "detailed" scenes and my book had a series of pictures every couple of chapters, some of which I would deem inappropriate for younger kids. I'm seventeen and didn't have an issue with them, but parents BE WARNED.
5 This book is so detailed and written in such a magnificent way, that it practically puts you in the middle of the Benzini Bros Circus to live the story side by side with Jacob. You feel his love, his anger, his fear, the pain, exhaustion and cruelty of the circus life and the people in it. The twist and turns will leave you breathless and this book is impossible to put down. Recommended 100%.
3 I give this book a 2.6.  All those people Jacob's father helped in that little town and no one came forward in his time of tragedy?  It just didn't seem realistic to me.  Someone from immigrant stock with the pluck and drive to get into Cornell vet school is not likely to founder in this situation, nor just dismissively to walk away from his final exams.  Jacob wasn't a pampered trust fund baby; he'd probaby had it a bit rough all along. The rest of the story is just a contrivance built upon an unbelievable premise.
5 This book is well written and the story is so compelling! I love how the narrator of the book is the old man. Really helps you to empathize with him and feel what he's feeling. makes me realize that I better live the best life I can right now because some day, I too will be telling my story, if I live to see old age.
5 Learned alot about the people in the Circus and their struggles.  Have a lot of respect for them now that I read the book.  But the love story was the best.  As always, book so much better than the movie.
4 This book is pretty enjoyable to read. It is not the most exciting book I have read, but it is not a bad read
2 I bought this book based on the recommendations from amazon.  I found the book difficult to get through until the last 100 pages.  The story is slow and simply tedious.  I had to force myself through it. The end of the story, about 200-250 pages in, it picks up a bit and becomes more fast paced and readable.
4 I've been to the circus only once in my life, as a small child, towed along by my parents for what they surely thought would be a treat. It wasn't. We never went again. Even as a small child, I seemed to instinctively pick up on the abuse required to get wild animals to do what they do in the three rings of a circus. If nothing else, the sight of such wonderful creatures as elephants, lions, tigers, bears and various others, forced to do what they would not normally do but for cheap human entertainment, galled me. I loved animals. I loved them at a distance, to view them in either their natural habitat or through some telescopic lens that would keep the disruption of their lives in the wild at a minimum. For that reason, out of my respect for their wildness, I have avoided both the circus and zoos.Sara Gruen's novel, "Water for Elephants," reinforced my decision. It is the story of Jacob Jankowski, both at age 23 and at age 90-something (he can't clearly recall, as he narrates the story in a series of flashbacks from the nursing home where he is at present wasting away his final days). He does not run away to the circus for the usual romantic reasons of seeking adventure and freedom, as it is commonly viewed. His parents have died in a car crash, and he finds himself without any inheritance, a veterinary student who must suddenly face the need to become financially self-sufficient. He can no longer afford to remain in school. Instead, he hops a train that carries all that is the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. Through his eyes we come to see the behind-the-scenes reality of the circus.The star of this show, this book, is Rosie the elephant. She is the center point, and around her tangle the many eccentric characters: Uncle Al, the sadistic circus boss; August, the equally sadistic animal trainer, and his wife, Marlena, entrapped in the marriage, but quickly returning the love Jacob shows her and hoping for escape; and many others, circus hands and assorted circus characters, midgets and clowns and fat ladies and circus prostitutes, each with their own sad story.The story moves quickly, interspersed with fascinating black and white photos illustrating typical circus scenes of the day and adding historical credence. Gruen's writing skill is evident in keeping the pages turning and involving the reader, educating and tugging at heart strings as we witness scenes of cruelty against both human and animal. It is a not a literarily honed writing style, but an involving and entertaining one. We are moved, and we wish to know what happens to this array of colorful characters, even if the ending is quite predictable in its revelation of who murdered August and what action the aging Jacob will take at first opportunity to escape the nursing home.
5 I was so surprised at the just how involved I became in this book!  The writing is exquisite, yet transparent.  Some authors have a style that forces you to be aware of how they turn a phrase and /or paint a picture (whether it's done well or not) - "Water for Elephants"  sweeps one away with ease, drawing you into the story, and the lives of the characters, while traversing the books multiple layers.  And Gruen's ability to capture what old age is about is superb.The story's synopsis has already been addressed, so I won't repeat it, but who knew I'd be so involved in this lifestyle?It's been a truly long time since I could not put a book down, and I loved having that experience yet again.
5 You want a simple, down to the bare bones, no beating around the bush review? Well here it is: read "Water for Elephants."Seriously, unless you are one of those elitist snobs who would much rather spend 8 hours trying to interpret a single poem by T.S. Elliot, than it is virtually impossible not to like this novel.I'm a huge fan of horror and as many buckets of blood as you can fit on a page, so yeah, the idea of a circus wasn't exactly the most appealing of plots for me, but I must say, after only a measly 20 pages I was hooked.I suppose you can lay that on Gruen's incredibly detailed and real descriptions of what circus life is really like. I may like reading about rending flesh and crimson spouting arterial wounds, but even I couldn't get enough of the Benzini Brother's traveling circus and the rough lifestyle of it's crew.There are many sub-plots and side stories throughout this novel, but Gruen is a true master of tying them all together at the end. Unlike Nicholas Sparks's disastrousThe Notebook, this one is believable, right down to Jacob and Marlena's love interest.So, you can choose how you want to take my brief little review, but either way, look at the ratings. 2,000+ 5-star praises can't all be wrong can they?
3 Depressing.  Well written with so much detail I felt I was there at the circus.  Unfortunately, that's the problem.  It's set in the Depression.  The horrible way the animals and workers were treated was too much for me to really enjoy the book.  Very well written though, and I would read other books by this author.
4 Generally, a very good but somber look at circus life in the '30s. Like a circus train starting down the tracks, the book got off to a slow start but, like the train, picked up traction and speed as it went on.  This is not a happy book about a circus.  It's a naturalistic look at the big top and all that goes on under and around it.  Mostly, it aint pretty.  The plot was well-executed and most of the characters well-developed.  The author threw in a lot of fascinating detail about circus life and that of the Depression years in which most of the action takes place.  Her insights into the mindset of a 93-year-old man were apparently right on the mark.  There's a love affair here, which could have been better done.  There's an elephant here, who is the star of the book.  There are bad guys and rubes -- and one or two good guys.  I would say the book is more interesting than entertaining, but entertaining it was.  If you are a fan of circuses -- and who isn't? -- you'll get a lot of satisfaction out of this book.
4 This is a nice, easy-going, and well paced book. It is never dull and keeps  the reader interested. However, the story-line is, some-what, predictable.
4 I had not read Sara Gruen's work when my book club decided to read Water for Elephants...now I am a big fan! The writing is clear and engaging, the story is filled with vivid characters (including Rosie the elephant), and the action is well paced. Gruen seamlessly interweaves the story of an aging ex-circus vet and his recollections of the exciting (and often dangerous) road show days. With her interesting research into the carny heyday, Gruen transports the reader into another world, including the fascinating vocabulary of the performers and roughnecks. A lovely story!
4 I always had a vague idea as to what the Klondike gold rush was all about.  Ms Gray provides a comprehensive overview of what it was like to be there in the late 19th century.
5 I watched the mini series on TV recently and decided to read the book.  It was very good.  I didn't know very much about this period in history and it was hard to imagine what these people went through to prospect gold, the weather and their living conditions.
5 if you are interested in history of the Klondike this book gives the best details on the life in such a rugged part of history. great book.
5 After viewing the TV special I had to get this book. It is excellently written & well worth a read. Lived in Alaska for 20+ years & taken the train to Whitehorse from Skagway a number of times which allows you to view part of original trail.
5 We had watched the series on TV which was based on this book Gold Diggers and so I bought this for my husband.  He is thrilled with the book, which arrived in excellent used condition.  He is telling me every day different information he is finding as he reads it.  Very historical and thourough history.
5 Ordered the book after watching the tv mini series and found the book much better than the series. A greatly overlooked period of North American history &#34;Gold Diggers&#34; answered a lot of questions. And sent me on a search for other books on the same topic,Suddenly my library has gone from zero Yukon gold rush books to 5, all covering different but also overlapping topics of the gold rush.Very happy with it!
4 I watched the television miniseries and was interested to know more. I found the detail I wanted here. Fascinating story. Incredible adventures and a real insight into men who and their compulsions. Arguably these bizarre behaviors conquered the world.
5 I could not turn the pages faster on my Kindle Fire...what a read covering the 1898 Alaskan Gold Rush and especially the people and characters involved. Highly recommended! JHP
4 TV show intrigued me so I was curious to learn what was fact and what was fiction.  Particularly enjoyed the &#34;what happened to them afterwards&#34; part.
5 Absolutely fascinating.  The book was well researched, and many eyewitness accounts.  Author also followed up the principal characters after the Klondike experience.
5 I hated history in school because it was always just a jumble of dates and places. Books like this are always a pleasure to read as you get to see what happened through the eyes of someone who was either there or did the research so you could see what happened through their eyes. Mine were definitely opened. Thank you to the author.
5 The book went deeper into the characters and what it was truly like to go to the end of the world in 1896 to try to find the gold that everyone was lead to believe was so easy to find. I find it very interesting and fun to read.
5 Isaw the movie on tv and wanted a more in  depth story. I really enjoyed the comments that the author  put in the book to add to the story. If the gold diggers has listened to the natives it would have been a lot easier for them no scurvy, for one.thing. the local cures that she added were interesting.
5 Very informative. I read it after watching the movie it was based on. The movie was far from accurate but that is to be expected. What it did leave out was the criminal element that I am positive was going on at the time.
5 I wish I had been here to live this era. I read everything I can about Alaska, the Klondike and all subsequent 's. Very well done and very glad I purchase it.
4 Historical. Makes me realize how fortunate we are today. We eat well, avoid scurvy and can make decent money and have a life style that would have made those old prospectors envious. Hope we don't blow it with all the government debt.
5 I loved this book. While it has history it is not a dull history book and the history is indeed interesting. The book details the lives of different people enveloped in the gold rush from a wonderful clergy man ,a young Irish woman with a keen sense for business, successful and not so successful miners plus those who went there with no knowledge of mining or life in the very rugged north.The book is very well written and weaves the history, the town of Dawson, and the individual characters together seamlessly.
5 To me Hemingway epitomizes the hard drinking, hard living, hard loving, worldy writer. In this book, the main character Robert Jordan is a soldier send on a mission to the hills of Spain to blow up a bridge. There, Jordan meets up with a rogue band of warriors who believe in war but not in military. Once united with the militia, Jordan becomes involved with a woman named Maria. The fight scenes are incredible. The ending is even more incredible. I'm not going give away the book, but the ending  brought tears to my eyes- I guess it's true, underneath every man of steel is a heart of gold.
1 I don't get what all the fuss was about Hemmingway being such a great author.  This story sucked, especially the ending.  It just ends!  And what's with "rope-soled shoes"?  He must use this phrase twenty times in the first couple chapters when describing someone.  Then there's this schmuck, the main character, Robert Jordan, who has a screw loose.  He keeps having a two way conversation with himself.  I know I sometimes say something to myself like: "Boy Jeff that was a pretty stupid thing to do!", but I don't answer myself back!  About the only positive thing I can say about this book is that some of the stuff in it about suicide sheds some light on why Hemmingway blew his brains out later in life. Boy, to think that this is touted as probably Hemmingway's best work!  If that's the case then one Hemmingway book is enough for me.  Now you take Dostoyevsky, there was a writer!
5 Ernest Hemmingway is one of the greatest writers when it comes writing about old school spain. it was a great read. strongly recommended although a bit complicated.
5 Mark Twain once said that "a classic is a book that everyone wants to have read but nobody wants to read." It is a shame that "For Whom the Bell Tolls" is considered a classic, because unlike some of Hemingway's works, this is such an exciting, vivid, impossible-to-put-down novel. It should never be required reading in high school, although intelligent young readers would certainly love it. (Now that I think about it, some of the violent scenes are probably too gory for today's politically correct curriculum anyway.) It is the sort of book that someone's older brother at college lends to them, and then they pass it on to their best friend, and so on. There's a lot to this book beyond the plot, but unlike many other books that strive to explore deep human themes of life, sex and death, this one is approachable and very readable.The only reason I can think of not to drop everything and read this book right away (look how cheap the used copies are, for crying out loud!), is if you are planning a long voyage and want to make sure you have something really great to read along the way, in which case I would wait. While I am sorry that I didn't the book myself until I was 34, I had the great gift of reading it on a camping trip amidst hills, streams, pine tress and a rocky coastline that made it easy to imagine myself in the mountains of Spain along with the characters, and that made it worth the wait.
5 An interesting historical novel set in the context of Revolutionary Spain, but classic Hemmingway, it carries with it the important lesson of activism over apathy, especially pertinent to today's world.  It teaches that ideals transcend political boundaries and that if you believe in something strongly, then you owe it to yourself to protect that ideal in any part of the world and at any cost, even that of your life.  Intwined is a beautiful love story.  One of my top 5 greatest books of all time.  Thats a rave, baby.  The poem by John Donne at the beginning makes the book worth buying.A 5 because it is a great story with an invaluable lesson.  If you gain nothing, you still read beautiful prose by one of the greatest authors ever.
4 I have been interested, as a pro-Republican partisan, in the Spanish Civil War since I was a teenager.  What initially perked my interest, and remains of interest, is the passionate struggle of the Spanish working class to create its own political organization of society, its leadership of the struggle against Spanish Fascism and the romance surrounding the entry of the International Brigades, particularly the American Abraham Lincoln Battalion of the 15th  Brigade, into the struggle.Underlying my interests has always been a nagging question of how that struggle could have been won by the working class. The Spanish proletariat certainly was capable of both heroic action and the ability to create organizations that reflected its own class interests i.e. the worker militias and factory committees. Of all modern working class uprisings after the Russian revolution Spain showed the most promise of success. Russian Bolshevik leader Leon Trotsky noted in one of his writings on Spain that the Spanish proletariat at the start of its revolutionary period had a higher political consciousness than the Russian proletariat in 1917.That analysis calls into question the strategies put forth by the parties of the Popular Front, including the Spanish Communist Party- defeat Franco first, and then make the social transformation of society. Ernest Hemingway in his novel For Whom the Bells Toll weighs in on that question here. Whatever value the novel had or has as a narrative of a small slice of the Spanish events one must look elsewhere to discovery the causes of the Republican defeat.Ernest Hemingway most definitively was in love with Spain and always lurking just below the surface was his love affair with death. That combination placed in the context of the Spanish Civil War of 1936-39 makes for an explosive, dramatic tale. The hero is an American, Robert Jordan, aka Ernest Hemingway, of fizzy politics but a desire to help the Spanish people. Additionally Jordan, if expediency demands it, is willing to face danger and death at the command of the Communist-dominated International Brigades (although it is not always clear whether he is a Lincoln Brigade volunteer or a freelancer). Hemingway's critique of the Stalinist domination of the military command and therefore authors of the military strategy that led to defeat at times overwhelms the story. His skewering of Andre Marty, leader of the International Brigades, also has that same effect. In short, Hemingway believed that 'outside forces' meddling in Spanish affairs led to death for Jordan and disaster for the Spanish people. Well, nobody expects nor is it mandatory for a novelist to be politically astute or correct. Here Hemingway joins the crowdThe one subject that Ernest Hemingway seemed consistently to excel at was the telling of war stories. And whatever else might be true of For Whom the Bell Tolls it is preeminently a war story. A classic war romance if you have also seen the movie treatment of the book starring Gary Cooper and Ingrid Bergman. It might be a male thing, it might be a Hemingway thing, or it might be that the nature of war lends itself to dramatic tension that holds a story together. Today, in some literary circles, it is not considered politically correct to laud works by such dead, white males as Hemingway but the flat out truth is that the man could write. If his work stands outside the current canon of American literary efforts then something is wrong with the new canon.To make matters worst the current leftist-oriented literary establishment, grizzled, hard-bitten warriors that they are, has not been the only force that has taken aim at Hemingway's head. At the time of publication in 1940 the Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Battalion, those who actually fought in Spain and the various Communist Parties throughout the world were unhappy with the novel. Why? Hemingway was too harsh on the deficiencies of the Communists, the International Brigades and the Republican forces in general. Above I mentioned that writers were not expected to be politically astute. That is one thing. But to say that Hemingway was essentially sabotaging the exiled Republican efforts to aid the refugees by the thrust of his novel is also politically wrong. The man did materially and militarily aid the Republican side (sponsoring volunteers and ambulances). That accrues to his honor. In short, Hemingway's writings- yes. Hemingway's politics no
4 A great read, and informative about that era of history.  My first Hemingway book. but not my last. Thank you.
5 War is ugly and this story could just as easily be placed in Afganistan . The love scenes between Robert and Maria were very moving.
5 Hemingway deftly walks us into the heart of war and a man caught between his loyalty to his position in the military and his love for Pilar, a woman like no other. Some highly memorable scenes and conflicts prove this novel's place as a classic.-- Reviewed by Jonathan Stephens
5 10 stars? 20 stars?  For Whom the Bell Tolls is one of the great works of literature.REALLY, Amazon. There are certain books for which your asking for a review exposes the need for your system to have better information and more specific query criteria before requesting a review.
5 Covering a period of just under four days,this riveting story tells of a doomed offensive against the facists in the Spanish civil war. Robert Jordan seeks the help of partizans in the mountains to blow a bridge. Amongst them is Maria...What can be said of this great work that hasn't been said a million times? It is a fantastic thriller,a close account of the Spanish war and culture,of love, of death,of political stupidities....But for me,this is the book that finally tuned me into Hemingways style and power-his laconic but highly descriptive prose that press all the right buttons in the imagination;the use of 'Thee' and 'Thou' to properly give the feel of the peasants dialect;the way he builds up complex characters with just the briefest of story lines,even the way Robert Jordan is always refered to as Robert Jordan seems to add to his character.Its wonderful and each chapter excites and adds.When I was about 11 or 12 I foolishly tried to take on 'Farewell to Arms' and simply didn't have the reading ability then to take aboard Hemingways style (although I see now how many imitators it has) This prejudiced me against him. I didn't go overboard with the 'easier' 'Old Man and the Sea' but warmed a bit after reading 'Men Without Women' and thought I'd give Hemingway another go some time and am so glad I did with this one.The complexities of this book are reflected in Hemingways own life;the preoccupation with death and suicide,of beauty and brutality.A great book; a book in the true sense of the word.Persist with Hemingway as when you 'get' him the experience is truly wonderful.
5 I had only read The Old Man and The Sea before this novel. This book just grabbed me and I had to read it until I finished it. The trademark Hemingway style of silence is present here. The landscape and environment are as much a part of the story as the characters. It took getting used to pages of describing the landscape so deeply, but once I went along for the ride I enjoyed the novel immensely. The plot seems conventional, that's fine for me.
5 As I look over the reviews of the classic works of literature, I am appalled by how often I see the word boring being used. I guess it's because great books don't come with big screens, speakers and a joy stick.  Welcome to the Millenium.
2 I found this book, which takes place during the Spanish Civil War, interesting in its descriptions and although it is excruciatingly slow in its development (five hundred pages detailing three days worth of events), somewhat compelling in its own way.And yet in the end, "For Whom the Bell Tolls" is ultimately a novel with a fatalistic outlook and few, if any, redeeming messages for humanity, in spite of all the commentaries it makes about human nature. To me, the story was the most interesting as a reflection of Hemingway's own experiences and strange outlooks on life.For example, one would assume that Robert Jordan, the main character, is a reflection of what Hemingway deems heroic. Like Hemingway, Jordan is a rugged, somewhat independent sort. Jordan characterizes the literary period's allure for the expatriate life and Hemingway's fascination with Spain and dislike for the Spanish Fascist. But yet, one has to wonder what compels Jordan, an American college professor from Montana, to be involved in this Spanish Civil War to the extent that he has become a demolitions expert and is ready to kill Spaniards (regardless of what side they happen to have fallen upon) without any conscience. What busness, really and truly, is this war of his?Further, how do you root for a hero, who is fighting for, and willing to give his life while following orders from, Communists that Hemingway makes clear are every bit as brutal as the Fascists?Notable is the fact that the Jordan character feels shame for a father who committed suicide, just as Hemingway's own father did. And for Hemingway to commit suicide 20 years after this book was written parallels the sense of inevitable doom that is a pervasive theme of this story.This book demonstrates that Hemingway had a way with descriptions and dialogue that can be at times entertaining and at other times irritating. For example, his conventions for speech that is a more literal reflection of the Spanish language is rather clever. However, as the story progresses, Hemingway's usage of the King James-style "Thee" and "Thou" to indicate that a more formal Spanish dialect is being used becomes distractingly gimmicky and wore quite thin by the end of the book. At least, it did for me.This is a story about people who are flawed to the extent that they will kill without hesitation...people who have abandoned God and Godly virtues, and look to themselves for their own salvation. What little is left is a cause whose means and ends don't seem to differ from the alternative, and an appeal to virtues of loyalty to the band, or one's responsibility to follow his duty. The trouble is, these appeals are made among characters who Jordan - as Hemingway's voice - often considers untrustworthy, repugnant and treacherous. Rather contradictory, I would say. And Jordan's fatalistic sense of duty to a cause of questionable politics and in a country that isn't even his own is just plain strange to say the least.Interesting as character study, and a microcosm of the Spanish Civil War, but very depressing.
4 "Are there no pleasant things to speak of?...Do we have to talk always of horrors?" asks Maria at one point in For Whom the Bell Tolls.Good question.To be fair, For Whom the Bell Tolls isn't ALL about horrors.  It even has some pleasant moments.  But ultimately, it's about the selfless nature of war---which, though Hemingway clearly intends us to admire the acts of sacrifice to which the war incites his characters, I think is the greatest condemnation of war.But Hemingway's portrayal of this theme is quite powerful.  He isn't always consistent, but he is about as consistent as it is possible to be about such a theme and much more so than most, which is of great artistic value.It's also generally very well written, much more so than (and something of a relief after reading) a lot of faux-Hemingway like John Steinbeck or Cormac McCarthy.  And I thought this was much better than the only other Hemingway I've read, A Farewell to Arms.  But there are a few passages that miss the mark, such as this almost comically bad sex scene: "...They were having now and before and always and now and now and now. Oh, now, now, now, the only now, and above all now, and there is no other now but thou now and now is thy prophet. Now and forever now. Come now, now, for there is no now but now. Yes, now. Now, please now, only now, not anything else only this now, and where are you and where am I and where is the other one, and not why, not ever why, only this now; and on and always please then always now, always now, for now always one now; one only one, there is no other one but one now, one, going now, rising now, sailing now, leaving now, wheeling now, soaring now, away now, all the way now, all of all the way now; one and one is one, is one, is one, is one, is still one, is still one, is one descendingly, is one softly, is one longingly, is one kindly, is one happily, is one in goodness, is one to cherish, is one now..." blah blah blah.The mind-numbing repetitiousness of this "description" (if one can call it that) is especially unfortunate as it echoes another passage just a few pages earlier which is intended to have quite a different feel: "...muck this whole treacherous muckfaced mucking country and every mucking Spaniard in it on either side and to hell forever. Muck them to hell together, Largo, Prieto, Asensio, Miaja, Rojo, all of them. Muck every one of them to death to hell. Muck the whole treachery-ridden country. Muck their egotism and their selfishness and their selfishness and their egotism and their conceit and their treachery. Muck them to hell and always. Muck them before we die for them. Muck them after we die for them. Muck them to death and hell..."  It goes on like this at some length.But in the end, Hemingway affirms that there are "pleasant things to speak of": "That is in Madrid. Just over the hills there, and down across the plain. Down out of the gray rocks and the pines, the heather and the gorse, across the yellow high plateau you see it rising white and beautiful. That part is just as true as Pilar's old women drinking the blood down at the slaughterhouse. There's no one thing that's true. It's all true. The way the planes are beautiful whether they are ours or theirs."  But the horrors win out in the end: "The hell they are, he thought."Three and a half stars.
5 The title says everything, I guess. A genius being genial. Like when one listens to certain musicians and realizes that he's not merely listening, he's going through an experience. Go for it!
3 I'm writing this review almost immediately after finishing it. Too soon, but here goes. Supposedly about the Spanish Civil war, but no explanation was given. I used Wikipedia to explain the factions. Boring were the endless pages about Russian involvement.  My Russian professor in college--circa 1953-54--was there, having been sent to teach the guerrillas Spanish history. "They knew it. From oral history."Hemingway wrote much of his dialogue to reflect the Spanish language, using the singular "thee" and "thou" to signal respect or disrespect, love, tenderness, and the plural "you" to show authority, etc.Substituting the noun "obscenity" repeatedly for verba was ridiculous. I assumed the publisher was responsible for this censorship. I might be wrong. Hemingway did not avoid the F-bomb or the A-bomb when he frequently wrote in Spanish ("joder" and "cabron," respectively).The amount of internal dialogue was both good and bad, the latter being excessive unless you read it carefully. The thoughts were real and showed internal conflict related to someone's doubts while in warfare.  Artemos, a beloved older, religious character asks himself whether there is a difference between killing a human and and hunting animals. Has he sinned against his religion or God when he kills people during war? Is he forgiven when peace comes again?The love scenes between the protagonist (Robert) and Maria are unlike those popularly devoured in romance novels. On one hand, they are corny. On the other, they focus on whether two intimate people become one during life and after death, whether they are one even when they are apart from one another.There is no doubt that there is repetition--whether necessary or unnecessarywill be up to you to decide.Get the book, read it, and try to understand what Hemingway was saying or trying to say.Barbara C. Johnson, author of Behind the Black Robes: Failed Justice
5 Forget the Lost Generation stories and The Old Man and the Sea. This is Hemingway's true masterwork, giving more actual insight into a volatile period of world history
5 This tackles several questions: How war shapes men, past and present and what a real hero is.Set in the Spanish Civil War, the story revolves around the experiences of a volunteer fighter, an American college professor named Robert Jordan. Filled with idealism at first, watch him reconsider as he faces the prospect of his own death.One of Hemingway's finest.
5 For Whom The Bell Tolls by Ernest HemingwayBook Review by Benn BellThe title "For Whom The Bell Tolls" is taken from a poem written by John Donne wherein he makes the claim that because of our common humanity, every death necessarily diminishes each of us, therefore, ask not for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for thee. This is a book about death and dying set against the backdrop of the Spanish Civil War.Hemingway's novels and stories present a certain kind of hero: "The Code Hero." This individual lives by his own code and struggles gracefully and bravely against death and annihilation. Another consistent theme found in Hemingway is courage under fire or dire circumstances, whether it is in the bull ring, behind enemy lines, or hunting man-eaters in the green hills of Africa. Cowardice is particularly loathed.The novel begins in 1937 at the height of the Spanish Civil War and takes place over a four day period.  The chief protagonist is an American named Robert Jordon who has been tasked to blow up a bridge behind enemy lines in the Spanish mountains. He is aided in this task by a band of guerrillas headed by Pablo and the woman of Pablo, Pilar. We also meet the beautiful Maria. A young Spanish girl whose parents were murdered by Fascists soldiers who then raped and abused Maria. Some say that Maria represents Spain and her gang rape represent the despoilage of Spain by the Fascists.Robert and Maria fall in love at first sight. This is another recurring theme to be found in Hemingway, that humans can find salvation through romantic love. The couple makes love together in Jordon's sleeping bag on the ground outside the mouth of the cave where they are all hiding.  He asks Maria "Did the earth move for thee?" This is the earliest I have seen this terminology in print and is now considered a clich&eacute;, but it may be that Hemingway coined this usage.Hemingway's use of language was controversial in this novel. Many Spanish words and phrases were translated literally word for word which gave a sense of the Spanish but sounds archaic and stilted to our English hearing ears. For example, the Spanish characters in the novel referred to each other as thee and thou. The traditional second person singular in English is "thou/thee/thy". The most exact way of translating "tu" from Spanish is "thou" or "thee". This was a bold experiment. Once the convention was understood and accepted one got used to and even grew to like it.During the course of the novel many flashbacks and digressions take place as various characters tell their stories and reminiscence about the past. We learn, for example, that Jordon's Grandfather was a Civil War hero in the America's war of rebellion. We also learned that his father was a coward and that he shot himself to death with a pistol. It is indeed ironic that Hemingway's own father committed suicide and that Hemingway took his own life with a shot gun many years later.Death is the primary focus of the novel with much discussion amongst the characters about what it is like to kill another human being, was it the right thing to do and what would it be like to die.  In the end, Jordon is fatally wounded after successfully completing his mission and trying to escape. He waits by the roadside while the others get away, hoping to kill as many of the enemy soldiers as he can before he dies.It took me a long time to get around to reading this book. I have been carrying it around with me since 1971. I finally read it in 2011. Forty years. It was well worth the wait. While each man's death may diminish me to some extent, this novel has made me whole.
4 Over the years I have read a lot about Hemmingway and how important of a writer he was, so I figured it was finally time for me to read one of his books. To be honest, I chose this one because I was familiar with the Metallica song that was named after this book.I found this to be one of the most difficult books I have ever read; not because of the style or because I didn't like it but because simply it was just a difficult story to read. The novel is full of strong themes about death and honor. Robert Jordan, the main character, is a man who does not get caught up in any causes or seems to hold any passionate views. Through the whole book he questions his beliefs in the socialist cause; his only concern seems to be defeating the fascists. All of this changes when he meets Maria. The two fall for each other immediately and suddenly Jordan is confronted with the real prospect of the fact that he will not survive his mission.What made this story so difficult to read was that Hemmingway comes across as a nihilist in the writing of this story. His characters are completely controlled by fate and feel powerless to stop the events that are put into place. It seems as if Jordan would have been better off had he not met Maria and cared about her.Overall, the story is very good. I would highly recommend it anyone.
5 We'll start with the simple ones: sad, deep, bloody...But it's the longer ones that truly sum up the book: thoughtful, emotional, frightening..."For Whom the Bell Tolls" starts out simply enough, but it slowly progresses to being a book that houses a series of complex, not entirely predictable characters. Robert Jordan is the main character, an American, often comparing, often thinking. We follow him around in the midst of a not-so-pleasant, frighteningly bloody war. He is accompanied by other men who are either helping him, or have similar tasks, though not all are so. There is Pablo, who in reality, is Jordan's enemy, in that he intends to prevent Jordan from blowing up a certain bridge. There is Pablo's wife, Pilar, who tells a chunk of the book in the form of stories to Jordan about the past. There is Maria, Jordan's crush, and though many concentrate on their love, Maria is a rather flat character, though her history is one that tells more about the surrounding situation.The book itself isn't across that long of a time span, on the other hand it includes many stories that are told to Jordan. The reader is drawn in quickly, and despite the blood, the fear, and the uneasy way everything is written, it's an incredible book. Perhaps it's because of these things; they make the book more realistic and touching to the reader.It is certainly a great book, a wonderful read, and an interesting view on a little known event. It's a good book to read, even if you're not fond of stories with death and blood.
5 The ur-text for today's wartime adventure novel, "For Whom The Bell Tolls" remains a standard bearer for pulse-pounding action fiction, and one of the true masterpieces by the most celebrated American author of his time.Robert Jordan is a Spanish-language instructor from Montana who, now in Spain, has a job of another kind: blow up a critical bridge under enemy control before his comrades, the Republicans of the Spanish Civil War, mount a critical attack. He falls in with a band of motley guerrillas, discovering the joy and passion of life even as he must make peace with the real possibility of his death.When published in 1940, there was little need to explain the title: the bell was tolling pretty loudly for just about everyone outside of Sweden and Chile as the Axis powers led by Nazi Germany rolled up giant chunks of the globe. Germany's three-year dress rehearsal had been the Spanish Civil War, where they helped Spanish fascists and monarchists overthrow the Marxist-led Republicans while Western democracies watched idly. Ernest Hemingway, a strong supporter of the Republican cause, lost arguably the only country he ever really loved."For Whom The Bell Tolls" could have been an exercise in told-you-so or score settling with the right-wing victors Hemingway despised. Yet the story is so engaging - so raw and sweeping in its style, so visceral in form, and undogmatic in outlook - that it is hard to know from reading it just how bruised a champion Hemingway had been for the losing team. The most drawn-out, brutal section of narrative deals with atrocities committed by Republicans, not fascists. Rebels and Republicans alike appear oddly human."Do you think you have a right to kill any one? No. But I have to. How many of those you have killed have been real fascists? Very few. But they are all the enemy to whose force we are the opposing force. But you like the people of Navarra better than those of any other part of Spain. Yes. And you kill them. Yes."That's one of many internal monologues Jordan has with himself in the course of the book, which may annoy some expecting more wall-to-wall action but works fine by me. It's easy imagining oneself pondering similar questions in similar situations, and the running stream-of-consciousness adds to the nail-biting tension.Hemingway also does very well by the secondary characters, especially the guerrilla band Jordan takes up with. Their leader, Pablo, was a once-ruthless killer of fascists now reduced to drink and train-robbing. "There is not enough of you left to make a sick kitten," says Pablo's bitter woman, Pilar, herself a tigress and Jordan's chief ally. Pilar is both supporter and scoffer of Jordan's budding relationship with Maria, a teenaged rape survivor rescued by the guerrillas. This is not a merry band of outlaws; their very fractiousness draws you in.As a Sam Peckinpah fan, I was struck by how pleasingly similar "For Whom The Bell Tolls" was to the classic Western desperado saga "The Wild Bunch". Both are straightforward action yarns with a lot of backstory, vivid characters and setting, and a storyline that cleverly pulls you in even as it seems to ramble."For Whom The Bell Tolls" is less concerned about the bridge itself (where or when precisely this action is occurring is never spelled out) then the feelings that surround warfare, and how and why one man must do what he can, for as Rick said in "Casablanca", the problems of one man don't add up to a hill of beans in this crazy mixed-up world. Hemingway's ending is less Hollywood but just as stirring, and a fittingly open-ended climax to this singular story.
5 Five stars are not enough for the audio of this book narrated by Campbell Scott.  I do not speak Spanish or know much about the Spanish Civil War or the geography of Spain.  It did not matter. This is a great, gripping story.Robert Jordan is a wonderful character -- macho, intelligent, generous, deliberate.  Pablo and El Sordo, guerilla leaders, and Pilar, the "woman of Pablo" and Roberto's change agent, are fascinating, as are several Russians and Fernando, the rather prim guerilla.  Other characters are colorful, but not as engaging.  Hemingway tries very hard, but cannot quite bring Maria, the love interest, to life.The issues are how to die well, the roles of individuals and small groups in large movements and wars, and whether any reform movement can change a country.  (Robert Jordan approaches, but does not reach the conclusion "Meet the new boss, same as the old boss.  Won't get fooled again.")  Also, does religion mean anything and is it merely "the opium of the people"?  Is it possible to live and die without religion when one was raised with it?Campbell Scott should get an Academy Award for this narration.  He voices all of the characters well.  (It is hopeless for a man to read Maria's perpetually ernest -- no pun intended -- lines.)  He conveys the irony, the disgust, the subtle sparring very well.  He switches from the choppy Hemingway style for Robert Jordan's thoughts to the cadences of Spanish and Russian for the others.  He absolutely brings the story and the characters to life.  I have listened to many books on tape (and CD) and this is hands down the best.  Very highly recommended.  (Thanks, Dad, for giving it to me.)In the audio edition, even the incidental music is perfect, as are the pauses before it begins and after it ends.  It is just about a perfect production.  (A map of in the CD box would make it perfect.  It should identify all the places named in the text and shows the rivers and roads mentioned -- and the bridge!! -- even if this requires more than one map.  Next best alternatives would be a CD or website with this info.  But it would be best to have a hard copy with the audio CDs.  Stephen Ambrose audio tapes about WWII came with maps like this and they were very helpful.  This would help any edition of the book in any medium, as would a bibliography of the Spanish Civil War.  [...]I read this as a teenager and enjoyed it.  Back then, I thought that there might be many books this good out there in the world.  It turns out that there are not many books this good.
5 This is one of the greatest modernist novels to deal with the subject of war.  Set during the Spanish Civil War of the 1930s, this novel explores war as it really is, not as what it is glorified or vilified to be according to the whims of a journalist or novelist.  There is very little of the actual war in the foreground of the plot--the entire novel spans only about four days--but the relationships of the characters and their interaction with one another allows the reader to see what war is like from the viewpoint of those who participate in it.  Like Crane's The Red Badge of Courage, this book deals with the psychological and human ramifications of war.The hero is Robert Jordan, an American idealist fighting in Spain on the side of the `Republic,' or Communist, party.  Opposite the `Reds' are the so-called fascists.  At the beginning, Jordan has an unflinching and unwavering duty to the cause, but the people he meets and a girl he falls in love with alter somewhat his outlook.  The bulk of the novel deals with Jordan's own philosophy, but also with the philosophy of the band of guerillas he is assigned to complete a mission with.  Through his love for the girl, Maria, and his interaction with the scheming rebel leader Pablo and his wife Pilar, Jordan learns much about life and war.The plot moves quickly enough, and all leads up to the final climactic battle at the bridge.  This is perhaps Hemingway's finest moment, and his treatment of the battle and fate of the group is nothing short of masterful.  The quote from John Donne "never send to know for whom the bell tolls"  looms ominously throughout the novel, and the battle of the bridge and the final, chilling moment of truth for Robert Jordan drives home the harrowing fact that is the reality of war: "it tolls for thee."
4 For Whom the Bell Tolls takes the reader on a three and a half day journey starring Robert Jordan who is assigned with blowing up a bridge. He is in Spain and the fighting is between fascists and the Republicans (Robert Jordan&#8217;s side). It accounts his time with a group of guerrilla fighters.While the writing drags on at times and in the beginning it is difficult to tell what or whom the dialogue is between, it is a pretty good book. Topics such as love &#8211; between Maria and Jordan, the psychology of soldiers, and who God is are covered in this book.
5 Hemingway's story of Robert Jordan, an American college instructor fighting for the Spanish republic, is a beautiful story of desperate love and the death of an ideal.Robert Jordan has been assigned the task of blowing up a bridge behind Fascist lines in support of a Republican offensive.  He is sent to a guerrilla camp in the mountains behind the lines, where he meets those who are to help him with this task. He also meets and falls in love with Maria, a young Spanish woman who was brutalized by the fascists, and rescued by the band in a previous raid.Hemingway details the nature of the war in the way that only he can, using his stark prose to depict the decay of the idealism that characterized the beginning of the Spanish Republic.  This is particularly evident in the character named Pablo, a once-fervent fighter for the Republic who has lost hope in the cause and just wants to be left alone in the hills. Each character has his own idea of the Republic and why they are fighting, which is as truthful a depiction of the Republican cause as could be hoped for.There were three parts of this book which really stood out for me.  The first was Pilar's account of the execution of the fascists in her village.  Pablo's ruthlessness, along with the growing terror of the people who go from reluctant participants to bloodthirsty mob, is terrifying in its escalation and horrible finish. Second is the final stand of El Sordo, who accepts his fate, but draws a little pleasure and satisfaction in his efforts.  Third is the final battle in Chapter forty-three.  Hemingway doesn't overdramatize things, he realizes that things are dramatic enough, and the straight-forward presentation of the battle as things go well and then get worse carries much more impact as a result.  The stark, straight-forward writing makes these events come to life as tragic circumstances not only for the dead, but for those who survive as well.I would suggest that any reader do a little research into the Spanish Civil War before reading this book, as a little knowledge of the circumstances and people  of the war (like Marty and La Pasionaria) will enrich the story immensely.This book is very compelling reading, as Robert Jordan struggles with love and duty, while both fearing and accepting his dangerous assignment.  In the abstract, this book is about the death of the ideal in Spain, the corruption and dissent which led to the demise of the Republic.  Hemingway conveys these ideas in a way that only Hemingway can, weaving a fabric of sadness and beauty amid hopeless circumstances.
5 Warning: there may be a few SPOILERS in my review. I will try to warn the reader in advance.I have actually read a fair amount of Hemingway. I have readThe Sun Also Rises(twice),A Farewell To Arms,The Old Man and The Sea,The Short Stories, andA Moveable Feast. I have also been reading a fair amount about Hemingway lately. I have learned a great deal about Hemingway's technique, and I have come to admire his craft and artistry, but I have not been able to find any Hemingway book that really moved me or, in my mind, justified his reputation or popularity. Until now. I just finished For Whom the Bell Tolls and I was blown away. I finally feel like I have some understanding of why people love Hemingway and why he is such an important writer. This is, in my opinion, by far Hemingway's best novel. There are, I think, a few reasons for that.First, the novel has the most engaging plot of the Hemingway novels I have read. In general, plot is not all that important to me. I tend to be more interested in the quality of the writing and the philosophical ideas contained in a novel. It was surprising to me, therefore, what a difference having an interesting plot made in terms of my enjoyment of the book. I guess plot does matter! The novel is about an American helping a band of guerillas in the Spanish Civil War blow up a bridge. The novel is very exciting and tense in places and Hemingway paces things perfectly. POSSIBLE SPOILER. The climactic scene on the bridge was, in my opinion, perfectly paced. Hemingway slows things down, not enough to bore the reader, but just enough to keep them on the edge of their seat. Anyone who wants to learn how to pace an action scene would do well to study the bridge scene closely. I was mesmerized.Second, the characters were more interesting than the usual Hemingway characters. I do not tend to like any of Hemingway's characters all that much but I was surprised that I liked all the characters in this book. Robert Jordan is a professional, as so many of Hemingway's heroes are, but he is a likable professional. He has heart and understanding. He forgives people their faults and weaknesses and he is noble. He is also capable of great passion. Pilar and Pablo are very interesting characters as well, each in their own way. I think Hemingway could have done a little better with Maria. She was, of all the characters, the least well drawn to me. She felt secondary to me, like she was put in as a means of making Robert Jordan more interesting, as opposed to being her own independent character with an independent value. Still, the relationship between Robert and Maria was powerful.Third, this novel comes later in Hemingway's career and his style has developed a great deal since The Sun Also Rises. The Sun Also Rises is told in very plain and very direct prose. There is very little lyricism. In For Whom the Bell Tolls Hemingway still uses what he learned from his earlier direct style but it is much more lyrical and beautiful. Everything that was great about his early style is still here but it is better. There is genuine lyricism in the prose. There is no doubt in my mind that Hemingway continued to grow as an artist and this book seems to me to be his most mature statement as an artist. He restrained himself for a long time, he learned control, and here, he has what seems to me to be a carefully controlled unrestraint, as paradoxical as that might sound. He is like a horse trainer who finally has enough control over his horse to let it run wild sometimes. He does not have to keep it tethered all the time.Even more than the lyricism, however, there is passion and feeling in the prose. One of the things I did not like about Hemingway's early style was his penchant for affectless understatement and ironic detachment. I am by no means an expert in Hemingway's development or style but I do not remember any passages like this in The Sun Also Rises "He looked at her brown face and at the eyes that, since he had seen them, had never been as young as the rest of her face but now were suddenly hungry and young and wanting" (67). You can feel the longing in that prose. You can picture Hemingway typing those words and getting caught up in the passion as opposed to remaining stoic and detached all the time. SPOILER ALERT. That is especially true in the farewell scene between Robert and Maria. There have only been two books that have ever brought tears to my eyes and this book is one of them (the other is Cormac McCarthy'sThe Road). The farewell scene between Robert and Maria was very sad and poignant. I had no idea Hemingway was capable of such power. He is less restrained here and it shows.There are a number of really poignant scenes in the book. There is a scene where Robert is remembering back to his childhood when he had to get on a train and go to school for the first time. His dad is very emotional, he is crying, and he says a little prayer before Robert gets on the train. Robert is embarrassed for his father and he says it was the first time he felt older than his father. It is a very poignant and beautiful moment. There is very little of that in the other Hemingway I have read.Finally, the novel deals with some interesting themes. Like all Hemingway novels there is the theme of courage but Hemingway lets us hear the thoughts of his characters as they battle with their own fear in this book in a way that he does not in his other works. Death is also a theme as it is in nearly all Hemingway works. SPOILER ALERT. Robert Jordan expresses beautifully what is so difficult about death. Robert Jordan is an atheist. He does not believe in any afterlife, so he is not frightened by the afterlife. The reason death is difficult is because "The world is a fine place and worth the fighting for and I hate to leave it very much" (Robert Jordan's own words) (467). Only Hemingway could have expressed the sadness of having to say goodbye to the world and everything in it so simply and yet so powerfully. This is easily one of the most moving books I have ever read, and I never thought I would say that about a Hemingway book. I highly recommend it to anyone and everyone whether you are a Hemingway fan or not.
5 Who am I or anyone else to critique this masterpiece? I like to read a wide variety and the classics have a beloved place in the cycle. This book is a masterpiece, pure and simply a masterpiece.
4 First things first, if you want a quick thriller than this is not the book for you.  If what you want is a compelling, thought provoking, and an informative narrative of guerrila's in the Spanish civil war than this is up your alley.  Even with its slow pace and limited conflict lessons are learned in every chapter.  Everything from how to treat unreliable ally's to how to deal with love in war.  Hemmingway's writting is somewhat repetitive, but in its elegance completely bareable.  Having only read The Old Man and the Sea, I can't compare it to his other longer fiction, to me For Whom the Bell Tolls was a more rewarding read.  With a great cast of characters that constantly enrich plot, all with back stories that build character developement.  Robert Jordan the main character gives an American familiarity to the story making it even more accessible to today's readers.  Hemmingway has a way with words that puts you in the story, with Robert Jordan's up's and down's, you understand him, you want to be him.  Anyone who hasn't read Hemmingway's work but enjoys any American classics from Steinbeck to McCarthy will find this read enjoyable and rewarding.
2 I love Hemingway, but this book bored me to tears. I'll concede that I watched the movie first and knowing the ending took some of the fun out of it. Go read A Moveable Feast. You can always come back to this one later.
5 Excellent, Excellent, Excellent.  One of the best war novels I've ever read.  Now I know why Hemingway is known as one of the greatest writers of all time.  I absolutely loved "The Old Man and Sea", but when "A Farewell to Arms" fell a little short, I had my doubts.  This was the one that finally clinched it in my mind that Hemingway deserves all of the accolades he's received over the years.  It's a love story that takes place up in the mountains of Spain during the Spanish Civil War which took place in the 1930's.  The main character Robert Jordan, is a young American dynamiter in the International Brigade.  Back in the State's Jordan used to be a college professor.  Jordan's grandfather used to be a great war hero, but since his father was labeled a coward, he has set out to try to redeem the family name.  It becomes his assignment to travel into the mountains of Spain, hook up with a band of guerillas, and to blow a pivotal bridge during an upcoming campaign.  Not being as familiar with the Spanish Civil War as I would like have been before reading this novel it was a little hard at first to try to figure out who was fighting and what side Jordan was on.  I then found out there are the Fascists vs. the Republic and Jordan is on the side of the Republic.  At first I thought that members of the Republic were Communists with the ideals they were preaching and since the Russians were advising them, but then when they said some disparaging things about Communists that made me think otherwise.  The guerilla band he joins up with is led by a man named Pablo who at one time used to be great leader, but recently has lost his nerve.  He no longer is as interested in the cause as he once was, and now would rather tend to his horses instead.  He once led this band on a successful assault on a train and everybody in the band still seems to consider this their crowning achievement.  Pablo is still very smart, but nobody now knows if he can continue to be trusted to lead them.  His female companion Pillar is really the one who has held the band together for the last few months of the war, but she lacks Pablo's cunning.  She says she has a little bit of gypsy in her and at times she tells people's fortunes, not all of them however are good.  She is very feisty and was probably something in her day when she used to date several matadors.  The rest of the band is made up of an old man named Anselmo who Jordan loves very much and is one of the few people he really can rely on.  Then there is a few younger men, a pair of competent brothers, plus a strong and loyal man named Agustin, as well as a gypsy who for the most part everybody considers useless.  Finally there is the young girl named Maria.  She was rescued from the fascists during the raid on the train.  She is the daughter of a former Mayor.  Her hair had all been cut off and she isn't as beautiful as she once was, but Jordan immediately falls in love with her the first time he lays eyes on her.  In war a few days can sometimes seem like a life time and the pair make the most of what time they have together.  Pillar had taken Maria under her wing and had been teaching her how to one day be a good wife.  She approves of Jordan and Maria's union and after the fighting is over she wants him to take Maria away from this place.  As the battle nears there are several scrimmages and some great fights.  El Sordo's last stand is very memorable.  Hemingway's descriptions are magnificent.  At times Hemingway switches back and forth between Spanish and English but it never seems to be a distraction as he always provides a translation.  There are things wrong with the Republic that eventually will lead to their downfall, but at this point in the war Hemingway shows them as just little inconsistencies.  For instance, the Republic doesn't seem to believe in religion, so it is ironic that all of the band still say their little prayers every time they are in the middle of a battle.  The people also want to rule themselves rather than be ruled by the government, but they have no trust in one another.  If you are not from the same town as these people you will always be considered an outsider and an enemy.  There are too many fractions in the Republic.  They have some good ideals, but they are unable to really bring any of them to life.  Jordan figures even if they win they would probably need to get rid of most of the leaders since the majority of the ones remaining are all incompetent or murderers.  Both the Fascist and the Republic come off as being very brutal at times.  I wonder what Hemingway's political views really were.  I believe he probably had some of the same ideals that Jordan displays.  This book will make my list of the top 100 books of all time.
4 This is another book you must read before you die if you have such a list in the making. This is why some books are called important with the potential to change both you and the world you live in
4 Can I add anything to what has already been said? Well, I find this to be Hemingway's best piece of literature. The story is interesting (though sometimes the dialogue can come across as odd to me, it's from a different time, so some difference is to be expected). Especially interesting was the protagonist's work (a perfect example of UW, in my opinion), and what he did. Read it, enjoy it.
2 In case you stumble upon this review amidst all of the other droning articles, I'll try to keep mine short.This was my first Hemingway, I finished it just recently, and man is he overrated.  There are moments of greatness within the pages, and as for the simple act of creating a story, placing characters and orchestrating a chain of events, the guy wasn't bad.Unfortunately his pretentious writing style bleeds through on nearly every single page, so absurdly that it disrupts from the actual story.  I loved the characters, I was intrigued by the plot, but halfway through I realized that I was FORCING myself to continue reading because the poor old bastard kept getting so far gone on his cheesy tangents of love, and of the minor backstories of characters found only within the backstories of supporting characters (Pilar's matador's tale that consumed four or five pages) that the story suffered greatly.Hemingway fancied himself a wordsmith I suppose, and therefore managed to crowbar the word "now" about fifty times into a single paragraph, often repeating the word up to four times in a row, and the truly funny part is that people regard him as a genius for it.So after experiencing Hemingway I can honestly say that I won't be going back, and I can only envy his success.
5 This is by far my favorite book ever.  I am sure many other people will lay out the plot for you in their reviews, so I will tell you what I loved about it.  I love the bravery and leadership of the main character Robert  Jordan, I loved how Hemingway used people such as the strong willed Pilar  and other characters to only make it seem more realistic, and I mostly love  how Hemingway painted a picture with Robert Jordan that is the example for  all people who want to see what bravery is.  No author could top this book.
2 I read the first 100 pages and the plot of blowing up a bridge was fine, although the plot is exceedingly slow.  Hemingway does a good job with describing the details of the surroundings.  The main character Robert Jordan will have an observation of another character that is insightful.  Then the old guide Anselmo will have the same observation.  Then the old woman Pilar would have the same observation.  Then the guerrilla guard will have the same observation.  Why is everyone talking about the exact same observation?  It seems pretty bad writing and a poor understanding of human nature for everyone to be echoing Robert Jordan's thoughts.But that amaturish style wasn't what turned me off of the book.  It was the horrible love story.  I'm a woman in my 30s and maybe this kind of tripe would appeal to guys, but the love story was not only exceedingly unrealistic, but also stupid and insulting to women.  I was curious how this horrible love story would end, so then I read the last 20 pages of the book.  The ending of the love story was even worse than the beginning.This book was not only not insightful about human nature, it actually ran counter to human nature.I do like Hemingway's book "The Sun Also Rises."  That book is a simple story, but well done.  I recommend that book over For Whom the Bell Tolls.
5 must be where Metallica got the song name from.  Anyways this is one of but many authors that, like Nirvana singer Kurt Cobain decided to take the easy way out.  In the meantime he penned this great literature that is a great book.  I don't care what anybody says, the old man and the sea is boring and short and so with that I bid you good day and happy reading!
5 This beautifully written book is often compelling and occasionally trying. At nearly 500 densely written pages, I found my edition of the book perhaps overly long, but nonetheless admirable. It is the story of an American named Robert Jordan who fights in the mountains outside Madrid during the Spanish Civil War.I read the book at least once when I was young, but that was at least thirty years ago. Upon picking it up again I found I remembered little except that the earth moved, and that something went amiss during the final scene. I perhaps also remembered, at least faintly, an extraordinary tale told by a character named Pilar about the fate of the fascist in a Spanish village.Hemingway makes it abundantly clear that he wants to write a true book. By this, I think he means that he wants to tell us the truth about the people who fought in the Spanish Civil War, and in that goal I believe he succeeds. After reading the book, I feel a little as though I was actually there, a combatant in the war, and that I knew others who fought beside me. This is small "t" truth, synonymous with words such as realistic, or factual. Hemingway was not trying to tell the Truth about God.Refusing to romanticize the soldiers who fought for the Spanish Republic, he tells us what is good about them, and what is bad. It is possible, though unlikely, that I could write truthfully about the kind of highly educated Americans who I lived with most of my life. But I could never write so vividly, or so convincingly, about the kind of illiterate, or semi-literate, Spanish townspeople who inhabit this book. One understands exactly why the good guys lost this war, and yet somehow one loves these struggling, obscene, dirty people all the more for their faults.There are several obvious accomplishments in this book. One is the amazing character Pilar, a woman in her late forties or early fifties who comes vividly to life as complex, frequently contradictory character who is simultaneously admirable and intolerable. The description of the fascists being slaughtered in a small town by the drunken Pablo is perhaps one of the better passages in all of Hemingway. Another description of a fight on a hill is impossible to put down, and of course no one is ever going to forget the scene when the earth moves, or the beautiful language that adorns nearly every page of this book.After reading this book, I read Of Mice and Men and then picked up Typhoon, two beautifully written books which are perhaps significantly better than For Whom the Bell Tolls. Yet neither Conrad nor Steinbeck writes as beautifully, as lyrically, or as movingly as Hemingway at his best. It is odd, perhaps even ironic, that a man so obsessed with violence and manly courage should have such a lovely, moving prose style. Hemingway inhabited the English language with an ease and skill, that even at this stage in his career, produced prose that rates as one of the glories of the English language. Some of the descriptions of nature in this book are among the finest I've ever read, particularly when Hemingway turned his attention to pine trees!Hemingway's openly admitted love of violence mars this book, as do several long meditative passages about the vagaries of life, or the character of the rebel soldiers who fought with the Robert Jordan. To his credit, Hemingway's main character finally concedes that though violence is compelling, it is nevertheless evil. It is even possible that Hemingway loved not so much manly strength, as the ability to survive without giving in to the fear that can destroy a man's character, and lead him to let down not only himself, but those who work beside him. Fear must have been a torture to Hemingway, sending him into wild fits of depression and chaotic ruminations. He loved, and wrote beautifully about, those times when one feels calm, and brave, and settled. I'm not sure one really needs to face down a bull in order to achieve such a state, but I have sympathy for Hemingway's goals, if not his means.A true description about an historical event like the Spanish Civil War is a wonderful gift to bring to a reader, and one to savor and enjoy. And at the heart of the book are two characters, Robert Jordan and Maria, who are tough and admirable. Though I think some of my feminist friends would criticize me for it, I nevertheless found Maria believable, and I think that there are young women in this world who are as innocent, good and true as Maria. If there are really people in this world like Robert Jordan, I've never met them, but I suppose it is unfair to fault Hemingway for creating such an admirable hero.I should confess that I didn't really want to like this book, mostly because I don't always care for the tone adopted by so many of the people who most passionately admire Hemingway when they begin singing the praises of their hero. But though I found the going tedious at times, nevertheless I was won over by this flawed book. Somehow the lives of the poor Spaniards who lived in the hills of Spain and fought the fascists seem more real, and more worthwhile, than the lives that most of us in America live today. We are many times more sophisticated, but perhaps not quite as likable, and I have to admire Hemingway for bringing these people to life so vividly, and in such beautiful prose. It must have been extraordinary to know and work beside people who fought to bravely for such a worthy cause.
4 I am starting to read these classics now because I goofed off too much in school.  As I read sotries like this and the other classics I regret now reading them in school.  I missed so much.'
4 Good job of capturing the insanity of military organizations and the horrors of war.  Gets a little melodramatic at the end.
5 I love this one. Great book. Ive read it 4 times now and each time it gets better and better. You begin to see things you didnt at first and then everything is more clear and its just great. A must have for every book lovers library
5 FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is a masterpiece.  This historical fiction from Hemingway is in my opinion far better than the other two Hemingway novels that I have read (The Sun Also RisesandA Farewell To Arms), and for the first time triggers the same kind of admiration for Hemingway from me that I had always been so puzzled to see from others.  If you're looking for a taste of Hemingway, this is the book I would recommend.  If you've read other Hemingway and been less than impressed, try this one before you give up on him completely.This long book takes place over just a few days, and follows Robert Jordan as he works behind enemy lines during the Spanish Civil War.  While containing plenty of suspense and action, the primary focus of this book is delving into the psyches of Jordan and the irregulars he recruits for his mission.  A stark and honest look into the minds of simple people caught up in the sweeping events of a large war is something Hemingway excels at, and it really shows in this book.  While at times being perhaps a bit over the top with the rambling and inane thought processes of his characters, he seemed to ease up on it a bit with this story, instead focusing more on what was relevant and on progressing the story.  And personally, I liked Hemingway's use of Spanish and the literal translation during much of the dialogue.  Rather than being distracting, I felt that this method helped highlight the romantic nature of the Spanish language (and simultaneously reminded me of some of the basic Spanish that I had forgotten).The characters in this book are also great.  Robert Jordan, Maria, Pilar, Pablo, and Anselmo are particularly well-done and unforgettable.  Unlike other reviewers, I enjoyed the innocence and sweetness of Maria, and didn't find her to be unrealistic in either her response to mistreatment or her love for Jordan.  (Is it that she fell in love so easily? that she is so blindingly trustful? that she is universally kind? or that she manages to not wallow in self-pity, that modern day feminists hate about this character?)  Pilar and Pablo are both spectacularly done, being often hilarious and always intensely complicated.  Giving faces to these and the other irregulars in this book helps the reader realize the impact on Individuals that wars can have.As a historical fiction, this book is excellent.  You'll want to educate yourself more about the time and the circumstances around the Spanish Civil War while reading this book.  Interestingly, Hemingway himself was somewhat involved in this war, acting as a journalist, but also supposedly supporting the Republic's fight, even going so far as to help train young men in the use of modern rifles.  The content of the story comes off as being very possible, and the battles alluded to come out of real history.  Indeed, even some of the peripheral characters are historical figures, including the well-described Andr&eacute; Marty (known as the Butcher of Albacete) that played a significant role toward the end of the book.  Nicely grounded in historical fact, it makes the reading of this book all that much better.Very highly recommended!!
5 I do not like to give too high merit to anything, be it book, movie, CD, simply because I think the imagination can conjure up things reality cannot deliver on. But I feel a responsibilty to share my thoughts - my true impressions of the book, unbridled by any fear of corruption by doing so.Maybe it was the John Donne quote, maybe it was the writing style, or maybe it was the incredible, moving story that made me, directly after finishing the book, put it down and think it was one of the greatest things I had ever read. Trying to say WHY would take too long and probably not make much sense to anyone else. But I suppose I owe it to readers to try.Here is what you need to know. This is a love story, a war story, in a sense, a God story (but not what you probably are thinking). It powerfully, deeply, honestly portrays the human experience, in all its doubting, hating, loving, sorrowing fullness.Read this book. And give it time, because it starts somewhat slow and may turn current readers, who want all action and want to be told plainly everything (they don't like to think or discover meaning for themselves!) Even if you don't like it, you won't be the worse, and at least you can say you've read one of America's best novels (that I have read).
5 There never has, and never will be, another writer with the lucidity and inestimable genius of Hemingway.  Hemingway's characteristic laconic, terse, and fluid prose and dialogue shine radiantly throughout this book for the ages.  Seeing our country in the midst of the war on terrorism and a growing divisiveness amongst Americans, I feel, regardless of one's stance on war,  For Whom the Bell Tolls is a great book to pick up right now.To stereotype and routinely categorize this great work as nothing more than a "war book" is to do it a grave injustice.  Hemingway touches on, among other things, love, loyalty, sacrifice for the greater good, rape, suicide, altruism, and social injustice.  For Whom the Bell Tolls manifests itself as a book that speaks to the reader in many indescribable ways.  Hemingway's character development is masterful and unparalleled in literature.  We come to know not only our intrepid protagonist Robert Jordan, moreover we come to know the inner thoughts and feelings of Anselmo, Maria, Pablo, Pilar, and Lieutenant Berrendo as Hemingway ingeniously flips from 3rd to 1st person narrative and then back to 3rd perdson on the drop of a dime.Perhaps the only negative of the book is the annoying censoring of curse words throughout the text such as, "I obscenity in the milk of science."  Ironically, Hemingway's hero Robert Jordan fights for the Communist Republic(which of course mandated censorship), and his own book ends up censored.  Go figure.  That being said, I thoroughly enjoyed this powerful tour de force and recommend it highly.
5 What could be better than Hemmingway?  More Hemmingway.I learned about this short epilogue on the program "Hemmingway in Cuba" was broadcast April 6, 2013 on my local pbs station.  There is a joint effort by Cuban and American scholars to preserve all the materials left at his home in Cuba.  I am not a scholar, but want to share this with other readers of Hemmingway.This Epilogue for "For Whom the Bell Tolls" was found in the basement of Finca Vigia.EpilogueIt was night when Golz rode in a staff car on the road down from the pass to El Escorial.
5 For most readers the jury is back on Hemmingway; you love him or you hate him.  For fans of Hemmingway's prose this novel is a true masterpiece, but even those who aren't particularly fond of Hemmingway's sparse style will find lots to like in For Whom The Bell Tolls.Wrapped in a brisk plot of pre-combat suspense and the ensuing battle Hemmingway has hidden the definitive anti-war novel.  In the three days that we follow Robert Jordan's efforts for the Republic against the Fascists we watch him develop a love of incredible intensity with the girl Maria, then willingly throw everything away for a senseless fight between two equally irrational forces struggling for power in the eve of WWII.The most powerful account of brutality and inhumanity is not attributed to the Fascists, but is Pilar's tale of the early days of the revolution and atrocities carried out by the Republicans - the side for which Jordan is risking his life.  Although moved by the tale and by Pilar's excellent account (indeed as most reviews comment this self-contained story of Pilar's is the strongest part of the novel) Jordan cannot veer from the path that has been set for him, both by his war hero grandfather and by his father; Jordan views his father as a coward because he died by suicide - a them which runs through the novel.  Even his unexpected discovery of Maria and true love cannot deflect him from his course of self-destruction.As an anti-war novel For Whom The Bell Tolls is elegant and subtle.  Hemmingway, in typical fashion, lionizes the warriors.  The American Jordan and the guerilla leader El Sordo are depicted as noble men of principle.  Even his treatment of the fascist lieutenant Berrendo is sympathetic.  Hemmingway's commentary is an attack on the senselessness of war (or this particular war, anyway) but those who fight that war are largely treated as tragic figures.The characters are among the most complete that I've encountered in a novel.  In that they're developed using Hemmingway's sparse style makes the feat all the more impressive.  The novel perhaps is a bit long, and there are in my opinion some extraneous elements that could have been omitted, but the conclusion is a masterpiece.  There are not many novels that have had as great an emotional effect on me.  A must read.
4 My body and most of my brain is in Calgary, but there is a part of me at the foot of a limestone cave in the mountains of Spain watching a man named Robert(o) negotiate aide in a war I'd never learned about.Vaguely, I was aware that in the last century Spain had a civil war.  I was not aware it was Republicans vs. Fascists.  I can't say I knew it was wedged right between the two world wars.  I had, from time to time, wondered why Spain was left out of the second but having never asked - I forgot about it.In Hemmingway and Steinbeck both, I'm beginning to understand the very weight of the Communist issue in 1930s America.  Accusing someone of being a communist was a very serious charge.  Even in Spain (Robert is an American on the Republic side of the war) a man is called a communist and reacts as though it was his life he is protecting in denying the slander.I think that period writers such as these are really instrumental in keeping history alive.  The books are much easier to read than Non-Fiction (for me at least) and there aren't enough people around from that time to talk about it anymore.The flip side to appreciating what a fictional author can bring is that, as in this, only a few players are introduced.  Hemmingway's Roberto was a fantastic character who held dread on equal weight as hope.  In the three days the book spanned I felt as if I was living along side Roberto.  I watched him plot his offensive; understood as he explained it to his comrades; rationalized the perils of the pending attack. Mostly though, I fell in love with him as Maria did and fell in love with her equally.As exciting as all that is, the repercussions of war were heavily felt as I edged on the last pages of the book.  It is heavy material and it wasn't as quick to get through as I have found other books that I have loved.The 470 could have easily been 900 pages and I would have read it still, devouring every word.  Give yourself the time to read it, as you may have to put it down a few times in the process.
5 This is my first exposure to Ernest Hemingway and, after reading it, I wonder how I could go through eight years of high school and college and not read one Hemingway book.  I loved this book!  I have never taken so quickly to a piece of classic literature.  Hemingway's style is powerful, evocative, and dramatic.  And yet none of the prose is overly verbose or bombastic.  This tale, set over four days in the mountains of Spain during the Spanish Civil War, follows Robert Jordan, an American fighting in the International Brigade, and his preparations for a bridge demolition.  During that time, he falls in love with the beautiful and tragic Maria as well as befriends the group of guerrillas he is working with.  During those four days, Jordan loves, idealizes, and submits to his dutiful fate more passionately than most men ever will.  If you have never read Hemingway before, I suggest you do so right away.  This book is a great one to start with and I know that I will be looking to read more of his works soon.
2 This novel bored me.  And I like Hemingway's work.  Pilar's tragic stories go on and on, as do pointless conversations in caves with desperate people swearing at each other and hitting each other in the mouth (which, alas, only encourages more conversation instead of silencing it).  The constant use of &quot;obscenity,&quot; &quot;muck,&quot; etc. instead of the real swear words is truly wearying, and the translation of Spanish terms into &quot;thee,&quot; &quot;thou,&quot; and &quot;less bad&quot; mean nothing at all to the casual English reader.Nor is Robert Jordan (why does Hemingway keep using his full name throughout the novel?  That's irritating too) much help, being a typical Hemingway strong-and-silent-type who drinks too much, enjoys bullfights, and lives to sleep with pretty 19-year-olds.  &quot;The earth moved&quot; is the best he can do in the supposedly passionate and brief love scenes with Maria, who enjoys pouring him more wine while washing his feet.  His doubts about doing his duty are neither profound nor convincing.  Until well into the novel he's a too-typical freedom fighter who justifies duty over Eros in dreary inner conversations.  Like another reviewer put it, I wished a quarter into the novel that he'd spare me his musings, blow the damned bridge and go home.
5 This book is as meaningful as it is enjoyable.  It presents life in no  terms other than reality.  The dichotomies that Hemingway explores, the  anecdotes he tells, the characters he creates, and the experiences he  describe all combine to create a spellbinding work.
5 This book should be a "must read" for everyone. It is one of the top twenty-five books of modern times.
5 This book has everything.  War, Romance, and the little known history of the Spanish Civil War.Hemingway is at his best in this book.  His keen journalistic eye doesn't miss a detail.Although the era he is writting about has long since gone by the reader cannot help but be pushed back in time.There is one scene that always sticks in my mind.  I think Pablo's mujer is telling Robert Jordan about a village they "cleaned" of fascist.  The details of the brutality in that section of the book will give any reader a glipse of what war is.
2 I listened to this on audio book over several days, it felt like forever. I wasn't too impressed. It was slow, slow, and did I mention slow. Then when it was interesting, it wasn't even worth all the slowness.  Won't be sampling Hemingway again anytime soon.
5 This is Hemingway's virtual personal account of the Spanish Civil War at the ground level. The central character is an American from Montana who speaks fluent Spanish and is known as the "dynamiter". He sides with the republicans, as did other Americans such as the Lincoln Brigade and many other westerners and soviets  pitted against the Fascists supported by the Nazis and Italians. The American, referred to as Roberto or Ingles by the guerilla band,  joins the band behind enemy lines  with the expressed purpose of blowing up a bridge to coincide with a republican offensive. The brutality of war is evident by Maria, with the band, who was brutalized and raped while her parents were shot just because they were republicans. In contrast, demonstrating that war is brutal on both sides, Pablo, the band's soddened leader, is traumatized with guilt and feelings of defeat that haunt him with own past butchering of townsmen that were friendly to the Fascists. There is a general feeling of despair as the band attempts to regenerate itself to action in the face of an enemy well supported by aircraft and weaponry. Another key character is Pablo's lady friend Pilar who, once associated with a famous bull fighter, speaks often of manliness and she takes over the leadership temporarily vacated by Pablo's morose fall into a drunken stupor. The discussion of Spanish views of manhood provide an opportunity for Hemingway to expose his fascination with bull fighting and machismo that is both courageous and revolting. Time is fleeting, although the paperback is almost 470 pages, within in the book as an accelerated romance develops between Roberto and Marie that heightens an expectation of loss as the two fall deeply in love. Hemingway consumes the bulk of the book with dialogue within the personalities in the band such as the gypsy and the old man who seems the most dependable and balanced member. Action picks up toward the end of the book as  Pablo's band prepares to take action while the Fascists search the mountains for Pablo's associate and his band on a neighboring mountain. As Roberto and Pablo's band seek to destroy the bridge, the republican attack formes in the distance. There is an expectation of great loss and the book climaxes with the attack on the bridge and you feel an uncertainness of doom for the central characters as the end is abrupt and almost shocking. The book is a classic and very realistic, it may be too long for younger readers but it certainly outlines the tragedies of war and perhaps underlines the horror of Civil War. One of Senator John McCain's favorite books as noted on the Imus in the Morning radio show last week.
5 This was my second time to read it.  I watched the movie with Gary Cooper and Ingrid Bergman and had to read the book again.  Of course, the book is better than the movie.  Great read - love Hemingway books.
4 I happen to think Hemingway is one of the most overrated novelists of the 20th century, but this particular book is &quot;a good read.&quot;  Hemingway does deal with many subjects such as duty, brutalization, love, or loyalty, all the while telling a good, moving story.  Not my vote for &quot;the great American novel&quot;, but worth reading.
4 &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot; is no disappointment to a fan of Hemingway's terse, truthful prose.  Here he employs it to explain the events of a few days during the Spanish Civil War.  The plot is simple: an American fighting for the republic joins a small guerrilla unit in the hills, under orders to blow up a bridge at the beginning of a great assault on the fascists.  The American also falls in love with a young Spanish girl, thus allowing Hemingway to explore his favorite combination of themes, love and war.Hemingway is, in my view, one of the most moving and profound writers of all time.  In this novel, he aptly captures the emotions and motives of those who risk their lives at war, and along the way, offers some extraordinarily memorable stories of both bravery and brutality.To me, the novel's main weakness is the love story.  The protagonist's love interest, as in all of Hemingway's novels, is young (19 years old, in this case), beautiful, naive, and ignorant.  She worships Robert Jordan, and obeys his every command much as a puppy.  Having no mind of her own, she is wholly contented by serving Jordan in ways such as washing his socks and and drying out his sleeping bag.The only other oddity in the novel is Hemingway's habit of translating Spanish literally.  For example, he uses thou and you to differentiate between the Spanish speaker's use of &quot;tu&quot; and &quot;Usted.&quot;  He also uses such nonsensical phrases as &quot;I have much hunger&quot; as a translation for the Spanish &quot;tengo mucho hambre,&quot; and &quot;What passes with thee?&quot; for &quot;Qu&eacute; te pasa?&quot;.  I found that a bit distracting.On the whole, however, I found the novel remarkable.  Hemingway's ability to pare down complex ideas and events into such simple, powerful prose is unsurpassed.
4 A very intense tale of war and the local people involved in the cause fighting for their country however they can.
5 I was expecting to loathe this book. It was nothing like I expected.Yes, For Whom the Bell Tolls is about war. There are all the horrors of war in this book. But nothing was extraneous, gratuitous, undeserved. And the book was about so much more than just war. Hemingway delves into relationships and honor and courage and heroism. It is a great book.
1 I do enjoy the book. My issue is not with the book but with the people who altered it to suit their sensibility. If you don't like the langauge used in the book that is fine, but don't change every curse word to "unprintable", "unmentionable" because you and want you and your children to live in a bubble. You are ruining something that is perfect as it is. You lack the creative ability to create anything on your own so you believe changing curse words into clever terms makes you an artist. Whoever edited this book need be shot, and be sent back to whatever community college academic standpoint they came from where they believe the world is fair and things should all be politically correct.NEVER CHANGE THINGS TO SUIT YOUR SENSIBILITY!
5 What do you say about such a classic.  Many classic writers are difficult to read but EH takes you through the story with brilliant ease and depth if characters.
5 I'm a middle-aged middle-class guy. I read this recently, since it has a reputation as one of the great Amerian novels, and my particular HS required no Hemingway.  I figured the time had come.So now, having read it, I think For Whom the Bell Tolls was an important milestone, something of a product of its times.  There was not yet such a body of anti-war or humanist literature as there is now...perhaps Hemingway played a role in creating that.  Still, it is not just an anti-war book; intelligent people have known a long time, as Sherman put it, that war is simply "brutality" that cannot be made pretty.  So this is not Hemingway's main point.  If anything, he even sounds pro-war in the brief sections that justify the Spanish Civil War and the fight against the Fascists.  (He seems a little blind to the pact the Spanish Republicans made with the devil, i.e. the Russian communists, but history had not yet proven the bloodthirstiness and corruption of the Soviet Union.)Hemingway's main theme in this book is personal honor, and how personal concerns affect one's perceptions and may override original, idealistic motives.  The hero, American dynamiter Robert Jordan, has snuck behind Fascist lines to help destroy a bridge and aid a planned Republican frontal attack.  But three things happen - his guerilla teammates are led by a very disillusioned old veteran, who argues bitterly with his tough old wife; and Robert falls in love Maria, with a refugee they are sheltering, raped and nearly killed by the Fascists.  Finally, his spying reveals the front is losing the element of surprise.  In this dangerous situation, he wants to call it all off, and retreat to a life of happiness with Maria.  Sorry, no further plot will be revealed here....This way we get to study two different couples.  We learn that Pablo and Pilar, the guerillas, have killed many people, up-close and personal.  Pablo seems to have enjoyed it.  Pilar did less hands-on killing but she and the others are still dedicated to the cause.  Now here comes an outsider, a handsome young American with no real dog in this fight, bringing the front closer just when Pablo has had enough.  Even worse, he falls for Maria, and sleeps with her in his own bag, outside the cave.  (The love scenes, though not very graphic, are pretty juicy for their time.)  Pilar tries to bolster Robert's resolve, even plotting against her husband.  Maria is lost without Robert, and will follow him anywhere.  But where will Robert end up going?  He has committed himself, and he wants to fulfill his duty as a matter of honor.  What destiny will bring the best honor for both himself and Maria?  Having sacrificed so much so far, what further sacrifice do any of these people need to maintain their honor?Unlike many contemporary books, FWTBT does not have a big, overwhelming climax.  Instead, the ending unfolds in a way that you might have expected, as you read it.  This unfortunately left me a little cold, unable to decide whether I Love the Book, the way I do some others.  But it is an indispensable milestone.  Perhaps better read if you are not already so jaded or anti-war that you can't conceive of a cause worth fighting for.
5 Someone should rush into George W Bush's office with a copy of this book.  It's not anti-war, but it is about what Wilfird Owen called 'the pity of war', the terrible ironic waste of camaraderie and love and stories and landscapes, and the value of the life of just one man.So many reviews summarise the plot, so I'll refrain.  It's almost like Hamlet, though; Robert Jordan has to blow a bridge, but four acts go by before he acts.  In that space, he and we learn what the act will really mean - nothing, in terms fo the war, but everything to him.  he's like a matador, int eh pause between the bull's turn and his impact.  The whole book is lit up with Robert's mortality.And it sounds amazing, lyrical, not entirely spare, but with half-heard rhythms as steady as pulses.I liked Maria.  I know I'm swimming against the feminist stream, but why not goodness in a heroine instead of the tiresome feistiness we've all seen so much of lately?Pilar, however, is not tiresome, and to meet her is alone enough to put this book at the top of any list of tO read books you may be making.  She shines because it is SHE whoo is Hemingway - yes, folks, he was fat and a bit food-obssessed.  And she is the storyteller.  Hemingway was interested in that kind of transgression - read Garden of Eden.  But read this first.
5 Hemingway's magnificent novel has something for everyone:  an action tale, an anti-war protest, a love story, subtle ironies, a magnificent short story within the novel, political criticism of communism and fascism, a philosophy of life, and beautiful descriptions of life that leave you gasping.  You will learn a lot about yourself by considering which elements you notice most strongly.  Reading For Whom the Bell Tolls is like holding up a mirror to your soul.On the surface this is a book about 3 days and nights of war.  But with the action packed into that time and extensive use of flashbacks, it becomes a tapestry of all humankind.  After you start to notice the individual threads in the tapestry, be sure to step back and see the whole.  For the remarkably balanced and connected artistry of the themes and directions in the story is what makes this book great.If you are disturbed by descriptions of violence, brutality, and inhumanity, you will not enjoy this book.Robert Jordan is an American who has joined the republican side of the Spanish civil war.  In normal life, he teaches Spanish.  Now, he is transformed into a demolitions expert who can blow up trains and bridges.  With an offensive coming, he moves behind the fascist lines to join a guerilla group to blow a key bridge during an offensive that begins in 3 days.  The rest of the story covers the action of preparing for and attacking the bridge.  Along the way, you will become acquainted with the characters in the guerilla band as well as Jordan.  Jordan will find himself moved in many ways to become more alive and fully connected than he has ever been before.  He will experience the full range of human emotion and life within these 3 days.If you don't know about the Spanish Civil War, you should be aware that it was the main warm-up for World War II.  The fascists under Franco were supported by Hitler and Mussolini.  Hitler wanted to try out his new weapons and fine-tune tactical theory before attacking the rest of Europe.  Communists from around the world flocked to the republic, as did pro-democracy volunteers.  The republican forces had great popular support but had little war materiel and fought a losing campaign that created great anguish in the international community.Civil wars are one of the worst forms of human conflict.  Because the people are so much alike, they tend to behave with greater savagery towards one another.  With modern weapons of mass destruction, the effects can be awful beginning with the American Civil War.  Hemingway does a great job of showing the essential sameness of the forces on both sides in human terms, and takes away the meaning of their causes to show the greater importance of their humanity.  The book reminds me in this aspect very much of All Quiet on the Western Front, the great ant-iwar novel about trench warfare in World War I.As is usual with Hemingway, the writing is spare, effective, and graceful.  Stylists will be delighted!Why should you read this book today?  You will probably not fight in a civil war.  Or will you?  For in fact, humans are as divided in their competitions as ever.  They just normally don't involve bloodshed.  There is great glory in the conflict, but even greater potential in their cooperation.  Ask yourself about where you compete now and what could be accomplished if you focused on constructive cooperation instead.  Think about this concerning your family, your love, your work, your hobbies, and your volunteer activities.  Like the quote above, wherever there is one of us the other is present.  If you start to represent each other's interests and connect with one another, the sum of mankind is greater and so is each person.  You will also love life more!
5 This is a unique novel in the Hemingway collection, it has a plot. This is the longest of his novels though the easiest to describe. The Hemingway style is not as lean as in earlier works, one might even say it is pleasantly plump in comparison (as Papa himself was at the time of writing). I'll never forget my first reading of this book. One of those books you put down and just hold your breath with the memory of it all. This might best be described as Hemingway fare for non Hemingway fans. Though Hemingway fans like it too, but it will always be number three to them. The Sun Also Rises is perhaps one of the more difficult books to summarize and Hemingway's style is so new in it that the book created a buzz that has still not died down. What was not said in that first book left some feeling a bit famished. Others were intrigued by this new kind of writing that held its cards so close to its chest. In this book you get a more conventional novel of a novel though the events described in it are very powerfully told. (It is fun to see pictures of Hemingway as a reporter at this time. A world famous novelist in the field.) This book along with A Farewell to Arms prove no American knew better how to convey by written words that nasty busines of war better than Hemingway. Robert Jordan is one of the least talked about Hemingway characters ever. Perhaps because he is a character invented to serve a plot. You will love this book of fighting and love in the Spanish mountains. John Donne himself I think would have proudly read and enjoyed this.
5 Robert Jordan is one of the most exciting, interesting and principled fictional characters I've ever had the pleasure to read about.  Set during the fascist take over in 1930s Spain, For Whom the Bell Tolls is a novel that will easily stand the test of time (not much of a prediction since it was written in 1940) and is one of the finest books in the English language.  Jordan, an American, is the main character who comes to Europe to fight the good fight against Franco's military thugs.  The reader is given a fascinating in-depth look into his psyche, where he reflects on his fellow soldiers, plans for warmaking and the justifications and rationalizations along the war trail.Pablo's another character who is burned into your consciousness long after you've finished reading.  A fellow rebel (they weren't rebels in the true sense, since they were fighting for a government they had duly elected; however, they have all the characteristics of guerrillas in that the Spanish military waged an immediate and violent war against that very democratically elected government), the reader is left wondering just how committed he is to the cause.  There is an incredible flashback story detailing Pablo's orchestration of the sadistic torture and humiliation of a group of wealthy fascist sympathizers.  The vivid description involved in this passage is nothing short of extraordinary.Of course the true democrats, fighting for the Republic against the well financed and better armed fascist military, eventually lose the war, but having that foreknowledge does nothing to detract from the cliff-hanger like feelings brought about by the various battles and journeys the rebel crew embarks on.This is the best, and most accessible of all of Hemingway's works.  If someone is interested in reading Hemingway, For Whom the Bell Tolls is the perfect starting point.  As for Hemingway's style of prose, what more can be said, except that it's brilliant, enthralling and readily accessible to the common reader, unlike Joyce and Faulkner.  In my opinion, every American should give some time to Hemingway's For Whom the Bell Tolls.  Commitment, intelligence, sacrifice and fighting for the well being of your fellow man is all there along with a terrific love story. Given that the average American attention span is like a ferret on a double espresso (Dennis Miller), very few will give books like For Whom the Bell Tolls a try with the mass of pop TV garbage out there.An excellent companion to the book is the documentary film "The Good Fight" narrated by Studs Terkel.  It gives a mini history lesson of the Spanish Civil War and specifically focuses on a group of U.S. citizens (the Abraham Lincoln Brigade) who heroically went abroad and fought along side the democrats against Franco and his fascist military thugs.
5 Usually, even with the best books, I would say that &quot;this book is not for everyone.&quot;  Not so with this novel.  I truly believe that this book IS for everyone.  Unlike so much other 20th century literature, one need not be well read to get something out of it.The story is of  two of man's most cherished and hated traditions:  Love and War.  The  tragedy is that we have had so much of the latter and so little of the  former.  We see much of both in &quot;For Whom The Bell Tolls.&quot;  It  is a tender story of two young people who just want to live a  &quot;normal&quot; life together during the Spainish civil war, but who are  prevented from doing thus due to their being in the wrong place at the  wrong time.It is incredulous to me that there were other reviewers who  found this book &quot;boring.&quot;  I can only surmise that anyone who  would find a novel such as this boring will not find anything  &quot;exciting&quot; unless it has Arnold Scharzenegger swinging around a  machine gun.  But that, I believe, is the fault of the reader's lack of  attention span and cannot be blamed on Hemingway.The author writes that  &quot;The world is a fine place and worth the fighting for and I hate very  much to leave it.&quot;  I would agree.  Anyone else who agrees, and anyone  who has a passion and zest for life should read this book.  One of the best  examples of American literature in the 20th century.
5 Controversy has swirled around Ernest Hemingway's masterpiece since the day it was published. "For Whom the Bell Tolls" was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize in 1941 and the Pulitzer committee agreed unanimously to name the book as the winner of the fiction category. Board president Nicholas Murray Butler, however, overruled the committee on the grounds that he felt the book to be profane and offensive. No award in the fiction category was given that year. The Pulitzer committee, sans Butler, did go on to award Hemingway in 1953 for "The Old Man and the Sea." Butler has since been widely criticized for his partisan politics and racial beliefs during his 43 year stint as president of Columbia University. Hemingway also won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1954."For Whom the Bell Tolls" is Ernest Hemingway's seminal novel of the Spanish Civil War. Beginning in 1937 Hemingway traveled to Spain to cover the war as a reporter. In the years before WWII, Spanish Republicans, backing the established Spanish Republic fought the fascist Nationalist forces of General Francisco Franco. The Republicans received backing from the Soviet Union and various organizations of the Marxist movement, among others. The rising forces of Nazi Germany and Italy backed Franco. The fascists under Franco won. Franco established a dictatorship and then went on to rule Spain with an iron hand until his death in 1975.It is easy to get hung up on all the politics involved in this book - who is backing which side, etc. Remember the time frame of the book (pre-WWII) and know that the story is essentially human. It is about ideals, loyalty, love, sacrifice, and honor in the face of loss and death. Robert Jordan is an American who joins the guerrillas fighting on the side of the republic as a dynamiter. Jordan's goal is to blow a key bridge right after a Republican attack starts against the Fascists. He meets up with the anti-Fascist cell in the area, which is headquartered in a well-hidden cave. Pilar is the wife of Pablo, who ostensibly is in charge, but Pilar runs the show. Pablo is tired, burned out, and dangerous to the cause after years of war and atrocities committed on both sides, and Pilar takes the reins. While coordinating the attack with the cell Robert Jordan meets and falls in love with Maria, a young woman adopted by the cell after her family is decimated by the fascists and she is raped by their soldiers. Much like the principal characters in "A Farewell to Arms," the wartime romance is accelerated and Jordan undergoes a transformation due to his love for Maria. He begins to question his role in an increasingly futile conflict. He spiritually takes Maria for his wife with hopes and dreams for the future. When it becomes evident that the guerrilla attack will be doomed, Jordan must decide between escaping with Maria or staying true to his ideals and do his duty with honor in the face of impending disaster. The entire story takes place in four days.I really liked "For Whom the Bell Tolls." It gets beyond the politics and the ideologies and more into the nature of war, showing that there is good and bad on both sides of any conflict. Hemingway points out that the best soldiers don't necessarily win a war - the ones with the biggest weapons do. "To make war all you need is intelligence. But to win you need talent and material." Other memorable gems from the text include, "Nothing is done to oneself that one does not accept," and "If you stop complaining and asking for what you never will get, you will have a good life. A good life is not measured by any biblical span." The apt title itself comes from the John Donne quote, "...And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; It tolls for thee." Thus is the nature of any conflict, regardless of the politics involved.  One reason Jordan, an American, is fighting in Spain is because he is concerned with the rise of bigotry and fascism in his own country. This belief is made all the more ironic by the treatment of the book by the Pulitzer committee and Nicholas Murray Butler in 1941, on the very eve of America's entry into WWII against Nazi Germany.Do not be intimidated by "For Whom the Bell Tolls." On the surface it reads like a great adventure story with compelling characters. It is so much more than that, however. As with the very best of novels, its themes and messages are truly timeless, ringing true during the Spanish Civil War, WWII, Vietnam, and today. This is an excellent book, and I recommend it very highly.
5 Who am I to comment on the prose of Ernest Hemingway? How can I add to the other 390 people who have read "The Old Man And The Sea"? How would you like to read Ernest Hemingway's own words? Hemingway gives us a rare opportunity to understand the nature of his writing in the book, "Ernest Hemingway on Writing". I am sure that Hemingway did not intend his private letters to become public but this reader is thankful. "The Old Man And The Sea" places the reader in the moment because of Hemingway's intent. Listen to his words about story: "Make the story so real beyond any reality that it will become a part of the readers experience". Listen to what Hemingway says about place: "Convey Everything, every sensation, sight, feeling, place, and emotion to the reader." Listen to his belief in character: " I want them to sound as though they really happened." "The Old Man and The Sea" is only 127 pages but conveys a old fisherman's entire world: "Prose should read easy and simply and seem short and yet have all the dimensions of the visible world and the world of a mans spirit." Hemingway pulls us into the story by his detailed description of the old mans boat; "The sail was patched with flour sacks and furled it looked like the flag of permanent defeat." Many months have passed since the old man has proven his skill while other; "successful fisherman of that day were already in and had butchered the marlin out and carried them laid out full length across two planks with two men staggering at the end of each plank." Everything in the olds mans life began to lack purpose and fiction filled in the gaps; "There was no cast net and the boy remembered when they had sold it. But they went through this fiction every day. There was no pot of rice and fish and the boy knew that too." On land the old man was just an old man but in his boat he was transformed; "They were strange shoulders still powerful although very old and the neck was still strong too and the creases did not show so much." The sea gave him hope; "The old man always thought of her as feminine and as something that gave great favours and if she did wild or wicked things it was because she could not help them." The great fish lived in a world unknown to most except the old man; "Nothing showed on the surface of the water but some patches of yellow sun-bleached Sargasso weed and the purple formalized iridescent gelatinous bladder of a Portuguese man-of-war floating close beside the boat." Death of the great fish was near and; "He was bright in the sun and his head and back were dark purple and in the sun the stripes on his sides showed wide and light lavender." If you love the spoken word and want to be transported into the world of an old man and a great fish, "The Old Man And The Sea" is a must-read. Classic prose never gives up its richness to passing years.
5 I became hooked on Hemingway long ago when I was in college, and this is the book that got me hooked. In English composition we were being taught how to write interesting sentences, for instance, how many adjectives you could use in describing a person walking down the street. Then I read Hemingway and realized you could write, "He walked down the street", because walking wasn't the important thing. The important thing was what was in the heart of the person walking down the street. When Hemingway won the Nobel Prize the committee mentioned THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA, but it would be hard to imagine Hemingway winning the Nobel Prize and becoming one of the three giants of twentieth century American literature without FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS. I would recommend this book, but be careful, you just might get hooked on Hemingway.
5 I'm writing this review as the result of an experiment. I decided to test my theory that no matter how good a book or symphony or painting or aria or whatever have you, someone somewhere is going to think it is a piece of crap. I have observed this phenomenon in my one thousand plus speaking engagements where typically I will receive hundreds of glowing reviews and then there will be one disgruntled person who thinks I should be thrown out the window or fed to the alligators.Here you have my favorite novel from a lifetime of reading voraciously -- Hemingway's FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS. A novel that has it all: story, character, historical background, description, dialogue, love story, thematic subtext. And above all that, it is pure poetry. And yet in reading the reviews on Amazon, I see not merely one but several poor souls who just never got it. One lady had to keep a dictionary next to her to get through Hemingway's vocabulary. Too many syllables for her, I guess. (How many syllables are there in "ignoramus?") One example of how subjective it all is: Hemingway writes as though he is speaking Spanish even though he is writing in English. I am in awe of his ability to do this, and in fact one of the reviewers, a native Spanish speaker, confirms that Hemingway is perfectly accurate in his translation. Still, another brilliant reviewer doesn't get it, thinks that Hemingway must be illiterate.Am I being a snob? I prefer not to think so. I just think it illustrates a wonderful quality of human beings, that they can and will disagree on just about anything. I simply want it to be known that this reviewer gives this book a ten-star review. More than any movie, FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS makes the hair stand up on the back of my neck. The reaction is visceral (look that up in your dictionary). If you have not read it, don't wait -- order the damn thing right away. It will enrich your life beyond description...or not!
5 For Whom the Bell Tolls is perhaps one of the greatest books of the 20th Century. Set in revolutionary Spain about 1933 or so, the book covers less than a week of real time, as American Republican Partisan Robert Jordan assists a band of guerrillas in blowing up a bridge in preparation for a major Republican attack.  Hemingway is a master storyteller, and the weaving of love, life, death, and the horrors and deceit of war are well developed.  You know the ending at the beginning, and yet the development of the story and characters are so rich and so complete that there is little to do but wistfully tear up during the last chapter.  The book is a page turner, and a must read treasure of 20th Century literature.
5 In the team photo of 'best books I've ever read', I feel a desire to re-read this one every 10 years or so. It's definitely a 'love it or hate it' effort -- in particular, the language used can be off-putting as Hemingway tries to convey the beauty of the Spanish language through the use of archaic English. I think it works, though the necessary linguistic convolutions needed to express obscenities gets tedious.The plot is well-constructed, giving an adequate amount of motion as it moves between the love story and the action sequences. Hemingway's flair for description are on full display -- whether it's the scenery, military weapons, food or people he gets to the heart of the matter swiftly and decisively.The themes Hemingway pursues throughout his career are present in this work -- androgyny, suicide, the outdoors, shooting and depression are all rolled into it. These themes provide layering and texture that helps propel the novel forward without dipping into an emotional morass.A book to treasure, by a master of the art.
5 Hemingway spans quite range.  If you have just finished reading The Great Gatsby and are interested in the jaded, bored-with-life, spoiled and rich who drink and drink, read The Sun Also Rises.  If you've just finished Dr. Blade #57, you like senseless action, and just want to say you've read Hemingway, try To Have and Have Not.  But if, like me, you come from a background of JRR Tolkien, RL Stevenson, HG Wells and Jack London, and perhaps you have already read a few Nick Adams tales or The Old Man and the Sea, then don't be daunted by this story's length - this is your book.While it's true this book slowed down a few times, that rang true.  It mirrored the reality of my military experience.  Then again, there are some chapters of this book burn into the memory: how the Communists first dealt with people after taking their hometown, the stand they took on the hilltop, the final scene, and others.  There characters were clear, the action realistic, the inaction tense.  Read it.
4 Warning, this review gives away the very end of the book, so if you have not read the book, don't read this review.So, first what I liked was just about everything. This was a well written, easy to read book. My edition was 470 pages, and I had it read in 2 days. The story sucks you in pretty well. I even was able to tolerate the romantic parts, and there are lots of them when Robert Jordan falls in love with the young lady Maria. Usually I roll my eyes and skip past the slop, but this was not too bad. The ending at the bridge was extremely well done. When I read about Robert Jordan down there planting his explosives, near panic because he still hears shooting up above, trying to calm himself down, it really did make my own heart beat a little faster. No book has done that to me in a very long time.So here's what I didn't like. First, it seems like two-thirds of the book was a buildup to the attack on the bridge. After a while, I was thinking, get on with it, already. The big one, however, that ruined the book for me, was the last few pages. Robert Jordan blew up the bridge, reunited with what was left of his group, reunited with Maria, and was fleeing, when a tank shell knocked him off his horse and the horse collapsed on top of him, breaking his leg. Now, in this part, Maria is absolutely right. She wants to cut the load off one of the horses and throw Robert Jordan on its back. Sure, his leg was broken.. so what? That's a non-fatal wound. He wasn't losing any blood as far as I could tell from the text. Sure, he probably would have lost his leg, but so what? Better than losing his life. I really hate what he does here. He gives up. He drives Maria away, breaking her heart for life. Then he lies there with a gun, waiting for the enemy so he can go out in a blaze of glory.Maybe Hemingway meant for this to be noble and heroic. Not for me. To me, it was stupid, unnecessary, and downright cowardly. You see, I'm not suicidal, and I can't get past the fact that this joker did not have a fatal injury. He could have lived and escaped. He had done his bit for the cause in blowing up the bridge. He had a woman (Maria) who loved him and was willing to marry him. He had a good, secure job waiting for him back in the States. The only downside for him is that he may have lost one leg. Big deal. To me, in throwing all that away and committing suicide, Robert Jordan ended up a despicable coward. His little suicidal ending may have killed one enemy officer. A suicidal ending like his is appropriate if you are inches from death; better to take one of them with you on the way out. But Robert Jordan was NOT near death! He just had a busted leg. So he's an idiot, and did not deserve Maria's love. The only possible benefit I can see is that maybe, IF he managed to kill that enemy officer, it allowed the group with Maria a little more time to get away. But they were all behind enemy lines anyway, so I'm not sure how much that matters.So, to sum it all up, I really enjoyed this book up to the last few pages. I was so let down by that ending that I took a star off, and I give it 4 out of 5.
3 "For Whom the Bell Tolls" tells the story of young American Spanish teacher who goes to volunteer in the Spanish civil war. The entire novel takes place over 72 hours in which Robert Jordon, the young American, is responsible, as part of a bigger attack, to bomb a bridge and by that ensure that the Fascists won't be able to send reinforcements after the attack has begun. During those intense 72 hours, Robert Jordon falls in love with Maria, a Spanish girl whose family was murdered by the Fascists. (Isn't it amazing how Hemingway's characters always manage to fall in love faster than it takes one to finish smoking a cigarette?) The story follows Robert Jordon's preparations for the attack and his relationship with Maria and the guerrilla fighters who will assist him with the attack.I am fairly puzzled by this novel, which is considered by many to be Hemingway's best. It offers brilliant observations into the mind of his solider and the psychological aspects of participating in war and how Jordon copes with the hardships of it. While reading some parts of this novel, I was fully absorbed and captivated. In others, I felt it was rather long-winded. Perhaps some editing would have been handy. Although I don't think it is Hemingway's best, I do recommend it to Hemingway's fans.
4 Of course For Whom the Bell Tolls is in English, but everyone speaks Spanish. Hemingway tries to create Spanish sounding English by stretching the syntax of English nearly to its breaking point, by rendering Spanish-ism into odd English phrases, like "what passes with thee?" for que pasa, a common Spanish greeting.Hemingway also uses archaic English usages to present forms that exist in Spanish, but are gone from English, like thee and thou for the second person pronoun. It makes for strange but captivating reading. Here is a writer rendering English into Spanish forms. The results are startling and not always enjoyable; but it always gives you the impression that you have entered another world.If the novel was written in more fluid English, the result would not have been so unusual. The very clumsiness of the language reminds the reader that this is a novel that is taking place in another, somewhat more formal language. And the English bears that imprint.When we read For Whom the Bell Tolls we can see English both reaching into its past to create diction of current usage, as well as using an odd and foreign syntax to give the illusion of another language.  Often, this effect was criticized.  But an open reading of this novel shows what an effective technique this is and how well it does the heavy lifting of expressing another culture's values on the level of language from one tongue to another.
5 First off, I am not a literature expert and do not claim to know all the finer details present in this book.  What I do know is that as an engineer, I enjoy reading, especially classics, and this book has given me confidence in Hemingway as one of the best authors in American literature.My first and only experience with Hemingway before was &quot;The Old Man and the Sea&quot; in high school. Part of the problem may have been in high school, but I was honestly not impressed.  However, since that time I watched the movie &quot;In Love and War&quot;, I have found Hemingway more interesting, but still didn't have time to read him until I found &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot;.  I think this book is just fantastic. The detail that goes into this narrative makes the book hard to put down and very full of meaning.The conflict that the hero, Robert Jordan, goes through internally, externally, and mentally form the basis of what has to be one of the best character studies I've seen in a novel.  I also find the historical perspective quite fascinating as a person who enjoys history and culture.  The Spanish Civil War is something that is overlooked in our education, and I find that even the fictional account here gives insight into the larger issues faced, even if the story is focused on the inner conflict of the main character.This book really shows the inferiority of modern novels and will definitely drive me to continue to read Hemingway.  The only question is what next.  I can't imagine anything being better than &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot;.  My only complaint is in the style of the ending.  While it serves an interesting purpose, I don't feel it quite lives up to the quality of the rest of the book, but the concept is fantastic.
4 This is the first Hemingway book I've read, and I recommend it. For Whom the Bell Tolls covers a period of three full days during the Spanish Civil War, following (primarily) a young American professor of Spanish working as a guerrilla explosives expert on the Communist side (although, as we discover, not a Communist himself). The book is well-written, as one would expect of a classic, although not quite as terse as I expected given Hemingway's reputation... but certainly missing the flowery language of many earlier classics, and I suppose that's the point.On the merits of the story alone, this is a good book. It's a war story, but don't read it for the action scenes, which are few and far between--far more time is spent getting to know the characters, their lifestyle (living in a cave in the mountains behind fascist lines), and their relationships. There's some backstory dealing with the start of the war and some philosophizing on life, love, the morality of killing in wartime, and so forth. Philosophizing in a novel generally bores me, but kudos to Hemingway for writing these passages the way a person's internal voice (well... mine anyway...) would actually sound; Robert Jordan's thought processes sound like they come from a rational, self-aware sort of man in a war zone rather than an author writing essays in the comfort of his home. There are a couple windows on the "larger picture" as well; my favorite section of the book deals with the myriad difficulties one of the guerrillas has getting into and through territory controlled by his own side.The characters here are quite well-developed, especially the protagonist... although his love interest, Maria, seems like little more than a vehicle for masculine wish-fulfillment most of the time (except for the priceless scene where she informs him that she's too sore for sex). At least there is another, much better-developed female character to balance that out. Descriptions, while not flowery, are quite vivid. I learned a bit about Spanish culture and history, although my feeling is that Hemingway was writing for an audience who already knew the basics of the war; his story is a microcosm of the conflict, requiring readers to do more research to really understand it.I would have liked to see a bit more resolution at the end (who survived the day, at least?), but my only real gripe is Hemingway's direct and sometimes inaccurate rendering of Spanish dialogue. His goal--trying to give readers a feel for the Spanish language--is reasonable, but it results in characters saying stilted things that sound ridiculous in English, and sometimes are just plain incorrect. For instance, they say "rare" when they mean "strange," that they don't want to "molest" someone when they want to avoid annoying them ("raro" in Spanish means "strange," and "molestar" means "to annoy"... one would think that a writer like Hemingway must understand the concept of false cognates). And while I understand his use of the "thou" form in an attempt to show the difference between formal and informal forms of address in Spanish, he uses it inconsistently, and statements like "I love thee" in a novel set in the 20th century are just bizarre. For me the translation quickly became annoying and distracting, jolting me out of the story as I found myself translating characters' statements into Spanish to make sense of them.Still, if you can get past what another reviewer has aptly called the "goofy English," this is certainly a worthy read. Lovers of classics are likely to approve all of Hemingway's editorial decisions, and for the rest, this is a fun way to get to know one of the most famous literary novelists of the 20th century. Even if you didn't like classics in school, this one is worth a shot.
5 Hemingway published FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS in 1940, just after the end of the Spanish Civil War. Surely, one of Hem's goals in writing this novel was to capture in fiction the full human and political complexity of this war, which was, for a time, the great international cause. This may explain why this novel, despite its great craftsmanship and virtuosity, reads a little long. Hem, you see, had to get everything in.IMHO, the best feature of this terrific book is its wonderful Spanish characters. These participate in the war, which is a great cause for Robert Jordan, the novel's protagonist. But they participate because of family loyalty, fascist war crimes, or class rage and soldiering is mostly peripheral to their personalities. What the reader remembers is not their support of the Republic but the integrity of Anselmo, the dignity of Fernando, the humor of Agustin, the simple loving sincerity of Maria, the harsh surface of Pilar, and the murderous treachery of Pablo. These are, basically, ordinary Spaniards caught in a gruesome tragedy, not ideologues or idealists who are transformed or energized by the cause.Hem also handles Robert Jordan skillfully. When Jordan first appears, he seems to be concerned only with his duty to the cause, which, on this mission, is to blow up a bridge. But quickly, Jordan meets the loving Maria. Then, through this relationship, Hem explores Jordan's thoughts and feelings on life and death. While Jordan is not an extraordinary man with breakthrough thoughts, he is an extraordinary character who, thanks to Maria, both examines the rationale for risking his life and identifies the beauty of what may be its final few days.There are many great scenes in this novel. Among my favorites are the appearance of the planes and Pilar, at fireside, telling the story of her matador lover. And--surprise!--Hemingway is funny in FWTBT, not in a hilarious Robin Williams style, but with the dexterity of a witty companion. With Hemingway's misogyny, competitiveness, alcoholism, and depression now raised to critical prominence, I was surprised to see that the man could be a good guy.FWTBT is number 74 on the Modern Library's list of 100 Best Novels... a bit low in my estimation.
4 In this novel the sum is more consequential than the parts. That is, if you read this novel chapter by chapter expecting to find some amazing answer or significance it probably is not there or very subtle at best. However, if you spent some time reflecting after having read the novel for a bit, then the novel has a greater deal of substance to it, mainly for the larger issue that is covered in the book-- what death and duty means for individuals in war time. We see this issue repeatedly in both the dialogue and inner thoughts of Robert Jordan, and Hemingway has a superb way of intertwining these two forms of prose and narration, something most authors probably couldn't do as effectively.Perhaps the biggest negative in the work is the depiction of Maria as too submissive and shallow. She seemingly just goes along with whatever Robert Jordan wants and is not able to speak a stronger voice against anything the characters are experiencing. Not only this, but she doesn't bring anything to any of the other characters, and has few lines of importance. Certainly, the fact that she has had a rough background and has endured personal tragedy (being raped, the death of her mother and father) plays a part in her submissiveness, but there are times that she comes across as just a "stock" damsel-in-distress type who will do anything for the hero, or, in the case of Robert Jordan, tragic hero.Robert Jordan appears to be a tragic hero because he questions many times why he is there, and why he is seeing this mission through. He goes back and forth in his conscious about what blowing up a bridge means, and contemplates the duty of why people kill when they have to in a war time setting. He doesn't appear to be completely sold on this cause in Spain, and while he seemingly never leaves this area physically, mentally he challenges the essence of being there time and time again so he can reassure himself that this is the just thing to do, and for the right cause.This is not an easy read in the sense that there is much more to what is going on than meets the eye. There aren't big explosions every page or intense actions scenes with many fighting war; most of the action is internal and underscored. However, this is a powerful book in many points, if just for the effort of Hemingway to really get inside a protagonist's mind and show the insight that goes with it.One final note about this particular edition (Scribner paperback edition from 1995): I don't know if other's editions were the same, but there were a few typos in this one. For this reason, if you plan on getting For Whom the Bell Tolls, I recommend you choose another edition.
5 It's difficult to point at one work of a writer like Ernest Hemingway and claim it to be the best, but that is the claim that I would make for "For Whom the Bell Tolls."This is a story that captures both the true spirit and the doubtful minds of war. It portrays both courage and cowardice, in the beautifully descriptive words that Hemingway was known for. His main character Robert Jordan is an American college instructor who leaves his job to take part in the Spanish Revolution, with a strong conviction in his heart and truly believing that he can make a difference. The story encompasses a time frame of slightly less than three days, during which he plots to blow a strategic bridge at precisely the right time. In those three days he falls in love with a young Spanish girl in the encampment where he is awaiting that moment and is involved in a character conflict with one of the guerrilla fighters by the name of Pablo.This is a well paced story and never boring, with action suspense and romance, all coming together in a setting where you can feel the cold and smell the forest in the way that only Hemingway can describe it. A splendid and beautifully told story that I would recommend to anyone of any age or gender. For that reason I would place "For Whom the Bell Tolls" at the top of the heap among all of his works.In my opinion this great story is the pinnacle of Hemingway's talent. A must read for anyone interested in great literature.
5 Evocative, tragic, brutal, bitter. Using the Spanish Civil War of the 1930s as his backdrop, Hemmingway critiques warfare from the political abstractions and distant generals to the individual lives it destroys, and renders all in frighteningly powerful detail with every crosscurrent coming to bear on each character in ways that are viscerally wrenching, complex and yet clear. Every shade of character and dynamic is captured as several dozen people act out a small part in a large conflict in the two-and-a-half days of a mission to blow a bridge.Robert Jordan, an American in the volunteer brigades, arrives deep in the mountain wilderness of Spain with orders to recruit and employ the services of irregular militia hiding out there in the vicinity of a small bridge that will be key to an impending offensive. His task requires that he win the hearts and minds of these locals in order to secure their loyalty so that he might have an effective small force for carrying out his mission. But this group of people are of conflicting feelings and understandings about their place in the conflict and what it means to each of them. Some are wary and some callous, some dedicated to the fight and others only dedicated to themselves.We have real people-Anselmo's natural and true goodness, Pilar and El Sordo's dedication, Pablo's treachery, Maria's repeated loss of innocence. We have the politics and forces behind it all-selfish and hollow, or abstracted until it's no longer human. And we have warfare-sudden death, alone in the mountains, alone with your last thoughts, with the smell of burning flesh, with your last blood running silently into the dirt.Hemmingway spares us the simplistic narrative style of describing each character's feelings. Instead, he offers the scenes themselves with such insightful observation and flawlessly rendered detail that every one of the many conflicting shifts of allegiance happening in Pablo's scheming mind is writ in his every gesture and expression and telling silence. Neither the characters nor the narrator ever need discuss these in so many words. The tensions among the characters as they huddle in their cave hideout are a fascinating web of unexpected assessments of each other, shifts of power and influence, tactical and strategic wins and loses. Though never spoken of, the delicacy and danger of Jordan's human task is clear. As a contrast there is Maria, at first seeming too childish until we realize Jordan's love for her is love for lost innocence, and that she in turn-only seventeen-has every right to her emotional fragility and her desperation.And then there is the war itself, and here again Hemmingway's powers of observation and prose composition startle. Every action bears on every other, and the individuals are placed firmly in context from the cave to the local mountains to the whole of Spain to the abstractions of global political movements. Without a syllable of pedantry the author draws the relationship between each detail of individual action and the whole of the conflict. And vice versa, with ideals or their absence making each person's motives a little different, and often making helpless puppets of them all.There is very little in literature to compare with For Whom the Bell Tolls. It sees humanity at its very best and very worst simultaneously, and sees it directly in vivid, glimmering images and beautifully textured emotional nuance, without wordy narrative telling the reader what to think and when. The fact that Hemmingway yet controls our understanding with absolute ease and clarity is only half of the writer's art. His critique of warfare and its human toll, expressed in Jordan's arc of hope and tragedy and resignation, is as brutal as the fear and blood on the ground, and ultimately contemplates the interconnectedness of life and the sacrifices made to sustain it. "No man is an islande, intire unto itselfe... Ask not for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for thee." Among the finest literature we have.
5 Few who saw the film version of Hemingway's classic "For Whom The Bell Tolls" with Gary Cooper and Ingrid  Bergman forget it.  It remains today, some  60 years later, one of the most watched movies.For many, their first exposure to truly fine literature may well have been a Hemingway novel.  Whenever our introduction to this author took place is probably etched in our memories.  His  stories are related with such impact that they remain with us.And now, with this audio version there is another unforgettable experience available as  actor Campbell Scott's narration takes us back to 1937 and the Spanish Civil War.  Raised in Boston, Scott still has a touch of that city in his voice, which only adds to its richness.  He reads with a steadfastness that pleases the ear and an intimacy that holds listeners.We hear, "He lay flat on the brown, pine-needled floor of the forest, his chin on his folded arms, and high overhead the wind blew in the tops of the pine trees. The mountainside sloped gently where he lay; but below it was steep and he could see the dark of the oiled road winding through the pass. There was a stream alongside the road and far down the pass he saw a mill beside the stream and the falling water of the dam, white in the summer sunlight."For many those are familiar words yet they continue to command attention as  the story of Robert Jordan, a demolitions expert who has come to blow up a bridge, begins.  He hopes to enlist the aid of Pablo in his mission.  However, Pablo is more than reluctant, having seen enough of war he just wants to be left alone.  Further he wonders what right a foreigner has to tell him what to do.Of course, there is the beautiful Maria with whom Jordan falls in love, and Pablo's wife, Pilar who is still willing  to fight for the cause.Many consider this to be one of the greatest books to be found in American literature.  Listen, and see if you don't agree.- Gail Cooke
5 If for no other reason, this looks impressive as s*** on a bookshelf to any chick who values good literature. However, if you're not an empty husk of a human being, this is a phenomenal story about love and war that illuminates human emotion and connection so thoroughly, you'll hate that your own life doesn't carry as much meaning. I only gave it five stars because there were no more to give.
3 I have tried reading Ernest Hemingway for the third different book and I have difficulty reading him. The prose is difficult to follow for he generally does not say who is talking and it makes hard reading for me. This is the last book of his I will read.
2 The Spanish Civil War was surely the most brutal and tragic civil war of the twentieth century. It not only pitted Spaniard against Spaniard, but became a kind of bloody curtain-raiser for World War II, with Nazi Germany and Mussolini's Italy lining up on the side of Franco's insurgents and the USSR backing the embattled left-leaning Republic. (The Western democracies - who might have prevented Spain from going fascist - followed a pusillanimous "hands off" policy which only emboldened the insurgents and their supporters.) Into this vortex came many writers and intellectuals. They were to witness brutality, betrayals, great valour, the corruption of ideals, and the consequences of ruthless Realpolitik.So with all that in mind, here's an interesting question. If you were an author trying to write the great Spanish Civil War novel, would you choose to (1) sequester your handful of characters up in the mountains away from the main action; (2) write 500 pages covering a mere three days during which time nobody has anything to do; and (3) make the central character non-Spanish?500 pages about three days of waiting is the book's central problem. It turns the novel into the opposite of an epic. To have taken a canvas as sweeping as the three years of the Spanish Civil War and shrink it down to such a compass-point was an unfathomable decision on the author's part. From this self-inflicted literary ambush there is no escape for Hemingway: you either need excellent descriptive prose or superb psychological insight to carve a good story from such crooked timber, for, after all, what else is left to describe in such a situation save inner musings and the outer landscape?The prose is the next problem. Much has been made of Hemingway's 'deceptively simple' writing style. However, I found it impossible to read "For Whom the Bells Tolls" without forming the impression that that his reputation for putatively well-masked complexity is itself the deception. Consider the following extracts [from the Vintage edition]:A hole in a hillside is described as:"both deep and profound"[p. 444]Characters exchange such dialogue as:'Well, then. Oh, then. Oh, then. Oh.'[p. 166]'Maria.''Yes.''Maria.''Yes.''Maria.''Oh, yes. Please.'[p. 272]'But use thy head. Thou hast much head. Use it.'[p. 444]Which brings us to the Hemingway penchant for meaningless repetition:"In an impossible situation you hang on until night to get away. You try to last out until night to get back in. You are all right, maybe, if you can stick it out until dark and then get back in."[p.  174]"So a woman like that Pilar practically pushed this girl into your sleeping bag and what happens? Yes, what happens? What happens? You tell me what happens, please. That is just what happens. That is exactly what happens."[p.  175]Followed by some impressive run-on rants as the author becomes completely carried away describing love scenes (How many women - even in the thirties - were seduced by being repeatedly called 'rabbit'?)My favourite passage is when one of the characters reveals to Joaqu&iacute;n that la Pasionara has a son in Russia. Instead of naming the character, Hemingway chooses to write the following clanking line:"'If we insult them a little?' the man who had spoken to Joaqu&iacute;n about la Pasionara's son in Russia asked."[p. 324]On and on it goes like this. For three days. In a cave. This book has now gone into the umpteenth printing and neither the spelling nor grammar have been corrected ("... the flakes was dropping diagonally ..." [p. 185]; "... and then brining it down ..." [p. 213]; "... the felling when the Ingl&eacute;s gave the order ..." [p. 380]; at one point Andr&eacute; Marty is referred to as "Mary" [p. 437]).So it needs to be said openly. Hemingway pundits who make excuses for this sort of thing have a lot of explaining to do: otherwise they are obliged to defend similarly poor writing when they find it outside the world of Nobel laureates.
5 Robert Jordan, an American in at least the third generation, and a teacher of Spanish from Montana, goes to fight in the Spanish Civil War. His motives are never discussed, as are not the theater of or the reasons for the war. The novel is rather about several people who, in the course of a few days, are helping Robert Jordan complete his mission: to blow up a bridge.The novel's tall order - being "involved in Mankinde" to the extent of fighting thy neighbor's civil wars - is echoed in the story's close engagement with each character. Here is the natural-born killer Pablo, his no-nonsense and wise Gypsy wife Pilar, the beautiful young girl Maria who is carrying much pain, the good old rock of a man Anselmo, who fights to win this war, but who in his bones knows that thou shalt not kill.Robert Jordan is singled out to have both the first and last name. All the other foreigners go by their last names and the Spaniards - by their first ones. Besides embodying the foreign engagement in the Spanish affair, Robert Jordan also brings a distinctly human element into the war zone: the lonely human name among the nomes de guerre of general Golzs and partisan Anselmos.The book is written as if translated from Spanish. The language is a bit choppy, many expressions read like Spanish idioms translated verbatim, some phrases are left in Spanish. This adds to the feeling that one is in a foreign setting. As it often happens in Hemingway's novels, much working of the human spirit is revealed through this simple language.
3 According to the book's jacket, 'For Whom the Bell Tolls' is Hemingway's finest novel.  I disagree.  While the book does a fine job of describing the life of a partisan, its 490 pages only cover a few days' time.  So, don't expect a lot of fast-moving action.  This novel is basically a character study of the different persons in American volunteer Robert Jordan's hosting partisan band.  Therefore, if you enjoy character studies then you will indeed enjoy this book.The plot is that Jordan is sent to blow up a bridge in the Spanish hinterland.  He is to contact a local partisan band and secure their assistance in helping him destroy the bridge.  Once he arrives at the band's secret refuge internal power struggles immediately begin as Jordan's mission will endanger the survival of all the band's members.  In addition, there is the inevitable romantic subplot between Jordan and the mysterious Maria.Utilizing the flashback as a vehicle, Hemingway defines each actor's traumatic personal history, his/her decisions, and his character.  Jordan the idealistic young American university professor becomes the daring, charismatic, and ideologically indifferent demolitions expert.  Pablo the angry peasant becomes the murderous, avaricious guerilla leader.  Pilar the ugly yet happy wife of a diminutive bullfighter is widowed and becomes the overbearing, honorable wife of Pablo.  Maria the fragile, innocent virgin becomes the emotionally-scarred, vulnerable lover of Jordan.  Anselmo the venerable old peasant becomes the determined, brave guerilla fighter.  And so it goes with many of the other book's characters.The book is a good character study and portrait of life as a Spanish partisan, but I found it to be much too slow moving for my taste.  This is decent novel, but it's not really a war novel.  In my opinion, Farewell to Arms is a much better war novel and is Hemingways's best book.
5 The greatest book by one of the world's greatest authors.  Anyone who considers themselves remotely interested in reading or literature should read this novel immediately.  Hemingway reached the peak of his craft here, from the storyline to the characters to the prose itself.  It's part war novel, part love story, and part historical documentary of the Spanish Civil War.  All three blend together seamlessly to create a book without any recognizable flaws.
3 With vivid, descriptive prose, Hemingway takes us into the mind of a soldier.  Focused on duty and his mission, our main character encounters love among the carnage, but even that does not sway him from his duty.  Though at times a bit long-winded, Hemingway brings the internal battle of war to the surface.  The self-talk that goes on shows the conflict behind the rough exterior.  We also see the useless deaths that take place because of the uncertainties that come with war.
5 For whom The Bell TollsFor whom The Bell Tolls is probably my favorite novel by Hemingway.  It is a story told during the Spanish Civil War of an American, Robert Jordan, who fights as a guerilla who knows how to blow up things, especially trains.  It helps if you speak a little SpanishHemingway uses it scattered through out the story.Gunner  September, 2007
4 It cracks me up how Hemingway refuses to write swear words and the word &quot;obscenity&quot; becomes a verb, ie. We are obscenitied!The obvious Spanish syntax is interesting as well and I imagine that those not fluent in Spanish would find the English both twisted and awkward at times.(example, Hemingway writes, &quot;For a favor, do this!, which seems a direct translation of &quot;Por favor&quot;.Another example is &quot;How many years to you have?&quot; (Cu&aacute;ntos a&ntilde;os tienes) instead of the proper English &quot;How old are you?&quot;.  It's as if Hemingway wrote the dialogue in Spanish and then translated it word for word into English. I'm not sure if this is genious or annoying.Regardless of this goofy English, the novel is a good read and I recommend reading it.
4 I enjoyed the book, did not care for the ending but am satisfied as I'm making an attempt to read some of the classics.  I have read books about Hemingway but am now trying to read some of his material.
4 Hemingway has a way of narrating that you really feel he's written a true story. While I like his narrative, it becomes a little boring sometimes. A book for school, or to take when vacationing.
5 I have 2 degrees in English Lit and this is my all-time favorite book. Hemmingway is my favorite author and I believe this is his best novel.
5 I only started reading Hemingway last year, yet he's become one of my very favourite authors. Of course I am humble enough to I ask myself &quot;What more is there to say about &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot; that the reviewers and others haven't said already?&quot; Yet here I am... writing another review about Hemingway's masterpiece...&quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot; is the tale of two of man's most cherished and hated traditions: Love and War. We enter the story somewhere in Spain, in 1937, under the Spanish Civil War. We follow Robert Jordan -the American (teacher, now a demolition expert), and a group of guerrilla loyalists; Pablo leader of the group, his woman Pilar and the girl Maria (a prisoner rescued by Pablo).We follow the group, and especially Robert's, effort, fighting for the Republic against the Fascists. The entire novel only covers a span of three days, so we truly get a sense of the time passing. While the story develops we recognise that the real leader of the group is not Pablo, but his woman, Pilar. We watch Robert develop an intense love for the girl Maria and reading the part where Robert and Maria are taking farewell brought tears to my eyes...It is not possible to not genuinely care for each individual in the story, because the characters are few, and they are all very well developed. In fact, they must be the most complete characters that I've found in any novel that I've read. They say that good novelists write books with strong main characters. Great ones make even the minor characters memorable. And so it is with &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot;, the old man Anselmo is as well developed as Robert Jordan or Pilar.From beginning to end, &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot; held my attention. This novel shows Hemingway's masterful command of the English language, and I think this novel is one of the best anti-war novels of the 20th century. &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot; most definitely deserves its &quot;true classic&quot;-label.I couldn't recommend it more highly!
5 This is one of Hemingway's most powerful novels. It has everything; Gripping characters, both realistic and unrealistic, mystery, suspense, unexpected facts, fear, drama, history. There are not enough superlatives to describe this classic novel. Don&#8217;t miss reading this one.
5 Hemingway displays his narrative powers and his command of English prose in this novel that has a standard plot, i.e., a man on a mission, with the paradox that ambiguities always come with standing up for an idealistic cause.  Robert Jordan has committed himself to his wartime assignment: to go behind 'enemy' lines so as to blow up a bridge to help the Republican cause prior to a critical battle.  Unlike the obsessive focus of a novel like 'Bridge on the River Kwai,' Hemingway shows the fallibility of idealism, how revolutionaries that are not immune to disillusionment, and the self-serving actions of those who have fought for a selfless cause but get more and more self-involved as their nerves and wits are constantly challenged.  The band of partisans, for example, Augustine, Pilar, a gypsy, a disillusioned commander who live behind enemy lines are seen to have their idealism slowly unravel while holding on the the core belief they have in the "Republic."  Robert Jordan splits his attention between dealing with the conflicts among the partisans and focusing on his profession as an explosives expert. This dichotomy allows Hemingway to present the proposition that the  idealistic face we show to the world cannot but be tempered by doubt. This novel succeeds in showing 'ordinary' people dealing with extraordinary events.
4 It is a very good story, with a few life leasons you can learn. I really enjoy Hemingway books. Classic's
5 "For Whom The Bell Tolls" has long been my favorite Ernest Hemingway novel. A compelling action adventure, this is a tale filled with mystery and suspense, peopled by a cast of extraordinarily vivid characters. It is also the author's finest, and most emotional love story. Although his use of language seems simple, it is deceptively so. Hemingway deals effectively with broad themes here - love, loyalty, trust, courage and honor are some. And of course, "For Whom The Bell Tolls," set against the brutal violence of the Spanish Civil War, is probably the definitive work of fiction about this pivotal period in European, and world history.Generalissimo Francisco Franco's fascist troops invaded Spain in July 1936 in order to overthrow the newly established Republic headed by the Popular Front, (composed of liberal democrats, socialists, anarchists, trade unionists, communists and secularists. (If I have left anyone out, I am sorry - this was a truly complex and unique political situation.)The country was basically divided into Red Spain - the Republicans, and Black Spain, represented by the landed elite, committed to a feudal system and Franco's cause, Fascists, the urban bourgeoisie, the Roman Catholic Church, and other conservative sectors. The number of casualties is only an estimate, but suggests that between 500,000 and 1,000,000 people were killed. Many of these deaths, however, were not the results of military battles, but the outcome of brutal mass executions perpetrated by both sides.During the war in Spain, 2,800 American volunteers took up arms to defend the Republican cause against Franco, who was aided by Hitler and Mussolini. Those who fought with the Abraham Lincoln Brigade, from 1937 through 1938, believed the defense of the Republic represented the last hope of stopping the spread of international fascism. These Americans fought alongside approximately 35,000 anti-fascists from fifty-two countries. Most of the volunteers were not political, but idealists who were determined to "make Madrid the tomb of fascism." Hemingway's protagonist Robert Jordan, an American professor of Spanish from Missoula, Montana, was one such volunteer.Robert Jordan, an explosives expert, has been ordered to make contact with a small band of partisan fighters in the Guadarrama Mountains of fascist controlled southern Spain. His mission, of critical importance, is to blow up a bridge, at a specific time, to facilitate a simultaneous Republican attack on the city of Segovia. Most of the novel deals with Jordan's relationships with members of the guerilla fighters, including the girl Maria with whom he falls in love. Jordan is described as, "a young American of slight political development, but a great way with the Spaniards and a fine 'partizan' record." Neither a Communist nor a Marxist, he is anti-fascist. As is the case with most foreign fighters, he is under Communist discipline/direction, because, in the conduct of the war, they eventually run the "show" and provide the most effective opposition.Pablo is ostensibly the band's military leader. He has become disillusioned with the fight, cynical and bitter. He is no longer willing to die for any cause. A smart man, but brutal, and cunning in a mean way, he is a complex character. He does have a conscience. Pablo spends much of his time in an alcoholic stupor. When Robert Jordon enters the picture, Pablo's level of animosity reaches new heights, and his comrades, along with Robert, are afraid he will sabotage the mission. He undergoes several changes during the 3 days and 3 nights in which the story takes place.Pilar is Pablo's woman, an extremely strong and savvy person, she is steeped in gypsy lore and superstition, and is probably the novel's most colorful character. She is a fine warrior who can be counted upon to cover one's back in battle. Pilar possesses a big heart. She has cared for Maria and brought the girl back to health. When Robert Jordon joins them, Pilar takes the leadership position over from Pablo, whom she no longer trusts, but still loves. She commands the allegiance of the guerrilla fighters and organizes them into a temporary alliance with "El Sordo," another exceptional character. She is the force behind many of the novel's events - stimulating movement, motivating or manipulating people to take action - but for good purpose. Pilar, relates various war stories, and anecdotes, which reflect the cruelty and inhumanity of civil war.Mar&iacute;a's life was shattered by the outbreak of the war. Her father, the mayor, along with her mother, and many of the local citizenry were shot before her eyes by the invading Fascists. Since her mother was not a Republican, but a devout Catholic, she shouted, "Viva my husband, the town's mayor," before she died, rather than the more typical, "Viva La Republica!" Maria was then taken away and brutalized, physically and emotionally, by Franco's soldiers. When the guerilla band blew up the train on which Maria was a prisoner, they carried the dazed and broken girl to their mountain hideaway.A thrilling subplot is developed when Andr&eacute;s, a guerilla, must take an urgent message across the lines to a Republican general. Roberto's entire mission, and much more importantly, the offensive, depends upon the successful and timely delivery of the dispatch. Another important character is old Anselmo, for whom Robert develops a strong attachment.A major portion of the novel is told through the thoughts of Robert Jordan, with flashbacks to meetings with Russians in Madrid, and some reflections on his father and grandfather. Jordon's inner monologues fascinate and clearly demonstrate Hemingway's skill with language and character development. Jordan, at one point comments to himself, that he is his own best companion. Because of his wartime responsibilities, he cannot allow himself to be overcome by emotion, which he considers a luxury. Whenever he feels anger, deep love, disappointment, foreboding, fear, anything that will distract him from his purpose, he talks himself down and refocuses. In such a relatively brief period, he begins to love life as never before, because of his feelings for Maria. Even here, however, he accepts that if anything happens to him, he is fortunate to have experienced a lifetime in three and a half days.Again, I cannot write enough in praise of Hemingway's use of language. It is sparse, direct, and extremely beautiful in its descriptiveness. He translated the Spanish intimate "tu" form  into English. I speak Spanish, and although this may seem a bit awkward initially, it gives a much more accurate feel for the local idiom and the dialogue between Maria and Roberto, (as he is called), and between Roberto and the partisans.This is not only an extraordinary novel, but is one of the most important in American fiction. Hemingway worked as a correspondent in Spain during the Civil War, as a reporter for the North American Newspaper Alliance (NANA). He raised money for the Republicans in their struggle against the Nationalists under General Francisco Franco.JANA
3 I began reading For Whom The Bell Tolls directly after finishing a particularly bad modern novel. At first, For Whom... was a breath of fresh air: no long, run-on sentences; no excessive adverbs in the dialog tags; not a whole lot of meaningless adjectives, etc. The dialog was crisp and terse and enjoyable, and the setting was captivating.But then... nothing happens. For a really long time. And all of the flashbacks via thought and story start to get confusing. At times, I wasn't sure if the story was in the present or past; in the thoughts of the protagonist or the speech of another character. And speaking of characters, four of them are strong and compelling: Robert Jordan (the protagonist), Maria (his love interest), Pilar (a tough old woman), and Pablo (a once-great but now tarnished soldier). A fifth character of note is the Gypsy, but the other characters in this ensemble cast are largely indistinguishable from one another.One more criticism: I was really hoping to get a better understanding of the Spanish Civil War and its politics. Maybe I did. But Robert Jordan and his cadre are not hardline Communists nor anarchists (they have special contempt for the latter) but "republicans" in their fight against the Fascists. Not a lot of background is given as to the roots of this conflict or the underlying motivations of each camp.Overall, I feel I have been enriched by reading this book, and I like Hemingway's writing style (this is my first Hemingway since readingThe Old Man and the Seain 9th grade), but all in all, I understand why this has been called one of the "10 Books Not to Read in your Lifetime." Also: Did I have an edited version? What was with all of this "I 'obscenity' in your milk," etc.?
5 This is the first EH books I have read.  I love reading history and war related books because I want to get a sense of what it would be like to live in a desperate time under extreme conditions.  I found this book to be exciting with excellent characters and an excellent story.  I will probably read more of his works.  I recommend.
4 Note that this review is for the audio book version of this novel.  The narrator was Campell Scott.  The audio quality was excellent and the narrator did a good job; he spoke with a slight Spanish accent, which seemed to fit well with the narrative.  He did some characterizations with his voice, but not much compared to other narrators I've listened to.This is the second time that I have read this novel; the first time was over 30 years ago in high school.  It's amazing to me how differently I looked at this book this time around.  The first time I read it; I saw it as an adventure story with some interesting character development.  The second time around I read it as a fascinating look at how war brings out the best and worst in people.I feel that Hemingway accurately captured how certain people would act in a civil war; the cruelty by some and acts of courage by others.  In all cases, the characters were in a situation where there were no great options.  He also accurately showed that there are good people on both sides of a conflict; that soldiers do suffer by taking the lives of others.As a Spanish speaker; I enjoyed Hemingway's use of language.  Most of the unique use of English is actually a direct literal translation of Spanish.  I hadn't heard the phrases directly translated that way before, but immediately recognized them as common Spanish slang.This is a book worth reading; you will learn that life is not always black and white.
3 There is nothing wrong with Hemingway's skill and technique. What I fell in love with in his writing is all here, except his conciseness. This story could have been 200 pages shorter and all the better for it. But Hemingway was responding to critics that accused him of the very conciseness that made his other works a rhythmic masterpiece of storytelling narrative. Hemingway understood technique better than any writer, and why he let criticism overrule better judgment destroys the pace and rhythmic flow of this story. For a three day period, 470 pages is a lot of cave dwelling, talking, eating and drinking. The stories of Pilar while important also drag the story in pacing. Robert Jordan's train of thought - well let's just say that is a mighty long train. The relationship between Jordan and Maria is a quick and welcome breath of distraction from the mundane cave proceedings.This is still worthy of a read, but you are going to have to spend some time with it and, dare say, slug through some excessive chapters where the rhythm and flow of the story comes to a crawl.
5 A number of previous reviewers have noted that this book is about the difference one man makes in the world.  Unfortunately, I think a number of reviewers have missed what Hemingways is saying about the issue.  He is not saying that one man makes all the difference in the world, or that one man is meaningless compared to the whole.  What he is saying is that the world continues without him regardless of whether he changes the world or not.  The title of this book, and its theme, comes from John Donne's 17th Meditation, which says that"...No man is an island, entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main. If a clod be washed away by the sea, Europe is the less, as well as if a promontory were, as well as if a manor of thy friend's or of thine own were. Any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind; and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee..."Hemmingway masterfully tells the story of a man, Robert Jordan, who becomes involved with some Spanish gypsies on his mission to blow up a bridge to help his side win a war.  He begins thinking that it does not matter whether he lives or not, as long as he accomplishes his goal.  However, he falls in love with Maria, and suddenly wants to live.  He takes great pains to make sure that he will be able to do his job and blow up the bridge.  He finally does it.  Then he dies in the escape.  And the world continues on without him.  Hemingway is trying to say what Donne was saying:  life is not tied in the individual, though the individual may be important.  The individual is a part of the collective whole.  The issue is not whether the individual is valuable or not, but rather the issue is the individual's relation to the complex web of human existence.  Perhaps the best illustration of this idea is in Hemingway's beginning and conclusion of the book.  It begins with Robert Jordan lying in some pine needles planning his life.  It ends with him lying in pine needles dead.  The whole middle of the book simply details his part in the complex web of human existence.Hemingway also explores the concept of war through Robert Jordan, who is fighting a war he does not need to be in.  Robert begins to question why he is fighting and why the war is happening.  Some have complained that Hemingway glorifies war.  I do not disagree.  I disagree when they say that it is wrong to glorify war.  It is not at all wrong to glorify the Allies side of World War II, is it?  It is wrong to glorify war for war's sake, but I'm not sure that Hemingway does that.  He glorifies the willingness to lay one's life down for what one loves, not simply dying and killing meaninglessly (which makes his own suicide later in life rather ironic).Whether you agree with Hemingway's thesis or not, it is very well written and very interesting to read.  The characters are very real, and it is neat to see what Spanish gypsies were like in the early part of the 20th century.Overall grade:  A
4 Hemingway is a master storyteller, and FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is a fine example of that mastery. The strengths lie in character development, and thematic presentation. The weaknesses lie in it's style, and language. For example, the use of what passes for colloquial Spanish, particularly in it's profane form, seems artificial and clumsy. I also think elements of the plot tend to weaken or dilute the overall effect of the climax, like when Pilar reads Jordan's palm to tell his future, thus foreshadowing events to come.That being said, this is a very inspirational book, and Hemingway has a knack for grabbing the reader's attention, and keeping it. He is especially good in his short fiction, and an excellent example of that can be found within this novel, when Pilar tells the tale of her village. It is perhaps,the single most riveting and effective part of the novel.FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is of course one of the great novels to deal with sacrifice for righteous causes, and devotion to higher ideals. It reminds me, in a way, of A TALE OF TWO CITIES, in that respect. It is a great noble work, and an indictment of war. There is also a great personal love story here. Hemingway writes (maybe intentionally) very cinematic novels.
5 I read this book when I was in middle school and really enjoyed it.  I think it is a great pick for anyone, but especially young boys and Hemingway fans.  I plan to reread it soon.
3 The author's style is strong and detailed, but with so little happening over so many pages, I found myself becoming impatient with the story. Perhaps just a sign of the times and my own personal taste, I put the book down after reading only half of it. In reflection, the characters, the settings and the building of the story line are all quite beautiful as a whole, but the pace was just too stretched out for me to endure. Perhaps I'll pick it up again sometime.
5 For Whom the Bell Tolls is quite simply one of the best novels ever written.  Honestly, I had relatively low expectations before reading it.  I read A Farewell to Arms and found the terse, repetitive prose and stilted dialogue underwhelming.  For Whom the Bell Tolls is superior to A Farewell to Arms in every way.  This is a complex novel with some of the most memorable characters in modern literature.This mesmerizing novel neither glorifies war, not does it vilify it.  Hemmingway's detached prose is world weary, exposing both sides of the conflict, allowing us to see that war, inevitable and futile, is never simple.  Characters on both sides of the conflict struggle with their own fears and regrets.  Both sides commit, and are subjected to, the atrocities and horrors of war.  As different as each side may think they are from the other, in the end, they are all human and are not as different as they think.For Whom the Bell Tolls is riveting and powerful, easily one of the ten best novels of the 20th century.  I can't recommend this book highly enough.
5 "War is not a life: it is a situation, one which may neither be ignored nor accepted."T.S. EliotFirst off, let me preface this review by stating that I have never been a big fan of war novels.  Secondly, I would definitely not classify myself as an ardent aficionado of Hemingway's work.  I highly respect, admire and appreciate his contributions to American Literature, yet he wouldn't quite make it into my top 10 list of favorite American authors.  So that being said, I had my reservations and trepidations about what I was getting myself into right from the get-go.  So many books... so little time...Published in 1940, this is a story about a young American man (Robert Jordan) who is in the International Brigades and attached to an anti-fascist unit during the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939).  Jordan is an expert w/ explosives, and his mission is to blow up a bridge during an attack of the city of Segovia.  Most of the novel is told to us from Jordan's perspective, which is obviously motivated by Hemingway's own experiences while living in Spain during this violent, chaotic era.  The story is essentially about the three days leading up to Jordan's mission and takes place in the mountains just north of the capital of Madrid.  It is here, that he meets a truly unforgettable, colorful cast of characters - Maria, Anselmo, Pablo, Pilar, Fernando, El Sordo, Agustin, Rafael, et al..., all fighting the good fight with our hero Senor Jordan.Jordan, like most of Hemingway's male protagonists, is full of testosterone, a bit aloof and apathetic, disillusioned, and of course, heroic.  Papa Ernie describes him further, early on in the novel: "He was serving in a war and he gave absolute loyalty and as complete a performance as he could give while he was serving.  But nobody owned his mind, nor his faculties for seeing and hearing, and if he were going to form judgments he would form them afterwards."  Like Ernest himself, Robert is a rough and tough, cynical, macho man.  However on the flip-side of that coin, he is also a very sensitive and vulnerable soul, a flawed, complex character full of contradictions.  He is a realist and a dreamer.  He is a passionate lover and a fighter/soldier, a trusted, loyal friend and a bitter, vengeful enemy, etc...  In other words, one big ball of paradox!Many reviewers have criticized Hemingway's characters for being too simple and unsophisticated.  For example, the beautiful Maria, Jordan's love, especially takes a beating, for being so shallow and two-dimensional.  However, I don't agree with that assessment at all.  We have to remember that she is a simple, country girl who has been brutally treated by the enemy (I will not disclose how) and is caught up in trying to survive the savagery of a war.  What do expect her to be like - Isabel Archer?  Emma Bovary?  Yes, Maria is a bit too simple and submissive for most strong, modern-day women to relate with.  But Hemingway's creation of Pilar, well, there is a dame of different colors completely!  She is one of the most fascinating and also one of the funniest creations in all of literature - a truly singular and intriguing character indeed!This was quite a nice surprise for me.  I have only read five of Hemingway's pieces, yet this one is not only my favorite, but also has enticed me to pick up a few more of his classic works.  It is the type of book that you either are going to love or going to hate and you will know which side of the fence you will fall on right from the get-go.  Hemingway was a true minimalist, and spins this heart-pounding, intense yarn in a simple, straightforward manner.  He doesn't develop his characters a la Austen, Balzac, Tolstoy, James, et al... but yet, few authors can do so much with so little like old Ernie could.  And this classic is a prime example!  Fiercely and austerely told, it is one hec of an intense ride!Highly recommended
2 I want to offer a little dissent here.  I thought the book to be a bit dull and slow.  I really labored to get through it and becuase of it completely turned me off to the rest of his work.  It could be that I spend too much time reading action fiction so I need a fast paced book to keep me interested.
5 As for most of us I was forced to read this book in school, now I can read it because I want to. I've really enjoyed this book and plan on reading more of Ernest Hemingway's offerings.
5 ***This review may contain spoilers.***The title of my review is the question that encompasses and permeates Hemingway's deceptively simple and straightforward war saga in "For Whom the Bell Tolls" (hereafter FWTBT).  This existential question certainly torments FWTBT's protagonist Robert Jordan, an American ex-patriate, Spanish professor, and bridge demolitions expert allied with several Spanish communist guerrilla fighters against the fascists in their late `30s civil war.  Robert certainly doesn't want to deal with this abstract dilemma.  An efficient, meticulous professional, he merely wants to destroy a strategic bridge in order to slow the fascist advance.  But, this task is not so cut-and-dry as it seems.  Like an unemotional surgeon, Robert has to time the explosion precisely in order to delay the fascists enough so that the main communist forces led by General Golz can arrive in time to retaliate.  This means there is plenty of idle, "dead" time to not only plan the demolition, but also to somewhat unwillingly get drawn into the lives, hopes, and fates of the guerrilla fighters.And what vibrant, compelling, unforgettable characters these fighters are!  One of the most admirable fighters is the elderly but capable and loyal guerrilla veteran Anselmo who helps Robert execute the complicated demolition and attack lookout logistics.  Despite his war experience, Anselmo wrestles with qualms about killing others, since it conflicts with fading but still strong religious convictions, but he constantly convinces himself that it is for the good of "The Republic".  In spite of himself, Robert mirrors the same misgivings, even though he is a self-professed atheist.  An even more conflicted guerrilla veteran is the swinish but cunning Pablo, who was once a dedicated insurrectionist but may have lost his nerve because of new materialistic longings, especially for horses.  His allegiance to the cause is uncertain, especially to Robert.  There is the alluring, violated, seemingly fragile and traumatized, but nevertheless determined revolutionary Maria, with whom the surprisingly (to him) smitten Robert shares a passionate relationship.  Then there is the plump, matronly, wise, outspoken and totally indomitable amazon Pilar, wife of Pablo and fierce protector of Maria, the equal of (and probably superior to) any man.  She provides Robert comforting adages, observations, and moral support.  She has her own misgivings about war, fighting, and killing like the rest of the group, but her patriotism and the promise of a fair Republic, as well as her sturdy personality, keeps her going.As I said, despite his best efforts to distance himself from the guerilla fighters' personal dramas and remain practical and professional, Robert finds himself drawn in.  Although FWTBT gives the lie to war's depiction as continuous, monumental action (in the novel, it is often quiet and dull with only occasional, sporadic bursts of fire and action), it seems to see the Spanish civil war as meaningful and important, unlike a lot of wars.  FWTBT hints that Robert sees this war the same way and that he wants to contribute to the communists' worthy cause of freedom and autonomy.  Not only that, it also seems he wants to perpetuate his grandfather's heroic Civil War legacy, and expunge the cowardly shame of his father's suicide.Nevertheless, even worthy wars can demand actions that can be unconscionable in peacetime.  For example, Pablo's potential for betrayal prompts the guerrilla band and Robert to debate whether to kill Pablo.  Again, killing is supposed to be wrong,but in this case may save the lives of others.  But as counterpoint, Pilar relates the grisly tale of how Pablo, she, and several citizens of a Spanish town captured several fascists (including priests) and made them run a deadly gauntlet.  Even though it felt right and pleasurable to beat and humiliate this evil enemy, and even though they were "losing their religion", Pilar still felt remorse for such barbaric actions.  Not only were they barbaric, they were futile; the fascists took the town anyway.  No wonder Robert struggles to keep a clinical, impersonal perspective on this war; he fears that if he cares too much, he can't do his job effectively.Even in his intimate relations with Maria, Robert keeps this arms-length attitude.  Make no mistake, he appreciates her company and feels she has made his life sweeter and more substantial, but he also resents the fact that it happened too late and in war time and that war could end it.  But of course Maria's mixture of unjustly tarnished innocence, her fierce devotion to him, and her staunch revolutionary parentage endears Robert to her and evokes protective feelings equal to Pilar's.  He even goes so far to say that he is "married" to her and one with her and describes plans on how they will live their lives together in Madrid post-war, though FWTBT is a wee bit unclear as to how sincere Robert is about all this.As the war continues, and the bridge demolition time nears, this existential struggle plays out, most tellingly in Robert's internal monologues.  Throughout FWTBT, his admiration for the guerrilla fighters rises and falls, his opinion of the war oscillates between worthwhile and incompetently chaotic, and his will to live and fight waxes and wanes.  The chapters on the fascist's horrific besiegement of stalwart communist guerrilla fighter El Sordo, the Robert's guerrilla fighters' noble but impractical desire to help El Sordo, and guerrilla fighter Andres' resolute but probably futile efforts to get Robert's message to General Golz to delay his attack because the advancing fascists were not vulnerable enough - all this reflects Robert's vacillating thinking.To the very end of FWTBT, Robert struggles.  Does it matter whether he blows the bridge up or not?  The fascists will come anyway.  Robert and his band must retreat, including Maria, whom he may not ever see again.  Finally, a leg injury forces Robert to make a choice between two terrible actions that might be considered dishonorable at most times.  However, in war time, either action might be seen as a noble self-sacrifice.  Whichever Robert chooses, it will finally convince him that, in at least this circumstance, life is indeed worth living, fighting, and dying for.Some observations:1. Like Hemingway's other war novel "A Farewell to Arms" (see my Amazon review if you are interested) FWTBT deals with the pain and the elation of war, love, and inevitable death.  I believe FWTBT is the greater novel because unlike "A Farewell to Arms" it finds hope where there is no hope to be found.2. The "thees", "thys", and "thous" in the dialogues between Robert and the guerrilla fighters sounded a bit artificial to me.  Of course, FWTBT is based upon Hemingway's experience, so I must assume the dialogue is authentic.  Still, it sounded like an Amish community.3. As in "A Farewell to Arms", the love interest Maria in FWTBT is decidedly compliant, obedient, and almost worshipful to her man.  Of course, the circumstances in both novels explain that most un-feminist attitude.  Still, it can sound like Hemingway's private romantic fantasy, especially with that unintentionally comic (to me) phrase, "Did the earth move?".4. If you haven't read FWTBT and plan to, keep a Spanish dictionary handy.  Hemingway does translate most of the Spanish phrases he uses, but not all of them.  Furthermore, be warned: many of the Spanish phrases are obscene, if amusingly so.
4 The last time I read Hemingway's novels was some ten years ago in Spain. I thought I was pretty cool. I read "The Sun Also Rises and A Farwell to Arms." I don't recall what I thought of them. But one thing I do know is that it is sometimes difficult to separate the legacy or mystique of certain writers from the work at hand.I thought most of the book was very well done. The reality of war was crafted in a way that compares well to more modern portraits of war ("The Things They Carried," "Apocalypse Now," "Deer Hunter," "Jarhead"). The true violence of humiliation, dehumanization, and violation are hauntingly evoked. There are scenes in this novel that I will not forget: the killing of the fascists in Pablo and Pilar's village, the rape of Maria and the murder of her parents, the death of Anselmo at the bridge. The portrayal of men and women, those who try to hold on to some sort of moral clarity and those who lose their bearings, was brilliant. When it comes to men at war, the book shines.A technique that I found interesting was the way that Hemingway created the absent character of Kashkin. He serves as a counter point to Robert Jordan and as an example of all that could and eventually does happen. The absent character adds depth to the novel; it gives a skeleton upon which to hang the clothes of the past.However, there were places in the book where I felt uncomfortable, like watching the awkward intimacies of adolescents.  The love scenes in the book were failures. And I keep trying to figure out why.One reason perhaps is that they happened without enough development. Like some romantic comedy, the two lovers see one another and almost instantly fall in love. Granted, the entire novel takes place in three days, but every other part of the narrative is carefully developed. Though the timeframe is compact, there is plenty of space in the narrative. The book is nearly 500 pages long. The sex, the declarations of love, the intimacy, it all seems hollow.In every other place in the novel there is complexity, nuance. But when it comes to romance, to the issue of love, the novel falls into absolutes and clich&eacute;s. Robert Jordan is too righteous in his love for Maria. He is too loyal, too gentle. They love each other fully and doubtlessly. And in a novel that creates such a real portrait of war and moral ambiguity; complexity in loyalty, politics, allegiance, nationality, and idealism, to offer the reader such an ordinary, pop-song rendition of love nearly justifies skipping every section where one sees the words "little rabbit."Hemingway attempts to integrate language into the story by employing the occasional Spanish word along with an antiquated sort of English, full of thou and  thee. This is supposed to simulate Catalan. But it does not work. It just makes characters that talk funny.But of course, it is after all Hemingway. And everybody should read it.
5 For Whom the Bell Tolls is a fantastic book.  Hemingway writes heroes with fears, doubts, and faults so well that I feel a deep connection with them.  Not every man is a John Wayne; passing through life clear of purpose and without second thoughts.  (But watch a little tv and you'd think it were so.)  Hemingway creates characters I can understand, appreciate, and connect with.  Also, Robert Jordan's love interest reflected my own with my fiancee.  The book was fantastic for its story, its plot, the characters and the way it made me feel reading it and afterwards.
3 I learned a very important lesson here; take a good peak at the book before you get it. The Scribner publication (paperback) of this Hemingway Novel wasn't the one I believe most people read. This was spattered everywhere with "Thee" and "Thou." That really detracted from the story. Unfortunately I don't think even with out that distraction the story wouldn't have been much better. It also would have helped me had I known more about the bigger picture. I'm not that familiar with Spanish history and wasn't sure who represented what. Also a strange personal quirk; I keep thinking of the protagonist Robert Jordan, and transposing him in my mind with Di Vinci Code protagonist Robert Langdon. I guess it's the common name Robert.
5 The complexity, depth and beauty of this book are immeasurable.  I have never read a more moving book.
2 Trite, by the numbers love story with spectacularly banal romantic dialogue.  The author doesn't bother with much setting or character development.  The two lead characters are two dimensional, with the girl too good to be true.He drinks on practically every page:  Wine, beer, cognac, vermouth, brandy, whiskey and soda; morning, noon or night.It's hard to imagine what anyone thinks is so great about this book.
5 For Whom the Bell Tolls (FWTBT), is a masterpiece especially combined with Campbell Scott's superb reading. It exceeds any fiction I have ever heard or read and I have heard and read a lot.There are few books I have encountered that merited a second read, or in this case a second listen, the Bible being an obvious one. But after listening to FWTBT, I became interested in the little known Spanish Civil War and purchased a book about it, read it and then listened to FWTBT again. The pleasure of the experience was heightened by the contextual knowledge I now possessed. I am not suggesting you must know something about that war to enjoy this book. Quite the contrary. The book spurred the interest in the war!If you like words and dialogue you will find that listening to this book is like enjoying an exquisite wine or fine cigar. I highly recommend it. Don't let the fact it was written long ago about a long ago war have anything to do with your decision to buy listen to it. It is timeless.An awesome work, such as I have never experienced. The Master (Hemingway) read by a master in his own right (Scott).
5 Rad book. I've been living in Spain for the last 9 months and loved reading this book while here. I found the story and characters to be very genuine.
4 Author Ernest Hemingway spared little in this searing look at the Spanish Civil War.  Readers see that hatred, loyalty, doubt, atrocity, ideals, and emotional wear were all part of this tragic conflict.  The story centers on American volunteer Robert Jordan and his anti-fascist comrades, a band of Spanish Loyalist guerillas operating in the hills behind enemy lines in 1937.  Jordan is planning to blow up a Fascist-held bridge as part of an upcoming Loyalist/Republican offensive.  His comrades include Pablo, a once-dependable leader now unstable and sick of war, Pilar, a woman of remarkable fiber, and Maria, a victim of fascist atrocities with whom Jordan falls in love.  These guerillas hide in the hills while Hitler's bombers fly overhead helping the fascists.  Readers learn of atrocities committed by both sides, and see that ideals can die along with those that fall in battle.This 1940 novel makes a powerful statement, despite losing some effect from Hemingway's wordiness and too-lengthy descriptions.  Despite this flaw, readers see the cruelties of war, and sense the author's heartsickness at this dreadful conflict.
4 Hemingway used his experiences as a journalist during the Spanish Civil War to build the structure for this novel.  His descriptions of the settings are superb. The novel is a great introduction to the Spanish Civil  War, a war with which many Americans are unfamiliar. Hemingway used  characters like Pablo to show how people lose their humanity during war.  The story is powerful.  His main character, Robert Jordan, begins to  question whether anything good will come of all the fighting.Despite its  many wonderful attributes, this novel has some problems.  The dialogue is  stilted.  The romance (as in all Hemingway novels) is unbelievable.  Finally, Hemingway should have stuck to English.  His use of Spanish in  this book is embarassing.Nonetheless, in my opinion, For Whom the Bell  Tolls should be required reading for all U.S. high school students.  It's  truly a classic.
4 Amazing writer. A little long in some places, but definitely a worth read.  I would definitely recommend this book, especially if you enjoy historical novels.
5 Wonderful way to get what I want without leaving home.  Trusted service, fast, cost effective.My husband wanted this book and is quite enjoying it.
3 Please don't dismiss me as one of those idiots who can't spell and says a book is &quot;boring&quot; because it's long and they'd rather be listening to heavy metal music. I read &quot;Moby Dick&quot; and did not find it boring. I read &quot;Bleak House&quot; and did not find it boring. I read &quot;Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire&quot; and did not find it boring. But &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot; is, well, boring. Here's why: I never gave a damn for this Hemingway hero Robert Jordan. He seems like a pretty aimless tough guy, making love every fifth chapter and cussing around trying to be cool. The ending was entirely unsatisfactory - we end up having gone just about nowhere. Fortunately, Pilar is an interesting character who adds some spice to the proceedings. The only real point to this novel seems to be conveyed by its fine title, a reference to a John Donne poem. Loosely, the poem conveyed the idea that whatever happens to any human being ought perhaps to be the business of all of us. In the case of the novel, Hemingway draws attention to the largely overlooked Spanish Civil War and its suffering. But he does so with the title page alone; the rest of these 400 pages add little to this noble premise. Hemingway needs a better plot to devote his fine style to.
5 Can never get enough of Hemingway's crisp classic. This is a great example of his up close and personal style.
5 I read many, many books. I read many good books. But I read few books that are masterpieces and that I *know* are masterpieces before I've even finished them. This is one of them.Hemingway is a writer of many virtues and his share of faults. All his virtues and few of his faults are on display here. He brings to life a little skirmish in a &#34;little&#34; war that would perhaps be largely forgotten by most of the world were it not for this very book. His characterizations (with the exception of Maria, who however well she serves her purpose, is still, frankly insipid) are brilliant. Jordan is easily one of his most likable and relatable heroes, Pilar one of his best female characters. The conflict, and especially the climax in the last fifty pages, is electric.Thought-provoking, moving, entertaining - what more can you ask from a book?
5 My first Hemingway was Men Without Women, a collection of short stories, and I was so bored with it. After that, I pretty much put Hemingway on my black list, because if I couldn't stand his short stories, there's no way I'll get through a whole novel. Man was I wrong. I read this book based on a recommendation from a friend. All I can say is wow! This book is truly beautiful; the characters, the scenes, and all the emotions that goes with it.The whole story takes place in 4 days. It's about a man who's on a mission to blow up a bridge and to do so he needs to work with the local guerrillas. Each character is unique, and the all the things one man can learn about life in just 4 days.Definitely one of my favorite books of all time. I look forward to checking out his other novels as well.
5 Hemingway's style was so fashionable amongst writers of the post WWII era, that Italian authors actually attempted to invent their own slang just to sound like him. I haven't kept up with modern Italian literature, but I am noting that American writing is slowly regressing into that pre-Hemingway over-wordiness.  The focus now seems to be on sounding &quot;poetic,&quot; rather than writing &quot;one true sentence.&quot;This is truly sad because Hemingway brought American writing to a new level. You can almost feel his straining to come up with the perfect words for his descriptions.I read For Whom the Bell Tolls for the first time thirty years ago, when I was fifteen.  It convinced me then that Ernest Hemingway was the greatest American writer of all time.  Re-reading it now, in middle age, I still feel the same.
5 A major portion of the novel is told through the thoughts of Robert Jordan, with flashbacks to meetings with Russians in Madrid, and some reflections on his father and grandfather. Jordon's inner monologues fascinate and clearly demonstrate Hemingway's skill with language and character development. Jordan, at one point comments to himself, that he is his own best companion. Because of his wartime responsibilities, he cannot allow himself to be overcome by emotion, which he considers a luxury. Whenever he feels anger, deep love, disappointment, foreboding, fear, anything that will distract him from his purpose, he talks himself down and refocuses. In such a relatively brief period, he begins to love life as never before, because of his feelings for Maria. Even here, however, he accepts that if anything happens to him, he is fortunate to have experienced a lifetime in three and a half days.
5 Ernest Hemingway's FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is not only a war novel but also a story of life, love, lost and ultimately death. Robert Jordan lives to fight with the republican guerillas and he dies fighting alongside them. He lived a life that meant more to him than living in American suburbia with his wife and two children and a dog, working a nine-to-five job. That wouldn't be Robert Jordan, or Ernest Hemingway.Hemingway's minimalist writing reflects the pristine snow trails and pine forests, which reflect loneliness and death but also love and hope. Like a full moon reflected in a still lake. A poetry of war and camaraderie, where the violence of the writing would only temper the tragedy of lost. To experience these feelings is to experience the beauty of Hemingway's writing. For a war novel, there aren't many battle scenes. But we get to feel Robert Jordan's subdued emotions against the violence of war. The power of his love for Maria is that it couldn't be consummated. In the end, he chooses the only path consistent with his other choices: to fight to the end and risk capture and torture rather than have his comrades shoot him.
5 American Robert Jordan is so dedicated to the ideals of liberty and equality for all that he has joined Communists fighting the fascists in the Spanish Civil War. As a dynamiter, he has been assigned to blow up a bridge at a certain time, three days away. In the mean time, he must win over the local guerrillas and procure their help.In &#8220;For Whom the Bell Tolls,&#8221; Hemingway crafted a near-perfect novel. The characters&#8217; goals are clear. Their motivations and stakes are high. Their problems and setbacks are many. Everybody is flawed and damaged, some considerably more than others. And their dangerous task looms relentlessly over every interaction as the plot progresses. From the start, the reader knows that 1) either they will or will not success in &#34;blowing&#34; the bridge and 2) it&#8217;s almost certain some of the characters will die in the process. By the end, I had come to love and root hard for Robert Jordan and his strange band as they went to their task.Hemingway is a master at getting inside the heads of his characters. Through their thoughts, he examines love and war, honor and cowardice, respect, fear of loneliness, God and religions, and the atrocities human beings commit against others during war.The characters&#8217; speech often sounds very literally translated Spanish. Example: &#8220;What passes with thee?&#8221; For me, that and the sprinkling of actual Spanish contribute to the authentic feel of the story. The back-and-forth arguments Robert Jordan carries on in his mind are fantastically written as are the scenes about truly great love. Seventy-five years after &#8220;For Whom the Bell Tolls&#8221; was published, the story and themes are as profound and beautiful as ever.
4 The book chronicles an American dynamiter's mission to blow up a bridge controlled by Spanish fascists.  The book doesn't focus on the war as a whole but rather on the toll war takes on the people living in it.  The main character, Robert Jordan, bands with a guerilla group of which the war took its toll.  One man once a great fighter has now become a hopeless drunk who's only form of comfort other than the bottle is taking care of horses left behind.  His wife who had been beautiful once now has aged and lost her vivacity.  Another young woman lost her parents in a brutal confrontation with fascist forces and dehumanized in the process.  Hemingway's style of writing was a little too wishy washy but some of his emotional descriptions of the things that happened were intriguing.  Two of the more emotional scenes were some of the characters flashbacks of what they had gone through during the war mainly having to do with killing an enemy and being captured by an enemy.  There have been many stories about war and although war isn't something anyone can be used to this book took a perspective that has been thoroughly explored by today's standards.  At the time the book was written there was a lot of censoring where the word "obscenity" was substituted hence the book was intended for a wide audience.  During Hemingway's time it is understandable how this book can be grappling to an American audience.  But since then World War II and the Vietnam War have pushed aside this conflict in the minds of Americans with their tales of calamity and loss and pretty much reiterating the themes of Hemingway's book.  This is the reason why a typical American reader may not find pathos for the book.  Maybe if the book talk more about Franco, ideologies and the bigger picture of the context of the war then it may be more interesting to contemporary readers.  But this book still has a story that will be valuable for future generation.  In other words, this is a good book for students.
4 This 1939 novel is set during the Spanish Civil War, a war that most American know little about.  The hero of this book is Robert Jordon, an American volunteer hoping that this rebellion would make a better world.  He wants to do good and be a hero but whether or not this happens is basically left for the reader to decide.The book is about his mission to blow up a bridge and the people he meets along the way - Spaniards hoping for a better life and getting caught up in warfare.  Naturally there is a love interest between Robert and Maria, a young woman who had been very mistreated by bad guys and is now seeking refuge with the cave-dwelling freedom fighters of the revolution.The writing is sparse and meaningful.  The setting is depressing.  People struggle.  People die.  The future looks bleak.This is fine story, well told.  However I was annoyed by some of the narrative.  Hemingway doesn't uses curses and so the word "obscenity" is used where a curse would logically go.  I don't know if this was in only the edition I was reading but I found it very annoying and it broke my concentration.This is the only Hemingway book I have ever read and I did like the writing.  I found the plot easy to follow and I identified with and pitied all the characters.  It is a classic of a time and a place and a writer who will long be remembered.
4 In the past few days I have finished reading the internationally acclaimed book "For Whom The Bell Tolls" by Ernest Hemingway. Before I began reading this book I had heard and read from many that the book was a classic and a very good read; after finishing the book I have to say that I completely agree. This book well deserves the praise that it has been given over the years; it is a classic in every sense of the word.From Hemingway's unmatched descriptions of the beautiful Spanish countryside to the deep inner thoughts and struggles of the people. Hemingway has captured the true inner feelings of the Spanish people in their struggle for their idea of freedom, from the gripping oppression of fascism.Yet he goes even further, in the unlikely relationship that develops between Robert Jordan and recently rescued Maria. He is still able to show that there is always some good even in some of the darkest situations. From betrayals and tragedy to unlikely and unexpected aid Hemingway covers all spectrums and interestsThe only criticism I can give this book is concerning the ending which I personally found unsatisfying but that is for you to decide for yourself. In conclusion I find this book to be a great read for any who feel they are a skilled enough reader to fully appreciate the majesty of this work of art.
5 This by far is my favorite book by Hemingway, very informative about Guerrilla warfare and great character building.  This is a definite read, you will keep turning the pages on this one!
4 For Whom the Bell Tolls is a Hemingway less affected by his modernist tendencies than To Have and Have Not yet not as uninfluenced as The Old Man and the Sea. Also, there is a good deal of sexual discussion and activity, though all of it is done in an explicit-yet-entirely-implied manner exclusive to Hemingway's style. This story of the American professor who joins the Spanish Communists in their fight against the fascists explores love, morality, Communism, duty, awareness of death, and bravery in the face of death. Specifically, impending doom expedites and deepens the life and love of the characters.  A good first read but not necessarily worth a return.
5 When I first started reading this book I could not, for the life of me, remember what the dang thing was called! I kept confusing it with Hemingway's "A Farewell to Arms."I read this book because The Hubble and I came up with an agreement that we would select a book for one another every other month. We started in May. The book he selected for me was this one.I approached this book assuming I would hate it. I assumed it was just some war story (The Hubble loves those) and it would be a "man" book. My assumptions were partially correct. This was a story about war...but it was also so much more than that.This was the story of Robert Jordan, the dynamiter. Robert Jordan is an American teacher who was called to Active Duty in the military. He was sent to the mountains of Spain to assist the antifascist guerilla units there. His main purpose is to demolish a bridge and assist in the attack against the fascist elements in that area.During his time with the guerilla group, Jordan begins to know and understand the many individuals who are engaged in the antifascist cause. Jordan quickly comes to care for individuals such as Anselmo, the old man, who is a hunter and hates to kill men. Pilar. the mujer de Pablo, who is considered barbarous. El Sordo...what is there to say about El Sordo? A brave man. A Strong man. A man who fought with everything he had. And Maria...Maria, the cropped headed one....I was extremely surprised to discover the love story within this book. Jordan's love affair with Maria is an integral part of this story and far from the "man" book I originally believed it to be. The love that Maria and her Ingles, or Roberto, share moved the Earth. It is a love that will linger in my heart.This book is both heartbreaking and beautiful. Though it is not a "man" book, neither is it a "romance." This is a book that will dig within the depths of any reader's soul, rip your heart out and replace it with the warm of each character held within these pages.Hemingway has an amazing way with words. He is such an eloquent writer that he draws you in and makes you feel as though you were there in the hills with these people. One passage in particular stands out to me. The scene culminates in a bombing and the description of the ground rolling underneath the character is so intense and so vivid that you believe the ground has rolled under you as well.Hemingway's voice is astounding. His writing style is...what can you say? How can you adequately put into words how much a book has touched you? Affected you? Engaged you? Does the thesaurus contain words and descriptions strong enough? Bold enough to give justice to the magnitude of feelings and emotions this book evoked within me? Still days after I closed the back flap over the last page...if I think about it too much I'm right back there. Right back in the mountains. On that hilltop. Waiting.Now, I couldn't remember the name of this book when I first started reading it. However, now I don't believe I will ever forget the title of this stunningly magnificent novel. This journey through the mountains of Spain is not one that you should miss. I highly recommend you immerse yourself in the lives of these people as soon as you can. You will not regret it.
5 This novel brings one into close contact with the forces in dreadful conflict during civil war--Solidarity versus Brutality; Hemingway portrays both thoroughly. The story told by Pilar in this book seemed to haunt me  for a few days, the images were so clear, and as one will find by reading  it, it is a story which has a very grave lucidity, as if you wished  Hemingway would drown the scene in a sea of lifeless and complex words.  The descriptions of the love story and Jordan's internal motivations  immediately soothe the unsettling images of war, and the novel as a whole  works paradoxically to the point where both sets of images collide, and  leave the reader both unsettled and fulfilled simultaneously.
5 After having read the first half of this book, I was bored.  Nothing happened.  We heard about a future attack, but it never happened.  But then suddenly, at the last few chapters, it finally took place.  And then the book got so exciting that I sat there gasping for air.  I also understood why the boring first half was included, because that part was the one that made the last half in to such an incredible experience.  And after I read the whole book, the first half became exciting too. So buy this book, it is the best I have ever read.  But keep in mind, that the first half is boring.  So do not give up.  Keep reading it to the end, and I promise you the best reading experience you have ever had. It is the first book by Hemmingway I have read, but it will not be the last.
2 I didn't like it--too depressing--killings, , blood, war--who needs it, even if t was Hemmingway.  The main character in the book, Robert, may have been a self study of Hemmingway himself!!
5 Hemingway is a stickler for details, and it really shows in this book.  The story takes place over only 4 days time.It starts with Robert Jordan an American dynamiter who has joined with guerllos to fight the fascists.  He is led to a cave by Anselmo an old man, early sixties, where there is a camp.  Pablo is the drunken leader and Pilar is his wife.  Robert Jordan is very inner sociable, he talks to himself a lot, only when he is alone usually, it clears his mind.This book was truly amazing from the first word to the very last word.  Truly amazing, Hemingway is one of the best authors there ever was.  It would seem that he was actually there to get the details he put into this book, and you can actually see where he is and what he is talking about, and that is what the best authors do.Reading reviews on Amazon could not make this book any better or worse, so just buy this book and read it, I gurantee is will be hard to put down.Mark_Sigel
5 I have just finished reading the Kindle edition of "For Whom the Bell Tolls." In this book, Hemingway speaks from the point of view of a third person omniscient narrator, that is, the narrator sees into the minds and emotions of all the characters from whose point of view the story unfolds.  In this way Hemingway demonstrates his genius for having accurate and sensitive insight into the human spirit.I am impressed by the way he is able to express passion, especially in the sex scenes, under the constraints of early 20th century censorship.  I read this book simultaneously with Sandra Brown's "Hello Darkness," reading six chapters of Hemingway to every five chapters of Brown so that I would finish both books at the same time.  This truly provided a contrast of how human passions were expressed in early 20th century novels compared with how they are expressed today.  You should try it!  It's an eye-opener!  What some would judge as repetitive prose in Hemingway was actually a literary device he used to bring the reader into the experience, and in my opinion (and of course, the opinions of countless other readers and critics) Hemingway succeeds famously. I also found it very amusing to read how Hemingway skirted around the expression of "unprintable" language, a hindrance contemporary authors no longer need to be concerned about &lt;g>Another device Hemingway uses in this novel is to make his characters "think" in Spanish but "speak" in English.  This is not easy to accomplish successfully.  Because I am bi-lingual, I found the rhythm of the prose quite natural, but I wonder how the experience would be for an only-English speaking reader.This is my second Hemingway novel and I am so grateful that I have been introduced to Hemingway on Kindle. Because I read this on Kindle for PC, I was able to conveniently and quickly look up not only the definitions of words I did not know but also the translations of Spanish phrases with which I was unfamiliar.  Thank you, Kindle!  It made reading this book much more interesting and informative.  It has also spurred an interest in the history of the Spanish Revolution which took place in the decade before I was born.  Of course, Kindle has satisfied that curiosity as well.This is more than a worthwhile read for anyone who enjoys war novels.  One learns so much from reading; I've always said fiction is the best medium for speaking truth, and Truth (whatever that means to each one individually) abounds in this book.  Enjoy!
4 If you're a Hemingway fan, then you should not miss this book. There's a reason why many people feel this is his best novel. The scenery, character development, plot and overall picture in words make this a masterpiece. With the Spanish civil war as his launching point he makes great strides in making the reader feel the grip of ANY war past or present. What you get here is a lot of his philosophy on war, life, love and death. A theme with which he was more than passively familiar having had several near-death experiences until he finally took his own life. Compared to many of his other works, the ending is also somewhat of a fresh surprise. The John Donne quote cited in the fly leaf speaks volumes about the current troubles in the world today. Like all great literature, despite being written more than sixty years ago, this book still feels fresh and new.
4 For Whom the Bell Tolls is Ernest Hemingway running a bit to flab. A master of constructing concentrated scenes of great power, often using dialogue alone, or with vividly rendered details sparsely catalogued, Hemingway I think starts to get lost when he begins piling up the words, and nowhere did he pile them up more than in this work, his longest ever. That's not to say that as a consequence the novel is a failure. In fact, there are many fabulous scenes in this novel, from the excruciating narration of how one village executed its fascist sympathizers and another executed its Republican mayor and his wife, to scenes where characters verbally joust while the underlying tension almost sweats from the walls. There are also vivid battle scenes where we feel the intensity experienced by the characters and another involving a sojourn across the battle lines to deliver an important message.Unfortunately, there are also a number of scenes where the dialogue spins off into desultory BS sessions to no great purpose, and extended internal monologues that feel like Hemingway never edited down his raw rough draft. Perhaps worst of all are the intimate interludes between the central character, Robert Jordan, and the heroine Maria, which to me are some of the silliest sex scenes I've ever read ("little rabbit"?). These scenes cartwheel into the offensive when they imply that the worst thing about the gang rape Maria experienced is that it might be a turn-off for Jordan. Frankly, I found Hemingway's vicarious need through Jordan to be the virile but sensitive manly man to the naive, submissive, sexually and psychically damaged Maria rather creepy.As for the length of For Whom the Bell Tolls, I think it was very deliberate on Hemingway's part. When the novel was published in 1940, Hemingway was coming off a lackadaisical decade in which his only major works were a pair of rather self-indulgent nonfiction works about two of his hobbyhorses, bullfighting (Death in the Afternoon) and big game hunting (The Green Hills of Africa), and the slipshod "novel" To Have and Have Not, which reminded nobody that the same guy had also written The Sun Also Rises and A Farewell to Arms. True, he had also produced a number of very fine short stories ("The Snows of Kilimanjaro," "The Short Happy Life of Francis MacComber") during this period, but Bells to me just seems like Hemingway's deliberate attempt to show that he can produce prose in volume with the best of them. But like I said, that's not playing to his strengths.One other note I would like to mention is Hemingway's take on the internal politics of the Spanish Republican side, which were dysfunctional to say the least. He seems remarkably sanguine about Soviet influence, which seems very naive compared with the much more measured view taken by George Orwell in Homage to Catalonia. Of course, by the time For Whom the Bell Tolls was published, in late 1940, the verdict was in in Spain (the "good guys" lost) and the fascists (Germany and Italy) and the Communists (the Soviet Union) had gone on to other predations.I'm sorry for dwelling more on the faults than the virtues of this book in this review. I really did enjoy reading it again, but I figured the virtues were already well documented by the many five-star reviews here, so I thought I'd give my thoughts on things that haven't been mentioned as much but which I think are important to keep in mind when reading For Whom the Bell Tolls.
5 This is an incredibly good book. Hemingway summoned all his superior story-telling powers and forged an unforgettable wartime epic. Complex, layered and populated by memorable characters, FHTBT is a true masterpiece. It is like an Iliad for the 20th-century man. The tragedy, injustice of war, engulfing good and bad human beings alike in its remorseless swirl, is brought to life with astounding attention to detail and humanistic depth. As you may know, the story takes place during the Spanish Civil War, a brutal conflict that not only tore apart the fabric of Spain's society, but also involved armies and volunteers from the great powers and ideologies of the time, most notably the tyrannies of Soviet Communism and German/Italian fascism.There is no facile characterization of heroes and villains on this book. Most of the narrative zooms in on the struggle of a small band of mountain guerrilla fighters who are summoned into near-suicidal action by the arrival of American volunteer Robert Jordan with orders from the Republic. That you know in the great scheme of things their call to sacrifice and their violence is just another futile exercise in a brutal war makes it all the more poignant. And Hemingway adds enough insight into the workings of the greater armies and the machinations of politicians so the reader experiences the bigger picture as well.In the book you find an intimate tale of struggle and courage in time of war, a moving love story, a critical view of the ideologies and idealism of the era, a couple of short-stories on bull-fighting, brutally honest accounts of war atrocities (from both sides) and moments of introspection in questions of love, life, death and hope that are as deep and moving as any. But don't forget about the adventure and suspense: Hemingway was a man of action and this is a book of men and women on a mission. You will be hooked and on the edge of your seat all the way to the (bitter-sweet?) end.The last chapter is the most gripping piece of fiction I ever recall reading. It is unbelievably good... and Hemingway proves one more time he is a master of story endings.
5 For someone interested in WWII history and Hemingway this is a great read. Couldn't put it down. Just spend the money and buy it you won't regret it.
1 I feel bad giving a one star review on this because the paperback is printed very well and it looks very high class.... but this one is all Hemingway's fault. I LOVE classic books. I am an avid reader and I read books by Faulkner, Proust, Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Victor Hugo in my free time. I was not assigned this and actually, if anything, I set out predisposed to like this book; that said, there were very few good things about this book. If you want to learn more about the Spanish civil war, this book might be for you - but if you care about characters, plot or writing style, this book is destined to disappoint. I can't believe I'm saying this about someone whose name is synonomous with a writer (eg. &#34;I'm no Hemingway but...&#34;), but this book was poorly written.
3 I tried to get through it, I really did.  But then I remembered what a chore it was in High School when two of his novels were required reading.  It bored me stiff then, and it does now.  But I have found that with Hemingway, he's either your cup of tea, or he isn't.  The characters are shallow, and I don't like his writing style, in any of his stories.  Personal choice, to each his own.  As the reviews show, some love it, some don't.  I don't.  But at least I won't resort to name calling like some reviewers do, when someone doesn't share their opinion.  If you've never read it, give it a try, you may love it.  If you don't, its not indicative of your intelligence level as some would have us believe.
5 I had put off reading this book because I felt it would be "boring." I was so very, very wrong! Granted, I have not read everything Hemingway has written, but I find it difficult to believe he could have written anything to surpass this novel. I am thankful that I read "A Farewell To Arms" and "The Sun Also Rises" before reading this book, as it would have set the standard too high.In the previous books by Hemingway that I've read, he didn't seem to develop the characters fully and many of the scenes were only the sparcest of details. It seemed much had to be filled in by the reader. But 15 years after writing "The Sun Also Rises" Hemingway breaks through with "For Whom The Bell Tolls!" In this book, Hemingway gives depth to his characters - the reader comes to know, understand, and identify with each character in this book. Hemingway also provides a wonderful description of the area. One can almost envision the mountains and villages and the bridge, which plays a central role. During the scenes involving fighting, the reader can almost hear the gun shots and watch the anguish of those injured or killed. Even in the quiet times of the book, the reader can easily place themselves at the same table as the characters and truly feel they are a part of the story.The ending is easily figured out, but that doesn't seem to matter. Even though the reader might suspect or even know what is to happen, the events leading up to it keep the reader enthralled.This book is a real page-turner, and Hemingway at his best. This is not just a "guy's book" - not at all! This is a story for both genders. Treat yourself to a literary masterpiece! You will not be disappointed!
5 Written in typical Hemingwayesque ploddingly simple style, this book morphs English and Spanish in a unique manner for its period (1940), which subsequent  writers have copied or embellished. Spain is Hemingway's love.  During this time, most loved Paris - like friend Fitzgerald,.  But, dry heat and bull running mania were for  for this man.Spanish sayings abound in this novel about simple people asked to do a job - perhaps simple - in the name of the cause: blow up a bridge.  But, the pithy and poignant statements of implyingly illiterate gypsy Pilar cannot be matched by 17th century philosophers. For example Spain, in her words, is "where blasphemy keeps pace with the austerity of religion."When protagonist Robert Jordan speaks English for a short time to some of the group, Pilar tells him to revert to Spanish as "no language is truer."  She later concludes that "Spanish is shorter and simpler."And, Hemingway's influence on this language shows as some verbs are paradoxically used -- each time the root of Spanish for English usage.  One example is to constantly implement Spanish molestar in English sentences to ask that people stop molesting one another, when the translation is not to bother one another.But, these linguistic nuances are the special effect, the unique style, the cutting edge to the Nobel winning writing style of Hemingway.  It is the sentences of Spanglish or otherwise, compounded with his ever seemless simplification, that make this novel resound.I enjoyed this novel also for its slow beginning and its heightening to a crescendo for its  ending.  His language and other writing angles seem to mature as the novel progresses.  He slowly captures the reader, and has you under his exclusive control the last third of the book.Although Hemingway makes this a love story at a time of war, parts are seemingly unreal.  Knowing that he is going to die the next day, Robert Jordan meets one last time with beautiful Maria.  And, as they are about to start doing the deed, he stops and asks if she hurts.  I am sure that you can interview many a disagreeing  soldier under similar circumstances and ask if the concept of pain to the sexual partner ever entered their mind when they were having what would perhaps be their last moment of heaven on this man's earth - they would all agree that this was not exactly what they had in mindBut, this is a classic and worthy of reading.  I waited over 40 years between readings and received very different messages. Each time good.
3 This version of the book has been censored to the point where parts of the dialog are difficult to understand.  Anyone who is familiar with Hemingway should know to expect some profanity.  The book itself is very good.  I'm only about half way through it and I like the style; the pace tends to drag a little in places.
5 Robert Jordan, an American, joins a guerrilla force fighting against the Facist government in Spain. It is 1937 at the peak of the Spanish Civil War and Jordan has been sent to blow up a bridge.Jordan is a dynamiter who knows weapons and military strategies. Among the gurerillas is a young woman, Maria, who becomes attracted to him.A man named Pablo appears to be in charge. However, it is his wife, Pilar, who is the real force behind the group. Pilar, is Spanish for pillar and is a symbol of the steadfastness of the group. During the early action of the story, it seems that Pilar's resolve for fighting has changed and he often resorts to drinking.Amidst the talk of killing we follow the activities of Robert and Marie. This mixture of love and war is a significant juxtaposition used by the author. With the tender moments of these two characters, it is as if this might be what the guerrilas are fighting for. The government's totalarianism attitude cannot tell them what to do and that gypsies like Rafael, foreigners like Robert, women like Pilar and Marie can all work and live together as equals.Hemingway has a master's givt for dialogue. We don't just read the words but are transported to the Spanish mountainside and are listening to the scenes such as Pilar and Pablo discussing a matador that Pable had seen and admired. It is so real that we can almost hear the crowd chant ole'.Hemindway was a reporter in Spain during the Civil War and his characters are honest in their actions loyal to one another and  Spain and are described in great detail.The story mixes historical fact and speculative fiction in a most entertaining manner. Readers will enjoy the novel and feel as though they have read a work of extroadinary literary significance.
5 Hemmingway touched my heart as a reader in a way no author ever has. I cannot put down in words to describe the kind of masterpiece this novel is.
5 Set during the Spanish Civil War, Ernest Hemingway's "For Whom the Bell Tolls" tells the story of Robert Jordan, a young American who is serving as a demolitions expert for the Republican cause.  The novel follows his experiences with a band of guerrilla fighters as he undertakes a mission to blow up a strategic bridge.  The whole novel, except for some flashbacks and reminiscences of various characters, covers just a few days.Although the novel focuses on a small number of characters in a fairly compressed time period, Hemingway attains a real epic feel with this book.  The novel is fairly lengthy (471 pages in the 2003 Scribner edition), but I found it to be a swift read--indeed, often difficult to put down.  There is much that is noteworthy about this novel.  It offers a compelling perspective on war from the viewpoint of guerrilla forces, rather than conventional forces (interested readers might want to check out Mao Tse-Tung's "On Guerrilla Warfare" for some theoretical and historical perspective).  The novel also deals with the phenomenon of ideologically committed foreign forces in Spain's Fascist-versus-Republican conflict.Hemingway deals with the issues of love and sex in a combat zone, as well as with the roles of women in a guerrilla force.  Other significant issues include loyalty, leadership, communications, military hardware, the impact of weather and terrain, and the connection between guerrilla and conventional forces.  Particularly interesting is Hemingway's portrait of Robert Jordan as a technically and tactically skilled guerrilla fighter, and as a leader of guerrilla fighters.  Thus the book should interest not just lovers of literature, but also serious military professionals and students of the history of warfare.Hemingway offers a grim and graphic look at the brutality of 20th century warfare.  War is not glamorized or sanitized, and atrocities are described in unflinching detail.  The characters explore the ethics of killing in war.  As the story progresses, Hemingway skillfully peels back the layers of Jordan and other characters to reveal their psychological wounds.  But the book is not all about pain and violence.  In the midst of war Hemingway finds the joy and beauty that keep his characters going.  He also incorporates storytelling as a powerful motif in the book; his characters share stories with each other, recall missing untold stories, or resist a story too hard to bear.  In Hemingway's world storytelling is as essential a human activity as eating, fighting, and lovemaking.Hemingway's writing appeals to all the senses as he creates some vivid scenes.  He demonstrates his mastery of the art of fiction; he continually makes interesting choices and creates some really striking and beautiful passages.  "For Whom the Bell Tolls" is an exceptionally haunting work of literature; I consider this rich and rewarding text to be an essential volume in the canon of war fiction.  For intriguing companion texts that also deal with the Spanish Civil War, I recommend "Spain's Cause Was Mine: A Memoir of an American Medic in the Spanish Civil War," by Hank Rubin, and "The Confessions of Senora Francesca Navarro and Other Stories," by Natalie L. M. Petesch.
5 If you like Hemmingway, you will like this book.  Classic tale of the Spanish Civil War prior to WWII.  Enjoy!
2 This book has great passages, as other reviewers have pointed out, like Pilar's tale or El  Sordo's last stand, but is otherwise too long. It has three major flaws:1. The hero's love interest, Maria, is a uninteresting and unattractive. Most of the other characters feel like flesh-and-blood, flawed people, but, for reasons I can't fathom, the author gave Maria the psychological depth of a pet.2. The hero's dialogs with Spaniards are in a distracting and ridiculous form, resulting in lines like "Eatest thou always onions for breakfast?"3. The characters' swearing is clumsily bleeped out, with lines like "Obscenity thy mother!" At first, I thought  that the Kindle edition I was reading had been censored, and returned it. I switched to Scribner's 1968 print edition, and found the same. I cannot believe that Hemingway actually wrote that way.Another strange passage that is also dating the book is one where the hero views himself as "taking part in a crusade," adding "That was the only word for it although it was a word that had been so worn and abused that it no longer gave its true meaning." And what exactly is the true meaning of "crusade"? Historians have long known that crusaders were nothing but thugs rampaging through the Middle-East. Even Voltaire wrote about it in the mid 18th century;The Crusades Through Arab Eyes, 23 years ago. Yet Europeans and Americans have, until recently, used the crusades as a symbol of a generous and benevolent undertaking. EvenCrusade in Europereferred to the liberation of Europe as a "crusade."
5 Ernest Hemingway was one of the most popular, influential, and charismatic of the American 20th century novelists. Books On Tape has undertaken to publishing an unabridged audiobook edition of Hemingway's body of work. Ably narrated by Alexander Adams, For Whom The Bell Tolls is Hemingway's classic story of Robert Jordan, an American fighting with anti-fascist guerillas in the mountains of Spain. This riveting novel of loyalty and courage, love and defeat, inspired idealism and battlefield disenchantment is a timeless testament....
5 I'll be short and sweet.  This is an excellent book that many different kinds of people will enjoy.  The more intelligent the reader is, the more he or she will get out of the book.  At the base, it is a story that will  keep you on the edge of your seat.  From there, there are many little  symbolic happenings and hidden meanings waiting to be seen.  For Whom the  Bell Tolls is a must read book!
4 Precise and elegiac in the opening pages, ponderous and self-indulgent for much of the middle, and finally, at its end, heartbreakingly genuine.  It's fashionable these days to poke fun at Hemingway's excesses, but when the stars aligned, my god that man could surely write.
5 Great story...that I probably hadn't read since high school!  What a story-teller!  I'm going to go back to read more Hemingway.
3 For Whom the Bell Tolls, is equally very engaging and very dull.  Occasionally this novel cracks with energy, the tension among the characters is quite potent, and then at other times it bores you near sleep.  The rambling monolgues can be great(like when Pilar is detailing Pablo's once fervent commitment to the cause) and then at other times the words seem to be an annoying roadblock that you have to wade through to get to the meaty parts.  All in all I respect this novel and do think it is a good work, but I can't give it more than 3 stars, because of the chores it sometimes put me through.
5 The decades since Hemingway's death have not been kind to his legacy. While still revered as a pillar of English literature, his life seems to have chipped away at his work.  Most find Hemingway's writing too dry or his stories clustered with masogny and booze. To be fair the critiques have some relevance, but behind every Hemingway story lies a heart fractured, but aspiring for peace. For Whom the bell Tolls was my fourth Hemingway and I can honestly say my favorite. There is so much to marvel at that my meager attempts at a review do the book no justice, but it's the way Hemingway writes and the subtle beauty that he evokes that made this novel so enjoyable for me.  Hemingway's prose style is so intricate it at once appears etched in stone, but  light as a feather.  Hemingway shows how war not only changes the way we feel and act, but the bonds we form with the ones around us.  Robert Jordan's relationship with Maria is one of the few hemingway's love stories that I felt connected to, and while a bit dated in today's world I still was touched by the love they bore one another.  Maria is encapsulated in a blanket of femine weakness, but she is bolstered by the mighty Pilar.  I find Pilar to be one of hemingway's most fascinating women. Endless papers can be written on her alone, and I found her to be so multifaceted.  Besides being one of hemingway's best novels, it's also one of his longest.  At first I was daunted by 400 pages of dry Hemingway prose, but by the end I was looking for more.  Besides shining light on an area of world history few even know existed(the Spanish Civil War), Hemingway's story is universal in it's telling by including themes of fraternity, nationalism, and the multifaceted definitions of courage.  I have a new respect and love for Hemingway after reading this remarkable novel.  While Hemingway may not be everyones cup of tea, but those looking for a good and memorable story should look no further!
5 I've been looking for a nice paperback copy to add to my collection and this was it!!! Very good condition and good price.
3 I love almost all of Hemingway's novels, but this one was a daunting effort.  Line by line, or a paragraph at a time, the writing is Hemingway at his best.  Yet, inexplicably, I found that as one chapter segued interminably to the next, the story and style became muddled and could not sustain my interest.  There is much, however, that is worth the time...themes of monogamous love, war/conscience, life/death.  The heart wrenching finale illustrates the notorious he-man's mastery to convey softer, &quot;feminine&quot; sensitivity.  Definitely not the one to kick off a reader's Hemingway exposure.
4 If I had to recommend a single Hemingway book that would probably be this one. It's not your typical early Hemingway, and that's not a negative critic. The book is emotional, some passages are just really impressive. I think it's the one I preferred of all the books by Ernie that I read.One thing that makes this book special is the direct speeches. If you read this book you will not fail to notice a certain touch of 17th century in the way people speak to each other. I thought I would explain the reason for this as it is not self-explanatory for people who are native english-speakers. Spanish is a language where you have two forms of second person, "you"; as in french, and formerly English. This is the difference between the "you" and the "thou", which is used in this novel. Formerly, the "you" was the polite form, and the "thou" the familiar form (not the religious form as many might think since the only use where you actually hear it anymore is for religious stuff). So whenever you see "thou" being used in the novel you know it means familiarity, as in old english. If I remember correctly, Hemingway also uses turns of phrases in such a way that it makes them sound "latin", the way it would be done in Spanish, which is the goal. This is a bit weird I have to admit but you'll get used to it, just keep in mind it's used to approach more closely the reality of the Spanish language, and thus have a better "translation".Worth reading.
5 It happened before I finished this book. It was the final epic scene upon the bridge. You'll know the one when you get there. I started to cry. I felt it coming for a few chapters, and then finally it came out and I wept. I'd never done that with a novel before, cried, and I didn't stop myself. It wasn't that the story was the saddest thing I'd ever read or imagined. It's a Hemingway novel, and my favorite author has a way of punching you in the stomach when he's closing out a novel. For examples check out 'A Farewell to Arms' or 'Islands in the Stream'. So I wasn't too surprised to see how this epic magnificent novel was unfolding in its final tragic and violent glory. What suddenly struck me like an icy blade into my heart was the realization that I was reading the truest book that I'd ever read and probably would ever read. The enormity of that was too much to bear. I felt as if I was there, and all the emotions that came in something so highly stressful, dutiful and chaotic came flooding in. Let me say that I'm a veteran of the US Army and I was deployed to the Middle East in 2009, but that I've never shot at another person or killed anyone. But I have, however, been in numerous very high stress situations that flooded my core with anxiety and a sense of duty. Reading 'For Whom the Bell Tolls' rubbed some of those scars raw and I'm thankful for that. I'm not angered that Hemingway's utterly poignant writing showed me things that I'd left behind in the darkest days of my own life. This novel showed me, in the truest way imaginable, that there is such beauty and love to be found in duty and conflict, and it showed me that there's nothing wrong in fighting and standing your ground for something that may not survive the test of time, just as the rebel guerrillas in Spain were ultimately doomed to fail against the Fascists. Robert Jordan will now rank alongside Thomas Hudson and David Bourne as some of the most memorable protagonists of literature that I've ever had the pleasure of reading about.
5 I got the book because of a recommandation and because of the cool quote.  I've read The Old Man and The Sea in High School and hated it.  But Form Whom The Bell Tolls is brilliant.What impreses me about the book is how  Hemingway manages to come up with a tightly written action tale, with deep  philosophycal ideas and a great romance.I've read alot, and For Whom The  Bel Tolls is my second favorite book...you can't afford missing it
4 This is a novel about the Spanish Civi War, specifically the story of an American who works with a group of partisans to sabotage a bridge.  The story takes place over three days but the book runs in excess of four hundred pages.  As a result, the pace can get slow at times.  No background is given on the war, but Hemingway's sympathies are clear: the fascists must be defeated, and the worth of personal sacrifices is determined in how they further the greater good.  Hemingway develops some interesting characters, particularly "Pablo," a disillusioned partisan leader whose murderous actions in support of a noble cause lead him to alcoholism and defeatism.  The American protagonist is most interesting: a cynic who still believes in a cause outside himself.  The romantic relationship between the American and a Spanish girl was not the novel's strength; Hemingway did not make his career drafting love stories.  Although a bit slow, some of the scenes are fantastic.  In particular, the flashback to the murder of fascist sympathizers in a small village is one of the most horrifying chapters I have ever read.  Likewise, an account of a partisan group's last stand on a hilltop puts most Hollywood action movies to shame.  Liked the book but did not love it.  Probably for people who really dig Hemingway or want a bottom-up look at the Spanish conflict.
5 This book is the ghost of what was once Heroic about men from a time long ago. It is anti-douche bag and, thus, probably not popular in modern times.
5 This is a tough book to write about. How many ways are there to say "brilliant"? This was a re-read for me of a war story and love story. The book far surpasses both. It was the first to describe war as it really is: with flawed heroes, horrible treatment of the civilian population by both sides, guerrillas who are both cruel and afraid, madmen in commanding positions, etc. It also tells about the Spanish Civil War, so for people are unaware that there actually was such a war, it is an eye-opener on the prelude to WWII. The book is appalling and beautiful at the same time. Please read it or re-read it!
5 FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is a great book if you are interested in the history of the Spanish Civil War. It is also useful if you are seeking insights into Hemingway. So much of the novel is taken directly from the author's experiences as a foreign correspondent in Spain for the North American Newspaper Alliance.There are many facets of the book which contribute to its outstanding reputation. Hemingway's treatment of Robert Jordan, the protagonist, is exceptional. Jordan is a very complicated man who is radically transformed by the events described in the book. He is also the first Hemingway hero to contemplate suicide.El Sordo is a leader of another guerilla band which is operating in the same territory as the band in which Jordan serves as an aide. The description of El Sordo's last stand on a hill against the Nationalists is an example of Hemingway's best writing.
5 I loved Farewell to Arms, so I picked this up at the bookstore near work  and couldn't put it down.  It really grabbed me.  While the first chapter  in any Hemingway book is difficult due to his lack of immediate  characterization, it soon becomes easy to understand.  I loved the  dialogues between Pilar, Jordan, and Maria.  They were so funny.  I even  learned some Spanish.  I love Hemingway's prose and for a while I tried to  model my own writings after his.  Unfortunately, I'm not as good as he is  at it.  Anyway, this book has inspired me to go to Spain for my semester  abroad and to research the Spanish Civil War more deeply.  Great novel that  happens to be educational.
5 Just about anything Hemingway ever wrote was pretty good and you really can't go wrong with him if you're looking for a good read.  He is at his very best, though, in this one.  It was written at the peak of his power and is rightly considered one of the great novels of the twentieth century.Like all great novels it gives you new insight as you reread it over the years.  When a teenager, I recall being enthralled by the love story and the pure adventure of it.  As a young adult, it was the tragicomic nature of the characters which was so engrossing.  Later on as an adult, I was struck by Hemingway's view of the bleak, futile nature of human endeavor.  This time around it was the political discourse I found to be thought-provoking;  sections of the novel that in the past I had pretty much glossed through.A lot of the talk--from all of the characters--was that in order to make change, it was necessary to kill those who stood in the way of it.  Each of them to varying degrees agreed with this.  And it struck me that this was the prevailing worldwide philosophy of the time.  Hitler and Stalin, of course, were the extreme examples, but this kind of thinking was prevalent here as well.  There was an awful lot of sympathy in the good ole U. S. for what the Soviet Union was trying to accomplish, and although we never got to the point in this country where people were getting killed, FDR wielded his power like it was his personal possession.  The point, I think, is that there is always someone in the world who is absolutely sure they know what's best for you.  When someone like this gets in power, watch out.In any event, Hemingway is pretty even-handed about it and this commentary is actually only a small part of the novel.  The story, as everybody knows, is about American Robert Jordan, who is sent by his communist masters during the Spanish Civil War to the mountains in order to blow up a bridge.  There he is assisted by the guerrilla band led by Pilar and Pablo, which is comprised of the most memorable set of characters you will ever meet in literature.There is old Anselmo, perhaps the noblest of them all, dedicated and faithful to the cause, who agonizes over those he must kill and prays that he will be forgiven.  There is Rafael the gipsy,  incapable of staying at his post as he delightedly snares a couple of plump rabbits.  There is the stolid and dull Fernando, oblivious to wit or double-entendre.  There is the fierce Augustin, utterly committed to the cause.And then there is Maria, the nineteen-year old refugee--with deep, horrible secrets--and with whom Roberto falls hopelessly in love.  It is the kind of love affair that is utterly captivating to the reader and the kind of thing that only great authors are able to pull off.  Robert is drawn to her coltish, long-legged grace;  her cropped, red hair;  her brown, swarthy skin.  Hemingway spends a lot of time on Robert's thoughts about her, and a lot of time with the two of them together.  Their spoken endearments to one another--often playful, sometimes silly, occasionally solemn--could have easily slipped into the realm of the ridiculous, but never does under the sure hand of the great Hemingway.  It is instead extremely moving and it should be mentioned that this is extremely risky to pull off.And Pablo.  Once the fiercest of the Republicans, he is now well-fed and content in his mountain hideaway, has a dozen or so horses that make him rich, and knows that the actions contemplated by Roberto will bring an end to his safety.  He is a schemer, Pablo, a clever, ruthless wretch, and many of the plot twists stem from his machinations.And finally, Pilar;  the spectacular, magnificent Pilar;  Pablo's wife.  Her character is justifiably recognized for her description of the smell of death, and her description of the day that the loyalists drove the fascists out of her town--by forcing them to jump to their deaths, one at a time, over a cliff--but to me it is the smaller things that make her such an unforgettable character.  She is bitter when the young man turns away from her when he is asked to kiss her, understanding that she has never been beautiful, and knowing now that she is, to him, repulsive.  She describes in memorable detail her love affair with a matador in Valencia, and how she drank cold beer with the sweat dripping off the glass while he napped in the room behind her.  She is coarse and often crude, but never cruel;  she is hard as stone, but as deeply compassionate as anyone.  She is a gipsy and a saint and the greatest creation of Hemingway's career.There is much more to talk about.  The style of course, is all Hemingway, typically descriptive and insightful.  But this novel is much richer.  For once, with his excellent use of interior monologue--a practice he had been experimenting with for years--we finally get to know his characters in depth, rather then just viewing them from the outside like they are on a movie screen.Typically, his use of language is direct and to the point, but again, he is at his best in this one, so much so that he occasionally treads into the realm of the delightful.  For example, by design or by necessity, Hemingway did not use obscene words in the novel.  His creativity, though, in expressing the vulgar is nothing less than a thrill.  Here are the first words out of Pilar's mouth, early on, as she castigates the gipsy:  "What are you doing now, you lazy drunken obscene unsayable son of an unnamable unmarried gipsy obscenity?  What are you doing?"  Absolutely hilarious, and there is no way this could have been done better using any kind of vocabulary.Plot, characters, theme, everything.  One of the greatest at his best.  A novel not to be missed.
3 this book is a drunkolgue. of course, it's very well written. the style, is a style of a superb journalist. but the characters' alcoholism is piercing. the choices they make are hardly romantic, rather they are tragic. the emptiness of the spirit hidden behind the spirit of alcohol pierces through. how so many mice and men have fashioned their lives after this novel puzzles me.
5 Hemingway is arguably one of the best war novelists to have ever lived, and For Whom the Bell Tolls shows why.He describes the scenery so well that one can picture witnessing the landscape first hand. The characters are pretty well developed too.Definitely great for those who love war novels, historical fiction, and/or love stories.
5 Geez, who am I as a novice author to make a comment or review on Hemingway.I read this book to gain an insight into dialogue. What an insight that was.  It runs from start to finish.I had an advantage of having seen the film, albeit a long time ago but, that made the book even more interesing to me personally as I could not only read the dialogue but visualise the characters better and hear them in my mind.It taught me a great deal and I hope some of it will rub off into my own future scribbles.I will now be reading other works of his
5 For Whom the Bell Tolls is a story that will be with you forever after you have finished the last riveting page.  All other books will be judged by standards set by Hemmmingway in this one.  The Tragic story of Robert  Jordan and his love Maria is more amazing than any other I have read, seen  or heard.  El Sordo's final stand reads the way the greatest symphony is  heard.  Tension and crescendo that builds and builds until you become one  with the characters and their struggle.  I have never read a book that ends  like this one, and chances are a first time reader has not either.  Get  this book.  Read it.  This IS writting.
5 I like this Hemingway book even better than A Farewell to Arms. It "stayed with me" long after I had forgotten most of the details. I read the book as a university freshman, then reread it after it came strongly to mind in summer 1987. I was standing on a steep, green meadow in Schwarzwald, reshuffling the deck of life. Like a Hemingway character, I was traveling around Europe living an adventure.Descriptions of many scenes are memorable. Reading as a twenty year old, dynamiting the bridge and the part where Maria crawls under the blanket with Robert Jordan were the strongest. One still likes those descriptions twenty-five years later, but one then also pays attention to the long description of old dead roses as the essence of the odor of death. And one never forgets the powerful ending. Here's how I remembered the ending before rereading it yesterday: Robert Jordan, mortally wounded, sends the pregnant Maria toward safety with the rest of his escaping band of comrades. Lying on his stomach on the steep meadow, as Franco's fascist troops come up the hillside into sight, he pulls back the bolt and takes a bead on the lead officer on horseback ....Because all dialogues in the book should take place in Spanish, Hemingway wrote partly in the early seventeenth century English of John Donne (readers familiar with the king James Version of the Bible, translated early in the seventeenth century, will easily recognize the language). This has the advantage of giving the reader the sensation of reading 'not-English'.It's still a very powerful book. In the context of history, Hemingway was impregnated with the Teddy Roosevelt brand of heroism.
5 I've probably read this book over 4 or 5 times throughout the years, first having read it as part of an assignment in a High School English class.  This is my absolute favorite book, and I'll tell you why.  As many reviewers have already pointed out, this book is enjoyable on so many levels: the characters are deep and complex; the questions about their purpose are deep.As a native Spanish speaker, I truly enjoy this book much more because Hemingway's prose is an exact translation of how the characters would speak in their Spanish setting, which I only realize now living in Puerto Rico and re-reading this masterpiece after many years (and two war tours).  The conversations, which may seem awkward to a non-Spanish speaker, are perfectly natural if translated into Spanish, adding to the realism of his tale.  Chalk this up to Hemingway's genius and his ability to create realistic worlds in which his characters live and die.
5 The presentation of this book is enjoyable own excellent work, which can be read nimbly and with some ease and this time.
5 I've read this novel seven, perhaps, eight times, and with this last reading I opened my eyes and was allowed yet another glimpse into the depth of Hemingway's mind. Others have called this work simplistic, its title unrelated to the book's content, something to be idolized by high school English teachers. Ha! If you read only to be entertained, you will miss some of the most poignant features of the work.For me, the characters come alive in the book. They live and breathe as human beings most certainly did during the Spanish Revolution: Golz, Anselmo, El Sordo, Pablo, and Pilar. And although Robert Jordan's intimacy with Maria is cloaked in euphemisms to get it past the censors when the book was first written in 1939, I got the point: the two of them, as sometimes happens once or twice in life, were inexplicably drawn to each other. It's not something carnal or obscene; it's something divine, and that which one should be eternally thankful for. Certainly, Hemingway must have realized this when he created the characters of Robert and Maria.The ending was written some thirty-eight times in an attempt "to get the words right," and that speaks volumes about the author's diligence in producing a work of literature that will last the ages. The love which Robert Jordan had for Maria is evidenced in his desire to see her safely away, to give up his life that she may move on and live her life. He knows he is "mucked," yet he kindly but forcibly tells Maria they will always be together. Now, that's love!I give this work my highest rating.
5 I revisited this book in my early 40's and came away resold on Hemingway as one of America's greatest writers and an artist who stands the test of time. It's a shame, in fact, that Hemingway's caricature-friendly persona, life and writing style have sometimes obsured his work. Forget the macho image and the stories of drinking and hunting. He is an artist of the first order.For Whom... is a novel about the important things -- life, love, death, fear, the attraction and horror of war. What struck me throughout was how innocent the characters are and how genuinely Hemingway depicts the most difficult subjects, be it war (in this case the Spanish Civil War) or the love between Maria and Robert Jordan.Hemingway is a writer we need in our times. He focuses on the big, important issues without cynicism, and never shies from exposing what is in our hearts and minds. A classic.
4 This is one of several Hemingway books I have come to read, actually in this case, listen to.I loathe idling about so I decided while I wait, wherever that maybe, I would listen to an audiobook. I prefer the unabridged versions which in this case was quite long.I found the subject matter mysteriously complex ( who doesn't find love  complex ) yet simplistic in it's exposition true to Hemingway's style.Each character is carefully developed and his/her relationships meticulously crafted and consistent with their dispositions.Hemingway explores humanity and allows us a glimpse of it in the most trying circumstances....love and war.It really is very hard to discuss the book without ruining details and the outcome so I will stop here.I would suggest getting the audicopy on ipod and listening to it on your next long journey overseas.
5 This is book is &quot;the one&quot; to read if you really enjoy reading. Hemingway's work is just superb, the bold symbolism and metaphors make this a must have in your bookshelf. His style is simple writing yet under its surface lies a much deeper aspect and meaning. This is Hemingway at its  best. If you like literature you will apreciate it, and once you finish,  you feel enticed by his way of writing. As I said, Simply Hemingway!
5 Hemingway has written a masterpiece, weaving together the human with the politics of the war in a tapestry richly layered.  The evocation of Robert Jordan's love for Maria is poignant and convincing.  The existential threat facing everyone is played out according to their moral stance and passion.  The climax of the book is an exquisite melding together of everything that came before.I reread it after many years while in Spain, a fortuitous experience.  The final passage brought me to tears.
5 There's a reason that Senator (and former POW) John McCain, as well current President, Barrack Obama  both named this book as a personal favorite. It is a book that has inspired its fair share of leaders over the years, and will do the same for you. It's simply that good!With two masterpieces under his belt (The Sun Also Rises and A Farewell to Arms), which described in crushing detail the physical and emotional wounds suffered during war, of love lost and hope destroyed, and of the depression and disillusionment experienced by the group of Americans known as the Lost Generation, Ernest Hemingway could have written nothing else and he already would have gone down as one of the greatest writers of the 20th century. Then in 1940, he published For Whom the Bell Tolls, which would become another masterpiece, the master at his best, writing about all of the themes that had become central to his life: Courage, duty, love, death, honor and idealism.It is the story of Robert Jordan, an American demolition specialist attached to a band of Spanish guerrillas sent to destroy bridges during the Spanish Civil War. He is a professional, and knows his mission is a bad one, that is unlikely to make any real difference in the fight, but for some reason he feels compelled to complete it anyways.Over three days of hiding out with a band of rebels, he falls in love with a beautiful young Spanish girl named Maria. He also realizes how doomed their mission really is and that he must accept what fate has given him, and do his duty regardless, however bitter it may be. He must press on to destroy the bridges he came to destroy.Jordan proves that life, no matter how long or short, can be deeply heroic and full of purpose when we take the right action. He convinces himself of this through his own self-talk, which Hemingway gives to us throughout the book as a sort of code of ethics, a model to live by:"So if your life trades its seventy years for seventy hours I have that value now and I am lucky enough to know it. And if there is not any such thing as a long time, nor the rest of our lives, nor from now on, but there is only now, why then now is the thing to praise and I am very happy with it... You must make your whole life in the two nights that are given to you; that living as we do now you must concentrate all of that which you should always have into the short time that you can have it... You have it now and that is all your whole life is; now. There is nothing else than now. There is neither yesterday, certainly, nor is there any tomorrow. How old must you be before you know that? There is only now, and if now is only two days, then two days is your life and everything in it will be in proportion. This is how you live a life in two days. And if you stop complaining and asking for what you never will get, you will have a good life. A good life is not measured by any biblical span."Jordan exhibits exactly the type of "grace under pressure" that Hemingway admired and was famous for. He demonstrates that action, not outcome, is what counts, and that, despite everything else, there is great value in doing one's duty against overwhelming odds.In For Whom the Bell Tolls, Hemingway tells this story with his characteristic prose, tragically and poetically, as only he can. It is his greatest work. If you choose to read one Hemingway, make it this one. It will inspire you for many years.
5 Having read two Hemmingway novels, I was not impressed.  Frankly, I was surprised that I did not enjoy them.  After growing up and hearing about the great Hemmingway, the man's man, I found his characters weak and whinny.  Ready to give up, I gave him one more try and I am glad he did. This is a magnificent novel.Set in the Spanish Civil War during the 1930s it tells the story of Robert Jordan, an American volunteer fighting against Franco and his fascist allies. This is first-rate story telling, it grabs the reader from the offset and pulls him into the story.  Unlike other Hemmingway novels (i.e., The Son Also Rises), these are heroic characters that we deeply care about.The imagery is magnificent.  I can still see in my minds eye, the retreating Republicans, the panicked soldiers, the horses out of control and the cartridge casings spilled in the road way.  If you are unfamiliar with Hemmingway, read this book first.  All the others will pale in comparison.
4 As I read him I just liked his books.  Great stories, have read most of his works and just gel with him.
5 Hemingway's novel "For Whom the Bell Tolls" (1940) is toughly realistic in its depiction of the butchery of warfare.  The book has the no-nonsense, fact-intensive style of a reporter. Yet, in its themes of love, death, heroism, and human brotherhood, Hemingway's novel is, in spite of itself, romantic in outlook, but romantic with an edge.The novel is set in Spain in 1937 during the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939).  The Spanish Civil War was a multi-sided conflict between the democratically-elected government, the Republicans or loyalists, and its right-wing anti-communist opponents, the nationalists (fascists). The Republicans during this conflict had the assistance of the USSR.  Their enemies, the nationalists, were assisted by Nazi Germany and by Italy. Hemingway was a correspondent in Spain at the time.  His novel tells the story of Robert Jordan, a young American instructor in Spanish at the University of Montana who had earlier spent much time wandering through Spain. In 1936, with the outset of the conflict, Jordan volunteered his services to assist the Republicans and became an expert in explosives. Jordan idealizes his grandfather who had been a hero in the American Civil War.  Jordan's father had committed suicide.  When the novel opens, Jordan is assigned to destroy a bridge in furtherance of a Republican offensive. He works with a group of guerrillas in the mountains.The story unfolds over a time of three days. Hemingway's book offers portrayals of a group of Jordan's Spanish compatriots, in addition to Jordan himself.  Chief among them is a 48-year old woman, Pilar, physically unattractive, earthy, and strong-willed.  She is the de facto leader of her group and is as central to the story as is Jordan. Pilar is the "woman" of Pablo, who was once a formidable fighter but who has become disillusioned by the conflict.  The novel includes several scenes of high tension and near violence between Jordan and Pablo. In his efforts to blow-up the bridge, Jordan is assisted by Anselmo, an aged man who despairs of violence and killing but is devoted to the Republican cause.  And, in the three days of the novel, Jordan meets and has a passionate love affair with Maria, a lovely 19-year old who has been saved from the nationalists by Pablo.Hemingway is known for a terse, elliptical writing style, and it is on display in this book.  But the writing is highly varied, with long stream of conscious digressions by Jordan as he reflects upon his past life and upon the conflict in which he has thrust himself. Much of the writing is both figurative and digressive. Hemingway tried to transcribe much of Spanish idiom directly into English, particularly the use of "thou" for the intimate Spanish "you." He also makes considerable use of untranslated Spanish phrases. The book captures the speech patterns of soldiers under tension, with much use of colorful language.  Hemingway does not reproduce this language directly but, in English, uses phrases such as "obscenity" or "unprintable" in place of the words themselves.  In addition to telling the story of the bridge and its destruction, all the characters engage in long discussions of their thoughts and their prior lives.  These discussions generally are directed to the brutality of the war.  In an outstanding passage, Pilar tells of the destruction under the command of Pablo of a group of fascist leaders who are forced to run the gauntlet before being thrown down a cliff.Hemingway was in love with Spain, both for its beauty and its brutality.  The novel has many discussions of bullfighting, largely told by Pilar as she recounts her experiences with earlier lovers.  Pilar also has a power of clairvoyance in the story, especially as it relates to impending death.  The book includes several vivid battle scenes. One of these scenes tells of the gunning-down by aircraft of a group of five of the guerillas assisting Jordan at the top of a small hill.(Aircraft has a large and fearsome presence in the book.) Another effective battle scene tells of the difficult destruction of the bridge and its aftermath.The love relationship between Robert Jordan and Maria comes to dominate the novel. The two become passionately attracted to each other and quickly consummate their relationship.  The passages describing the couple's lovemaking are central to the story and effective. The inhumanity of war is juxtaposed against human commitment and the beauty of the everyday. Robert Jordan realizes that he is in love with Maria, Spain, and with life. This love, in the book, reaches its peak in heroism and self-sacrifice.  Jordan comes to realize what in life he values.  It is because of his realization, that he ultimately must give up the things he comes to cherish.  Within its language of toughness and machismo, this novel has the theme of inevitability and of romantic tragedy.This is a book I read in high school many years ago when it was far beyond me. It is not an easy book, and not every part of it is successful. But it is an extraordinary novel. I am grateful that I had the opportunity to revisit the book when I was able to try to appreciate it.Robin Friedman
5 There is no way to cover in 1000 words everything that this book has to offer.  Centering around one man who must undertake one mission with the help of some guerillas in the Spanish Civil War, this book is in fact the deepest most complete work on war that has ever been written.  Although, as I mentioned, the whole book is only about Robert Jordan blowing up a single bridge, the book widens in scope as it goes on allowing us to see the war from more and more angles, through more and more people, on both sides of the fight and of all rank and position.  It drives homet the point that the title of the book suggests.  Ask not for whom the bell tolls, the bell tolls for thee.  This refers to the church bells that would be rung to announce a death and is part of a larger quote which begins familiarly enough, "No man is an island."  Simply put, there is no such thing as isolationism, there is no way to not consider yourself a part of the human race.  When you hear of someone!'s death, there is no need to wonder whose death it is, for whomever it was, they were a part of you, and so their death is in a way your death.  Their jouney was your journey.  Thus this book does not allow us to leave any vantage point of this war and this battle unturned, and every character relates and reacts to every other character, every action has a reaction, for no man is an island, as this beautifully crafted book points out time and again.
3 I did not care much for the story.  It was before my time so I have no connection to the events. The big looser for me was the writing style. It was probably a well accepted style at the time but just does not fit in today. Hemingway changed his style several times in his life and this is just an example of a style that went astray.I enjoyed &#34;The old man and the sea&#34; which was written quite differenty. The fact that there was only one person involved made a difference.
4 I don't think I have ever taken so long to read a book and still finished it. This was my first major Hemingway and, so far from finding it direct and pithy, as the author is reputed to be, I thought it tedious and repetitive, turgid in its inner monologues, and astoundingly old-fashioned in its dialogues. And yet, and yet.... Hemingway, who saw the Spanish Civil War from the inside as a reporter, has a remarkable gift for describing places such as a guerilla camp in the high mountains, capturing the undertones between people who do not really trust one another, evoking the tension before a dangerous action, then setting out the course of that action in simple concrete terms. My reading accelerated as it went on, and in the end I could hardly put the book down.I turned to this after reading a much more recent book about that war, Dave Boling'sGUERNICA. Despite the more approachable style of the later writer, Hemingway clearly has the larger vision. Whereas Boling writes a sweeping family saga, Hemingway confines himself to a three-day period in a single area. The hero, Robert Jordan, is an American instructor from a college in Montana fighting the fascists with the International Brigade. He is sent behind enemy lines to blow up a bridge spanning a mountain gorge. To do so, he must recruit the aid of local guerrilla bands, who may or may not trust him or each other. From this simple assignment, the scope spans out in thought and flashback to a much wider canvas, not so much of place and time but of moral vision. For Hemingway (clearly anti-fascist, but no card-carrying red either) is concerned at every turn with human dignity, the liberty which makes this possible, the love and hope which makes it worthwhile, and the apparent impossibility of preserving these values in wartime. This is a novel of substance.Unfortunately, neither Hemingway nor Boling avoids the temptation to romanticize the common people of another culture. Most of Hemingway's guerrillas are two-dimensional at best, and rather difficult to tell apart. The exceptions are Pablo, the once-fearless leader now turned cautious, and his wife Pilar. But Maria, the rape-survivor with whom Robert falls in love (or at least into bed), is a male fantasy of eager compliance; he even addresses her as "little rabbit"! Worst of all is Hemingway's extraordinary decision to render spoken Spanish by means of an exaggeratedly literal translation, leading to lines such as: "And what thinkest thou of this of the bridge?" and the immortal post-coital question: "Didst not thou feel the earth move?" And his description of the act itself, a breathless homage to James Joyce and Gertrude Stein, may be a literary tour-de-force, but in that simple context it is laughably overblown. Hemingway had a better connection than most to people's souls and the movement of the earth; if only he did not go to such lengths to prove it!
5 This story is a classic. It details events that occurred during the Spanish civil war of the late 1930s when fascism was on the rise in Western Europe.In 1944, in my adolescent romanticism, I had become immutably bonded to the characters and Ingrid Bergman after seeing the movie that had just come out.Now, 70 years later and reading the details of the love affair, I was to discover that I understood practically nothing of the historical significance in which the story takes place. The atmosphere of the guerrilla cave and escapades left a deep impression on me that was never to be forgotten.Should you read this novel, I might suggest that seeing the movie first might place the characters most strongly in their rightful desperate and fateful surroundings as so skillfully described by the author.
5 What more is there to say about this masterpiece that hasn't been covered in over 100 reviews here, not to mention the  shelves of critical essays and examinations since this book appeared in 1940?Precious little, probably, yet what a strange "Great American Novel" this is! To begin with its set in Spain, in the midst of an  all but forgotten conflict, the Spanish Civil War. Then there's our hero, a young university lecturer Robert Jordan, linguist and  fluent in Spanish, French, and probably German.Jordan is one of the most likable people in American literature, in many ways the all-American hero. Yet he's fighting for the  communists...under a Russian general, with a guerilla (terrorist?) group that seems distinctly low on  ideals, and high on banditry and brutality.Then there's the novel's philosophy, which the title implicitly states, which supports the notion of community, and  co-operation, and the importance of individual sacrifice for the common good. Foreign and un-American indeed, yet  brilliantly handled - even a Fascist Officer becomes someone we can sympathise with (and is probably Robert Jordan's last  victim).A curious feature is the pervasive irony, so absent from much current American writing and conversation. Its manifest in  many episodes, and provides much sly humour, such as when Robert Jordan speaks of machine guns jamming or running out  of ammunition but does so in English. When his Spanish comrades ask him what he's talking about, he simply replies "just  looking into the future in English."Hemingway's main innovation is a simple yet brilliant: Render the Spanish dialogue in English, but make it a simi-literal  translation; so for instance "What's your name?" becomes "How are you called?" Its a little awkward for the first few pages,  then we adjust, but never forget that Robert Jordan is speaking Spanish to Spanish speakers.Good novelists write books with strong main characters, great ones make even the minor characters memorable. And  so it is with this book, from the uneducated yet thoughtful old man Anselmo, to the half deaf leader of a neighboring guerilla band, El Sordo.Finally, in an era of up-beat feelings and the importance of positive thinking, For Whom the Bell Tolls is an extraordinarily pessimistic and downbeat novel...Truly an American classic, maybe the strangest of them all.
5 &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot; was the first Hemingway I ever read.  I was a high school kid in the early 1970s, working on my campus newspaper, newly graduated from Jack London but not yet ready for Jack Kerouac.To  my young eyes, it was a good action story:  Robert Jordan, the passionate  American teacher joins a band of armed gypsies in the Spanish Civil War.  He believes one man can make a difference.  The whole novel covers just 68  hours, during which Jordan must find a way to blow up a key bridge behind  enemy lines.  In that short time, Jordan also falls in love with Maria, a  beautiful Spanish woman who has been raped by enemy soldiers.  The whole  spectrum of literature was refracted through the prism of my youth: Good  guys and bad guys, sex and blood, life and death.  For me, just a boy, the  journey from abstraction to clarity was only just beginning.Re-reading  &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot; at 42 (roughly the age Hemingway was  when he published it), I have lost my ability to see things clearly in  black and white.  My vision is blurred by irony, as I note that two  enemies, the moral killer Anselmo and the sympathetic fascist Lieutenant  Berrendo, utter the very same prayer.  For the first time, I see that the  book opens with Robert Jordan lying on the &quot;pine-needled floor of the  forest&quot; and closes as he feels his heart pounding against the  &quot;pine needle floor of the forest&quot;; Jordan ends as he begins,  perhaps having never really moved.  I certainly could never have seen at 16  how dying well might be more consequential than living well.  And somehow  the light has changed in the past 26 years, so that I now truly understand  how the earth can move.As a teen, I missed another crucial element, even  though Vietnam was still a seeping wound.  Three pivotal days in Jordan's  life force him to question his own role in a futile war.  He wonders if  dying for a political cause might be too wasteful, but he ultimately  believes that dying to save another individual is a man's most heroic act.The book's title is taken from John Donne's celebrated poem: &quot;No  man is an Iland ... and therefore never send to know for whom the bell  tolls; It tolls for thee.&quot; It was not about loneliness and aloneness,  as I once had thought, but about the seamless fabric of all life:  What  happens to one happens to all.I am not blind to Hemingway's flaws.  He  was a good short writer, and what was short was almost always better.  Pilar's tale on the mountainside has been widely acclaimed as the most  powerful of Hemingway's prose.  Her story within a story is nothing less  than a contemporary myth.&quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot; has also  been regarded as Hemingway's capitulation to critics who barked that his  innovative style was too lean, and as a consciously commercial exercise for  which Hollywood might (and did) pay handsomely.  Robert Jordan, in so many  respects, was a tragic mythical hero in the vein of Achilles, Gawain and  Samson.  &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot; ranks as one of the great  American war novels in a country that has always struggled with the concept  of good and bad wars.
5 HEMINGWAY IS MY FAV! I SUGGEST YOU READ THIS IF YOU WANT A GREAT LOVE STORY.....OF COURSE, HE IS THE MASTER!
5 Hemingway is one of the best known authors worldwide and with good reason. As someone with limited knowledge of European history and a complete ignorance of the events of the Spanish Civil War, this had me engrossed and wanting to learn more. It had me so engrossed that I nearly wanted to go join a rebel movement and dedicate myself to war a la Robert Jordan.This book has the vital ingredients of sex and war and mixed together with Hemingway's unbelievably creative writing style, makes for one of the best works of fiction of all time.
5 Fifty years after my first reading, I enjoyed it all over again, this time near the scene of the action in Spain. Flawed in some ways, as critics have noted, it remains a powerful and arresting story.
5 One of my favorite books of all time.  Granted, there are some dry parts in the book but other parts well make up for it.
5 Can a whole life be lived in just four days? This is the question that haunts Robert Jordan throughout FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS. Leaving behind his respectable life as an American college Spanish-language teacher, he has become an accomplished guerrilla fighter and explosives expert fighting for the anti-fascists in the Spanish Civil War. Can he really find a new &#34;family,&#34; fall head over heels in love, and strike a blow that will further the rebel cause and lay his own personal ghosts to rest ... in just four days? Well, he's going to give it one almighty try, because when that fourth day arrives, he is sure there will be no tomorrow.And so, Robert Jordan, ordered to blow up a bridge to enable the anti-government forces' latest attack, attaches himself to a ragtag band of hardened guerrilla fighters, currently hiding out in a cave in the hills near the bridge. In the cave, he finds a band of unstable, hotheaded misfits, a band of unique and beguiling individuals, a band that is sheltering a frightened &#34;little rabbit.&#34; But they are very few, and the task Robert Jordan has brought them is very great. Can he possibly lead them to a glorious, unlikely success, or will he lead them to their doom and his own? The story is haunted by the concept that: &#34;Whether one has fear of it or not, one's death is difficult to accept.&#34; This is the scene that Hemingway sets, and being Hemingway, all he does is tell us: These are the people, this is what happened to them, this is what they did, this is what they said. And being Hemingway, that is more than enough.Hemingway's famously &#34;economical&#34; style can sometimes border on the cold, clinical, and flat, but in this book, he loosens the reins just slightly, with very effective results. The moments of fast-paced action are often very dialogue-driven; in quieter moments, there are little oases of slightly more wordy descriptions of surroundings or feelings; and sensual moments are a tumbling bundle of words and images that hardly even constitute sentences at all, but are intensely moving. Overall, the style of FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is still characteristically Hemingway - matter-of-fact, pointed, with not a word out of place. The dialogue is still jarringly clipped, but that's what makes it so stirring. There are moments of maddening, excessive repetition, but they are like hammer strokes driving the point home. Once again, Hemingway does everything that should make a story fall flat - but instead, it soars. Don't try this at home, folks. This is something beyond the powers of mere mortals; this is something found only in the realms of genius.Characterization and character development are particularly strong in FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS. In his usual way, Hemingway introduces us to all the characters of the story in situ, withholding any hint of their histories and making us earn the right to know them better by waiting and dwelling with them for some considerable time first. It seems that we are meant to get to know these characters in the present so as to deserve the privilege of knowing anything about their pasts, and so as to understand that the present is really all that matters. But by the time we have got to know them that well, all we can think about is their futures: Who will survive the dangerous mission before them?Robert Jordan is the typical Hemingway leading man - mysterious, enigmatic, physically and emotionally strong but not invulnerable. Initially appearing to be made of stone, it is the &#34;little rabbit,&#34; Maria, a victim of unspeakable war crimes who has found refuge with the guerrilla band, who steadily chips away at &#34;Roberto's&#34; facade to reveal the human being beneath. And this human being is all too mortal and all too susceptible to the dread of leading his new Spanish &#34;family&#34; to their doom. And the enigma remains: Why is this American fighting in somebody else's war? Meanwhile, the cast of peripheral characters in FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is as vibrant and varied as the contents of a paella. In the wait for zero hour, these characters are revealed one by one: Anselmo, the gentle-hearted &#34;old man&#34;; Fernando, the pedant; Agustin, the fervent revolutionary; Rafael, the unreliable gypsy. And then there is Pilar, a character who could never be accused of being &#34;peripheral.&#34; Mercurial, certainly, but never peripheral: she is surely one of Hemingway's strongest female characters - by turns worldly, zealous, kind, cruel, loyal, bitter, and as tough as old boots. When it comes to the crunch, we are right there with these very real characters as they march with their heads held high and their hearts in their boots into the impossibly dangerous situation devised for them by the powers-that-be, the powers-that-should-damn-well-know-better.FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is reminiscent of Hemingway's other war story, A FAREWELL TO ARMS, in the attention it gives to the way in which war turns men into monsters. Pilar's recounting of the first day of the revolution in her own village plus the underlying threat of insurrection within the guerrilla band's own ranks provide chilling evidence of the evil that lurks in the souls of ordinary men and women. In the memorable words of Agustin, &#34;War is a bitchery.&#34; Robert and Anselmo, in particular, struggle throughout with the Machiavellian concept of killing for the sake of their higher cause. Is this really all there is to it, or do they take some kind of perverse pleasure in the taking of a life? And can they be honest enough, at least with themselves, to admit it?These themes of personal guilt and responsibility lead inevitably to contemplation of who the enemy really is. At one point, Robert remarks that one side of a revolution usually garners greater attention than the other. Hemingway makes it abundantly clear, however, that FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is not going to perpetuate this injustice, and great pains are taken to emphasize that &#34;the enemy&#34; are people, too. From the personal effects of an enemy scout to a peek through the window at the occupants of an enemy guardpost to actual narrative space given to the enemy in a bloody skirmish, the reader is never allowed to forget that both sides of the conflict share a common humanity. When all is said and done, Robert reflects on that part of himself that is the core of all soldiers, no matter who they fight for: &#34;In him, too, was despair from the sorrow that soldiers turn to hatred in order that they may continue to be soldiers.&#34;And when faced with the horrors of war, the minds of soldiers often turn to religion, another central theme of FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS. Robert and his newly Communist comrades are supposed to have renounced religion altogether, and there are many jokes about their now ex-Lord and Savior. Anselmo, however, is quietly wracked with uncertainty over renouncing the beliefs of a lifetime, and in a particularly moving scene, he wishes for the opportunity to undertake some form of religious penance, once the war is over, for the lives he has taken. And when the battle for the bridge is finally waged, both sides turn to prayer as their last resort.FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is a magnificent rendition of the hypocrisy, farce, and senselessness of war. This, in itself, makes the book a superb, thought-provoking, soul-searching classic. But it is also arguably Hemingway's greatest love story. Robert and Maria's story is so much more than just a whirlwind romance, it is an exquisitely tender, desperately passionate joining of two lost but beautiful souls. As ridiculous as it may sound, Robert and Maria will make you believe that true love can blossom and burn in the space of just four days. This pair would do anything for each other. They want to live a full life together, but they won't hesitate to die for one another, either. Will they have to?I do not make this statement lightly: FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is the most perfectly paced novel I have ever read. In the beginning, the story chugs along sedately, giving you time to meet and greet your fellow passengers and accustom yourself to your surroundings. In the last third of the book, you start to hear the whistle blowing and feel the story picking up speed. In the last fifty or so pages, you're holding on to this runaway train for dear life. By the end, you've gone past the edge of your seat and are kneeling on the floor praying for these characters, and especially these two lovers, to survive. &#34;I wish that I were going to live a long time instead of going to die today because I have learned much about life in these four days; more, I think, than in all the other time.&#34; This is Robert Jordan's musing when the battle is finally joined, and it made me realize that I had also learned much about life from the four days, the lifetime, contained in the pages of this unprepossessing, riveting novel. The thing that makes me so passionate about books is that when they're really, really good, they make my eyes sparkle and my heart beat faster. FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS held me mesmerized and took my breath away. It is one of those books I will never forget. It is a masterpiece.
4 ...this book aims to please those readers of Spanish novels with American themes.  Give this a read.
3 For Whom the Bell Tolls by Ernest Hemingway is the story of Robert Jordan, a young man who is caught up making explosives for the rebels in the Spanish Civil War. He's contemplative and slow-to-act, the opposite of the explosives he is in charge of detonating.We meet up with Jordan once he is tasked to blow up a bridge, a bridge that is pivotal to the war effort. He goes into the mountains to meet with a band of rebels who are to help him destroy the bridge and attack the base on the other side of the bridge. Jordan meets and falls in love with a young Spanish woman Maria and the story reaches it's climax when he is forced to make a tough decision and blow the bridge without the proper equipment.Like many of Hemingway's novels, For Whom the Bell Tolls was quite wordy. There was a lot of talk and not a lot of action. Honestly, I preferred Hemingway's The Old Man and the Sea and A Farewell to Arms. The novel was interesting. I'm glad I powered through it, as it is considered a classic, but not my favorite of his work. Excellent writer, but I've seen better work out of him.-Sarah[...]
5 This book gathers momentum slowly, but I guarantee that if you stick with it to the end you will be very well rewarded.  I enjoyed this book for insight into history as well as military tactics.  It's almost like you are behind enemy lines, eavesdropping on what is happening.  But the last 40 to 50 pages swiftly gathers momentum both in action and emotional impact. But intertwined is this heart-wrenching love story, at least at the end it's heart-wrenching.  I've read four of Hemingway's books, but this one ranks easily at the top.  There is so much emotion and character in this book, the stuff that makes us human and heroic, and that makes Hemingway so great.  The last 40 pages or so builds so much emotion, suspense, and excitement you cannot put it down--the mission climaxes, the love story climaxes, what a ride!!!
5 Ernest Hemingway - For Whom The Bell TollsFor one who wants to read the book that has it all I recommend Ernest Hemingway's For Whom The Bell Tolls. Friendship, strife, security, terror, love, war, good, evil; this book has them all. It is the story of Robert Jordan, a sympathizer of the Republicans in the Spanish Civil War, whose duty is to lead a band of guerrillas in blowing up a bridge as part of a Republican offensive. Along the way Jordan will learn the revolting pasts of several of the guerrillas, fall in love with one of them, and spend quite some time meditating on "truths" he was once sure he knew.No sooner has Jordan met with the guerrillas than he discovers that one of them, fearful of being hunted down by the fascist forces, stands against him and threatens to take the entire group away. This first taste of tension is mirrored several times over in Hemingway's gripping novel as Jordan's quest to destroy his bridge turns into a contemplation of whether his cause is truly worthy or not.Much of what Jordan sees recommends the latter. Jordan's guerrilla partners are not simple adornments to his crusade; they all have livid pasts and he finds much to learn from them. Even as they curse and spit at the fascists several of these guerrillas communicate, through their stories, arguments against the futility and cruelty of the war they have willfully taken up. Others, too young to realize what they have gotten into, create commentaries on war through their nave brashness.Additionally the humanity of the guerrillas makes Jordan question the commands from his isolated, detached superiors. In time Jordan forms strong bonds with his friends and discovers that the thought of sending them into harm's way is not a simple abstraction. This is further complicated by a girl Jordan meets and falls in love with and Jordan's own questions about the worthiness of his orders.Like Robert Jordan we, as readers of For Whom The Bell Tolls, are invited to meditate on many of the thoughts that so bother him. What need a person do to live a full life? How important is it to stay true to principles, even when fighting in vain? What are the limits of brutality? These are a few of the questions Hemingway grapples with in his book. The answers are so well bound with the narrative that often one hardly notices a metaphysical discussion has occurred, but those who give the text a second look will find a philosophical subtext as gripping as the plot line.As for the story,  Hemingway creates out of his assortment of characters a narrative of breathtaking beauty. For Whom The Bell Tolls has the power to move one to tears, wet hands with sweat, and force page after page of devoted reading. Hemingway's language is not the most beautiful, but in lieu of poetics his writing has the next best thing: crisp clarity.Perhaps the best thing to say about For Whom The Bell Tolls is that at nearly 500 pages (which glide by in a snap), scarcely one has been wasted. It is a war novel laced with the drama of a Henry James piece and a drama lacerated with the carnage of war. In other words this fine book of Hemingway's manages to transcend two genres and end up at some unknown point in between, but certainly above both.
5 It's hard to write a a concise review for this wonderful novel that would begin to capture the emotion and vitality within its pages. Read the Amazon description for a plot summary; but don't be fooled into thinking it's a black and white story about the Spanish Revolution.  Hemingway has an amazing way of capturing the sheer humanity of the whole undertaking.  The Reds, the fascists, the anarchists and the uncommitted are all examined and ultimately shown as being human beings first, and political creatures second.At the same time it is the ultimate war novel and love story.  Hemingway delves into Jordan's perspective of the characters and is vivid in his description of the Spanish countryside while also maintaining a near stream of consciousness of intelligent thoughts.  The simultaneous vitality and fatalism of the characters is amazing.  Truly a wonderful book.
4 Hemingway has a way of getting into our heads.  The characters are plain spoken; almost Shakespearean at times; with  powerful, philosophical paragraphs sprayed in.  His interest in bullfighting is obvious if you have read any of his work; and is not ignored here.  Against the rules of writing he uses the Spanish tongue; although irritating, he gets away with it.Set in the mid 1930's, and centered around an American munitions expert fighting to help the cause of removing the Germans, Italians, and the rest of the fascist armies from out of Spain.  He links up with a group of cave dwelling partisans outside of town.  Much of the book is spent on his relationship with this group and him falling in love with a young girl, whom he can never have.Some may object to the ending, but I found it fitting; "I man's gota' do, what I man's gota' do"Wish you wellScott
5 Having recently come back from Paris, I went through a Hemingway phase, starting with his memoirs of his Paris days, then I stumbled on this book.The stumbling was a fortunate accident, for this book is amazing.  Hemingway's short but powerful prose is in perfect form. I actually find  Hemingway and Gabriel Garcia Marquez similar in their ability to capture a  thought completely in one sentence- even though their actual sentences are  different.Hemingway perfectly captures poignant emotions, and the  sentence sparsity adds to the strength and description beautifully.I  also agree with one of the other reviewers above, in that my appreciation  is probably helped by age. A lot of the emotions of loss, doubt,  disillusion and love I only felt in my post high school years. It's a good  adventure story nonetheless, but might lose its power for a youger  audience.
5 Well, I'm embarrased to say that it took me until late in life to finally get around to reading this gem. And oh, what a gem it is. Robert Jordan is one of those characters that just stays with you. I found myself a bit envious of his adventure, at least for a while (don't want to give anything away). For me, having never fought in a war, the sense of romanticism, mingled with the clear tragedy, seemed a realistic picture of what it must be like.Ultimately, I admire the sense of duty and honor so many of these characters display, and I wonder how many people share that kind of personal commitment today. I like to think it's still a high number (certainly we see it our military men and women), but I can't help but wonder.......This book is a 5-star read all the way around. Read it. You won't be sorry.
5 As inspired as I was after "The Sun Also Rises", I am even more crushed by this one. If you have any idea of writing something real someday, steer well clear of "For Whom the Bell Tolls." What a genius work of character development and atmosphere.
1 I hate not finishing a book that I've started, but in the case of this incredibly long, drawn-out, and boring novel, I had no qualms whatsoever. The characters are as unsympathetic as they come, with the 2-D Maria who has probably never entertained a thought in her head, she is so stupid and empty, except to please Robert Jordan, who spends hundreds and hundreds of pages just thinking random thoughts, and walking from place to place. I thought that Anna Karenina was long and drawn out, but even at 800 + pages that book was less drawn out than this wprthless piece. It was completely unnecessary for it to be so long--one of Hemingway's short stories, about an old man on a bridge during the spanish civil war, at less than 3 pages is ten times more movign and poignant than this book. And it doesn't even really paint the Spanish civil war all that well--if you really want a glimpse of what it was like, go rent and watch the classic movie "La lengua de los mariposas" or "Butterfly" in English, which will give you a better idea and much mroe enjoyment at the same time. This book also isn't really that action-packed at all for a war book--I'd say fighting and battle takes up maybe two-fifths fo the book at the most, it's mostly just talking, long stories, long ten page thought streams of RJ, or just walking from place to place, describing things with some of the longest run-on sentences I've ever seen (anyone who tells you that Hemingway's style was just short and simple sentences is full of it in regard to this book).In short, this book is not worth your time--read one of Hemingway's short stories if you must, but not this long, drawn out, boring yarn.
3 On the back cover of this paperback it's noted that Hemingway is known for his "terse" sentences. Did the person writing this "blurb" read the book? Probably not. In parts of this novel the author writes as if possessed by James Joyce, in a stream of consciousness style with long sentences. That's OK, or would be, if they added to the novel but, sorry, they don't. The author is also repetitive, repeating the same point over and over in some cases. But there is no reason in terms of the plot in writing the same point over and over in this book except to (in my opinion) stretch this novella out into almost 500 pages. The first couple and the last couple of chapters are essentially where the action is. One has to ask why this story is so revered and I think the answer is because the author was so admired. The press especially hero-worshiped Hemingway and perhaps this explains the too-much praise for this work. Still, not a bad book and when it's good, it's very good.
5 Therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; It tolls for thee-exactly what was Donne conveying to us? The fortuitous nature of  existence, or the unbiased treatment of fate, or the luring equivocation of  individuality?  In the pitifully short three days, no, better be accurate,  two and a half days during a crucial advance for the republic forces in  Spain, Hemingway leads us toward the bullpen, behind which hid a chimera  that is to hunt us all our lives with the echo of Donne's famed line.Hemingway draws every little details together as a pounding fist-beating  recursive chimes into the readers' ears. And with the slower, more  passionate journey into Jordan's memory and future in a way, we become  enthralled as well to the question of choice. How will he choose? Jordan, a  formal Spanish professor in the University of Montana, chooses to foresake  the capitalist luxury of America and pursues the life as a republic  dynamiter in Spain.There is no question of individuality, only a  question of choice, a choice between masses and not identities.  All this  remains intact until Robert's own vision is no longer able to see between  simple black and white in the Spanish mountains where he prepares to blow  up a bridge during a republic offensive. His comrades are not all  communists, nor are his enemies all fascists; these men die not for an  ideal, but for an idea. And as he grows to love the rough Spaniards around  him: shrewd yet cowardly Pablo, thoughtful hunter Ansemlo, strong and  foreseeing Pilar, and most of all, a young woman ravaged many times by  fascist soldiers, Jordan starts to doubt the path he chooses. And between  life and death, ideal and reality, he waivers.Pablo is a sharp thread  that seams between characters and draws Jordan on with questions; he  appears cowardly despite his heroic records as a guerilla leader, and his  own dawdling conviction towards the idea of republic pricks Jordan's own  sense of duty. Especially with more and more emotional involvement  (dependency) on Maria's love, Jordan is wondering whether enough killing is  enough killing for a vague concept. Pablo's seemingly growing discontent,  as a part of a mass, is complemented by his woman Pilar's undying strength.  She reads palms and smells death, and it is through her strong faith in the  union of freedom seekers that the guerrilla group stays together. But  exactly "for whom" the bell tolls? For the Spaniards who shed blood among  themselves with visible strings from Moscow? Yes, warfare befalls all, no  one is missed by the silent blow although some can smell its scent and  others shun its path. A dangerous sadness identifies Pablo while an  optimistic cheerfulness characterizes Pilar, why are they essentially the  same "lot" then? Because Hemingway shows us, through the interaction of  specter of differences, a single vibration enlivens every frequency on the  scale. Robert Jordan is a mere node not knowing which direction to lean  towards, especially as he is starting to doubt the vibration.America  hasn't had her share of good wars, but what happens in one war is reflected  in the next, or isn't it? If one strong man's mentality comes tumbling down  because the buttress isn't strong enough, why shouldn't the next one fumble  as well? It tolls for thee, and there are a million "thee" out there  blindly believing they are the only "thee". They hear the same ringing,  although each believes he is able to distinguish a unique frequency; and  they die, their deaths as mere statistics. Thus it is actually an oxymoron  Hemingway presents through Robert Jordan's developing anxieties; he feels  "tricked" into believing the impact he himself can make in the war, as a  part of a hovering mass, instead, he recovers pieces of individuality when  he is physically and emotionally removed from the same mass. So at the  beginning, he lays on one stretch of pine forest floor and hears this bell  chime calling him to begin, he joins the guerilla band; at the end, he is  wounded and is left behind to lay on the same stretch of pine forest floor,  and he hears this bell chime calling him to end. The integration and  disintegration mark his journey from blindness to sight.Two and a half  days, who ever lives out their entire existence in such a short period?  Jordan does, and he sees so far into the pattern of living that he does  regret the ultimate choice he makes, not as a soldier, or a leftist, but as  a man redeemed through the moral bath of contemplation.
2 I picked this book up a day after reading Catch-22, perhaps the most drawn out, most asinine ridiculous over rated book ever written, and For Whom the Bell Tolls is the second.I found this novel silly, a glorified, and tamed sex novel one might find at the grocery store.  The love making scenes were ridiculous, what was this "thou, oh, oh thou oh oh oh" garbage?  It took me a week to get through this book, which from reading other bad reviews is pretty quick work of this novel.This novel wasn't all bad, which is more than I can say for Catch Number 2 (that was not an error).  The three action packed scenes (The murder of the "fascists" at Pablo's town, Sordo's battle, and the blowing of the bridge) were actually pretty entertaining.  These were the fastest chapters of the book though they were the longest.  I did a little research on Hemingway and found that he had a minimalist style and liked verbs more than adjectives, and didn't like flowery language, I feel the man could have used an adjective or two to liven up this dull dead book.Oh and watch out for that long drawn out paragraph that goes something like this "Now, all now, and now I say now all we have is now and then now this is now and now i what we have" that's pretty close to what he wrote and it continues with the "nows" Then there was the DIRECT translation of Spanish.  What was that all about?  "Less bad"?  That's "menos mal", which means literally less bad, but in English it sounds STUPID.  It's different when you read this book and are fluent in Spanish you see why the English is not less bad but all bad.  And what of the Thees and thous?  And Nays?  I get it, they were speaking archaic Spanish, one sentence at the beginning telling us that would have been sufficient, now I have to feel like I'm reading a 15th century novel.  The whole Robert Jordan thing was also annoying, just call him Bob or Robert or Jordan.  Lastly, what's with te glorification of communists?  The book is supposed to be about the death of idealism, but I saw none of that.
5 You understand you have to like Hemingway. This work embodied his distinct style of writing, the spare, yet eloquent manner that is known as his. Hemingway's ability to saddle every word with meaning and emotion is at it's ripest in this work, where he writes a war story that encompasses the entire spectrum of the human experience, form love to hate, spite to sacrifice. While the Spanish Civil War included tens of thousands, Hemingway writes of a handful of people who represent the whole of the country. Heroes do not always win in Hemingway's world, but in their defeat, they do win. The bravery and ultimate sacrifice of the protagonist captures that bitter fact of life. This novel has a meaning and lesson that can only be appreciated and understood by those who have read it. It would be a loss not to.
4 I very much enjoyed this book, it is not one of my favorites, but I am very happy I read it. I recommend it for people who enjoy Ernest Hemingway as a writer, but if you are new to him, I would do a little bit of research on this book before deciding to read it.
5 This is another masterly work from Hemingway. When he gets it right, he gets it OH so right. You have more tight, evocative language that conjure up the landscapes the characters live in, and wonderful characterisation so that you fully engage and sympathise with them. This is a great look at the Spanish civil war from the guerrillas point of view, with the assistance of an American explosives expert. It has romance, chivalry, betrayal, adventure and the rougher side of human nature. What more could you want from one novel? If you like Hemingway then this is another great novel and if you're new to him, this may not be the best starting place, but you'll still not be disappointed.Feel free to check out my blog which can be found on my profile page.
5 I had to write this review because of the review someone else wrote...This person said it was about Hemingway's support for anti-communists and young americans going over to Spain during the civil war to fight the communists...He must not have read the book.  The main character of the book went to fight against the FASCISTS, not the communists.  He hated fascism and wanted to stop the fascist regime from taking Spain.  Fighting on his side were many communists, or Spanish backed by communist nations, such as the spanish generals trained by the communist Russian nation, so how on earth this reviewer could think it was against communism if he read the book is beyond me.  Also, this book is about much more, it explores moral issues and covers themes from love to the truth of war.  Hemingway really makes you see the tragedy and pointlessness of war.
2 I've read two other previous books by Hemingway.  Feel free to read those  reviews as well.  In his best piece, Old Man and the Sea, Hemingway  describes a man's courage and conviction in a mini-epic struggle between  and elderly man and the greatest catch of his life (a giant marlin).  In  another book, The Sun also Rises, Hemingway paints a very rich and colorful  portraitt of Spain and Pamplona that I could not sum up in a few sentences.  Both books create a vivid picture almost unequaled in literature.This  book, however, does nothing of the sort.  Excluding a side story that  concerns the massacre of a town of locals, it is repetitive, boring, and  provides little insight.  The majority of this 450 page book takes place in  one cave and provides very little substance.  Personally, no picture was  painted for me, no human character was exposed, and no real lasting meaning  came from this book.I grew tired of the cave, tired of the speculation  about killing the Guerilla leader Pablo, and bored of the lightweight,  unreal romance.  An editor could have spliced away pages 200-400, and the  book would have not missed a beat.If you're a casual reader like myself,  stick with other Hemingway works.
5 This is one of my favorite books of all time and I thought I would listen to it on a long trip, so I purchased the audio version through Audible.com.For Whom the Bell Tolls Publisher: Simon & Schuster Audio; Unabridged editionturned out to be a great investment and listening to the book refreshed my memories and gave me the feeling of experiencing the book again for the first time.I won't spend much time reviewing the book itself because nearly everything which can be said about it has already been said.  I can only add my voice to those praising the wonderful cadence of Hemingway's dialogue and the haunting, descriptive narrative as he works through how the politics of war have changed all his characters, reducing them to little more than animals living in caves, sometimes predators and sometimes prey.  Hemingway was sympathetic in real life to the Republican cause in the Spanish Civil War (against the Fascists), but he does not completely spare them in his portrayal of the levels of brutality men stoop to in a war pitting citizens of a single country against each other.  Hemingway also spares little sympathy on the ignorance and stupidity of some in command of the Republican Army, nor the callousness of those on the elite periphery, as preparations are made for the novel's pivotal moment.The narrative in the audio version is by Campbell Scott.  He is a very soft spoken performer who took some getting used to.  I imagined this novel would be read in a more forceful way, more like I imagined Hemingway himself might have read it, but Mr. Scott's voice is very measured and while heroic, virile male characters like the republican guerrilla fighters, characters like Pablo and El Sordo, may have been slightly underplayed, his careful narration allowed him to give depth to female characters, especially Pilar.I have listened to many audiobooks and one of the most annoying things can be male narrators trying to do female characters and completely blowing it.  A failure on this level can take you right out of the story and completely ruin the experience of listening to the book.  Mr. Scott avoids this and is able to voice the female characters without it sounding like a parody.  This is incredibly important with this book because the female characters are prominent and very strong. Another problem some narrators encounter is accents; again, a failure here ruins the book.  Mr. Scott never overplays any of the characters, giving each one of them credible distinctions without ever descending in stereotype.When I had finished listening to the book I realized that Mr. Scott, by achieving this balance with supporting characters, had given nearly perfect voice to the measured, methodical and logical voice of American Robert Jordon, the main character.  Since much of the book is introspective reflection and dialogue by Jordon, Mr. Scott's narrative style was, for me, the perfect fit.All in all, I highly recommend both this book and this audio version.  If you are not a reader or don't see yourself ever being able to attack this long book, try the audio version.  You will be carried away to the treacherous gray, stony mountains north of Madrid by an author who knew not only how to live but also how to die.
5 This book is definitely a "desert-island" book for me.  I love all of Hemingway's extensive body of works, but this novel is by far my favourite.  The story is about a young American man who is fighting voluntarily against Franco's Fascist forces in Spain.  This man ends up leading a band of guerillas in what turns out to be a totally useless military foray.  The novel itself only encompasses seventy-two hours, but in that time Robert Jordan, our American hero, loses his comrades in battle, falls in love, and is badly wounded.  Hemingway's writing is masterful in this classic!  This book, even more than "A Farewell to Arms" outlines Hemingway's thoughts on the futility of war, and the effect that war has on one single man.  Even though the novel encompasses such a short time, Hemingway makes use of flashbacks to bring the reader into the series of events that led to this particular point in Jordan's life.  Again, Hemingway makes use of personal experiences for this novel.  He was actually involved himself in this Spanish civil war.  His writing style is spare, although incredibly vivid.  This is a truly wonderful book, that I feel encompasses all the best of Ernest Hemingway.
5 FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS takes place in the space of three days, and Hemingway narrates nearly every moment in 471 pages. When reading large sections in one sitting, I really felt the weight of the experience settle on me. The novel also begins to feel increasingly existentialist as the absurdity of the structures of war and death play out for the characters involved. During &quot;marathon&quot; reading sessions on three different days, I came to see this as a literary, &quot;real time&quot; adventure, as Hemingway details almost every moment in the characters' lives.The novel starts out with the protagonist, Robert Jordan, lying on the forest floor. Jordan, an American, is in Spain fighting on the side of the Republicans in 1937 during the Spanish Civil War. Jordan is apparently a &quot;code hero,&quot; a protagonist of Hemingway's who lives according to a code of behavior. He is a Spanish teacher from Montana who loves Spain, and is fighting, carrying out explosives missions, against the Fascists, who have a vast war machine.At the beginning of the novel, Robert Jordan is teamed up with a band of guerrilla fighters in the mountains near a bridge he must blow as part of a Republican offensive. Anselmo, an old man who knows the land well, helps Jordan scout the bridge. Other members of the band include Pablo, a formerly great fighter, we are told, who has now &quot;gone bad.&quot; He cares primarily for his horses. His &quot;woman&quot; Pilar is a leader of the band, and she narrates on the first full day that Jordan is with them how the Republicans rose up against the Fascists in her town. The story is brutal and demonstrates the atrocities committed by the Republicans in the war as they bludgeon the town's Fascists to save bullets. Others in the group include Agustin, Eladio, Andres, Fernando and Rafael, a Gypsy. And Maria. Maria is a young woman who was the victim of atrocities in her town. She was rescued by this band of Republicans and now lives with them in the mountains. She is the &quot;love interest.&quot;I love Hemingway's voice, and this novel continues to demonstrate his ability, with that spare, journalistic style, to narrate loneliness like no one else. The seemingly simplistic style evokes a real pathos, and is especially suited to writing of war and the human spiritual conflicts such situations impose upon its participants. The reader is explosed to the morality issues of war, how characters feel about killing, what is its necessity, when is it moral, when is it wrong, etc.The story becomes existential, very Kafkaesque, as well, when one character's interactions with command are relayed by Hemingway. I laughed allowed at the absudities, but was struck by the dire consequences of these ridiculous desicions and actions. These situations show the war machine's indifference to individual human life and the ridiculous scenarios that arise from various leaders' individual conceits and worries.I think that the book's time frame of only three days makes a strong point about war and the people one serves with. For the reader, the band in the mountains are basically the only people Robert Jordan knows (though there are brief flashbacks). One can see how those who fight together can bond so deeply in a short period of time, as practically every moment is laden with portent and their fate as a group turns on such small things as an evening snowfall.I unequivocally recommend this book.
5 5 Stars is not enough for this classic book. You will not put it down. I think it' his best work.Steve Tuers
5 My third Hemingway book. I had been intimidated by it for a while (mostly by reputation), tackling his smaller, less dense works instead. Finally I picked it up and never regretted it. It took me a while to get through the middle section, but once I got through that I couldn't put it down. While on vacation in Chicago, I even took it with me and read while at a bar with friends. Every book I've read since pales in comparison.
4 This is my third experience with Hemingway, and while I fully expect to complete the entire Hemingway collection, I can't quite find it within myself to award five stars to any of the works I've read to date.In each of the novels (The Sun Also Rises and Farewell to Arms being the other two) I've been entranced at times by the hauntingly beautiful writing, however there have been periods where the story drags, where the almost stream of consciousness style grinds the action to a halt.  Not long enough to kill the story, but enough to impact the overall reading experience.This novel is set in Spain, during the Spanish Civil War, the idealogical precursor to the Fascist/Communist clash soon to come on the Eastern Front of World War II.  The story primarily involves American Spanish professor and converted Republican partisan, Robert Jordan and the 72 hours he spends with an anti-fascist partisan force in the hours preceding a Republican offensive.The characters crafted by Hemingway are fascinating, most specifically the partisan leaders Pablo and Pilar.  The interaction between the rebels and with Jordan are spellbinding.  The character of Pilar is especially haunting and her story of the execution of the fascists (a/k/a prominent citizens) in her small Spanish village is some of the best and most captivating writing I've ever read.Unfortunately, in my opinion, this 470 page novel is about 100 pages too long, as it is interspersed with periods of inaction, punctuated by stream of consciousness meanderings, which admittedly many may find enjoyable.Some may find the style of language irritating (Thee, Thou, Thy mother, etc.) but I found this to be a minor issue.  More problematic to me is what I can only guess is the censorship (either self censorship in light of the times or editorial censorship) whereby all instances of profanity or coarse language is omitted and replaced by bizarre alternatives.  For example, these beauties from the mouth of Pablo, "I obscenity in the milk of all," and "Go and obscenity thyself."  I find it hard to believe that Hemingway actually wrote this, and if not (or even if he did), these bizarre omissions cannot be rectified.Despite these minor complaints, this is an extremely educational piece of work, both from the standpoint of literature and for the insight it provides for an extremely important and interesting period of world history.  Highly recommended.
5 EXCERPTED FROM &quot;GOD'S COUNTRY&quot; BY STEVEN TRAVERS&quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot; is based upon Hemingway?s support for the anti-Communists fighting in the Spanish Civil War of the 1930s. He and many other Americans went over to fight in the war, which some say was a &quot;dress rehearsal&quot; for World War II. It did not materialize into the kind of idealized Spanish government that many had sacrificed for. The fascistic Francisco Franco ended up ruling an isolationist Spain until the 1970s. While the nation is now Democratic, the Franco regime was the final event that took Spain from greatness to mediocrity. Hemingway also wrote a stageplay about the Spanish Civil War called &quot;The Fifth Column&quot;.STEVEN TRAVERSAUTHOR OF &quot;BARRY BONDS: BASEBALL'S SUPERMAN&quot;&lt;B>...
5 EXCERPTED FROM "GOD'S COUNTRY" BY STEVEN TRAVERS"For Whom the Bell Tolls" is based upon Hemingway?s support for the anti-Communists fighting in the Spanish Civil War of the 1930s. He and many other Americans went over to fight in the war, which some say was a "dress rehearsal" for World War II. It did not materialize into the kind of idealized Spanish government that many had sacrificed for. The fascistic Francisco Franco ended up ruling an isolationist Spain until the 1970s. While the nation is now Democratic, the Franco regime was the final event that took Spain from greatness to mediocrity. Hemingway also wrote a stageplay about the Spanish Civil War called "The Fifth Column".
4 First of all, I recognize that this is a classic novel by one of the most highly regarded writers of the twentieth century. Hemingway was very good; sycophants made him sublime. To criticize this work and not rhapsodize over its poetic beauty and its insightful symbolism would seem to be almost in bad taste. But I will do so anyway.Overall I would have to say that the story is good but not great: Robert Jordan is an American fighting for the communists in the Spanish civil war. He is an instructor in Spanish at a Montana college who has taken a sabbatical  to secretly come to Spain. He wants to fight to liberate the workingman. Jordan is sent by his Russian controller to join  a band of guerrillas behind Fascist lines. His mission is to blow up a bridge; this is timed to precisely coincide with a Republican (communist) offensive. Anselmo, an old man who is the most reliable guerilla, takes him to the band of rebels. The band is led by Pablo, an uncouth peasant who has gone from fervent murderous radical to a man who only wants to survive. Pilar, Pablo's woman, is the unifying force in Pablo's band. There are assorted other rebels and Maria, a refugee who has been raped by the fascists. Maria and Robert Jordan fall in love immediately and are soon fornicating like rabbits. The bridge is attacked and destroyed but this leads to the death of Anselmo and to Robert Jordan being mortally wounded. He orders Maria to go on without him and he bids her to escape and enjoy life; thereby he will live through her.The book does give a good picture of the issues of the Spanish civil war. The fascists are portrayed as decent people backed by Nazis and Italian fascists. The Republicans are controlled by Russians, as are puppets on a string. Hemingway makes a point to say that the top Republicans all speak Russian, having been trained as revolutionaries in the Soviet Union. The individual peasants Jordan fights with  are mostly portrayed as decent people with a few savages thrown in for good measure.I had several problems with the book. I understand that Hemingway uses the archaic thee and thou to indicate that the dialogue is being spoken in Spanish. He omits this when Jordan is speaking in English or thinking to himself. This takes some getting used to but is tolerable. It is the awkward translation of Spanish obscene phrases that is done in a silly and annoying way. The phrase "I obscenity in the milk of your father" appears dozens of times.  No one speaks this way. It is patently unnatural and just about ruined the book for me. I understand that this is a literal translation of the Spanish oath "me cago en la leche..." I understand and don't care. It would have been better to leave the obscenity implied but unsaid without resorting to this awkward device.There is a painfully awkward page where Robert Jordan discovers that Pablo has stolen his detonators. On page 368 he says  "Oh muck my grandfather and muck this whole treacherous mucking country and every mucking Spaniard in it on either side and to hell forever" and so forth ( in lieu of the word that is an acronym for "for unlawful carnal knowledge") about two dozen times. I understand that in 1940 that word could not appear in print but did it have to be replaced by something so witless. Funny how that word still can't appear in Amazon.com book reviews in 2002.There is another especially awkward scene that sticks in my mind. Hemingway describes Robert Jordan's feelings at having reached orgasm with Maria on page 379: "Oh now, now, now, the only now, and above all now  and there is no other now but thou now and now is thy prophet. Now and forever now. Come now, now, for there is no now but now. Yes, now. " and so on for half a page. Give me a break!There is also the problem of some of the poorly drawn and unbelievable characters. Robert Jordan is too perfect to be true (is he Jesus in disguise?). He goes from a mild mannered rural college instructor to a stone killer and demolitions expert in a matter of months. He doesn't have any personal stake in the Spanish conflict but quickly becomes a cool yet eager killer in the service of the Soviet side. His inner dialogue tells us that this is because he has always wanted to do something for downtrodden workers of the world. It is also in part to prove that he is as much a man as his (U.S.) Civil war hero grandfather. The relationship with Maria is unbelievable to the point of being absurd. Jordan is a thirty-something who has never been in love. He and Maria, who is 19,  fall in love at first sight. They immediately decide to have sex ; they plan to get married and live together happily ever after. He is fully aware that he has been handed a suicide mission and is completely unconcerned. How did he live for this long if his own safety is of no interest to him?Much has been made of the fact that this book illustrated the concepts in the Donne poem No Man is an Iland. Well then why do we need nearly five hundred pages of this book when that poem says it so well in a few lines.
5 Hemingway really did excellent work when he wrote this novel based on his experiences covering the war in Spain. I especially liked his description of his main characters female lover.  It gives a good idea of what the guerrillas did behind Fran cos lines. I really enjoyed the ugly women who had in her life many young handsome swashbuckling lovers who were matadors. This reminds me of advice I have given to women many times in my life essentially if you are a women and you like a guy pursue him it's really a buyers market for women when it comes to men in that respect.
5 Then check out the passage when he falls to nothing.  This is the best war book (along with Tim Obriens The Things They Carried which is way different, and about a different war, but equally powerful) that I have  read.  It exhibits everything and gets to the point of life and its lack of  purpose if you cannot find something worth dying for, and that that purpose  is not the real purpose at all when it comes down to dying.  This is not a  dark book, nor is it self-pitying as I imagine a less able writer would  make it so soon.  It is not even depressing, it is exciting and touching  and well-written.  And there's winesacks as well.  &quot;the bell tolls for  thou,&quot; he quotes.  This book gets to the connectedness and loneliness  of people.
5 For Whom The Bell Tolls is a tour de force in more ways then one and ends being Hemingway's best work because of how accesible it is to a general audience.The first time I read this book I was 17 and I couldn't put it down which is a stark contrast to some of Hemingway's other works.  Works like The Sun Also Rises, and Farewell To Arms I think require a bit more maturity to appreciate but FWTBT is a good pick for a more advanced high school student.  The novel is more plot driven than Hemingway's other works and thus a bit more exciting and readable for the general public.  Hemingway's story of an American demolition expert caught up in a mission amidst the backdrop of the Spanish Civil War is both compelling, suspensefull, thoughtfull, brutal and heartwarming all at once.Like many "classic" this book excels in most elements that are required for an amazing piece of literature.  The charactization is superb.  Robert Jordan and the supporting cast are fully fleshed out three dimensional characters.  Of course the book is written in the classic Hemingway style.  His own style of prose will put you into story as you live this three day adventure with the main characters.  Finally there are many layers and themes to this book as it has something to say about war, man, personal honor and the usual Hemingway themes.This was Hemingway's second to last novel and the last of his more well known works.  Having read most of his books, I think Hemingway really hit his peak here and fine tuned his craft.  A truly amazing piece of work, FWTBT should really be read by everyone.  If you only read one Hemingway book in your life this should be it.  You don't need to be "well read" to appreciate this.Bottom Line:  There is a reason why certain books are deemed "classics".  FWTBT is the perfect example.
3 I decided to read this because of Hemingway's stature as one of the few American authors who has received the Nobel Prize in Literature. I read 'The Old Man and the Sea' many, many years ago ( it was really my inspiration and beginning to what has become a lifelong love of books and reading), and I felt I needed to read more to find out what all the fuss was about. Well, this story may have been gripping in 1935 or 1940 or whenever it was written, but I am struggling to finish it. There is of course the ubiquitous double standard for men and women that was the accepted way of life in its time. I understand all that but its like reading about things that happened on another planet. There's the addressing of each other as 'thee' and 'thou' which I'm guessing has something to do with translating Spanish to English but as the book is in English I have to wonder why this is even addressed. Also, why are all the characters referred to by their first names : 'Pilar', 'Maria', etc., but our hero the protagonist is always identified by both first and last names? It was annoying at first - but I've become used to it at this point I guess. I've suspect that this story is NOT going to have a happy ending but I don't know for sure yet. I don't think Maria is going to get her chance at a lifetime of happiness which would undoubtedly consist of making babies and stew for R.J.
5 I enjoy the character development and vivid descriptions of his narrative. I'm glad after all these years to finally finding out why Hemingway is ranked so highly as a writer.
5 Easton Press has numerous variations of this title. The 1968 copyrighted special edition was part of the Limited Edition and I believe Famous Editions. I consider it to be the best of the available editions as the rest are rather generic covers designed for an Ernest Hemingway series.This edition contains illustrations and an introduction by Sinclair Lewis.This was my introduction to Hemingway, and perhaps not the best book to be weaned on. I can understand why kids hate him. His writing is "real time." Characters are developed at a snails pace through conversation and deeds. Hemingway seems to write about every waking hour of the main character Robert Jordon. Jordon is an American helping the Spanish in their fight against fascism. The Abraham Lincoln Brigade was a famous group of American communists and various left wingers who went to the aid of the Spanish people. Their experience proved invaluable as they were recruited to act as spies for the OSS during WWII. After WWII, for their dedicated service they were barred from the CIA because they were communists.This story likewise looks at patriotism, communism, democracy, and fascism seen at the microcosm level of Robert Jordan. It is a tale about love and loyalty as Robert meets Maria and plans to make her an honest woman when it is all over. The beginning of the book opens with plans to blow up a strategic bridge, which happens about 400 pages later. The action is slow. Hemingway writing shifts between first and third person. He has sentences without verbs. The book is lengthy and needs an editor by today's standards.I don't know if this is how Hemingway wrote the book, but in this edition it uses the phrase "curse word" when a curse word should be used. It got annoying after a while. Meanwhile this edition includes an illustration of a topless woman.This is a fine looking EP edition to put on your shelf. I don't expect you to read it.
5 Hemmingway transcribes his expat experiences in the Spanish American war into a gripping story of the futility of combat.  The main characters hide in the hills struggling between loyalty to their anti-fascist cause, and the scars caused by the attrocities they've experienced.For whom the bell tolls, as we all know, "It tolls for thee!" This summarizes the story.  To Hemmingway, war is futile.  We all lose.  Agree or disagree with the morality, the story captures Hemmingway's ability to lay emotions bare with strong minimalist prose and dialogure.
5 Ernest Hemingway wrote another great adventure story with FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS. His style is very vivid, and reading the book is like being on the scene of the Spanish Civil War itself. Prior to reading FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS, I had read all his short stories while taking a short story course in college, then THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA. The short stories vary in style, except that they are also written in short sentences, just as Hemingway preferred. THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA tends to be boring, but FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS is fascinating throughout. I just wish I had the time to read more of Hemingway's novels, just to see what they are like.
5 What can I say? He is so scant of description but so full of story. I read his books over and over about his war stories. They almost aren't war stories but preludes to battle where the battle is almost inconsequencial. You are already a conrade of the character. You just lost a friend.
5 I first read this about 40 years ago.  I just re-purchased it.  This is a classic novel.
5 He can write effectively and knowledgeably about war, bullfighting, and hunting, but not women. This has been a common criticism against Hemingway over the years. Many critics have found his depiction of women hollow and superficial. His women seem to exist only in the context of the male hero. They are given no distinctive voice of their own and are almost always dealt a tragic fate. This cannot be said of Pilar from &quot;For Whom The Bell Tolls.&quot; She is one of Hemingway's strongest female characters and has often been characterized as &quot;the real leader of the guerrilla band.&quot; Pablo may hold that title at the beginning of the novel, but as the novel progresses, Pilar's authoritative stature becomes more and more evident. Pilar is a rather contradicting figure and this is a testament to Hemingway's ability to fictionally construct her well. On the one hand, existing in male-dominated culture, she is fully domesticated, expert in her knowledge on how to perform traditional womanly duties. On the other hand, she is not entirely complaisant or silent willed. She will not hesitate to speak her mind nor will she hesitate to take up arms and fight with the men. She also has enough military sense to lead a group of male soldiers.
5 For Whom the Bell Tolls is a great book with large themes: war, love, devotion to duty, and the clash between modern, rational values and more traditional ones.  At a higher level, it is about connections between people: indeed, the book opens with the following quotation from John Donne:. . . any mans death diminishes me, because I am involved in Mankinde; And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee.Hemingway takes us inside a guerilla band during the Spanish Civil War, mostly through the eyes of Robert Jordan, an American professor-cum-demolitions expert.  Jordan is a Communist - at least he is strongly drawn to Communism - who has come to Spain to fight fascism.  He has character and a sense of duty.  Since, from our vantage point, at the beginning of the 21st century, it seems that not many people do, this gives the book a kind of "long ago and far away" feel.  Readers in 1940, when the book was published, no doubt experienced it in a more immediate way.This book includes many memorable secondary characters: among them Pilar, the wise leader of the band of partisans, Pablo, her drunken, amoral, but capable husband, and Maria, the love interest in the story.Like every Hemingway novel that I've read, this one is well written.  Hemingway uses the archaic English "thou" for the Spanish "tu" and translates literally from Spanish to English to better convey an impression of Spanish dialogue to English readers.  These devices are initially distracting but are actually very successful at taking the reader inside the minds of the Spanish-speaking characters in this book.This is a distinguished work and an exciting one.  It deserves its acclaim.
5 Robert Jordan is a young American fighting against the fascists in the Spanish Civil War.  He is sent into the mountains to make contact with a small band of guerillas to blow a bridge in support of an offensive.Hemingway's tremendous strength of drawing characters that the reader comes to know and care about is on full display in "For Whom the Bell Tolls."  Jordan falls in love with the young woman, Maria, who is seeking refuge from a world that has robbed her of her childhood innocence.  There is Pablo, the former leader who has seen the futility of the war and cannot face the day without dulling his mind with wine.  There is Pilar, Pablo's mate, who longs for her youth, but has now assumed the role of leader and mother to the small group of fighters.Robert Jordan and the reader come to know the dynamics of the group quite well.  Jordan wrestles with the necessity of endangering the group of people for "the cause."  This book depicts the contrast of war's brutality with the camaraderie of friends."For Whom the Bell Tolls" is considered a classic for a reason.  This is a book that has aged well and will stick with the reader for a long time.
5 If you read only one, perhaps this should be it.  I am not a trained student of Hemingway, or of literature for that matter.  I know what I like, and I can recognize junk.  You don't have to be an expert or even fully understand the author and his times to appreciate what a superb novel this is.  As I was reading it, I could realize why Hemingway was so honored, even during his lifetime.  The story is basic, though the setting is in unsual one for most American readers (who today probably would guess that the "Spanish Civil War" has something to do with General Lee and the Alamo).  The main character, Robert Jordan, is an American leftist attached to a guerilla unit in the Spanish mountains.  Like Hemingway, Jordan is intelligent, deliberate, controlled, passionate, and motivated by his ideals.  Through him the reader encounters the chaos of this amateur war that is being played by foreign professionals.  The entire book, which is of some size, revolves around one mission and take places over only a couple of days.  In addition to a political statement and a philosophical autobiography, this is a superb war novel.  The book build up the mission (to destroy a bridge) so much that by the closing pages of the book, as the mission is unfolding, my heart was literally racing and I could not put the book down.  I won't spoil it - but this one ends like so may of EH's books, and like EH thought life itself would end . . . .Great book - don't miss this classic.
4 It was Hemingway , it was a classic, it was a satisfying read. Enough said. Not as moving as the Old Man and the Sea.
4 I think Hemingway has the fame he does because of his life and not his works.  This is my favorite Hemingway novel (admittedly, I haven't read all of them) and I give it four stars because it deals with Spain and I like the plot.  Even so, Hemingway thought he spoke Spanish, which he decidedly did not.  Early in the novel, while discussing the procurement of horses, someone says something to which another character says "Less bad." I don't know if that's Hemingway, a translator taking this from a Spanish edition or what, but "menos mal" does not translate to "less bad."  It's "all right," "better yet," or whatever phrase makes sense.  "Less bad" is just wrong.I agree with those who question Hemingway's putative brilliance.  I think his life is far more interesting than any of his works that I've read.  Still, I enjoyed the plot of this novel.
4 in for whom the bell tolls hemingway looks at war from the individuals perspective. his army is a rag tag group of guerrilla fighters, not the army. the time and setting is the spanish civil war. a general understanding of that war is helpful. the characters include mostly local insurgents and one american mercenary. the horrors of war are portrayed on both sides with neither having the higher moral ground.it is also a study of courage in the face of potential death. this is developed not only through the underlying theme of war, but the stories of some of the characters earlier lives which include bull fighting and the running of the bulls.the one drawback to the book is the stilted language used in the dialog of the novel (including the refusal to use obscenities).a book well worth the read
4 Hemingway expertly begins this book with John Donne's poem... "No Man is an Island..." The main theme of this story, to me, is centered around our connection to others. No matter if they are right down the street or across the Atlantic Ocean from us. As Donne said... (I paraphrase weakly) "Whenever someone in mankind is hurting, it hurts me because I am part of mankind and mankind is part of me."This book has several interesting elements:1. Robert Jordan's strong sense of duty.Why does a Spanish professor from Montana decide to leave his obiviously comfortable life to fight with the anti facist guerillas in a far away country? What compels him to give up himself so completely to fight for a people that he seemingly has no connections to? Where does Robert's commitment to duty come from? These questions are addressed and answered expertly by Hemingway in the thought process of Robert, conversations he has and lived out in his very relationships.The book is dominated by Robert's "thinking out" of his actions in the face of what he has to do. I really enjoyed this facet of the story. I think it adds to the length of the novel but it is definitely worth reading.2. The demise of Pablo's sense of duty and passion.When we meet Pablo in this story, he is a man on the downside of his effectiveness. He no longer has convicitons. He no longer has a will to accoplish his goals. Pablo's lack of determination plays directly against Robert's and Pablo's wife Pilar. It is interesting to look at Pablo, the old leader of the rebel band... and how he is losing his influence over these people. His pride even causes him at times to hurt the anti facist cause, which he once felt so strongly about. Robert and Pilar are both on fire for the cause and it consumes them. Pablo has lost all his fire for the cause and is now apparently useless. (Pablo does experience some redemption in the end...)3. The blossoming relationship between Robert and Maria. Love in the face of impending doom.I'm not usually a big romance guy... at least in the books I read. But the love story between Robert and Maria is beautiful.It grows out of a most impossible situation, Robert the foreign freedom fighter finds Maria the ravaged former war prisoner. She does not necessarily look beautiful on the outside but Robert loves her anyway. He loves who she is, and what she becomes to him.Interesting internal discussions happen for Robert about her. I love the one that talks about how he has to in essence live a whole life with Maria in 3 days. All because he is unsure of whether he will live to have a life with her after the war. These two people really loved each other and would do anything for each other.4. The ultimate sacrifice... Self sacrifice.I don't want to get into the details of the conclusion of the story. Hate to spoil a good read. But the theme of self sacrifice comes through loud and clear. To me, this is the theme of life. We make a real difference when we give up on our sense of self and make an impact on others. Whether they are people we are closely and intimatly related to, or people we have never seen before. Robert Jordan gets it... he puts others first and gives up all he has.Read this book... it is a rewarding experience. It is a war novel, but you will notice I rarely mentioned the war. It is so much more than a war novel. I loved it ... I think you will too.
4 Set during the Spanish American War of the 1930s, For Whom the Bell Tolls is a novel about an American sent on a mission to help guerrilla fighters blow up a bridge.There. That's the basic plot. It sounds like something out a an action movie, doesn't it. To stop there, however, would be doing the novel and the author a grave disservice.When it gets down to it, For Whom the Bell Tolls is about death and how to face it. The men on this secret bridge-exploding mission are going to die, and they know it. They will not be coming back from this mission. Each of them will be facing death one way or another, and they each have to deal with it individually. The idea of suicide is even approached from a soldier's point of view; the question is raised, is it preferable to kill oneself than to be captured by the enemy?For Whom the Bell Tolls also touches upon racism and politics, though not strictly from an American point of view.Within this tale, violence is to be found in spades, but this is not a simple action story. This is true literature, told in the best writing Hemingway ever did (yes, I admit that's arguable, but it's my opinion ... believe what you want).As a writer, is there anything not to learn from Hemingway? The man knew how to write tense scenes and deal with weighty subject matters all while using as few words as possible, and most of those short words. No other author in my experience has quite been able to do that.As an aside, I'll admit that every time I read a Hemingway novel, I always hate it. Until I reach the very last page. Then suddenly I love it. Not sure why that is, but it's always been my reaction.
5 Poor Papa has become such a caricature, it is easy to forget that he was the source and inspiration for countless writers.  On rereading For Whom the Bell Tolls, I was reminded of what thrilled me long ago when one could speak of "serious" fiction without ironic intent.ExoticismAll of Hemingway's work has an exotic locale with an unusual American driving the narrative.  In this novel, Robert Jordan, a professor from Montana, is a demolition operative with a group of guerillas in the Spanish Civil War.  He lives in the mountains, eats rabbit stew with partisans, is fluent in the dialect, makes love with a senorita in his sleeping bag, destroys bridges with steely skill and faces death with aplomb.StyleHemingway's direct and lucid style is in full form.  It sounds great when read aloud.  Nobody did it better.In this novel, much of the dialogue is memorable because of the literal translation from peasant Spanish.  No English speakers would carry on as they do, and the arcane cant with its earthy directness permeates the whole novel.In 1940, Hemingway was unable to use 4-letter curses.  He had to substitute the word "obscenity" or "nameless" yielding something like "I obscenity in the milk of your nameless mother."  Well, it's not very shocking, but I'm happy old Hem was stuck with that translation.  Had the Bell been fouled with English vulgarities, it would have come off today as quite common and the exoticism would be considerably dampened.WomenMaria is Robert Jordan's love, but she is unremarkable as a character.  In those times, a warrior's love interest had to be air-headed and adulatory.  However, Pilar, the woman who commands the guerillas is an unforgettable person.  She is too fat and ugly to bed, but her skill as a story-teller and judge of people are superb.PoliticsIn politics Hemingway was pro-peasant and he fought facists throughout Europe.  In his latter years he complained about J. Edgar Hoover tailing him, and perhaps it was not delusory.  Americans who assisted the Republicans (they were the good-guys in that time and place) were branded as Commies and were forever on the FBI trouble-maker list.  It was courageous of Hemingway to make a collaborator like Robert Jordan his hero.Buddhist TouchesRobert Jordan is no monk, but he does live by some prime Buddhist principles.  He goes on for some length about living in the now- there may be no tomorrow.  Just before his death, he explains to the Maria that wherever she goes, so will he be there.  A mystical touch that cannot heal their parting.And SoRead this novel to be transported to a time and place beyond the memory of all but the very old.  Human nature is displayed in the extreme- both base and uplifting.  It is one of the last great war novels that told its story without a blink.Hemingway's appeal is not very complicated.  Growing up I knew some outdoorsmen and war heros, but they tended to be illiterate or mute.  I knew some good writers, but they tended to be bookish dweebs.  Ern could negotiate both camps, and he was the first writer to seize my attention.  I think he'll be charming readers for a long time.
5 This rich novel explores many fundamental human themes including love, duty, perseverance, and sacrifice.  Like all great literary works, it transcends the era in which it was written and speaks to readers for generations after the author has passed away.  This is a great novel by a great writer, and I can't understand how anyone would rate this less than five stars.  The novel spans only a few days, and contains the story of Robert Jordan, a volunteer in Spain who is sent on mission to blow up a key bridge with a band of guerillas behind the Nationalist lines as part of a Republican offensive.  The novel is primarily a dialogue between Jordan and the members of the guerilla band.  The tension builds to the final confrontation at the bridge.  There are several extensive sidebars not directly relevant to the main plot, including the discussion of the fate of Pilar's village, and the last stand of El Sordo's guerilla band.  These are probably the best written, most detailed, sections of the novel.  Some would say that these distract from the main story, but I argue that they add richness and depth to the characters and to the events of the main plot.EH writes with a direct, readable prose.  His characters are complex and multi-dimensional, and often conflicted.  One may argue as to whether this is his best work or not, or whether he was a better writer of short stories or novels.  What does it matter?  This is one of the greatest war novels, indeed one of the greatest novels, ever written.  In terms of richness and depth, only Zola's La Debacle is comparable to this work.One thing in particular struck me about this story that make it an unconventional war novel.  Most war novels either take the philosophic position of patriotic glory for the homeland or war as a pointless exercise in destruction.  Robert Jordan has a unique perspective in this book in that he is an outsider fighting for a cause, not for a country or a government.  He isn't driven by patriotism, or love of country.  He isn't fighting for the national army of his homeland.  This gives him a unique perspective to question why he is fighting and what he is fighting for, particularly after he falls in love.
5 I fell hard for Ernest Hemingway in high school.I read A Farewell to Arms my sophomore year and fell in love with Hemingway and great literature. I read it over ever few years just because I can't get enough of the love story and Hemingway's gift for writing. Oh, he had a gift. I've also read The Sun Also Rises multiple times--sometimes because it was assigned and sometimes for fun. I've long heard that For Whom the Bell Tolls is supposed to be Hemingway's masterpiece and it's been on my to-read list for some time. (I have to admit that I have little to no desire to read about an old man in the sea. Sorry.)In For Whom the Bell Tolls, Robert Jordan is an American supporting the Republic in the Spanish Civil War. Jordan has been given the assignment to work with a small band of guerrillas to blow up a bridge at the moment of the Republic offensive. Over the three days he spends with the guerrillas the reader gets into his head and experiences the physical and psychological experience of being in war.I sat in my car waiting to do a family photo session this morning and finished this fabulous novel. It is powerful and emotional and just confirmed my belief that Hemingway is one of the greatest writers. I'm gushing, I know. He's not for everyone. I've pushed my husband to read both A Farewell to Arms and The Sun Also Rises and he's not a fan. My husband thinks Hemingway is just an angry drunk. He might be right but I'm going to encourage him to give Hemingway another chance and read For Whom the Bell Tolls. I think he will be glad he did.
4 This novel is considered by most to be one of the great novels of the 20th Century, and its author to be one of the greatest authors of all time; there are undoubtedly reasons for this. Yet, Hemmingway is also considered to be a &quot;love him&quot; or &quot;hate him&quot; type. I tend toward the former, though he isn't one of my personal favorites.The plot of this novel is relatively straightforward. American Robert Jordan, a member of the International Brigades fighting with the Republicans against the Fascists during the Spanish Civil War, is given the task of blowing up a bridge to prevent the Fascists from bringing up reinforcements to repel a Republican offensive. But while the plot is uncomplicated, the depth and breadth of Hemmingway's story telling are not. There are layers and layers of emotion, passion, and personal pain. You are transported to the mountains of Spain with Jordan and a band of Spanish guerilla fighters. The characters are so incredibly real, that you feel as though you could find their names in a history book. For those who have never read Hemmingway, I'd say give it a try.
5 If you like Old Man and the Sea, you'll love this.  It is similar in feeling and has a Spanish flair.  I seldom remember lines from books, but I've memorized many from this novel.  The opening quote from John Donne is  as deep as they come.  It sets the tone for the book, but is better  understood if you immediately re-read the quote right after finishing the  book.  You really truly understand then what is meant when he says,  &quot;Do not send to know for whom the bell tolls....it tolls for  thee.&quot;
5 It is a fascinating tale of Robert (Roberto) Jordon and his paisonos, caught up in the Spanish Civil War. The story covers only three days of the war, yet it takes us on Robert Jordon's life voyage. It is conveyed by the brilliant soliloquy, a tug of war of conscience, duty, honor and death itself.  Who among us has not had such dialogue?It has everything, romance, camaraderie, bravery, cowardice, and above all sacrifice. Jordon, an American, who is addressed as "Ingles" by his comrades, is the band's leader, who is commissioned by the rebellion general to blow up a bridge.His team includes some unforgettable characters ever penned, the ruthless yet pragmatic Pablo, his incredibly humane wife, Pilar, Augustine, brave soldier, like a brother to Robert, and lovely, innocent Maria. Roberto (Jordon) and Maria fall in love the moment they meet and once Pilar reads his palm, the denouement is never in doubt.The scene where Pablo is in charge with a gun hustling out town's fascists who are holed up in the church,  to be "taken care" of  by the avenging mob outside  is reminiscent of "krystalnacht" enactment superbly portrayed by G&uuml;nter Grass in his classic Nazi drama" Tin Drum".An all time classic
5 "For Whom the Bell Tolls" is a perfect example of what makes Ernest Hemmingway one of, if not the, preeminent writers of the first half of the 20th Century.Although his machismo style does not appeal to everyone, (especially the feminists who find his portrayals of women to be degrading and unrealistic) this is a perfect example of his style and of the cruel realities of the world of his time.Hemingway's signature terse writing style lends itself perfectly to the telling of the story of the loyalist guerillas during the Spanish Civil War.  His writing style perfectly captures the way of thinking one would have while in such a situation.Although undoubtedly the love story between Robert Jordan and Maria is weak, yet it doesn't detract from the overall beauty and poignancy of the story, for first and foremost this is a war story.Hemingway does what he does best in "For Whom The Bell Tolls", which is to capture a slice of life from a bygone era.  Although set 70 years ago, Hemingway's story has as much meaning in a modern setting as they did when they were written.  It is a true classic in every sense of the word.
5 The bell tolls for lost ideals, noble futility, the transient moments of tenderness in the ugliness of civil war.  This is one of the greatest American writers at the height of his powers - by turns lyrical & tough, showing the worst & best of us, idealism & cynicism, courage & cowardice, loyalty & treachery, skill & incompetence.
5 I have an original copy of For Whom the Bell Tolls that my grandfather gave me.  For years I read the poem at the beginning of the book, (which has the same title as the book itself) but had never read the content.  It is amazing that after years of reflecting on that poem, that reading the actual content of this classic meant so much more. As I am sure was Hemingway's intention, you can literraly reflect on that poem back through every single chapter in the book, and each time the poem will have a new meaning for the reader.  This is a true sign, in my opinion, of a great author.  I need to read this novel again, to pick up on some of the hidden inuendos and nuances I might have missed the first time, but that too will be time well-spent.This is a phenomenal book, by a bona fide, talented classic author.  It is worth reading, reflecting upon, and reading again.
5 Wrote this review for the Livermore Public Library 2013 Summer Reading Program:Blow up a bridge. That is the mission assigned to Robert Jordan.Blow it up at at the perfect time for it to be blown up, and that time is not set... he must know when to do it, and he has to figure that out himself.This is how the story of Robert Jordan, an American Expatriot opens, in the midst of the backdrop of the Spanish Civil War. Hemingway does a great job setting the scene, describing just enough detail to put you there. He also manages to give you a nice taste of Spanish culture, and it's various attitudes.The Spaniard's love of seafood is featured in Pilar's description of Valencia, Spain is second only to Japan in seafood consumption.What is very interesting is the dialogue. Hemingway goes to great lengths to accurately translate the way Spaniards speak to each other with formality. There are a lot of Thee's and Thys, and the structure of the speech is a little difficult to get used to.It took me a while to understand why I kept reading things like "I have indescribable and unprintable and I have forgotten the obscenity password." Indescribable, unprintable, and obscenity probably have more to do with the censors of 1940 than anything else. Still, it does a nice job of conveying the notion that an obscenity in Spanish carries a lot more weight than does one in English.This novel is high adventure, and Robert Jordan, his political affiliations notwithstanding, is a hero's hero. If you decide to look into reading a book that sits among the list of classics, here's one that truly deserves the title!
4 I am not usually a literature guy (preferring non-fiction and popular novels), but I read this because it is a classic and I wanted to experience Hemingway beyond my high school reading of "The Old Man and the Sea." (and honestly, because while dating my wife she revealed this as one of her favorite books and that aroused my curiosity.)This is a story that deals with the larger questions of life (and essential truths) and man's place in the world or at least in a challenging situation.  So that qualifies as literature according to my wife's definition when I asked her what made literature "literature" a while ago.Protagonist Robert Jordan is an American volunteering with the Republicans fighting Franco's Fascists in the Spanish Civil War.  A demolitions expert, Jordan's task is to blow a key bridge as part of a larger Republican attack.  While waiting with a small band of guerilla's he meets and falls in love with Maria, a victim of the war and symbol for all innocents caught in aggression's path.Thus we have a literary work that addresses commitment to cause, love, and the battle between individual wants and the needs of and obligations to a larger cause.Hemmingway has a way with description and his prose is very well done and evocative - particularly one passage I liked when he described holding Maria's hand with ripening grain in an untrammeled field.  His story is slow, however, for my tastes and the descriptions and inner conversations of Jordan are much more prevalent than scenes where anything called action could be said to be occurring (though the action scenes are pretty good when they do occur).  I imagine the ending will be unsatisfying to some, but for literary minded folks be the source of discussion as to how the final scene may have played out and what it meant in terms of tying the story's themes together.
5 For Whom the Bell Tolls is one of Hemingway's  masterpieces.The novel is  set during the Spanish Civil War and at the center of it is Robert Jordan an American who has joined the international brigades supporting the democratic Spanish government against the Fascist insurgency led by Fransisco Franco. The focus is onJordan and the loyalist guerillas he is with and their mission of blowing up a key bridge which would enable the loyalists to trap a fascist army, The other part of the novel focuses on Jordans relationships with the guerillas particularily a young woman named Maria. Jordan and Maria fall in love and it is a compelling story but Jordans relationships with the guerilla leader Pablo and his wife Pilar as well as the other loyalists  are also compelling. The novel has an air of tragedy about it for the fascists destroy a large loyalist army before the bridge can be demolished and we know that the Fascists end up winning the war. Jordan is one of Hemingways most compelling heroes and he carries the novels. You see Spain through his eyes and Hemingway makes you believe you are in Spain in late 1938. This is  a great novel and I recommend it highly
5 Yes, I said "historical novel," because, even in H.'s day, history passed by very quickly. It's this novel A Farewell to Arms, and The Old Man and the Sea that, for me, are the real crown jewels of Hemingway's output. Even if you're just interested in the historical aspect of the The Spanish Civil War, you'll get much out of this work. There isn't much more I can add that hasn't already been said.
4 Perhaps the bell tolled for Ernest and his bid for literary greatness with the passing of this book.  Did Hemingway exhaust all his courage, strength, and virility in this work?FWTBT is leagues away from The Sun Also Rises, taking themes from A Farewell to Arms to another level.  To the extent that Hemingway wanted to reach the apex of truth in storytelling, and to find a suitable language to express it, this book is a great achievement.  Hemingway chooses Spanish modulation of English words to power his narrative - from the start, the reader senses the honor, strength, and spirit every sentence spoken carries with it.Ernest is not just translating from Spanish to wow us; the reader feels that when he wrote this book, Spanish was the only language that could express his happiness, his sadness, his pleasure and suffering.  Maybe Spanish contained the words and meanings Hemingway and those involved in the war for Spanish liberty sought desperately every night by the campfire - words of fear and love.To me, this book was Hemingway's most significant attempt at articulating his life philosophy.  It is ominous in the hero's struggles with his personal and family history - of duty, resignation and death, inability to hope or believe, or believe that happiness can last.  You might argue that El Sordo's last stand is followed by Hemingway's personal literary last stand - against fascism, fear, and life's various illusions.  This is Hemingway's last battle.  Thereafter, he is honorably discharged to a life of fishing and beautiful memoirs.
5 For many years I wanted to read it again - after read it when I was teenagerHaving it on my Kindle was niceReading it with more mature eyes give it additional perspectivegreat book
5 Don't go to Rome without (Unless you have a private guide). This book made my visits to the Forum, Vatican, Coliseum, Museums and numerous public fountains and sculptures 100x more enjoyable by adding a much deeper layer of understanding. Wonderful.
5 I used this book extensively when we lived in Rome in the late 1970s.  It is for the person who has some time to wander around Rome, not necessarily hitting the major tourist sites.  I'm replacing my copy before my next visit - the old one has literally fallen apart with use.
2 We purchased this book after reading reviews that made it sound like it had the most in-depth coverage of Rome, even though we knew it wouldn't be good for carrying around with us as a guide. Unfortunately, after a week in Rome we decided this book was fairly worthless. If it provided deep history on the sites we saw (so we could review what we had seen in the evenings), I'd be thrilled. Unfortunately, the book comes with maps printed so small it's hard to read them even after you've seen the things they portray in person. And the guide has only a tiny amount of history and background on things... mostly it provides inane comments like "to the left of XYZ, you'll see ABC" which a guide like the Eyewitness Guide does more clearly with pictures. (Not to mention its descriptions say things like "from the entrance you can see..." without acknowledging that there are 6 separate entrances to the site or clarifying which one it's referring to.) It also provides distinctly un-insightful history saying things like "[name] was the person who gave real meaning to the abbreviation S.P.Q.R" but without actually telling you what SPQR stands for or how the person gave it meaning. Perhaps the book is a decent refresher for people who already know Rome's history, but don't expect any insight into things you don't already know. And it's definitely not a guide to carry with you--the maps are tiny and illegible with 3-point type, and the information too dense to find things quickly--it's laid out and reads like a 400 page novel.
5 Thus book remains a great achievement of travel writing, head and shoulders about other &quot;walking&quot; travel guides. The walks are thoughtfully designed to comprehensively cover the city; Georgina Masson's writing is cultured, individual and excellent, and the book is chock full of interesting background detail to bring the city alive. Rome is a unique and fascinating place and she definitely gets it! Wore out one copy of this book (earlier edition purchased in '78) and am now working on the second, unfortunately much heavier edition, also not the current one.Not a book for the short-stay or casual visitor who just wants to hit the top sites, but if you want to do some in depth exploration, a tremendous resource (definitely a read ahead resource).  Buy this book while you can - its gone out of print a couple of times so far!
5 This is the time of year that Rome starts getting gussied up for Easter.  The Spanish Steps will become a sea of azaleas and the various stational churches and basilicas will get themselves all decked out in finery and flowers for their special feast days (e.g. San Lorenzo in Lucina awash in roses and orchids on Friday of the 3rd week in Lent). If you are fortunate enough to be planning a trip to Roma by all means avail yourself of "The Companion Guide to Rome" by Georgina Masson.  It's in several editions but I prefer the earlier ones without the updates by Mr. Fort.  My current favorite is a 1966 edition.  This book is in a class all it's own in the mass of publications about the city of Rome. It is probably not a book to drag around all day as you tramp the streets of the Eternal City but then why not (it doesn't weigh much more than a water bottle).  But it is certainly a book to have in your hotel room to read about the neighborhood you are about to visit or the one you visited the day before.  Ms Masson gives lots of details about museums, churches and architecture but it is as much poetic-literature as it is a guide book, she is one with her city (she lived there for many years) and wants us to feel that along with her.  For me she succeeds admirably! Earlier this year when I was longing to be in Rome but couldn't be I picked up the Companion Guide then read each chapter with great care and observation as Ms Masson walked me through the tangled streets and lively piazzas, in and out of churches and museums and to favorite little escapes, unknown to most people, but waiting to be discovered guided by the adventerous, creative spirit of Georgina.  Highly reccommended.
4 This book is extremely interesting, well-written, and detailed.  A good one to have in the hotel room and read at the end of the day (especially if you have someone to read some of the passages to, it is such good writing,) preparing for the next day's sight-seeing.  However, it is too heavy and detailed to carry around with you and refer to during the day, unless you and your partner are willing to share the toting, and one carries this book and the other carries everything else!
3 I bought  A Companion Guide to Rome by Masson based on 5-star recommendations from Amazon, and for me it was not a worthwhile purchase.  The authors (it has been revised several times) offer infinite detail and historical tid bits, but it actually offers little that wasn't already in the Green Guide, and it is too heavy and too much reading in my opinion to do on site, while walking around. It was a nice reference, but I should have looked for it in the library and just borrowed it.
5 I love having this book out for guests to look through and even myself to look through again and again! Jane Goodall has done and continues to do marvelous work for Apes - this books helps you realize it!
5 I have learned more about why humans are the way they are in this book then in my first 55 years on this Earth.
5 This book takes you back to when Jane Goodall first started studying the chimpanzees at Gombe.  She describes the early struggles to start the research and her experiences trying to get close enough to them to be able to observe their behavior and get to know them.The most fascinating part of reading this book is when she describes how the chimpanzees will gesture towards one another and those gestures are familiar to us as humans since we do something either similar or exactly the same.  It makes the reader wonder if those gestures come from our distant common ancestor with the chimpanzees.In this day of modern conveniences, it is reassuring to be reminded how a young woman (and her mother at first) ventured out into a strange country to study an animal that people knew very little about, but that we are closely related to.  It is thanks to her efforts that we have learned so much about them.I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in learning about the early years of Dr. Goodall's work along with anyone who wants a close-up look at how chimpanzee society matches our own.  I plan on reading the next book soon to find out what else has happened during her study.
4 We know so much about chimpanzee behavior now, it's hard to remember that in the 1950s we knew almost nothing. Louis Leakey identified one of his young assistants at Olduvai Gorge, Jane Goodall, as a promising scientist. With some advice but no training, he sent her off to Gombe Stream Reserve in Tanzania.Goodall successful observations have taught us much about chimps, and about primates in general. She earned her Ph.D despite not having engaged in any undergraduate studies, established the Gombe Stream Research Center, and became a leading scientist. Goodall documented chimps making and using tools, eating and sharing meat, and developing complex social relationships. All were novel observations violating the preconceptions of her predecessors. Goodall also gave the chimps names, fed them bananas to keep them nearby, and interacted with them in various ways - practices that attracted controversy. Her photographer (and later husband), Hugo van Lawick, helped introduce Goodall and the Gombe chimps to readers of National Geographic.In this book, Goodall tells the stories of her chimps. Though there are some small pieces of her personal story included, the focus remains on the chimps. She organizes the first half of the book chronologically around her study, and the second half analytically around chimpanzee infancy, youth, adulthood, and so on. She does not engage the sometimes-negative reaction that her work engendered, often because this young woman's observations forced "expert" men in the field to rethink long-held beliefs.The book is an engaging read, though it probably has more detail than a general reader wants or needs. It's also inspiring to see careful, patient observation yield big scientific payoffs.
5 A wonderful book about a great woman who has done great things for the chimpanzees, against all odds.The pictures are amazing.
5 Jane Goodall is the most talented woman whose love of animals brought her out to Africa. She observed so many things never witnessed by anyone before!  As she knows the calls of the chimpanzies, I also would howl with my coyotes here in the desert. Her love of animals came quite early as did mine. This book is a great document of her many years with the animals in Gombe and her struggles there. Jane is an amazing woman and leader in protecting our wild places.
5 A Christmas gift for my grandson who has recently discovered Jane Goodall. Now he wants to go to Africa! Love it.
5 I enjoy virtually following Ms Goodall into the forests and learning about the actions of the species she continues to study. How wonderful--for her and us--for her to have learned so early in her life just which species she wanted to study. Her contributions to the study of primates in their natural habitat continues, and her explanations of such are a joy to read. Highly recommended.
5 IN THE SHADOW OF MAN, first published in 1971, remains one of the most extraordinary observations of chimpanzee behavior in the wild.  Goodall begins with the story of how she arrived in Africa and her first days there, but wisely switches the attention from herself to the endangered chimpanzees she studies.  She not only recognizes individuals but learns their distinctive personalities, describing in compelling detail the smallest of moments that illuminate who these great animals are. Unlike most scientists of the time, Goodall documents emotions and complex political behavior, the social hierarchy and parenting abilities, the aggression and the bonds formed between chimps that can only be described as friendships. In eloquent prose, Goodall tells the stories of these chimps - most notably that of Flo and her family - and will forever change the way you view chimpanzees.The book contains several black and white photographs of the chimps, a real treat after getting to &quot;know&quot; these chimps in writing.If you have any interest at all in primates or in animals generally, this is a must-have book.
5 Jane Goodall is a unique undividual whose work should be studied by those who think that the animal rights people don't have a clue.  Her efforts at gaining the trust of chimpanzee's in their natural habitat have spauned a host of up-and-comers who will continue to carry her work to the next level.Goodall distinguished herself by sitting in the bush on a daily basis until the local chimpanzee tribal members came close enough to make physical contact with her.  That an English woman scientist would journey to Tanzania to engage in this type of research is unusual and certainly puts her at "the top of her class".She follows the lives and behavior patterns of her subjects until her research sounds like a Michener novel with its generational emphasis and timelines of family heritage.  Within this effort she follows each subsequent offspring through each of their successive cycles from birth and death.What is fascinating is how she describes personality differences, the kind that come from hard-coded genetic diffences, the same as we find in human individuals. The mating behavior sounds like something out of "Cosmopolitan".  The squabbles and fighting behavior could be that of any large Homo Sapien family.  While Chimp's aren't on the same intellectual level as humans they certainly come closer than any other species.  Jane Goodall deserves every accolade she gets for bringing us a lens through which to observe another geneological line of a species that has developed from our common ancestors.Her work suggests that we should rethink our medical research toward more humane treatment of these animals whose behavior is  too similar to ours to ignore.  This is an excellent book.
5 Live the life of adventure and discovery through the eyes of Jane Goodall.  Her love of nature, animals and beauty is so evident throughout this book and you'll sit fascinated with the antics, personalities and life and existance of Jane and chimps alike.  Jane has given them all names and you'll forget at times they are animals and not human.  Her daring and bravery, as a young and adventurous girl, are awe-inspiring, creating the wishful desire to have spent time in her shoes.  Dropped in the middle of the jungle with no formal college training in animal behavior, she was to observe the Chimps with a view uncluttered by "facts".  The first challenge was to gain the trust of the chimpanzees so that she could get close enough to live amongst them.  With only a tent for protection, the book is the result of her years of keeping journals while living in the jungle and learning how to fit into the society of the chimps.  It's beautiful, funny and sad; but most of all amazing.
5 Jane Goodall is such an ambassador for chimpanzees and all other life on this planet. Her hard work, insights, and drive are to be admired! This book is her beginning and a must read for everyone. She is a truly amazing woman!
4 Had to read this book for a class. It was a very good book especially if you're interested in wildlife or just a good read. Jane Goodall really does a good job of making a research project/book into a good read for everyone. She brings you right into the life of the chimps and has some amazing stories. I recommend this book to anyone.
5 This book was really informative and eye opening. I believe it will help us understand the hairy people called chimpanzees.
5 I read Jane Goodall's In the Shadow of Man (Houghton Mifflin 1971) years ago as research for a paleo-historic novel I was writing. I needed background on the great apes so I could show them acting appropriately in their primeval setting tens of thousands of years ago. While I did get a marvelous treatise from this book on their wild environ, I also got my first introduction to the concept that they are almost-human, maybe even human cousins.But I digress. Back to Jane Goodall.This is the memoir that began her career, that relays her start in the field of anthropology, how she conducted her early studies and the price she paid personally and professionally for her perseverance. She had no formal background in primatology or fieldwork when she began this study. She entered Tanzania with an open mind, a patient attitude and an interest in exploring the adventures of chimpanzees in the wild. From there, she invented everything else that would allow her to investigate these fascinating primates. In the book, she shares every step with readers--how she followed the chimps until they finally accepted her presence without fleeing, how she learned to identify each animal and in that way track their lives, how she learned to understand their verbal and body language, how she learned to be a better mother by watching Flo's parenting skills.At the time she wrote this book, chimpanzees were not considered human--still aren't. Goodall approached her fieldwork expecting to see them fail the tests of human-ness, things like using tools, caring for their families, working as a group, planning their actions. Each hurdle she put in front of them, they lept across, until her work destroyed all the rules about what made you and I human. She did for chimpanzees what Dian Fosse did for the gorillas and Birute Galdikas did for orangutans: she humanized them.By the time I finished this book, I realized that chimpanzees have a good and fulfilling life. They have adapted their lives to suit their environment. They lack man's wanderlust, restricting themselves to smaller and smaller parts of Africa every year, but by Jane Goodall's account, they enjoy their lives.Can we say as much for ourselves?
5 The pleasure that Ms. Goodall had placed and received in sharing her life with chimpanzees is conveyed effortlessly in this book and touches you quite easily. I started reading this book not being to sure about what I was doing, since to know about the habits of these primates is not exactly among my list of favorite topics. So I just started browsing and before I knew it, sixty or eighty pages had gone by as well as my possibilities of getting up early in the morning.The author will guide your through the complex social structures in which chimpanzees live to the very detailed and amazing details of their everyday life. For example that they would eat gladly a human baby if given the chance. But more important she makes you care for their lives not as a consequence of a higher scientific purpose, but simply because the more that we relate to nature the more we are embraced in its blessings.
5 I am going to see Jane Goodall's lecture next month, so I wanted to read a few of her most well-known titles before I saw her. "In The Shadow of Man" was the first book that I read in my Goodall Challenge. I loved this book. And I gained even more respect for Jane after reading this book. She's brilliant, she's a great writer, and she makes you really see chimpanzees as individuals who really are 99% of us.Read my full review (and join the Goodall Challenge!) here:[...]
5 Almost everyone has heard of Jane Goodall and her work with the chimpanzees.  However, the stories of the chimpanzees themselves, and what made Jane fall in love with them in the first place, is something not everyone is familiar with.  In the Shadow of Man is a book about those stories, and about the early years, which would become many years, of Jane Goodall's study, research, and fascination with human's closest living relatives.Not only is this book informational and descriptive about the complex lives of chimpanzees, but it also reads like an entertaining tale as you follow the lives of the different chimps Jane Goodall comes to know and love.  You learn the stories of Flo, the old chimp mother, and her family; you grow to love one of Jane's favorite chimps, David Greybeard; and you feel the pain Jane Goodall felt when nature takes its course in the chimpanzee world.Not only are the chimps the center of the book, but readers also get a glimpse into the personal life of Jane Goodall herself.  You follow her on her beginning adventures when she first steps into the Gombe forest, and continue on her journey through research, marriage, and the birth of her own son.  Throughout the book, it feels as if Jane is actually speaking to you, the reader, and it is this aspect of In the Shadow of Man that sparks you to keep reading.Filled with adventure, surprise, facts, and detailed accounts of the behaviors and lives of wild chimpanzees, this book is for animal-lovers, scientists, and avid readers alike.  Whether you are familiar with Jane Goodall or not, In the Shadow of Man is a highly recommended read, and one that is worth your time and money.To read more of my reviews, please visit my blog at: [...]
5 Like another reviewer, I'm an anthropology student and I had to read this book for a class I'm taking. Never has a book, meant for education, made me both laugh and cry out loud. It was simply wonderful. You will learn a lot about chimpanzees, and I promiss you will never watch them in the zoo, in the same way, again. Even if you are not looking to learn about chimpanzee developement and behavior, the book is excellent on a purely entertainment level. Even though this book is was a required reading, I was so impressed that I'm going out to buy her other books... just out of interest.
4 I read this book for a class I took - a class in Anthropology. It created in me a new form of respect for our not so distant cousins - the chimpanzees. Jane Goodall is an amazing woman who in my eyes defied tradition - having gone into this study without a real education in it, she put her heart and her soul into the study of Chimpanzees in the Gombe. It in fact became her life. Her love for nature is evident throughout this book - she even nicknamed her son 'Grub' - I believe he has another name, but with all due respect I like the name 'Grub' a lot. This book shows how after watching the chimpanzees, Goodall learned how to be a mother. The similarities between these cousins of ours and us is truely amazing. For me this shed new light on the theory of evolution, and even some that didn't believe in evolution began to question it after they read Goodal's book. I quite enjoyed reading 'In the Shadow of Man' and intend on reading more of her works.
4 Jane Goodall is a very good writer.  And the book is enthralling and useful for its insights into her methodology.  I was also pretty amazed at how much influence Louis B. Leakey had in her career -- he gets her funding (from the National Geographic Society), uses his influence to get her into a PhD program at Cambridge University, even does a wee bit of matchmaking (Sends her a photographer who Goodall ends up falling in love with).Towards the middle of the book, it began to bother me that the focus was so much about how much interaction Goodall was able to have with the chimpanzees.  Luring them closer with bananas, etc, feeling gratified when they allowed her to touch them.  I admit that's quite an achievement, but there were points when I felt she was being quite foolhardy.  And lucky.I wanted this book to about more than just the humanizing of chimpanzees. They're wild animals.  She gives them names:  David Graybeard, William, Goliath, as if they were all part of one happy family.  But isn't that in itself a construct?  Doesn't that confuse the science?  Why should we celebrate if the chimpanzees start regarding her as a "friend"?  (I'm sure they don't; they're primarily regarding her as a very easy food source)The truly powerful part of this book, however, is the last half, beginning with Chapter 13 ("The Child"). There is so much humanity and pathos in her descriptions of the individual chimpanzees in her research area.  She loved the creatures, that much is clear.  And her observations are delivered in the most powerfully expressive writing.
5 I first came across this book when I was browsing a tiny library in the building basement a couple of doors down.  I was probably around 10-12 years old and unable to check out the book (don't remember why) so instead I sat down in the stacks and began paging through it.  I absolutely loved looking at all the wonderful photographs and reading the captions, etc.  I was so pulled in by Ms Goodall's writings, I found it such an interesting book and it stayed with me all these decades.  I even majored in Anthropology in college, that's how inspired I was by this amazing book.The day I came across In the Shadow of Man, Jane Goodall became my hero.  Nearly forty years later, I still feel drawn to her chimp stories.  I think it's time I buy it to have forever.  Happy 80th Birthday, Ms Goodall.
5 Bought this book for my sister, I think she loves it. You guys need to ask about it before buying cause I didn't read a word of it. But anyway it was delivered fast, and protected well, the book looks great from outside. And by the author I assume that it is great from inside as well.
5 This was a gift for my daughter, who is an environmental science major and requested it, so of course, she loved it.
5 This book succeeds both as a story of Jane Goodall's career and as a portait of the life of the chimpanzees she studies. She captures moments when the animals' "human" behavior gave me chills. A fascinating read.
5 I've always wondered what ever motivated Jane Goodall to dedicate her entire life to chimpanzees.  This book takes us from Jane's childhood years to now and answered that question.  Great book.
5 Everyone on the planet should read this wonderful book.  What an adventure Miss Goodall had at such a young age.  Her stories and research is told with such warmth and affection for the chimps.  Her work continues to amaze.
5 In her own words, Jane Goodall writes of her landmark studies of wild chimpanzees at the Gombe Stream Reserve in Tanzania. Starting out in 1960, Goodall, a student of legendary anthropologist Louis Leakey, set out for Tanzania to set up the first long-term research study on chimpanzees in the wild.Overcoming political strife, harsh living conditions, lacks of funding, and the initial mistrust of the animals themselves, Goodall's work grew into a remarkable long-term scientific achievement. Goodall went on to devote more than forty years of work to the study of what many believe is mankind's closest evolutionary relative.This book covers her early years, setting up the camp, establishing a rapport with the animals, and learning about chimpanzee society and behavior. She describes her own experiences as well as the experiences of several chimps that she had the experience of following closely as they lived and grew in the Gombe Stream Reservation.Goodall names the animals, and relates story after story of their personalities and their conflicts. She uncovers the dominance hierarchy of chimp society, and traces the changing leadership of the community. Goodall was the first to observe tool-making behavior in Chimpanzees, and she relates the excitement of that early discovery.In spite of her obvious affection for the animals she is studying, Goodall does not hold back when it comes to describing the brutality of some aspects of chimpanzee biology and society. She observed first-hand the devastating results of a polio epidemic on the local chimps, and she doesn't shrink from dealing with issues of aggression, neglect, and bullying that she oberved.She candidly discusses her own mistakes as well, pondering on the compromises that she made early on to get close to the animals while raising the possibility that she could be altering their behavior by her use of feeding stations and close direct interaction.Goodall's writing style is vivid, intense, and loaded with little details that bring the reader right into her world alongside the chimpanzees. She captures good scientific observations without losing her talent for storytelling, and draws readers into the lives of the chimpanzees whose lives she follows.The book is supplemented by four sections of photographs by Goodall's husband and fellow researcher Hugo van Lawick, and it also includes an appendix with illustrations of chimpanzee facial expressions and behaviors. Stephen Jay Gould writes an excellent introduction to this edition, focusing on the importance of Goodall's work and on the importance of observational technique in the sciences.This is a true classic of scientific writing, and a must-read for anyone interested in the study of animal societies in the wild.
5 A must read for humans to understand how we need coexist with nature and animals. Very well written and if you love Jane Goodall and her work this is a must read.
5 Jane Goodall showed us how chimpanzees are so much like us, how individual animals have personalities, and treated them as beings that deserve our consideration for their well being.
5 Jane Goodall is the right type of animal researcher, in that she appreciates our primate cousins but does not degrade the role of humans as some animal rights activists do.  This is a good introduction to her life and work.  Readers will especially appreciate the role of her mother as the person who encouraged her on her path.  Beautiful pictures as well.
4 A really fine volume. Jane Goodall describes her study of chimpanzees at the Gombe Stream in Tanzania. She and her team has studied these animals over a long period of time. This covers the social behavior of the chimpanzees in the earlier years of the study.The story occurs at several levels. One, simply, is the interaction of individuals with their own personalities--Flo, David, Goliath, Faben, Merlin, Passion, and so on. Another level is the group/society. What is the structure of the society studies?The book covers the life cycle of chimpanzees in this environment-- from infant on. It explores relations with other species. It looks at the variety of behaviors that characterize chimpanzee society--reproduction, feeding, hierarchy, predation, and so on. The book also addresses the challenges facing chimpanzees as humans encroach further.In the end, a riveting book, well worth reading.
5 Jane Goodall does an excellent job in describing how she started her career as a zoologist and humanitarian worker. She gives excellent descriptions of how chimpanzees interact as family members, how they feel like people do - and what people can learn from them. Her book makes us readers aware of how close animals can come to how human beings feel and act, and that man is by no means far superior to animals. It also gives us an incentive to appreciate animals and to respect them. Obviously, Jane Goodall observes and then accurately narrates. Even in the shadow of man, animals develop healthy, and man needs to respect that.
5 This was the first book I ever borrowed from the library as a kid. I met Dr Goodall herself a few years ago. A gorgeous, wonderful woman. Humble. Quietly spoken. Impossible to ignore. My signed edition of this book is a treasure I'll take to my grave!Jane Goodall was once described as Conservation's Greatest Rock Star. She was so far ahead of her time, science is now only beginning to catch up. This is a beautifully written account of the beginnings of the longest continuous animal field study on earth. The discoveries Jane Goodall made at Gombe, in Tanzania, redefined not only science's understanding of Chimpanzees, but also redefined human beings. Because of Jane Goodall, we could no longer consider man to be the only "tool maker" living on earth.In the Shadow of Man has all the elements of a best-seller - politics, violence, sex, warfare, murder, devotion, tenderness, even love.
5 If you buy this for a friend, get two, you'll probably wish to read it again.His writing is so visual, & evokes those times as no other book I've read.It shows, too, why his movies became classics, perhaps Renoir's greatest masterpiecewas his son.
5 If you're going to Paris anytime soon, read this biography. Besides getting to know Renoir, you can see what Paris looked like before Hausmann re-built it, the neighborhoods it displaced, etc. It is a joy to get to know the man behind the brush. Very worthwhile.
5 We adopted &quot;Renoir, My Father&quot; as bedside reading while my wife was recovering from hip surgery, and (aside, perhaps, from &quot;Goodnight, Moon,&quot;) I can't imagine better therapy.  This is odd, in a way: Claude was an old man (and in pain) when Jean got to know him, and Jean was an old man when he finally brought his recollectios together. You might expect cranky, but nothing of the sort: it's a book full of sunny afterglow.  Every parent would hope to be rememnbered so well.The book might take a bit of getting used to: Jean has his own pace and his own way of telling his story.  We did it in small doses and I'm not certain yet that I quite catch the rhythm.  None of the rough edges have been smoothed off which, come to think of it, is just as Claude would have wanted: Jean speaks with his own voice.  You have to listen well, but you know that the voice is nobody else's.I suppose it helps to know a bit about the Impressionists to enjoy it all, but I can't say I know all that much, and I didn't feel impaired.  Anyway, God bless Google: more than once, when Jean talked about a painting or a subject, I key-clicked my way to an image and completed (as it were) the picture.Kudos also to NYRB (this time) for producing what it does not always produce: a finished physical specimen  The paper feels like quality; the binding is sturdy, and there is a small but satisfying selection of pictures, both colored and black-and-white.  There is even an index of sorts (I assume from the original translator) but it is patchy and incomplete.  That last is a shortcoming, but forgivable in light of the book's other virtues.  In the NYRB firmament, this is surely a star.
5 An affectionate remembrance of Renoir by his son, concentrating the years up to the turn of the century.Renoir considered himself an artisan rather than an artist, disliked anything artificial, from margarine to ready-to-wear clothes, had among his friends artists, and musicians who are household names today.  "It is when you have lost your teeth that you can buy the best beefsteak" he would say, and considering that he became more infirm with age, this truism affected him no less than the rest of us.
5 Renoir isn't dead. He lives in this book, and in the minds of everyone who reads it. Every artist, independent of medium, needs to read this.
5 I was eager to read this story of Renoir's life from his son's perspective.  I am a big fan of the Impressionist Painters and Renoir is without a doubt the very best.  I loved learning about the type man he was.
2 I was required to read this for a book club. I finally gave up.  I am an avid reader (2-3 books per week) and after almost 2 weeks, I gave up.  Thank goodness, I wasn't the only one at book club who couldn't get through it.  VERY tedious....
5 Renoir was far more than one of the world's greatest artists.  He was an adventurer, a family man, a man who held interesting views on just about every subject under the sun, and finally, in his later years, a martyr to life.  Although this book was written by Renoir's middle son, Jean, it is  as vibrant and alive as if Renoir, himself, had just written the words in  his own hand.  Through this book we learn how the Renoir family left its  roots in Limoges and moved to Paris.  We read of Renoir's early years as a  painter of porcelain and how and why he became an artist, more  specifically, an Impressionist.  We learn of Renoir's marriage to Aline  Charigot of Essoyes, the birth of his three sons and his move to the south  of France.  Some of the most interesting sections of the book deal with  Renoir's feelings about the effect of light on a painting and why he  needed to paint in a &quot;natural&quot; setting.  Also, most interesting  are the chapters on the birth of Impressionism and Renoir's relationships  with the other artists of the time, such as Monet, Manet, Sisley and  Cezanne, just to name a few.  Lovingly and charmingly written, this book  truly brings Renoir to life and makes him accessible to all.  Absolutely a  must for anyone with even a passing interest in art or artists!
5 This book presents a very touching portrait of Auguste Renoir.  The recollections of his son, Jean, are wonderful to read and bring the artist alive, both as a man and as an aritst.  And if you read the book, you will  see why &quot;The Cork&quot; preferred never to be referred to as an  &quot;artist,&quot; a title he certainly deserves!
5 Not only is this a book about Renoir, whose tableaux peer out of every other art store on every mall in North America (what a curious fate!), it is also a book about Paris. Born in 1841, Renoir was older than most of the other Impressionists with whom he grew friendly later. He also had the  chance to see Paris as it was before the Commune and the war of 1870. He  lived a good part of his life on the Butte in Montmartre and it is hard now  to recapture the atmosphere up there among the hordes of tourists. Yet  early on Sunday mornings with a light rain playing on the umbrellas of the  artist's stands in the Place du Tertre, you can wander freely among the  memories of the rue Lepic and elsewhere, and catch glimpses of Renoir (and  others) as you pass through the old streets. Reading this book first will  help.Jean Renoir is a very famous artist in his own right, having made  numerous films and become one of the most acclaimed directors in French  cinema history. Here he has taken great pains to paint a fine portrait of  his renowned father, this time with a pen. He has succeeded admirably.
5 This is a highly informative and nostalgic look at Pierre-Auguste Renoir.  It is full of personal information about Renoir the man as well as Renoir the artist.  I found the author, Jean Renoir, to be at all times accurate in his descriptions and portrayals.  This book is a fascinating portrait of a man who became on of the world's most loved artists.
5 Jean Renoir's memoir of his father's life is a tender hearted hagiography more than it is  a linear biography. it is a book that could only have been written by a loving son. It is intimate as one would expect from a book written by a family member and at times Jean Renoir strays off to explain some relationship or episode in language that suggested to me that he was being flooded with memories as he wrote. This gives the book in certain respects the aspect of a long and rambling recollection of the great artist that incorporates the France that he lived and worked in beautifully and results in a highly atmospheric read.Near the end Jean Renoir wrote in describing Renoir's final years in Cagne " like all stories about Renoir, it is devoid of anything sensational" . For me that captures the spirit of this book. It is as intimate a portrait of a famous artist as I am ever likely to read and for anyone who is interested in Renoir and his work it is pure joy from beginning to end. A fabulous book.
5 The great film director Jean Renoir tells the story of the life of one of the great masters of modern painting, his father Auguste Pierre Renoir. He does this in an intelligent, perceptive and humane way. He was close to his father , had many long intimate conversations with him, and truly cared for, honored and admired him.The story begins in 1915 when the young Renoir who has been wounded in the leg is released from the Army and returns home. He has too received terrible news which has crushed his father. The mother of the family has died. Returning home he and his father develop a closer relationship than they have had before.Young Renoir traces the history of the family back to the time of his great- grandparents. He tells of the early years of his father , when he worked as craftsman doing portraits on porcelain. He tells of his father's understanding of his art and of the special joy in which he worked and lived.He describes his father's economical and non- romantic approach to Painting. And he also tells the story of how his father continued to paint also to the very last minutes of his life. And how the honors and wealth which came to Renoir in his last years did not effect his fundamental vision or way of working in life.What is apparent through this work is that a loving son truly seeks to understand and represent his father truly- and that one great artist has a capacity for understanding another great one.A wonderful book.
5 One of the most beautiful memoirs ever, not only about Renoir the painter, but about the world long gone of 19th century France.  In fact, if you wanted to recreate that world, this is the blueprint -- not the world of the rich and the powerful (Proust is the blueprint for that), but the world of the rustics, the rural/urban poor, the artisans.Jean Renoir's own memoirs of his life in cinema are also fine, but much more fragmented.  He did write like an angel.
5 These shots were taken in 1989, just as China was about to burst into full blossom as an international powerhouse.  I lived in China for six years, from 2000 through 2005, and when I look at these pictures, I'm reminded powerfully of my first year there and all the changes that happened at light speed each year after that.  If you have been to China, or if you are Chinese and old enough to remember your land before 2000, this is a moving trip through vivid cultural and social memories.If you have any interest in China or photography, this book is a must have for your library.  Grab it and feel lucky to have a copy.
5 This "coffee table" book literally sits on my coffee table. Every member of my family looks at it just about every day -- we are constantly showing each other the pictures. It shows an amazing variety of moments from an amazing country. It draws you in, and every time you look at it, you see and learn something new. I highly recommend this book. I am thrilled with it.
3 Page 162/163 shows a man holding up a little puppy as others look on including one smiling, he is staring right into the puppy's eyes, while the decapitated carcass of another dog is right next to him. It says in the description that it is part of Cantonese "culture" to feed puppies with white rice for nine months and then butcher them. I want to make a point that any person who can stare a little puppy in the face and then butcher them during non-famine times is not a human being. This is barbarism, pure and simple. I really like Asian people but they can't hide behind "culture" and expect everyone else to keep quite, the same goes for everyone else. This is the 21st century, not the Middle Ages. Every group of people on the planet need to change for the better, not make excuses for backwardness.
5 A good solid book to have about China. I'm very glad that I got this.
4 The photography in this coffee table book is just wonderful. It's a result of a project conducted on April 15, 1989, the 40th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China (ironically, just before the protests of Tiananmen Square). Ninety of the world's leading photojournalists fanned out across country and took photos, leaving a record of a varied country. We see Buddhist monks clad in scarlet, people practicing ballroom dance in public squares, hundreds of bicyclists pedaling to the rain plastic ponchos, a bare-bottomed toddler pedaling a bicycle, Muslim men at prayer, a psychiatric patient, and Deng Xiaoping spending a quiet night at home babysitting his friends. The photos are huge and breathtaking and a volume well worth having as a record of life in this vast and varied nation.
5 Instead of purchasing this book here, I recommend looking for it in stores like Waldenbooks or Barnes and Noble in their section of books on sale. These stores always have a section of huge books that have been marked down to very reasonable prices.This book isn't particularly huge, but it is legitimate in its recipes. I have tried several recipes from this book and they've all come out wonderful and comparable to the "real deals" that I've tasted over in France myself. There was no need to alter any of the ingredients or amounts, as so far I've had no failures/disasters in cooking from this book. It is divided up into sections (poultry, fish, desserts, etc.) and each section opens first to an introduction to a region of France with a little bit of background. The book provides pictures for almost every recipe they list, which I know can be helpful to some readers/cooks to know what it is they're cooking.I would say, though, that some of the recipes might require you to be a little adventurous, as of course these authentic recipes require foods that Americans do not normally eat very often (like lamb and rabbit, for example). But I've found that other than that, the ingredients were not so exotic that I couldn't find them in the store and was forced to make adjustments.
4 Very nice. bought as a gift.
5 Beautiful pictures and wonderful recipes; they don't make cookbooks like this anymore.  Highly recommend this book for any cookbook collector and/or anyone interested in the food of France.  It's great to cook and learn from and looks nice on a coffee table as well!
5 I got this book on a closeout at my local bookstore, and at that low price the book is wonderful. I'd be a little less thrilled if I paid full-price... but only a little.I would guess that most "...The Beautiful" books are probably purchased for their coffee table appeal. This is a large format book (12"x18"), with stunning photos of different areas of France and of the food (there's generally one picture of the finished dish for every two recipes). If you want a book to inspire you to travel to France or to go out to eat at a French restaurant, or if you are searching for an impressive and pretty gift, this is a no-brainer. It's gorgeous.The recipes are very good, too, but I'm tempted to say that they're almost beside the point. There are 240 recipes, divided in menu-like sections (first courses, fish and shellfish, poultry and game, etc.) rather than regionaly. Each recipe is marked with the region it comes from, so you know that the mussels in cream is from Normandy and the veal rolls (paupiettes) are from Provence. There's also a couple of pages, with photos, describing each region. Nicely done.I'm not knowledgeable enough about French cooking to speak to the authenticity of the recipes, but none of them were jarring. Most of the dishes are kept on the simple side (I get the feeling that the "real" version might require a few more hours in the kitchen), and they do have interesting, if short, introductions. The intro for cassoulet, for instance, gives a little history of this well-known dish, and mentions regional variations ("Toulouse adds Toulouse sausage, leg of lamb and confit"). You'll find the usual suspects of French cuisine; 240 dishes is a bunch, but far from exhaustive.Most of the recipes are, as I said, very good. Their recipe for sole meuniere matches the one I use, and I have my eye on their recipe for beef braised with Calvados.However, the book does show that it was written in 1989, when it was difficult to find some "exotic" ingredients. The recipe for chaoucroute (saurkraut with pork and sausage) calls for, among other things, a smoked kielbasa, and 6 Strasbourg sausages or frankfurters. David Rosengarten's _Taste_ has a whole chapter devoted to charcoute (which led me to spend my sole evening in Paris at a restaurant for which it's the specialty -- maybe I'll send him the bill), and it's obvious that these are gringo subsitutions. Kielbasa, maybe; frankfurters, no way. (Oddly, though, they don't shy away from dishes made with venison or rabbit, which I find much harder to find.)As someone else mentioned, the desserts chapter feels short; there's about 20 recipes here, and I think most of us would assume that the French pastry section would be far larger.Overall, this is a fine book -- particularly for inspiration purposes. If you can get it at a good price, grab it.
5 A great collection of the recipes that gave French cuisine its international fame is awaiting you in this book. Don't allow yourself to be intimidated by the excellent pictures, and try some of these traditional  dishes. The vast majority of the ingredients can be found in the United  States. Just make sure you take your time to enjoy this wonderful food, as  the French take theirs to make meal taking an amazing experience.
5 This book is really packed and pretty. The pictures are great, but I think it could have included more desserts.
5 A serious student of cooking that has been perfecting her skills over the last 25 years writes this review.  I have traveled to Italy multiple times, and have spent the last 10 years perfecting my Italian cooking skills.  This book is part of my collection of cookbooks that now exceed 500.  I am a tough critic on Italian cookbooks. However, this book is worthy is a good review.This book is part photographic essay of Italian food and travel and part cookbook.  The author writes a brief history of each region's food history in the chapters about the various regions.  In the regional descriptions she tells you about the terrain of the area, the basic diet, and the various dishes that are classic to the regions.The book is subdivided as follows:1. Nord-Ovest:  Lombardi, Piemonte, Val d'Aosta, Liguria (Region 1)2. Antipasti:  Appetizers3. Nord-Est:  Veneto, Fruili-Venezia Guilia, Trentino-Alto Adige (Region 2)4. Primi:  First courses5. Centro:  Toscana, Lazio, Umbria, Marche, Emilia-Romagna (Region 3)6. Secondi:  Main Courses7. Sud:  Campania, Abruzzi, Molise, Basilicata, Puglia, Calabria (Region 4)8. Verdure:  Vegetables9. Grandi Isole:  Sicilia and Sardegna (Region 5)10. Dolci:  DessertsThe recipes are all authentic, and very succinctly written.  The directions are easy to follow.  Some of the recipes (stuffed pastas) are a little advanced for the average cook.  However, with patience and practice all of them are possible.  Most (approx. 90%) of the recipes have photographs of the finished dishes included in the book.The book is well constructed, the spine is stiff and heavy, and the paper stock is thick and glossy.If you love Italy, or Italy food and/or cooking this is a beautiful book to add to your library.
5 This oversized book is full of beautiful photographs.  Each recipe is accompanied by a large color photograph, as well as its region of origin and Italian and English names.  Italian cuisine is explored by region, with spectacular photos and an engaging essay on the cuisine of each of the following regions:  il Nord-Ovest, il Nord-Est, il Centro, il Sud, e le Grandi Isole.  This is a cookbook not only to use in the kitchen, but also to peruse for an enjoyable view of Italian landscapes and a taste of Italian culinary history and regional cuisine.
2 I own and love my Mexico the Beautiful Cookbook, so I decided to invest, and at 50 dollars it IS an investment, in the Italian edition. I was severely dissapointed in it. The photography is indeed as beautiful as the Mexico book, but the recipes are rather blah. I greatly prefer my books by Marcella Hazzan, especially her Essentials of Classical Italian Cooking.After using Hazzan's books, this one left me cold. I gave it away, and that is rare, as I collect cookbooks. Save your money.
5 ITALY: THE BEAUTIFUL COOKBOOK is just that - a book brimming with known dishes and as well as rarities from throughout Italy presented in a format so well designed, filled with excellent photography, and thorough information about the country that it could rest as comfortably on the traveler's coffee table as in the gourmet's kitchen.Lorenza De'Medici takes the reader on an insider's tour of Italy with readable maps, stunning photographs of each region, information about the peculiar characteristics of the regions that inform the recipes, and then gives some of the finest recipes you'll likely to encounter for dishes both simple and complex.As with the best of cookbooks this one contains images that show how the result of the time spent in the kitchen will look. De'Medici writes with candor and in a relaxed inviting style.  This survey of Italian culinary arts and the historic background that accompanies them is as fine as any similar book on the market. Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, December 05
2 Bleaah. Another of Lorenza de Medici's big, unwieldy books of gorgeous pictures of Italian scenery paired with mediocre recipes.The text, not written by de Medici, has several silly errors, saying that sugar cane came from the New World and pumpkins from the Old, which is backwards.The recipes are better than in some of her other cookbooks, where we were treated to a gorgeous picture of, for example, croque monsieur, which isn't Italian and isn't really a recipe.But not much better. Vegetarians might go for many of them, since they are supposed to be from the peasant kitchens, where meat was, until recently, seldom seen. Yet the recipes are dull enough. Steamed asparagus topped with butter and lemon is, indeed, a fine dish, but not really a recipe.The food illustrations are punk, well under the gorgeous picture of croque monsieur, for example.The full page pictures of Italy are superb, though, if you like that sort of thing.
5 First off, the photography is magnificent.  The book is almost too nice to cook from, so I copy recipes and retains its new look.  Each recipe has a large, color photograph, and the text is easy to read.  I've been trying to cook my way thru this for years.  So far, everything has been delicious and certainly different.  This would be a great gift for the cook on your list.
5 William Dalrymple has a great writing style and a deep apetite for understanding the historical and cultural context. He neither takes the clinical distant approach to his subjects neither does he use a patronizing attitude to India. If you have been to Delhi, the book will be  a great  reading; if are planning to go there, it should be required reading. You  will enjoy your trip so much more. Even if you don't go to Delhi, it is  just a wonderful reading. Olivia has done a great job in her illustrations.
5 Really this book is a history of Delhi, starting with modern times and progressing backwards to the very origins of the city.  Dalrymple tells the story through his own visits to various sites and people in the city and interjects modern stories that add color to the city and its history.  There is large emphasis on architecture, which show up in some of Dalrymple's other writings, but is especially appropriate for Delhi with its long history of grand architectural projects and civic planning, and its current collection of Moghul, Raj and modern buildings.But in the end, it is Dalrymple's handling of the characters, his severe Sikh landlady and her eccentric husband with his romantic interest in Dalrymple's wife; the old-maid sisters living in their dusty mansion like antique relics of the Raj; the Anglo-English retired railway engineer, and the secretive eunuchs, that make this book really come alive.On a darker, more journalistic and wide-ranging note..."The Age of Kali" is an excellent companion or just worth reading on its own.
5 A really wonderful book about the city of Delhi. Dalrymple and his wife go to spend a year living in Delhi (how did they afford this?), and he uses this arrangement as a way of chronicling the present day status of the city  and delving deep into its history. He's done a very nice job of moving back  and forth between present and past, managing to keep all his meetings and  interviews with various experts quite interesting. The only part which lost  my interest was an extended look into Sufi mysticism, but I just skimmed it  and moved along. Highly recommended to anyone with an interest in India,  and especially to anyone planning a trip to Delhi.
5 City of Djinns: A Year in Delhi was a total delight to read.I loved how it was like each page was a dicovery of a new tidbit, a new treasure of insight.The humor was also a delightful surprise.Has awakened a thirst to read more about colonial and modern India.Very highly recommended! :D
5 A great book about the history of India as told by a British man who resides in the city for a year. Well researched and with a lot of great eye witness reports the author illustrates various view points and various eras of the city, very skilfully and interestingly.
5 I know I will never be able to visit India, so my "trip" comes from books. Dalrymple is a great tour guide. He took me places that I wouldn't have been able to visit even if I flew to Delhi today.The people he met and described were as fascinating as the places he explored. This book is a combination of history, tourism, mini-biography, human interest, archeology and anthropology. The mix was well balanced and Dalrymple's writing ability made the entire book entertaining as well as educational.Please do not let the age of this book dissuade you from reading it. Dalrymple's take on Delhi will still be worth the read for as long as people read.My only gripe (worth a tenth of a star) was with the only map. Though nicely drawn by his wife, it was nearly useless. A more inclusive map would have added a tremendous amount to my enjoyment.
5 William Dalrymple is a historian and brings considerable authority to the field of architecture as well and architecture in Delhi is the chronicle in stone from which the cities long and turbulent history can be read.Djinns are ghosts and there are those that believe there are many in Delhi, Dalrymple gets the ghosts of the city to speak of the past by going through endless archives. One of the richest archives it turns out was nearer to him than he thought. His wife Olivia Fraser is a descendant of William Fraser who was a legendary figure in early nineteenth century Delhi at a time when Delhi was a place of perpetual conflict at the outermost edges of the empire. Fraser raised his own army made up of the strongest warriors from each successive tribe that he conquered and he ruled Delhi in a way not incomparible to Conrad's Kurtz(Dalrymple makes the comparison). William and Olivia stayed in the Fraser residence in Inverness, Scotland before leaving for Delhi only to find that one room away from where they were sleeping were stacks and stacks of William Fraser's old letters.Dalrymple discusses at length the many great figures of Delhis past including James Forbes, Fraser, Sir David Ochterlony and James Skinner and after investigating them in books he then ventures out to find what remains of the forts and palaces they resided in.Also there is much from Delhis more recent past. Dalrymple interviews many still living Djinns who remember the great atrocities that followed the 1947 partition of India and Pakistan where vast numbers of people migrating in opposite directions(Hindus into India, Muslims to Pakistan)began killing each other. Virtually all of old Delhi, once famous for its high degree of Urdu culture was displaced by a largely peasant population of Punjabi immigrants which completely changed every aspect of the city, including the language. A fascinating colony of the old Delhi-wallahs lives on in exile in Karachi and Dalrymple heads there to hear stories from the exiled Djinns, the last remaining voices of a once great city.Making his way further into the past through the travel narratives of the Italian Niccolao Manucci, the Frenchmen Francois Bernier and the Moroccan Ibn Battuta, Dalrymple brings to life the 17th century Delhi of Shah Jehan and the 14th century Delhi of Tughluk then explores what remains of the great cities that Delhi was(Delhi was rebuilt time and again, at least eight different cities one on top of the other)and finds sometimes tucked away beneath or within one of the modern structures of this much more utilitarian and mundane age, evidence of a once magnificent Mogul palace or courtyard or zenana.
4 If u like history and the city of Delhi, it might be time well spent reading this book. Quite enjoyable.
5 I read this author's "In Xanadu" and became an instant fan of his dry wit and eccentric, on-the-cheap mode of travel reporting.  Although "City of Djinns" is a bit more placid than Dalrymple's trip across the breadth of Asia (including a surreptitious border-crossing into China in a coal car), he still has dead aim at the culture, history, and people surrounding him in Delhi.He interacts with everyone from Sufi scholars to eunuchs to taxi drivers at the International Backside stand, and of course, his feisty Sikh landlady who cuts off his water supply to protest too many flushes.A tragedy cuts through the heart of Delhi, and Dalrymple expresses it in the stories of the people who were affected by it--the Partition of the Indian subcontinent into the states of India and Pakistan in 1947.  The partition was based on religion and almost 12.5 million people were made refugees from their own homes.  The majority of Moslems in Delhi was forced to flee to Pakistan.  Sikh and Hindu refugees from Pakistan settled in the old Moslem neighborhoods of Delhi.  Not everyone was able to flee.  It is estimated that up to a million citizens were slaughtered during the Partition, most of them by their neighbors.  The author says:  "...it became clear that the events of 1947 were the key to understanding modern Delhi.  The reports highlighted the city's central paradox:  that Delhi, one of the oldest towns in the world, was inhabited by a population most of whose roots in the ancient city soil stretched back only forty years."Dalrymple and his wife spend a year in Delhi and stories of the unrelenting heat, the traffic, the festivals and the people are interwoven with strands from Delhi's history, usually introduced by a visit to one of Delhi's ancient ruins such as the labyrinths of Shahjehanabad.  It is in these strands that the invaders of India come alive, from Alexander the Great, through the Mughal princes, and lastly, the British (more specifically, a family of enterprising Scots).You will not find a more erudite, upbeat (in spite of the numerous tragedies) volume on one of the world's oldest cities.
4 A Djinn is a spirit, not visible to the naked eye, and to see one in Delhi, India you have to cleans yourself from the natural world by fasting and prayer .  In the ancient city of Delhi there are thousands, perhaps  tens of thousands of Djinns who serve to testify of both Delhi's glorious  and hideous  past.  Delhi is one of the oldest cities in the world and for  the past 3000 years has reincarnated itself.  To uncover its culture and  civilization takes the care and commitment of an archaeologist, or a  journalist.  William Dalrymple is an award winning journalist.  In 1994 he  was awarded the Cook Travel Award.  In City of Djinns, William Dalrymple  paints a vibrant portrait of Delhi past and present with colorful words.  His journalistic research and unique writing skills call forth the spirits  of both times past and present, illuminating for the reader the incredible  history of this city.His humorous and provocative description of how he  spent a year in Delhi, with his artistic wife Olivia, while he researched  the city's history brings contemporary Delhi alive.  True to life  characters, like his authoritative spendthrift landlady, Mrs. Puri, or his  slightly maniacal taxi drive Balvinder Singh, give his settings an unusual  liveliness.  Add India pigeon lovers, mystical healers, an enterprising  group of transvestites (eunuchs), the baffling Indian bureaucracy,  weddings,  parties, funerals and religious holidays and &quot;voila&quot;  you have an entertaining and informative travel/history book.If you are  going to, or ever have been to Delhi, India you owe it to yourself to read  City of Djinns.  Recommended.
4 After Dalrymple's amazing first book &quot;In Xanadu&quot;, &quot;City of Djinns&quot; is a very worthy follow-up. It deals not with a journey but with the author living in Delhi for and extended period of time. William and his wife Olivia live in an apartment in Delhi with a Sikh lady and her crazy husband. Together and separately, they explore the various strands of the city.Like &quot;In Xanadu&quot;, Dalrymple combines erudite historical investigation with a humorous account of life today. The historical aspect of the book is very complicated. Delhi has an ancient Hindu history, a Muslim Mughal one, a Punjabi/Urdu one, the Partition phase and its modern story. In this book, Dalrymple tries his hand at digging through a bit of them all. From the violence of the Gandhi assasination riots to the extravagances of the Mughal court, he leaves nothing unturned.His warm and clever perspective shines light on a city where so many cultures and ways of life come side by side, from the modern secularised Sikhs (like Balvinder, their taxi driver) to the huge hermaphrodite community in the city. A highly informative and entertaining book.
4 Whether you plan to visit Delhi, have been blessed to have been there, or just want to read an informative, good traveler's (note: not tourist) tale, then City of Djinns should be on your list of books to read.  William Dalrymple paints a picture full of humor and fascinating detail, mixed with love and frustration.  Which is what Delhi is: fascinating, frustrating, fun, and full of incredible people.  Delhi is multi-layered and not easily explained.  Delhi has to be experienced. Yet, Dalrymple brings to life a lot of the feeling of this magnificent city.  More importantly for me, he brings to life part of its history, details history books leave out, alley ways that deserve to be explored.  As a traveler blessed to return to Delhi fairly often, I have found the details of Dalrymple's book adding value to my visits - by knowing which alley ways might just be explored.
5 Dalrymple does an amazing job of describing India and the Delhi in particular - it's somewhat difficult to describe what goes on in India without sounding like a bit of a buffoon or ugly Westerner but Dalrymple paints a pretty accurate picture without sounding condescending.  I liked this enough to read other books on India he has written.
5 A truly marvelous book for anyone who loves India, whether they have been there in the flesh or in spirit. Dalrymple is simply one of the best writers around when it comes to creating a tapestry that has inner and outer journey so beautifully interwoven.
4  City of Djinns: A Year in Delhi  William Dalrymple HarperCollins 1993 City of Djinns: A Year in Delhi  was my travel reading for my first trip to India in the summer of 2007, a trip which began and ended in Delhi. Having read other writers and other Dalrymple books on India before I set out, I read  City of Djinns: A Year in Delhi  first on my outward journey, and then reviewed it again as we made our way back to Delhi on the last stage of our tour. The book was an invaluable resource, supplementing the ill-informed and poorly spoken guides who were difficult to understand and unable to answer questions in any depth. Dalrymple's book helped me to tie the city and its sites and history together into some sort of coherent whole. I also found the pen-and-ink illustrations by Dalrymple's wife Olivia Fraser very illuminating. Although at first sight they struck me as much too calm and uncluttered to convey the true image of the places they posed, I later came to appreciate how they captured the inherent essence of their subject and spoke volumes in their simple way.As a journalist, Dalrymple has a knack for finding the right people to talk with - people with living memories of the time he writes about, who can bring to life the crumbling ruins they inhabit and instil us with visions of the beauty that once radiated in Delhi. It is certainly difficult to see today but reading the stories did help me to understand the sensibilities of some of the  Delhi-wallahs  we encountered in our travels.My one criticism of the book is that he reuses material that has appeared elsewhere, which broke the rhythm of my involvement with his story and made me feel uncomfortable. These passages were extensive, and not changed sufficiently to feel new in any way. I was surprised that his editors allowed this to pass, unless there were deadline difficulties.The overall impression that I was left with is that India today is still suffering from the reverberations of the devastation of partition, which brought incomprehensible tragedy and hardship and touched almost every family in India in one way or another. As we watch India vie for its place in the globalised technological marketplace, we will understand her better if we remember this recent back-story in her development.
5 I had heard of William Dalrymple from various people who recommended that I read his books.Finally, while on an extended trip to Bangalore, India, I picked up a couple of his books. I started with the "City of Djinns," since I had lived and studied in New Delhi and was a history buff.This book provides is a succinct history of the ancient city of Delhi as seen through the eyes of the author who spent a year in Delhi.Dalrymple peels back the layers of this old city in an interesting manner and gives us an interesting and dynamic  glimpse of what the city must have looked like then. What is interesting is that he unravels the past history of Delhi through the eyes of informed denizens of the city. There is a tinge of nostalgia and poignancy when he unravels the history and introduces us to the old and fast disappering history and culture of Delhi. In this process we get to read about the idiosyncrasies of Lutyens (the Britisher who envisioned and built new Delhi), and we meet the last surviving members of the powerful Mughal Empire and how their existence is reduce to one of penury.We get an understanding of how the eunuch culture came into existence and how it continues to survive in modern day Delhi.Since the book falls under the Travelogue category, I would recommend this as a must read book for those who want to know more about Delhi. The next time you visit Delhi step away from the usual tourist circuit and explore some of the areas that Dalrymple talks about in his book.But, even if you are not traveling to India, this is a good read that helps us understand how cities are fast morphing into new entities and in this process a lot of the intricate social and cultural underpinnings of the society are being replaced by new social and cultural norms.
4 Started reading this before my trip to Delhi. Glad that I didn't finish it as I'm really enjoying reflecting on my trip after the fact.
5 I was born and brought up in Delhi, and lived there for 21 years of my life, after which I emigrated to the United States. This book made me feel that how oblivious many of us 'locals' are, of the many riches and insights that my home city has to offer.William Dalrymple peels the multilayered culture of the historical city of Delhi - seven times the capital of empires - ruined and rebuilt again. He spans from the Punjabi immigrants that've filled the newer parts of economically booming Delhi sice the partition of India in 1947; to the more historic but now decrepit old Delhi - where the legendary age old 'Persian' customs such as the 'Kabootar' (Pegion) fights, the 'Chor' (Thief) Bazaars and the mysterious 'Hakims' (Doctors practicing an old school of medicine) are unquestioned parts of the daily lives of many. Dalrymple also describes the curious and unique collision of history leading to the current day fate of the Indian Hijras (Eunuchs), who ring the door bells of apartments of Delhi's denizens, in the old city and the new, on any kind of festivity. He describes the fascinating history and architecture of the tomb of Himayun and Hazrat Nizam-ud-din, the charming old 'Quawaalis' (musical forums) still alive there, and many other monuments that I visited umpteen times as a kid, the 'Sadhus', an ancient culture intact with flavors... the list is endless. Somehow, I missed making the connections, and could see the beauty of the entire kaliedoscope when I read this book. I find my visits to Delhi so much more fascinating. One thing that the readers must be made aware though is the overt focus on history of Mughal (Persian) Delhi - which is for a reason - that all the pre-Mughal monuments were destroyed. The Delhi that exists is newer than the spirit of the city really is.Since I read this book I always try to find such books on the cities I've visited. A strong recommend for anyone visiting Delhi --  you can choose to be put off by the seeming boorishness of the existing 'New' Delhi, or scratch beneath the surface and discover magic!
4 I loved Dalrymple's FROM THE HOLY MOUNTAIN and this book is just as good.  Young (age 25) Dalrymple with his wife Olivia spent a year in Delhi doing research and has written a fascinating book about a colorful city with a long and turbulent history.  What makes the book so interesting is not its history but Dalrymple's day-to-day dealings with the Delhi-wallahs he knows.  There's his penny-pinching Sikh landlady Mrs. Puri, who has built an impressive financial empire in Delhi since she arrived penniless from the Punjab in the partition of 1947.  Dalrymple gets quite few laughs from her tight-fisted philosophy, but also ultimately reveals her to be a vulnerable human being.  There's also his irrepressible driver, Mr. Balvinder Singh of the International Backside Taxi Company who takes the Dalrymples on hair-raisingly fast rides through the throng of Delhi traffic, all the while cursing other drivers and pointing out attractive women along the roadside.  But the person in Delhi that Dalrymple obviously has the most affection for is the gentle Muslim intellectual, Dr. Jaffrey, who has a beautiful story about virtually everything.  The Delhi that Dalrymple reveals is not what I had expected.  My favorite parts of the book were about the partridge fights, the storefront healers, and the mysterious subculture of the eunuchs who support themselves not only by dancing at weddings but by threatening to flash if people don't give them money.  Dalrymple makes several interesting excursions, among them a trip to Karachi to visit the writer Ahmed Ali and a trip to the hill station of Simla, the scene of so many illicit romantic intrigues in Kipling's stories.One thing I found extremely interesting about the book is that the rule of the British has been virtually forgotten by the Indians.  Yes, the English left their language behind, but it has evolved into a colorful dialect all its own (which Dalrymple shockingly compares to American).  This is a thoughtful and provocative book, written with charm and good humor.  Dalrymple's own language verges on the poetic throughout the book.  Here's a sentence describing the elderly Muslim exiles now living in Pakistan:  "The old men swam together through great oceans of nostalgia before finally coming ashore on a strand of melancholy."  What more can I say?  It's a beautiful book.  There's a useful glossary of Indian words appended as well as a detailed bibliography.  Olivia Fraser Dalrymple supplied the evocative watercolor artwork.  I'm planning a trip to India when I retire four years from now.  I'm so glad I read this book.
1 I didn't finish this book.  I usually love this kind of book.  I got tired of all the Indian Jargon.  Yes, it has a glossary, but many of the words weren't even there.  There were references to things never explained.  It was like I came in on a movie in the middle.  The narrative was just not enough to keep going.
5 In "City of Djinns: A Year in Delhi", William Dalrymple enacts the roles of journalist/contemporary interviewer, traveler, myth teller, scholarly historian, even comedian. He moves seamlessly from past to present and talks to survivors and descendants of the Pandavas, the Moghul era, the violent Partition, and the British Raj, even the kin of a Muslim saint.  He exposes the real, murderous, venal, over-sexed  Shah Jehan, creator of the Taj Mahal, arguably the most beautiful building on the planet,  and his equally nasty family.  He interviews two elderly paranoid, racist British sisters, and another impoverished British woman who lives in a hut with a cobra under her bed that eventually kills her.  He attends religious festivals, weddings, funerals, explores long-forgotten ruins, travels by bus and train and foot, visits dusty libraries, and consults local experts on a myriad of subjects.  He describes his eccentric living arrangements with a shrewd Sikh landlady and her addled husband, his colorful local driver, the beautiful maid who doesn't know how to dust.This was one of Dalrymple's earliest books, written in the 90s, illustrated with his wife Olivia's artwork, pre-Internet and pre-googling. I can't help but think that if he had written it today, he could have produced virtually the entire book from his comfortable office in the UK, but it would have lost so much in atmosphere and personality.The Delhi that he describes in this book is truly a city of Djinns (spirits/demons/ghosts) with a very long memory and a very colorful past.  Almost twenty years have passed since this book was published, so there have been many more changes to this  perpetually reincarnated city that has seen it all.
5 I seldom read contemporary travel books, but found this to be a fascinating read, in large part due to the author's device of bringing the past to life by alternating between the present and the past.  In effect, this is two books in one, the first a wonderful exploration of modern Dehli, the second a history of India.  The excursion to the past start in the recent past, and move backwards in time as the book progresses.  It might sound a bit odd to replay history in a counter-chronological fashion, but it works beautifully by establishing a personal connection with the past through living people early in the book.  I love the descriptions of the many people he gets to know in contemporary Dehli.  As the book progresses and one is eventually transported to events of past millennia, the author succeeds in maintaining that connection by showing us that the history of India, even the ancient history, is present in the everyday life of the country today.I lived in India some years ago and never realized how much I missed.  Now I cannot wait to return.
4 This is a superb book on Delhi's history without the textbook type narrative that usually is associated with books like these.Appreciating Delhi is difficult for most non-Delhi wallahs for the ostentatious ways and too aggressive nature of its modern day denizens..but having read this book is like lifting the screen to see a much more beautiful and unbelievably long past of the city; to date a city's history till that long back is truly an amazing feat shown by Dalrymple here.Dalrymple gives comprehensive and unbiased accounts from the city's birth to it present day status, toggling between anecdotes of his own experiences in the city. In doing so, he succeeds in bringing out the secret lives of the eunuchs, passionate pigeon fights in Old Delhi, the wild rule of William Fraser in the jungles of Mehrauli, the frivolous codes of the decorum practiced in Mughal period, the popularity of the Sufi saints and their powers and much more to help you envisage the rich heritage of the city.
5 Dalrymple is fast becoming a superstar in travel writing.  Read City of Djinns and you will understand why.  His style is authorative, yet not pompous.  His anecdotes are funny without being offensive to local sensitivities.  Everything he writes will bring back images and feelings amongst those who have travelled around the old decaying Mughal city.  What a beautiful place it must have been in its heyday some 300 years ago.He doesn't come at you from any pre-disposed angle.  He just tells you what happened during the Moghul, British and then the India days from the view point of every day people.  And unlike many a British writer, he doesn't shy away from taking the arrogant colonialists to task for their blatant mistreatment of one of history's richest cultures.  The decline of the Moghul empire comes across as equally pathetic.  The racial hatred that has followed partition is also laid bare in the most frightening detail - a sea of Muslims and Sikhs sent to inhabit each other's territory with no chance of ever going home.This is travel writing that is frustratingly good - and often very, very funny to those who grew up in either India or the UK.  If only I could tell stories as good as this.  Five Stars.
5 This a travel journal to both modern India and back in time in Indian history. Both are woven together in a thoughtful personal narrative that combines wisdom and humor.
5 Excellent book!! There is a touch of Khushwant singh's prose history narrative (check out Khushwant Singh's Delhi).  Good quality and such books become a lifelong collection to be read again and again.
5 'City of Djinns: a year in Delhi" is probably the finest book on the city of Delhi covering mostly its recent history of 400 years. It is lovingly and passionately researched and is embellished with endearing encounters. The author spends a whole year in Delhi in 1989 and researches for four more years to produce this gem of a book. It was of particular interest to me as I lived in Delhi for five years in the mid- 1970s. This book teaches me how little I knew of the city and its history. The author was just 25 years old in 1989 and shows what a scholar and culturally-sensitive person he was, especially coming from as foreign a culture as that of Scotland. He talks about the many Delhis that exist and has existed in the past.He starts out with India's partition and reveals poignantly the chasm between the old Delhi-wallahs and the new Punjabi immigrants after partition. The Urdu-speaking elite - both Hindu and Muslim - who inhabited the city for centuries during the Mughal and British times looked down on the 'boorish, uncultured' Punjabi immigrants. Their memories of Delhi consisted of Mushairas and mehfils (literary evenings) of great Delhi poets, subtlety and perfection in Urdu and the Delhi cuisine. They saw the new Punjabi immigrants as essentially colonizing farmers. On the other side, the Punjabis see the old Delhiites as lazy, indolent, slothful and effeminate. Consequently, the two Delhis never really meet and mingle. In his research on the old Delhi-wallahs, Dalrymple even goes and meets Ahmed Ali, a quintessential old Delhi elite, who ends up in Karachi much against his will as a result of the partition of India. Ahmed Ali tragically spews venom on partition and Pakistan. But he wouldn't set foot in Delhi even when he accidentally lands in Delhi airport. 'I won't put foot on that soil which was sacred to me and has been desecrated' says Ahmed Ali.Dalrymple also reflects deeply on the New Delhi of the architect Lutyens. He says that the Imperial Delhi of Lutyens reminds him of Nuremberg. To quote his brilliant prose, - '...in its monstrous, almost megalomaniac scale, in its perfect symmetry and arrogant presumption, there was a distant but distinct echo of something Fascist or even Nazi about the great acropolis of Imperial Delhi.....Authoritarian regimes tend to leave the most solid souvenirs; art has a strange way of thriving under autocracy. Only the vanity of an Empire - an Empire emancipated from the constraints of democracy, totally self-confident in its own judgement and still, despite everything, assured of its own superiority - could have produced Lutyens' Delhi."Dalrymple explores the many Mughal monuments in Delhi and delves into the city's life in Mughal times. As I read on, I realized that much of the Mughal history in India that was taught to me in high-schools was mostly a sanitised and untrue version of reality. The brutalities of Mohammed-bin-Tughlak, the massacres in Delhi at the hands of Nadir Shah and Mohammed Ghori and the unjust rule of Aurangzeb have been spelt out in detail in the book. On reflection, I suppose it is just as well that the truth not be told to young minds in India as it would only contribute to greater chasm between Hindus and Muslims. Perhaps, the incestuous advances of Emperor Shah Jahan towards his daughter Jahanara could have been hinted at in our text books!The book examines the legacy of the many living Sufi legends such as Hazrat Nizamuddin, Khwaja Khizr and Moin-ud-din-Chishti and shows the strength of the syncretic culture of India. The author shows us the diversity of Delhi through his meetings with Unani medicine practitioners, pigeon-fanciers, the eunuchs of the city, traditional calligraphers and other religious healers. The lighter side is seen through his Sikh landlady Mrs.Puri and her husband and Dalrymple's favored taxi-driver Balvinder Singh of the International Backside Taxis!This is at once a travel book, a book on Delhi's history, the diary of an young, erudite man as well as an account of a pilgrimage. It is simply a brilliant work.
5 Delhi is a city of many flavors. Some can be tasted, some viewed, some just felt and still others which are just to be believed......just taken for granted.This little book by Dalrymple brings to life a new flavor on almost every leaf.One moment you will have your heart racing finding yourself in the midst of a mehfil at the pinnacle of Delhi's literary history and a page later you will suddenly be transported to dereliction of today's old Delhi, description of mouth watering delicacies from Dara Shikoh's wedding is contrasted by thirst and hunger of Daulatabad death march.The book is remarkably lucid and continuous yet it webs off to touch an aspect of Delhi's life and pulse, leaping off once in a while, only to loop back again to complete a full circle.Alternating between past and present, like day and night, the author spans over 3000 years of Delhi's history and history of its peoples in an ingeniously funny and at the same time poignant way.Dalrymple is a genius of pen and perception and City of Djinns is simply a superlative work of art.
5 &quot;City of Djinns&quot; is by far the best travel book I've ever read.  It transcends the genre.  It was given me by an historically minded Delhi-wallah, and he couldn't have offered a better volume.  Mr. Dalrymple not only spent a year in Delhi, he spent centuries in the history of the 7 Delhis that have been built and lost.  This is not a &quot;go here, see this&quot; sort of travel book.  It is a &quot;discover the wonder&quot; book.  Modern Delhi is a mess of a city, but Mr. Dalrymple takes us deeply beyond the mess into the wonder that exists and the magic that was.  The incredible political and family history of Shah Jehan the founder of Delhi (Shahjehanabad)is the &quot;Godfather&quot; story of family members who would stop at nothing to win the empire.  There is a severed head in this story that makes the horse's head in &quot;The Godfather&quot; look like child's play.  This small portion of &quot;City of Djinns&quot; is worth the price of admission.  I've spent a few months in Delhi, and this book would have made a better introduction than any of the usual guidebooks, as it is, it will make my return to the &quot;City of Djinns&quot; all the richer.
5 dalrymple is simply one of the best travelogue writers today as he lives, breathes, imbibes the culture &amp; history of the places he travels to.  in this book, he takes you to the delhi (india) of old, a once beautiful and cultured city and revisits the historical, political and cultural  forces that shaped it.  dalrymple does all this with a keen eye and a  sympathetic ear for the inhabitants of the new delhi.  he shows an unusual  understanding for the people who once lived there and who live there now,  their aspirations &amp; fears.  even more remarkable is the fact that, the  empathy dalrymple feels comes through while he successfully avoids sounding  patronizing in his depiction of old &amp; new delhi.  all in all a fabulous  and very enjoyable travelogue, historical account and sympathetic tale from  a man who truly belongs without having been born or raised there.....
5 This book, 90% informative and 10% humorous, equals 100% reading enjoyment. It's a delightful and entertaining history of Delhi, India told in a very ingenious way: it runs in reverse pattern from conventional history books in that it starts with the most recent history first and then gradually works back into time, ending in the ancient. However, what I enjoyed the most was how the author always introduces some present-day aspect (an existing ruin or a living person) as background material on which he weaves his historical journey in and out of Delhi's past and present. For example, a Dr. Jaffrey is his link to the Red Fort; a now very old Indian-born English woman, Alice, describes her associations with Lutyens, the creator of New Delhi; a Pakeezah Begum, a crown-princess and librarian, is one of the last surviving descendants of the Mughal emperors and becomes the modern-day connection to history of the Mughal dynasty; and the very decrepit Residency tells you about Delhi's romantic past in the era when it was beautifully intact.I don't know why, but to me the most poignant stories told were about the Anglo-Indians who ended up abandoned by both Britain and India after the birth of an independent India. I never realized such unfortunate people existed, becoming political refugees denied rights by India, the country of their birth; and by the UK, to which they had blood ties. Mr. Dalrymple interviews a few of these people who by now have grown old and are the living remnants of hardball politics of a bygone era. They give their personal accounts of their own hardships. As victims abused by the system, they were denied basic privileges. These interviews are still quite vivid in my memory.In the midst of all the daunting history of this city, Mr. Dalrymple intersperses his daily experiences in the form of funny stories about his landlady and apartment; plus he pokes fun of the heat, the noise, the traffic, the driving--all the typical Indian imageries that have been branded in our minds. While these did add diversion to the detailed history, my one fault with the book is that these incidents happened to be the same-ole, stereotypical situations that have been run to the ground about India. I was disappointed that he didn't exert a more pioneering in spirit and come up with more original subjects. Nevertheless, he has a natural talent for describing comical situations (or do I mean describing situations comically?). In spite of this one criticism, I ended up with big smiles on my face many times. And his prowess at transcribing the English spoken in India to the tee can't help but put a grin on your face.In summary, this is an excellent read just for the sake of learning about a fascinating place. I especially recommend it for history buffs and I heartily recommend it to familiarize yourself with Delhi if it's on your list of travel destinations. I can honestly say that after reading City of Djinns, I most definitely will invest my next time in Delhi looking into some of the sites and districts brought to life in this book.
5 This isn't a guide book.  Or a clever fiction that if fun to read because it takes place where you happen to be traveling.  This is an deep dive into some hidden aspects of an ancient and fascinating city.  Much of which is barely visible in this very modern city, but is still important - essential even - to understanding Delhi.I was lucky enough to read this book while living in Delhi for a year myself.  Certain aspects of the city the book covers, like the eunuchs, and part-British Indians are largely faded from the landscape.. many only there if you look hard enough like Dalrymple does.  Even if you don't experience them directly, they give context to certain areas of the city... places you might pass over without a second glance take on a whole different perspective.If nothing else stood out from the books, the writers take on the riots after Indira Gandhi's death are worth the read.  The subtle undercurrents of tension in India can often be lost on the casual observer.  But if you want to understand this complex city, it's worth learning the harshest parts.  Often history glosses over the dark parts, but this book dives right in.  After all, the Djinn's are the ghosts that make the city what it is.  Don't get stuck on the modern veneer, take this book with you and explore the rich and complicated history of Delhi.
5 I read this book when it was first published; I was living in New Delhi at the time. Dalrymple's writing astounded me, especially for one so young as he was then. I've thought of the book many times in the past 15 or so years, and when I learned one of my friends plans to travel to N.D. in the coming spring, I knew I had to gift her with this book. She will love it as much as I do, I predict. The layers of the city are peeled back through Dalrymple's sensitive approach to history and culture, and the reader is transported to places and times that are long gone, as well as those that are contemporary. Walking through the streets of New Delhi and Old, the reader feels as though the City has come alive in some other dimension. Voices speak from the past, and some of those voices have lessons to share.
5 The first thing that is incredibly interesting about this book is the way it is approached. To call it a travel book, I feel, is diminishing the many other aspects & experiences this book is about.This book is kind of a diary of Dalrymple & wife's year in Delhi. And it is also a book of history scattered behind the sights, the people, & the culture. Dalrymple narrates compellingly, candidly, without biases & with plentiful humour. Stories abound - of the destitute but historically cultured 'old Delhi-wallahs' & the loutish Punjabi nouveau rich, of Anglo-Indians living in reminisce & poverty, of the Delhi eunuchs, of Dervishes that speak in parables, of partridge fights, of khalifas, of Balwinder Singh's buoyancy & lust, of Mr & Mrs Puri's idiosyncrasies.And while you're drifting from one of these interludes to the other, you're taken centuries back to the Kingdom of Shah Jehan, Aurangzeb's treachery & network of spies, of incest in Royal Harems, of Englishmen who smoked hookahs - some who became Indian in their ways beyond recognition, some who continued their English ways, of the partition, of Tughlak's barbaric ways, of the refined mannerisms of a mirza during the Mughal period, of the Red Fort & what lies beneath.Dalrymple is also an astute recorder of conversations. Some of the 'Indian English' that is spoken is in such sharp contrast to Dalrymple's speech, that you cannot help but get tickled. However, I do not think that Dalrymple's intention is mockery for there are plentiful other examples to the contrary.I definitely learned & relearned a lot from this book. I also developed a sense of Delhi's history & a empathy for it's present. And I smiled a lot.
4 `City of Djinns' offers us a history of Delhi that gradually draws us back in time as the book progresses, interspersed with an account of the authors own time living there. There are beautiful watercolour illustrations throughout that were painted by the authors wife and which are reproduced in black and white. These really add an extra dimension to the book and I enjoyed coming across a new painting every ten pages or so. Dalrymple's descriptions really conjure up life in the Delhi of the past, as well as making you envisage modern day life based on his own events and experiences. You can almost taste, smell, see and hear the Delhi he so richly paints for us and some of the Islamic poetic phrases he stumbles across are at times simply breathtaking. Delhi is portrayed as a mix of Sikh, Muslim, Hindu and British in one bubbling pot, with the creativity and conflicts this diversity engenders. The friendships Dalrymple strikes up are a pleasure to read and add some humour and insight to the overall book. All in all, this was a delightful read that captures the essence of Delhi in just over 300 pages. It is easy to read and offers an accessible introduction to the various stages of Indian history from the perspective of one town. This is well worth checking out if your interest was piqued enough to have searched for this book or even if you have stumbled across the product page by accident.Feel free to check out my blog which can be found on my profile page.
3 I enjoyed this novel .  If you have a passing interest in India's fascinating history, you will find it a light but interesting read.  Or if you wish to visit the sub-continent and Delhi, it will illuminate your understanding of this complex city.  Dalrymple tells the story of a city that has been ruled by Mughals, Sikhs, Hindus, the British and more recently regained its independence.  I read it swiftly.  Pleasant narrator/author, who added depth to the history, by plumping out past historical figures and including current day Delhi-wallahs in their daily life.  I would recommend this novel.
5 I lived in Delhi for just under a year in the eighties, and if I had had this book then, it would have been a completely different experience for me. I walked by so much history in puraani delhi, and understood little of its significance. When I return to Delhi, this book will light my way into Mughal, British and Sufi Delhi.I agree with another reviewer that Dalrymple says relatively little about Hindu Delhi, but I think Delhi is one of the most historically cosmopolitan of cities in a subcontinent that is often painted as Hindu in broad strokes. I hope no reader takes as disrespect when I say that Hindu India gets plenty of attention; I am glad that Dalrymple focused on what cultural roads are less traveled. He  does tell, and beautifully so, the story of the role of Delhi's ancestral settlement in the Mahabharata.What I loved most about the book was its portrayal of the vibrant Sufi community in India; the life of a Sufi dargah; the Qawwali singers. Learning about Sufi Delhi was a great and valuable revelation to me.
5 _City of Djinns: A Year in Delhi_ by William Dalrymple is an excellent portrait of a fascinating city. I have to admit, having read a few travel essay books on India that the image I had of the city was of a fairly uninteresting place, a "city of gray bureaucracy" as the author put it. Dalrymple showed me just how wrong I was in this intimate depiction of Delhi, past and present.One of the first things the reader learns in this book is that there is more than one Delhi. The two main Delhis are Mughal Old Delhi and Punjabi New Delhi, each keeping largely to itself, each "absolutely certain of its superiority over the other." Old Delhi has been inhabited for thousands of years, its Urdu-speaking elite (both Hindu and Muslim) having lived in the city for many centuries, the city an ancient one of sophistication and culture, though also a city in severe decline, with many of its once magnificent palaces, gardens, tombs, and mosques, once examples of the "silky refinement" of Mughal architecture now crumbling into ruin, decaying into "something approaching seediness." Many of its citizens are among the last to practice trades dating back to Mughal times, and a large number of them live in exile in Pakistan. In contrast, New Delhi is a growing, booming, bustling city of hard-working nouveau-riche entrepreneurs, largely comprised of people whose roots only go back to the catastrophic days of Partition in 1947, when hundreds of thousands of Punjabi Sikh and Hindu refugees poured into the city. Though I did not get a sense of great conflict between the two Delhis, there was some tension; there are those Old Delhi elites who regard the Punjabi colonizers as unrefined, unsophisticated, vulgar, and even boorish, while there are Punjabis who despise the residents of Old Delhi as "effeminate, slothful, and degenerate."There are however really more than just two Delhis; some count seven Delhis (the current New Delhi being the eighth), while others count 15, 20, or even more. Even New Delhi is he wrote in 1989 not that new; it is a "groaning necropolis, a "graveyard of dynasties." Many different centuries exist side by side, making it a city "disjointed in time," a city of nouveau-riche Punjabi immigrants of the latter part of the 20th century co-existing with Anglo-Indians from the days of the Raj and fakirs, sadhus, and even eunuchs (which really surprised me) that would have been at home during the days of the Mughals.Dalrymple takes the reader to the many amazing sights and experiences of all the Delhis. He visited a Sufi enclave, positively medieval in character, home to mystic dervishes sought by all manner of pilgrims for enlightenment, for prayer, for salvation from djinns, which many - even Sikhs and Hindus - believed in. Dalrymple spent time and effort trying to penetrate the enigmatic society of eunuchs; no longer guarding Mughal harems, they have a complex and hidden society, complete with territories, India and Pakistan-wide council of eunuchs, and a Central School of Dance, where eunuchs learn folk, traditional, and modern dance, performing at households that have had weddings or births (informed of such by their network of informants), their presence seen as both a blessing and a curse. He visited festival celebrations such as Dusshera, the Hindu feast celebrating the victory of Lord Ram over the demon Ravanna, Dilwali, the Hindu festival of lights, and al-vida, "the goodbye," the last Friday of the fast of Ramadan, a major event in the Old City. He journeyed to see pigeon fanciers (a passion of the long gone Mughal court), partridge fights (another Mughal tradition), old Anglo-Indian families (who came to suffer the worst racial prejudice of both Indians and British, most having emigrated to America, Canada, and Australia, the few that remained were as he wrote "the optimistic, the old, or the nostalgic", staying on despite some remaining Indian resentment as well as increasing poverty), and a hakim clinic (hakims being Muslim doctors practicing ancient Greek and Unani medicine, the latter of which was derived from heretical Nestorian Christians, fleeing to Sassanid Persia to avoid Byzantine Empire persecution, passing on their knowledge to the Persians, who in turn passed those skills to early Arab conquerors of Islam, who brought their skills to Central Asia and then eventually to India when refugees fleeing Genghis Khan arrived in the subcontinent in the 13th century).In addition to a tour of places in Delhi, as one might gather the author covered a great deal of history, interweaving it in a skillful manner as it related to his various travels and encounters. Much of the history covered Mughal times though he also covered at length the Raj, Partition, and even as far back as the incredibly ancient times of the great Hindu epic _Mahabharata_, an ancient epic much like the Greek _Iliad_, which like the _Iliad_ has some basis in fact, though it became a story that imposed much later and more elaborate material culture (among others things) from the 4th century AD on what were events that originally transpired in the 9th century BC.The author provided detailed profiles of many residents of Delhi, past and present. Mr. Balvinder Singh, was a notable figure, an "individualist who believes in the importance of asserting himself," a taxi driver who befriended William and his wife Olivia, a hilarious character to read about at times. Also important were Mr. and Mrs. Puri, the Sikh couple that was their landlords and who also became friends, and Dr. Yunus Jaffrey, a gentle scholar of classic Persian, an expert on Mughal times. Notable past figures included the murderous tyrant Sultan Tughluk, the 14th century Moroccan adventurer Ibn Battuta, the highly artistic but brutally cold-blooded Shah Jehan (he constructed the Taj Mahal), William Fraser (an early 19th century Scot who styled himself a local ruler; Dalrymple compared him to Mr. Kurtz from _Heart of Darkness_), and Sir Edwin Lutyens (a fabulous architect who was regrettably quite racist).
4 Fascinating vivid historical descriptions of India......  I found it riveting at first but it became somewhat dry and repetitive as you passed beyond the first third.
3 I'm trying to learn more about India and thought that reading this work on Delhi would provide unique insights.  I thought the approach was interesting, but while reading I continuously felt that  I was missing something. Dalrymple segues between topics almost conversationally, but I kept losing the historical timelines. Sometimes I needed to know much more, and often, much less.The book does give a sense that Indians are very generous with their time, and patient, too.
4 The book traces the life of one of most intrepid explorers of fin-de-siecle 19th century, Sir Francis Edward Younghusband (FEY).FEY was a man of many talents : explorer, writer, athlete, spy, thinker and philosopher. Born to English parents in `Imperial' India, FEY spent his early years at Dharamshala where he came under the influence of his maternal uncle Robert Shaw. Shaw was a keen adventurer and trekker himself which left a deep impact on the young FEY.FEY started his career as an official of the British Empire and because of his treks to China (Gobi desert) and within India (Rohtang Pass) he became recognised as an explorer. At the turn of the century, Tibet remained one of the last uncontrolled regions in the 'Great Game' between Russia and Britain (for increasing their respective influences in the Asian region). Curzon, afraid of Russia's growing influence over Tibet (later proven unfounded), decided to send an 'expedition' to Lhasa headed by Younghusband. (Curzon and Younghusband were very good friends). The expedition was actually a military adventure to assert British influence over Tibet. In this most celebrated event of FEYs life, he along with British troops trekked from Sikkim to Lhasa and signed the Treaty of Lhasa which was responsible for Tibet coming under British influence (till the Chinese took it over much later on).In the post-1904 phase of his life FEY tried, unsuccessfully,  to enter politics. However, this physically-resilient explorer turned into a philosopher after he had a near-fatal accident in Belgium. He also led the `probably' unsuccessful attempts over Mt. Everest in the early-1920s (`probably' because till date the mystery over whether George Mallory did reach the summit in 1924 before perishing to his death remains unresolved).The author also discusses in detail FEYs relationship with his wife Helen and daughter Eileen. PF also uncovers an affair FEY had in the twilight of his life with Lady Madeline Lees.The book is also interspersed with details of how the author, Patrick French retraces Younghusband's steps. In true `living in his shoes' style, the author traces the travels / exploits of FEY. PF travels to Dharamshala, China, Gobi Desert and Sikkim to get a feel of Younghusband's travels. The research done by French on events of more than hundred years ago is commendable and extremely detailed. He even details the number (67) and type of shirts FEY took with him on his 1904 expedition !Patrick French has also recently written `Liberty or Death' which is a lucid and well-researched account of the Indian Freedom struggle.
5 This book is an excellent achievement by a young British writer. Patrick French has meticulously researched all aspects of the life of this enigmatic 'empire builder'.In the earlier stages of his life Francis Younghusband was desparately trying to gain fame and get his name into the annals of British imperialism. In a way time was running out, for the era of great explorations was coming to an end. Therefore the young officer set his eyes on the last frontier: Central Asia.Very soon Younghusband was caught up in the hike-stake 'Great Game': the competition between Britain and Russia for control over the enormous expanses of inner Asia. Both states considered this region as vital for its strategic interests. The British feared that control of Turkestan and Tibet would bring the Russians too close to the mountain ranges separating India from the rest of Asia. The Russians in turn considered the steppes and deserts of Central Asia as a buffer zone between its Far Eastern territories and British-ruled South Asia.Younghusband's travel experiences through the Himalayas, Karakorum, Hindu Kush and Pamir mountains would turn out to be essential for the formation of his later-day personality and activities. By temperament Younghusband fits into that strange category of the late Victorian soldier-adventurer with a spiritual bend. Just like General Charles 'Chinese' Gordon and T.E. Lawrence (of Arabia), he paired a love for action with unmistakable spiritual inclinations.After his military and administrative career in the British India service had come to an end, Francis Younghusband started a new mission in life. He became involved in a myriad of organizations concerned with inter-religious dialogue and the pursuit of world peace. Although, along the lines, he maintained a vivid interest in all 'things Asian' and was deeply involved with the first Mount Everest Expeditions.French has been extremely thorough in investigating this second career of Francis Younghusband, pursuing all kinds of vague leads and intent on turning over the last stone. Patiently sifting through years of correspondence and personal journals, he pieces together a very detailed picture of Younghusband's later life and relationships with the people around him.French's five year involvement with the life of Francs Younghusband was nothing short of an obsession, with the writer being determined to get into the head of his subject. The result is one of the best and most entertaining biographies I have ever read.
3 Well, this story was a surprise.  Younghusband was interesting for maybe 15 minutes.  Like many "short" men full of their own self-importance.  I was not impressed with his noxious disasters and impetuousity which adversely affected thousands.  His latter personal life was also mediocre in the extreme.  Perhaps he had more than a touch of senility and banality.
5 Patrick French's biography of Francis Younghusband - `the last great imperial adventurer' - is beautifully written, insightful and above all humane.  I say humane because at first glance Younghusband could easily be ridiculed - in his youth for a reckless jingoism that cost lives and embarrassed the British government, and in his later years for a brand of religious mysticism that was, well, bordering on insane.  It is a tribute to French's understanding of his subject that he digs beneath these criticisms to bring us a deeply satisfying portrait of a surprisingly complex man.Frank Younghusband's most pressing claim on history was that he led the British expedition into Tibet in 1904 - even at the time seen as being based on a flimsy pretext of stopping Russia from gaining control of central Asia.  Some 2000 Tibetans were killed as the British force made its way into Lhasa.  Younghusband forced a treaty on the 13th Dalai Lama pledging loyalty to the British empire.  The Government in London found this deeply embarrassing and almost immediately repudiated the treaty.  Younghusband himself was convinced of the threat Russia presented to British interests in India and central Asia.But while the expedition created popularity and profile in England, it finished any chances of a senior career with the civil service.  Younghusband served in India in a number of middle-ranking posts and wrote books about Tibet and his earlier exploits as an explorer in central Asia.  In 1906 he played a bit part in the Jamison raid in South Africa - in the pay of The Times.  Most importantly Younghusband thought about spirituality.  Literally following a mountain top revelation in Tibet, he increasingly devoted his life to promoting a form of all-embracing spirituality which led in its silliest form to speculations about aliens living on a planet called Altair.  His later years were devoted to boosting this form of spirituality by establishing popular movements in England, lecturing widely including in the US, running the Royal Geographic Society and supporting Indian independence.All of which one could easily ridicule.  But French brings life to his subject and a subtlety of understanding which makes the book absolutely engrossing.  One reason is that Younghusband was a prolific letter writer - the India Office Library contains 600 "bulging" boxes containing his papers.  Through these we see into the private mental world of Francis - his arid and rather sad marriage to Helen, and the relationship in his very last years with Madeline Lees - truly the love of his life.  These insights allow French to paint a much deeper and satisfying portrayal of a complex man - a person of his time and place but also a complete iconoclast, some one who pushed against the establishment for most of his life.  Remarkably, this is Patrick French's first book, written in his mid-twenties.  He is a natural, a gifted writer with a fine sense of judgement.  No sentence rings out of tune in the whole book.  In short Younghusband is worth every one of its five stars.  If the publishers have any sense they will issue a reprint soon.  If not, readers should do everything they can to somehow find a copy of this wonderful biography.
4 This is a worthy effort by a very able biographer.  But, alas, I found the subject, Francis Younghusband, less than compelling.  As Younghusband's life went on, he seeemed, like his biography, to get duller and duller.  The details of his life in the Indian subcontinent and the Himalayas are superbly rendered, and anyone interested in "The Great Game", Tibet or India during the British Raj MUST read this book. For Younghusband was a major player in those events.  The author also vividly conveys Britain's colonial environment of the time.  But for me, as Younghusband entered the more mystical period of his life, he revealed himself as a dilettante.  I think he just didn't know what to do with himself and just puttered around for the rest of his life.  He was a very complex and conflicted man -- envious, I believe, of his more notable friends and associates.  French paints a nice picture of this man and his times. But, in candor, beyond his Tibet adventures, he wasn't all that fascinating a character.  However, at the end of the day, this is a book many will find worthwhile.
4 I must admit I don't consider this the best book on the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League ("When Women Played Hardball" gets the nod), but "Girls of Summer" is probably the best stright-up history of the AAGBPL.While "When Women Played Hardball" is a very personal book that does a better job of giving you the inside story of the AAGPBL via the league championship series from one season in the early 50's, "Girls of Summer" takes a more clinical approach from a beginning-to-end perspective.  You don't get to know the players as well, but you understand the league better.  It's very well-written, doesn't linger too long on any one topic, and you feel you've learned something when you're done reading it.  If you liked watching "A League of Their Own," you'll like this...and there'll be no doubt who Madonna's character was fashioned after.  If anything, "All-The-Way May" is tame in comparison.There have been other somewhat similar books published on the AAGPBL, but this is the best history.  I'd recommend reading "Girls of Summer" first, then try "When Women Played Hardball" if you want something a little more in-depth and character-driven, so to speak.
5 Loved the way the This is a must read if you love baseball.Girls clicked.Wish that they still played.This is the second time i read this book.
4 Good read. Not 5 stars because for all that it is a good read, I felt like it jumped around a bit trying to cover the whole league.  This made it difficult to stay engaged.  But I did enjoy it
4 The All American Girls Professional Baseball League had a six year run of success starting in 1943. Lois Browne doesn't get bogged down in stats and micro detail, but does an excellent job of describing what it was like to play in the league. Women had very few opportunities in the work force back then , and though their pay was far below the Major League men, it was more than women usually made elsewhere. My only criticism is that perhaps the book could be a little longer. Still, it is one I highly recommend. These women did help pave the way for future women's sports.
4 Like probably a lot of people, I picked up this book when I saw it offered inexpensively for Kindle because I had seen the 1992 movie "A League of Their Own" a couple of times, and was curious about the real-life events that inspired that film.  I know there are several books on the topic of the All-American Girls Baseball League, and maybe there are ones that are better, but this one held my interest and did a very adequate job of filling in the background.
5 Mexico The Beautiful Cookbook contains what it claims: beautiful MEXICAN recipes, which are traditional, therefore not owned by anyone and like all traditional recipes vary from family to family, cooking to cooking. The book is beautifully illustrated and easy to follow. I have used the book over and over and given it as a gift to numerous friends all over the world who all treasure it. Mrs Palazuelos reputation is due to high standards and extremely hard work and with very good reason is considered Mexico's number 1 caterer and now her equally talented son has just opened a hit restaurant of Mex-Thai fusion cuisine, unique in Mexico.
5 This cookbook is truly a worthwhile purchase. Yes, the pictures are nice and there are some good informative paragraphs about the history of the food and regions where the food was influenced by. The the value of this book is in the recipes. The recipes are very authentic to Mexico. Such that some of the ingredients can be hard to find here in the United States.The favors are restaurant quality. Good presentation and the end of the book has techniques and advice on food preparation before you engage in the actual creation of the meals. Every base is covered, so I give this book a full recommendation. It's good enough that I am now curious about the other books in the series.
5 This is much more than a cookbook and rightly deserves it's title. Many people associate Mexican cooking with tamales, tacos and burritos which is no surprise as many of the Mexican restaurants in the US limit their menus to such items. This book goes beyond what Americans consider traditional Mexican cooking and highlights many of the recipes derived from their Spanish ancestors, executed with local ingredients.This oversized book is separated into regions and includes recipes as well as detailed information on the country. There is an extensive chapter on seafood including some excellent recipes which shouldn't come as a surprise since Mexico boasts a 6000 mile coastline. Extensive photography is also included in this book making it a suitable for anybody. If you can find a spot for it on your bookshelve, buy this book!
5 I'm from Mexico and my wife is not; we recently got this book after  a trip there where she fell in love with the cuisine. The book contains authentic recipes, many resembling my abuela's cooking, and are accessible to anyone who understands English. Beautiful pictures are the icing on the cake. Enjoy it as much as we have.  Buen provecho!
5 If you are to buy only one Mexican cookbook, this is the one. It features a fantastic array of authentic recipes (none of them have been adapted to suit the American taste), awesome pictures and a plethora of cultural  information linked to each recipe.I got raving reviews everytime I prepared  a recipe featured in this book, from American and Hispanic friends alike.  This is a real treasure worth every cent of its price.
5 This book is a classic of Mexican Cuisine. It's not as anal-retentive as Diana Kennedy and more appealing than Rick Bayless. The recipes are truly authentic and I have lived in Mexico for many years, researching the cuisines of Mexico. This book contains the majority of the most common dishes cooked in homes in Mexico and a great deal of the "alta cocina" works as well. I have made 75% of the dishes in this book and have served them to Mexican friends to rave reviews. This is the real thing. Marilyn Tausend collaborated in this book and it shows. She is an unsung hero of Mexican Cooking. There are others better known, but few that can take a recipe and make it easy to follow, yet as authentic as is possible with ingredients available in the US. If you want to cook like a real Mexican chef, get this book!
5 This fabulous book is not only a visual piece of art but the recipes are incredible.  Susanna Palazuelos traveled extensively through her home country of Mexico and has put together a cook book like no other.  A true masterpiece.
4 "Mexico, The Beautiful Cookbook" not only is a wonderful cookbook filled with authentic recipes, but also a gorgeous coffee table book showing the beautiful country of Mexico.I received this book as a gift for my birthday several years ago.  I was very excited as I am very interested in other cultures, languages and food.  I was even more thrilled when my husband's stepmother (Mexican descent) told me that she hadn't seen these recipes since her grandmother made them when she was a little girl!Each recipe is easy-to-follow.  There is also a guide in the back describing unusual ingredients.  With some thought, you can make suitable substitutions for those ingredients.  If not, the book will have you pining to make that jump for a vacation to Mexico!Mexican food lovers will love this book.
5 I had many Mexican students in my ESL classes, and my boyfriend is Mexican. I have an extensive Mexican cookbook collection, personally collected recipes, and this is the book I go to over and over. The recipes are pertty easy for anyone who likes real home cooking; you may need to go to a Mexican store to find the banana leaves,epazote,chilis, etc. called for.  But this food is like being invited to eat with a Mexican family.It has a wonderful variety ofcommon Mexican cooking methods and dishes. And what it calls regional are authentic; for example, when I visited Veracruz, I was served fish soup by different families and was a little upset I never got the recipes; this book pretty well duplicated the experience for me.  The recipes are 100% authentic; you will not be disappointed. I have the softcover version and am going to buy the hardcover just to keep out for the pictures and keep my softcover for using in the kitchen.  It's a good cookbook whether you are just starting out or are looking for something a little different for your Mexican repetoir. I HIGHLY recommend this cookbook!!!
5 Really lovely book  not what I was looking for but really beautifully written with gorgeous pictures.  A cup of tea, a rainy afternoon and my cozy chair will add to this delightful book.
5 The book is large (10.5x14.5) and is fully illustrated and worth every penny. The illustrations are not step-by-step but are large images that show the finished product. I learned more from studying the final dish images in large format than from all the other Mexican cook books I have, and I have more cookbooks than I need. The recipes cover the simplest to the more complicated. I like the simpler ones. I have many of the best books from other authors, but they are text, text, text. This one makes me want to cook, which I am going to do right now!
4 This book is beautiful and packed with appealing recipes.  The quality of the paper, the vivid photography, and the engaging travel writing combine to make this more than just a book of recipes.  It's a book you'll pull out and thumb through while you think about where you want to go in Mexico.
3 I knew this book was older went I bought it, but I must say I don't feel inspired to try any of these recipes. Mexican food has come a long way in the states. Nothing new here. Pictures aren't even that great.
5 Of hundreds of cookbooks that claim to include Mexican dishes, this is the only one that completely holds to original, regional, and traditional dishes, without adding any modern variations. It has endured in my kitchen for 40 years, and remains as the singular reliable reference for Mexican recipes. The photography is excellent, and it is only too bad that it is no longer in publication. I have bought them as presents for one or two very special "cocineras".
5 As my husband and I have a predelection for fine cuisine and having  studied with a few world's renounced chefs and aficionados of Mexican Cuisine, I guarantee this cookbook's recipes will delight even the most fastidious palate. The easy-to-follow recipes are ever bit as appetizing and appealing they appear in the exquisite photographs. Even a novice cook will look like pro with the savoir-faire of authentic Mexican cuisine.  I strongly recommend this book for gift-giving.  (I actually own a copy and use it.)
5 I have lived away from Mexico for a while and i was thrilled when i finally bought a new copy of this cookbook that my mother and nanny go back to when they need a specific mexican recipe.Thank god there is a translated version so you cannot go wrong when buying ingredients here in the US!
5 This is the most authentic and beautiful mexican cookbook that I have ever found.  The recipes are full of flavor and the pictures are Muy bonito.
3 Overall, an excellent overview of anarchism that is well worth reading. Glad I bought it and enjoyed reading it.However, at times the author goes from chronicling the views of individual anarchists (and opponents) to coming down on one side or another of a debate. This itself would be useful, except the author seems to give short shrift to views he doesn't share.For example, take Murray Bookchin's criticisms of deep ecology. Marshall simply treats Bookchin's criticisms as untenable and treats Bookchin's disagreements with the deep ecologists as an example of how Bookchin "laments our alienation from nature ... but he would still appear to be a victim of the process."Perhaps if the subtitle of "Demanding the Impossible" had been "An Evaluation and Critique of Anarchism" rather than "A History of Anarchism" this wouldn't have been so jarring, but it left me wondering (as someone not overly familiar with anarchist thinking and debates) how much of his history is colored by his own personal views on what is and is not anarchism proper.
5 Peter Marshall's Demanding the Impossible: A History of Anarchism has all the earmarks of a scholarly but eminently readable tour de force. It's comprehensive, objective, well sourced and indexed, and frequently updated. It has a large and helpful "select bibliography."  The book covers all the major and (forgive the term) minor anarchists well. It's particularly adept at showing the precursors of anarchism as well as anarchism's close philosophical relatives. All the internal and external controversies and criticisms regarding anarchism are covered as well as anarchism's replies. The book covers the history of anarchism in action and in thought. Although the book is a daunting 705 pages printed in a font a tad too small for aging eyes, the book is a page turner. With an admirable scrupulousness, Marshall largely doesn't interject his affiliations until the very end in the epilogue and, even then, he does so minimally.This will be a book that I consult frequently. I cannot recommend it highly enough.
1 I have the paperback edition, published in 2008 by PM Press.  While I am more than sympathetic that it was printed by the "Employee Owners of Thomson-Shore in Dexter, Michigan", I have to say that the point size of the text is making my life miserable.  I try to keep my mind on the ideas expressed on the pages, but the tiny type size bothers me a great deal.  In addition, on some lines the point size is larger than others and some entire pages are a tad blurry.  I don't know if I have a copy from a bad print run or what, but it is really annoying and I don't think that I'll be able to finish the book.  The point size appears to be 8 and quoted text is 6, so it is quite small.  I have 20-20 corrected vision, but this is asking too much.  I may inquire of the publisher.  I wouldn't recommend buying this particular edition - if there is a hardcover edition with larger type size, I'd go with that edition. I'm giving the book a single star, simply because of its readability.  Perhaps that is not fair, but it is the only way I know of to draw attention to the serious defect of this edition.
1 "My edition of Demanding the Impossible was published in 1992 by HarperCollins Publishers. On p.561, Marshall writes that:David Friedman sees such agencies as both brokers of mini- social contracts and producers of 'laws' which conform to the market demand for rules to regulate commerce. Each person would be free to subscribe to a protective association of his choice, since 'Protection from coercion is an economic good.' Apart from adumbrating The Machinery of Freedom (1973), Friedman has popularized Hayek's defense of capitalism as the best antidote to the serfdom of collectivism in books with such self-explanatory titles as Capitalism and Freedom (1962) and Free to Choose (1979).The true author of Capitalism and Freedom and Free to Choose is of course Milton Friedman, David Friedman's non-anarchist father. Milton Friedman is not mentioned in the two preceding pages of the chapter; and in any case "Friedman" clearly is meant to refer to David Friedman. (Nor is Milton Friedman in the index or bibliography of the book, although at least Milton Friedman's books are omitted from the bibliography rather than attributed to David Friedman's authorship a second time.)This error is so egregious that the reader can only conclude that Peter Marshall presumes to write about books that he has never even seen the cover of, much less read. Whether Marshall corrected it in a subsequent edition, or whether the error was simply corrected by the transcriber of the widely available Internet exerpt , I do not know. But even if the correction was Marshall's, for this kind of error to have made it into a published book speaks volumes.On the same page, Marshall writes that:The writings of Ayn Rand, a refugee from the Soviet Union, best represent the intellectual background to the new right-wing libertarianism in the United States. In her The Virtue of Selfishness: A New Concept of Egoism (1964), she attempted a philosophical defence of egoism while in her novels she portrayed a superior individual fighting the forces of collectivism, particularly in the form of the State. Her superior individual, driven by a Nietzschean will to power, appears in the guise of a capitalist entrepreneur who is presented as the source of all wealth and the creator of all progress. Rand claimed that she had a direct knowledge of objective reality, and her 'Objectivist' movement had a considerable vogue in the sixties. Like most anarcho-capitalists, she is convinced of the truth of her own views, which to others appear mere dogma.And in my edition, the paragraph immediately ends. The next paragraph begins, "Amongst anarcho-capitalist apologists, the economist Murray Rothbard is probably the most aware of the anarchist tradition."Again, this outrageous error has been corrected in the Internet excerpt of Demanding the Impossible. But it provides additional proof that Peter Marshall presumes to write about books and authors that he has never read. Ayn Rand's attack on anarcho-capitalism (in "The Nature of Government," one essay in her The Virtue of Selfishness) is so clear that Marshall could only make this error by failing to have even read the author whose views he is describing.These are only two of Marshall's numerous factual errors which demonstrate a shocking lack of basic standards of scholarship. After all, a book is not a Usenet posting; one is supposed to spend months or years in study, fact-checking, re-writing, and so on.Some similar errors appear in Ulrike Heider's Anarchism: Left, Right and Green. Once again, there are errors so gross that the only possible explanation is that Heider presumes to write about books she has never read.A few examples of her poor scholarship:"Menger is considered the founder of the Austrian School of Economics, which continued to refine its theory of monetary value until the middle of the 20th century. The most prominent descendent of this school of thought is is monetarist Milton Friedman, the economic authority for such politicians as Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, Margaret Thatcher, and others." Anarchism: Left, Right, and Green, p.100.Milton Friedman is not and never has had any affiliation with the Austrian School. In fact, he is the most famous member of the rival Chicago School, which even a minimal study of the differences between free-market economists would have revealed."If it weren't for their obsession with work and their misanthropic outlook, one might mistake Rand's heroes for left-wing bohemians. They are always Anglo-Saxon Americans." ibid, p.105Francisco d'Anconia, one of the four major heroic characters in Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged is of South American nationality."Roark's rival, the mediocre architect Peter Keaton..."ibidThe character's name is in fact Peter Keating. While the error is trivial, it does indicate that Heider sees no need to get the basic facts straight when she discusses a book. The Fountainhead is divided into four sections, each named for one major character; "Peter Keating" is the title of the first section. It would be very hard to miss, unless you never read the book (or wrote from memory years afterwards).Reversing her previous confusion about the Austrian vs. the Chicago schools of economics, Heider appears to attribute monetarist policy prescriptions to Rothbard: "The monetarist road out of such misery must lead through a depression, the 'painful but necessary process by which the free market rids itself of the excesses and errors of the boom.' [quotation Rothbard's] Rothbard recommends that the government do the exact opposite of what the Keynesians suggest: it should simply abandon its policy of inflation by giving the free market reign and by reinstating the gold standard." ibid, p.131.Again, Rothbard spent the better part of his academic career attacking monetarism and the Chicago school of economics with which monetarism is associated.I have been informed by admirers of Murray Bookchin that Heider's work contains similar gross errors about eco-anarchism. Since this is not my field of expertise, I do not presume to point them out, but it would not surprise me.It is one thing to violently disagree with an author, and to express one's disagreement in a book. It is another matter entirely to get basic facts wrong; so wrong, in fact, that it casts doubt on whether the author read the books he or she presumes to write about. "
4 Seven hundred pages of fine print, and another hundred of footnotes (in 2010's revised edition) narrate thousands of years over which people have longed for the right to make their own decisions, live as best they choose among each others' mutual assistance and communal support, and to conduct their livelihoods and relationships as they please, free of coercion, top-down dominance, or imposed government or creed. If leaders are chosen, if organizations are established, then these are entered freely and exited at will.This sums up anarchism's principled versions. It seems from early on, philosophers, priests, bosses, legislators, politicians, and generals all have feared such a movement. Peter Marshall's immense survey shows the results, parading steadily the greatest names in the centuries who've tried to make theory into practice. The Introduction begins with great quotes from some of its exponents, and prefaces in Part I anarchism as it is in theory. While &#34;the river of anarchy&#34; changes with each version, the essence of freedom attracts a few each generation to plunge into what, by the heady rhetoric recurring, appear inviting waters of liberation, personally and socially. For, society for most advocates remains, even if the State withers away. The former is sought freely; the latter isn't chosen. &#34;Society and the State&#34; and &#34;Freedom and Equality&#34; articulate this in Marshall's introduction.In Part II, the forerunners of anarchism, Taoism and Buddhism, surprisingly show how ancient this impulse is. Feared by Plato if somewhat anticipated by the pre-Socratic Greeks, its impulses survived into early and medieval Christianity, among such as dissenters, heretics, guilds, and rebels against Rome--and against Luther, tellingly. By the English Revolution, we see the short rise of Levellers and Diggers, and the brief establishment of Gerard Winstanley's commune--and then his about-face later in life, as he turned away from his earlier rebellious stance. Inconsistency, as Marshall patiently notes, characterizes many who in the French Renaissance and Enlightenment and also, as with Burke in the British Enlightenment, toyed with models for radical change without truly supporting them.By Part III, French, German, British, and American libertarians emerge. Not quite anarchist for the term was not yet in common usage, but such as Tom Paine presage if imperfectly, for many sought the protection of a Jeffersonian State, however limited, along a federalist or decentralized system, the dreams of the later 18th century, as revolution sparked the possibility for change and no more kings. Partial anarchists, as it were, abound among Rousseau, Emerson, Swift, Mill, Morris, or Fourier, et al.In Part IV, we finally reach the heart of the book. Classic anarchist thinkers begin with the passionate example of William Godwin, the lover of order. Next comes the near-Nietzschian Max Stirner, the conscious egoist, who as many would angered Marx. Pierre-Joseph Proudhon's intricate theories reveal the philosopher of poverty. Two Russians pair off: Michael Bakunin as the fanatic of freedom, full of inconsistencies as many theorists seem to be in this century. Peter Kropotkin, the revolutionary evolutionist, tries to tame the theories with a study of geography and science to fit anarchism within a natural determinism, akin to many world-changing paradigms of the nineteenth century. So does, on a smaller scale, the fierce Elise&#769;e Reclus: the geographer of liberty. For all but Reclus in this long part, Marshall offers a grand sweep of their life and thought before entering topics such as their ethical views, political attitudes, thoughts on the State or human nature, to clarify particular ideas in depth.The twentieth century's Errico Malatesta, the electrician of revolution, sparks a new current: the energy of the will, not of nature, as a way to transform human drives towards peaceful (again a contentious point among many, as the fall of the Paris Commune and the rise of WWI split many) goals. Marshall seems to sympathize with those who reject war or violence, as these are coercive means to achieve the end of the end of class antagonism, national boundaries, and capitalist rule.Leo Tolstoy, the count of peace, gets sympathetic treatment, and various American individualists and anti-State Communists such as Lysander Spooner (who finally takes on a question I'd been waiting for ever since I read Locke to ask: who signed us up to the social contract established by the &#34;consent of the governed&#34; centuries ago?), Voltairine de Cleyre, Benjamin Tucker, and Alexander Berkman but they're all skimmed over too hastily, in admittedly a very lengthy book as it is. Sasha B's companion,Emma Goldman as &#34;the most dangerous woman&#34; earns a brisk, lively study, as Marshall scans her ambiguous position between understanding and condoning the use of violence to achieve liberation.German Communists, notably the brave martyr to the cause in the aftermath of 1919's failed Munich soviet, Gustav Landauer, follow suit, and then Mohandas Gandhi, who counters brutality as &#34;the gentle revolutionary&#34;; a strength of Marshall's treatment is that he firmly if gently calls out Gandhi for devolving from leader to guru with a cult of personality, or chides in part V, &#34;Anarchism in action,&#34; those in France, Italy, and Spain who capitulated to compromise, as with the CNT-FAI, and so lost the momentum of the social revolution, during Spain's war against fascism--and Stalinism. Still, then as now, some accommodation with party politics appears inevitable for many radicals, to advance situations amenable to elusive goals of autonomy and mutual aid beyond unions or regions.Russia and the Ukraine, with Makhno's early attempt, similar to Spain's at a sustained anarchist society during war, offer cautionary tales, as do repeated situations in Northern Europe, the United States, and especially Latin America, when attempts at progress were stymied by unions, violence, agitation, and crackdowns. Mexico and Cuba repeat the same story as the USSR and Spain, where anti-statist traditions were lured or pressed into capitulation by crafty cadres led by brutal despots.While these chapters inevitably and rather dully in parts tell some of the same narrative the earlier chapters on leading anarchists had, depending on the nation, glimpses at such movements as French Situationists, British punks, American Wobblies, and German agitators show how the 20c managed in a few nations to survive its heyday 1880-1930 and a few progressives lived long enough to see the 1960s and inspire younger activists. The downside of this in India, where the Sarvodaya movement was co-opted by a very clever politician who used it for his own party advancement, is also telling.After a hasty look at Asia (many regions get a rapid glance, and this tends to be names-and-dates and unions-full-of-initials types of coverage, of uneven interest compared to earlier biographical narrative), Marshall shifts in part VI to modern anarchism, with the New Left and the counterculture. This lively section looks at Situationists, Kabouters, Provos, and Greens along with anarchists themselves, as by the 1960s, a loose collective rather than unions or platforms drives many experiments. One of these, concocted on the New Right as anarcho-capitalism, merits blunt critique.Modern libertarians and anarchists gain briefer mention; Murray Bookchin and his ecology of freedom meets an in-depth challenge as Marshall takes on this former and then future Marxist who bridled at the &#34;lifestyle&#34; rather than &#34;social&#34; anarchists as insufficiently committed. Marshall's passion emerges here and makes this part of the book lively and spirited. Similarly, his reprise as Part VII of the book's contents, as he reviews the big thinkers who established the legacy of anarchism, its ends and means, and the relevance of anarchism, along with an epilogue, shows how difficult it is for the author to let go of this vast topic. He examines the strengths and weaknesses, he tackles the applicability of this ideal to our &#34;post-scarcity&#34; economy after the heady utopian dreams of the 60s have given way to environmental damage, job loss, unfettered capitalism, and a commodity culture.Again, in the last sections there is some repetition, and certain material gets included a third time, for overlap of thinkers, regions, and recent events may be inevitable. A history of a big idea causes the weight of a big book. But anyone who's read shorter works such as Colin Ward's Anarchy: A Very Short Introduction or the newer A Living Spirit of Revolt by Ziga Vodovnik (both reviewed by me in May 2014 here) will welcome Marshall.P.S. This massive work might be read on a Kindle so note-taking can be eased. As the print copy and bulk necessitate a very small font, readers may prefer a dual version. I found the index and notes easier to consult in book fashion, but the highlighting made an e-book appealing. A few typos remained, and the margins of a Kindle version meant that 40% of the text was end-material, but the portability of this meant I could finally finish what I'd been making my way through in print, slowly...
5 Although the pioneering work of anarchist history was Woodcock's relatively tiny volume &quot;Anarchism&quot;, Marshall demonstrates with this revision that the torch has passed from Woodcock to him. What is most satisfying in this edition is that, although Marshall's sympathies are unambiguously anarchist, he manages to offer a very balanced, clear, objective, helpful historical account, combined with admirably critical insights. Written in 1991, it has an added value for being reasonably recent, as previous scholarship on the subject is by now mostly dated. &quot;Demanding the Impossible&quot; is superior also because of its sheer bulk: 700+ information-packed pages. Not merely confining himself to looking at anarchism as an ideology, Marshall spans a period starting from Buddhism and Taoism, to ancient Greece and Christianity, up to the present and offers a rich and powerful exposition of these cultural phenomena and the ways in which they prefigure anarchistic ideas, to form a many-streamed &quot;river of anarchy&quot;. In addition, there are explorations of modern anarchism in action in Russia and the Ukraine, Asia, Northern Europe and the United States, among many other countries across the globe. Other chapters include surveys and critiques of the major classical anarchist thinkers -- Mikhail Bakunin, Count Leo Tolstoy, Max Stirner, William Godwin, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Prince Kropotkin -- as well as examinations of libertarian movements and thinkers allied to anarchism, such as Wilhelm von Humboldt, Nietzsche, J.S. Mill, Herbert Spencer, the existentialists Sartre and Camus, The New Left, the hippy Counterculture, Right Libertarianism, the work of Michel Foucault, and so forth. Extremely accessible account overall.
1 On p. 442, Marshall writes, "Georges Sorel, inspired by by Proudhon and the syndicalists, maintained in his Reflections on Violence (1908) that class war invigorates society. He opposed 'bourgeois force', arguing that the latter has a purifying effect that enables people to take possession of themselves. The general strike moreover is of value as a 'social myth', an article of faith which inspires the workers in their struggle. For Sorel, social myths are important since they are 'not descriptions of things, but expression of a determination to act'. Although he later influenced Lenin, Mussolini and Action Franaise, he did not object to acknowledging himself an anarchist since 'Parliamentary Socialism professes a contempt for morality' and the new  ethic of the producers."Mr Marshall, as a historian of anarchism, seems to share their indifference to facts.Sorel did not influence Lenin. Lenin called Sorel `the well-known advocate of confusion'. The Marxist historian of philosophy George Lukacs referred to Sorel's `totally insubstantial theory of myth'. So it is a bit of a stretch for Marshall to write that Lenin was influenced by Sorel.This mistake is typical of this unreliable book. It is careless of the facts, even about its subject, and still more unreliable about any other politics.
4 For those of us who marveled at the manner in which the combined Allies created and conducted the trials of the German hierarchy at Nuremberg, successfully demonstrating to the world the fashion in which the British, French, American and Russian allies could cooperate and compromise sufficiently to prosecute some of the most murderous of the motley crew  comprising the Nazi regime, the stunning failures of our similar attempts to settle the issues surrounding the disposition of the Japanese war criminals was a bitterly disappointing revelation.Indeed, by the time the collected Allies gathered to consider the fate of the Japanese offenders, the world had changed, and the welter of economic, social, and geo-political concerns that had united the Allies now served to separate them. As a result, the efforts to render anything approaching objective justice to the often barbaric behavior of high ranking Japanese officials were doomed from the inception.Moreover, the relative lag in time between the war's cessation and the first beginnings of serious efforts to enact a tribunal served to work against justice by making it more difficult to locate and secure evidence, much of which had been destroyed in the final stages of the war.  As mentioned above, the lack of international cooperation and a variety of differences in terms of perceived national interests also contributed to a seeming inability to move forward on any but a few of the defendants in the first two years following the end of hostilities in August 1945.As the author reveals, the Japanese war crimes trials were troubled from beginning to end in terms of relative respect, loss of critical evidence, insufficient staff and resources available, and an inhospitable cultural atmosphere which tended to stifle and limit the range of punishments unnecessarily. Still the author, who had participated as a news correspondent at the trials, skillfully mines both his own recollections and the range of materials he had at his disposal, including memoirs, transcripts, and interviews to meaningfully reconstruct a sometimes riveting account of this historic event. This is an interesting book, and one I would not hesitate to recommend. Enjoy!
5 If you are curious about what or how the Japanese War Crimes Trial went down, this book is for you.  The writer is not interested in merely stating the facts or telling what happened but takes the reader through the trial from start to finish high lighting stories and issues that other writers (even those authors who were directly involved in the trial itself) didn't know or bother to find out.  This book is worth the time and I highly recommend it.
4 Everyone knows the story of the Nuremberg Trials but today the story of the Tokyo Trials is largely forgotten outside of Japan. The Allies who prosecuted the Pacific War held trials of Japan's war leaders on the same legal basis as those of the Nazis following the end of WWII. This book, written by a reporter who was present during the proceedings, looks at international law and the violations of it while Japan attempted to take over Asia. Also, the Japanese government's involvment in narcotics trafficing and both large-scale and small-scale atrocities directed at the civilian populations and POWs was addressed during the trials.While imperfect, the trials not only established the criminal behavior of Japan's government but determined the punishment of key leaders involved. The war guilt of Emperor Hirohito was never addressed (or addressed only obliquely) for political reasons while seven men were hanged for war crimes.A good read with some photos.
4 I have been a student of the Holocaust since before I was a teenager.  A major focus of my interest was the Nuremberg Trials in which the surviving Nazi big wigs were brought to justice in an extensive judicial review of the high crimes of Nazi Germany.  The world was focussed on the trials and an Academy Award-winning feature film was made about them as well.  When I read a review of "The Other Nurembeg: The Untold Story of the Tokyo War Crimes Trials", it may have been the first I knew that there actually was such an inquest.  I never came across it at book stores so I sought it out on Amazon.com to find out just what the trials were all about.These trials were somewhat different from their German counterpart.  One difference was the control that General MacArthur held over the creation and (to a small extent) control of the trials.  There were also a lot more countries represented on the Bench.  Instead of the Big Four in Europe, the Americans, English and Chinese were joined by jurists from Australia, the Soviet Union, The Netherlands, The Philipines, India, and France.  The chief judge was an Australian and the chief prosecutor was an American.  The accused, however, were all Japanese.There were a variety of issues involved such as the Rape of Nanking, the forced labor, the surprize attack on Pearl Harbor, the killing of POW's and shooting survivors of torpedoed ships, the mass murders in China, The Philipines and elsewhere.  The issue of waging an agressive war was also an issue which was worked over and defined.The genesis of the tribunal and the prosecution of the trials are spelled out well in Arnold Brackman's researched recollection as a journalist covering the trials at the time.  Some topics and crimes may seem to be covered in less detail that the reader may prefer.  However, Brackman's description of the tens of thousands of pages of evidence and testimony gives us an overall aprreciation of the author's ability to summerize the major points of the trials.  There are a lot of incidents referred to that may have escaped the attention of many readers.  The initial outbreak of the invasion in China was an event known as the Mukden Incident which was news to me.  At times the vollume of brutality left the author acknowledging that there was a lot more than he (or the tribunal) had time to cover.Brackman had a good sense of the personalities and rivalries involved in the judges and lawyers working in the trials.  He also was rather defensive at times regarding that variety of opinions back home about the War and its' causes.  He is also willing to speak frankly about some of the merits of the defense of the accused.  For example, he points out that the Japanes army had "liberated" a number of European colonies in Asia.  However, Brackman also points out that the Japanese were more brutal to their Asian captives than they were to the European ones.At times the book seems more oriented to a legal focus rather than an historic one but this is, afterall, about a trial rather than a battle.  In the end, the trial, having lasted well past what was expected, came to an end with seven executions and a number of lengthy prison sentences of which most ended with parole in the mid-1950's.The Tokyo trials were not the focus of the world like their Nuremberg counterpart.  However, they were an important reminder that, even in war there are standards of decency.  The evidence that we do get reminds us of the reason for the trial.  "The Other Nuremberg", like the trials themselves, is valuable for the closure that it brings to the end of a brutally waged war of agression.
5 Arnold as a journalist wrote this report for all readers who want the story without too much legal terms. Of course, this is not a book on the full history of Japan waging aggressive wars in Asia with her European axis friends.  It presents the facts to prosecute the Class A, B, C war criminals with only 7 convicted to die by hanging by the international team of judges.However, due to international politics, it was reported in this book,the chief puppet responsible for waging aggressive wars, breaking peace and waging war against humanity was shielded and other war crime criminals were spared.  Some topics were under-covered such as the pursuit of nuclear weapons, conducting biological experiment on POWs and  kidnapping women as sex slaves.  The court focused more on China, especially from Mukden Incident (September 18 1931), ten years before Pearl Harbor. It quoted Takashi Nagase, an English interpreter with the POWs, "I can tell you that the conditions for the POWs who worked on the bridge were much worse than depicted in that movie (The Bridge on the River Kwai)" (p.260). Many of the war criminals escaped justice and returned to civilian lives afterwards and many still hang on their pre-war logic of imperialism and militarism testified by Tojo and company.Different from the Nazi counterpart, the convicted and executed war criminals by Tokyo Trial, regarded as royal imperial warriors, were secretly enshrined  Tokyo Yasukuni Shrine with annual homage by officials and soldiers who preach to whitewash, distort and deny the court record of Rape of Nanking.  Asian countries protest this worship and it caused disputes.The Rape Of NankingUnjust EnrichmentGuests of the Emperor: The Secret History of Japan's Mukden POW Camp,This is an important book of history to understand international politics and how it affects the current situation in the Pacific Region and American national policy.
5 HARVEY PENICK'S LITTLE RED BOOK: LESSONS AND TEACHINGS FROM A LIFETIME OF GOLF is a must have for any serious golf library.  Filled with anecdotes, stories and practical golf advice, Penick's book is a forthright, enjoyable read.  No wonder these lessons had such an impact on the likes of golf greats Ben Crenshaw and Tom Kite, both of whom were Penick proteges.Penick's book also lends a classical look at a classical game.  With all that's going on in the world of golf today: the exorbitant salaries, conflicts about equipment and vintage courses becoming too short, Penick's book reminds us that once upon a time golf was a genial game instead of a rabid business.  Read it and gain some needed perspective on the greatest game in the world.THE HORSEMAN
4 This book covers everything you need to know to improve your game.  Mr. Pennick's insights are quick and concise.  This is ibe of the best instructional books I have ever read. The only advice I have to give is to take one tip at a time.  Pick one thing to work on, when you feel you have achieved what Mr. Pennick said, then move on to something new.  The tips are also sprinkled with tales of yesteryear and legends of the game. It is difficult to read this without wanting to put the book down and try each tip as it comes along, I would say read the book once, then go back and work on the things that made hte most sense to you.T
3 If I could compare this book to a golf swing, I would say the set-up and approach looked good, but the writing fell apart through the impact zone and follow through.There is a lot of praise out there for Harvey Penick, and based upon the numerous comments in the book's forward by the well-known golfers he mentored, I have no doubts that the praise is well warranted. Unfortunately, while Penick himself in the book's introduction sets up his "Little Red Book" as a lifetime's masterful compilation of golf wisdom and best kept secrets finally made public, the book fails to live up to the author's own advertising and is a bit disappointing.A fair amount of down-to-earth tips, techniques, and golfing philosophy that Harvey had applied to his students are shared in the book. And if just one of those tips can improve one's golf game, then I would say the book is worth the price. But too often, the "Little Red Book" comes off as an exercise in name-dropping and rambling golf anecdotes, many of which are not all that interesting nor amusing. It pains me to say that, knowing what a revered figure Harvey Penick has been to some in the golfing community, but that is just my honest assessment.What also disappointed me about this book was that although Harvey Penick gives a couple of concessions to the virtue of humility, there appears to be a somewhat bragadocious quality to the narrative. That would be more excusable if the "Little Red Book" was in fact packed from cover to cover with the invaluable tips Penick promises in this introductory chapter, but that is not the case. Here is a short example of what I am talking about:In the chapter titled "First Things First," Harvey writes about a man who came to his country club seeking out "this famous teacher, this Penick fellow." The man says if Harvey is "such a great teacher" perhaps he can give some advice on how to get out of sand traps. Harvey 's response - which abruptly ends the brief chapter -  is something to the effect that it is better not to get into sand traps to begin with...a response that is not only rather obvious but neither practically helpful nor particularly clever.That exemplifies too much of the tone of this book, which is unfortunate, because there are some good down-to-earth visualization techniques and other bits of instruction, which, if solely focused upon, would have made this a far better and more useful read.
5 Mr. Penick shares a lifetime of golf wisdom in this easy to read and timeless classic.  Every golfer should have this book in their library.His humble style and sincere desire that every golfer improve (and most importantly, have fun) make this book helpful for golfers at all levels of playing ability.
5 book-my HUSBANDS personal copyCo-writerBud Shrake-Austin,TexasHarvey Morrison Penick-10/23/1904 to4/2/1995. Book is the 1992 edition.Instant classic-88 T I P S/175 pages/no photos. This is a SMALL red book.Throughout his love for golf and his loveof teaching shows through. He started outas a caddie at the Austin,Tx Country Club.He had been teaching for 60 years.My husband who DOES NOT read books LOVESTHIS ONE. Refers to it often. Its timeless.Still good info for 2012.Harvey says to also read:MODERN FUNDAMENTALS OF GOLF by Ben Hogan &HOW TO PLAY YOUR BEST GOLF by Tommy Armour.bbp okc ok 62 retired
4 It's a good book, but you have to read it more one time to discover in some cases what Harvey is trying to say you. The book has a lot of pearls.
4 An interesting mix of story, sayings, memoir and instruction..only the most ardent golfer or golf instructor could get much out of the instruction, but the story, sayings and memoirs are good, many outstandng.The concept of the Little Red Boook is interesing and alluring to the reader. An interesting mix of information. Well worth the read, but it leaves the reader--at least this reader--wishing it was two books, one of instruction, one on the other interesting and insightful informaton in the book.
5 Harvey Penick was first an amazing person and then an amazing golfer and teacher of all aspects of the game.  This is a wonderful book on many levels.
4 This book contains many entertaining anecdotes gathered over the course of may decades. Harvey Penick chose to become a teaching golf professional rather than barnstorm the country during those early years of golf tournaments when many professionals were simply glorified hustlers. Eventually Penick became widely respected and many notable players and duffers stopped over to visit him at the practice tee. Over time, the wooden shafted golf clubs gave way to titanium steel.I certainly enjoyed the historical perspective that the book provided. Although some golf instruction is included in the book, it is more of a nostalgic look backwards to days spent in the Texas sun mowing the lawns and watering the greens. Reading a book like this is not a bad way to spend an afternoon. Harvey Penick had a good life.If you are searching for a serious golf instruction manual, however, you may want to choose another book.
5 I refer back to this book all the timel I enjoy this book helpful tips to improved my  golf game. I think any golfer would like this book.
4 Good advice. The fact there are short chapters that you can read in any order.  If you have a particular problem you can go right to the section about that problem.
5 Unfortunately i sold it on amazon kind of wish i still had it as i may at some time go out and play a little golf
4 Expected more instructional tips, rather than anecdotes.Stil it was enjoyable to read. The game of golf lost a great mentor when he died.
5 One of the best teaching books available. Great Humble man that I got to meet.
4 I enjoyed the book, it had some great tips. But it's not for a beginner looking for swing fundamentals, instead try Ben Hogan's 5 lessons and David Leadbetter's 100% golf. Still worth reading though.
5 My PGA instructor recommended I read this book. I had purchased the paper copy over 5 years ago and never got around to reading it. I somehow misplaced it, so I purchased the Kindle Version (much harder to lose since it is in the Cloud and on the device) which turns out to be a much better deal. I can search by text, chapter, and highlight or take notes which is faster to search.I can understand why modern players and beginners might be frustrated by reading the book, as it isn't presented in a format like a magazine with the "latest" swing tips. Harvey is an old-school caddie and instructor, but the concept of golf and swing fundamentals have not really changed.Harvey has some interesting stories and anecdotes, but much of his instruction is solid advice. I found it to differ from a lot of advice offered in books like Golf for Dummies. For instance, McCord recommends trying to putt so the ball ends 18 inches past the cup. Harvey recommends having the ball die at the cup to prevent it from overshooting.Overall: 5/5 stars. A classic golf book that comes highly recommended, even by my PGA instructor.
5 I just got through reading "Harvey Penick's Little Red Book".  I enjoyed it so much that I had to apologize about my delay in submitting a positive comment on the seller's feedback page. But the book was that enjoyable! I read the book because I was told it is a good example in marketing and business management ideals.  I don't even play golf! I was able to apply Harvey Penick's words to attitudes and approaches to life though!  He not only teaches what he has learned about golf during his long rich life, but he also teaches a philosophy in how to live one's life.  His methods of evaluating the actions of his students and sharing what he has learned in an effort to improve thier lives is obvious to me.  He refuses to use negative impressions in his teachings.  Instead, he accentuates the positive.  He educates by guiding his students instead of "teaching" them.  I love his ability to teach with images, parables and metaphors.  His chapter "First Things First" about the golfer who wanted to get out of sand traps is great!  After all, the problem is not always what you think.  I challenge anyone to read "Harvey Penick's Little Red Book" and share with me how they can apply his knowledge to thier business and personal lives.  Whether you play golf or not, this book is good reading!
5 hard to buy for son-in-law keeps this book handy for re-reading chapters. was happy he is enjoying it hope it helps his golf game.
5 Interesting little book filled with interesting anecdotes and solid advice for golfers of all levels and abilities!  Don't miss it!
5 Ben Crenshaw doubled over and openly wept after holing out to win the 1995 Masters tournament.  His golf teacher, friend, and father figure Harvey Penick had passed away shortly before the tourney.  Ben felt that Harvey was `guiding' him in the final rounds, and the emotions finally overtook him.  The impact of the moment was very touching, but it wasn't until I finished Harvey's Little Red book that I began to understand the poignancy of the connection. The 90-year-old Penick had taught Ben since Ben was 7.  The little red book of the title is the notebook, journal, and freeform diary of Mr. Penick.  Compiled from golf observations throughout his life, it was only in his waning years that he agreed to allow anyone to see it.  What a treat and a privilege it was to read.  This is a wonderful piece of literature.  Having recently completed Hogan and Armour's instructional guides, this was an excellent follow up.  Not nearly as meticulously mechanical and cold as Hogan, nor as blandly wandering as Armour, Penick's actual instruction is extremely straightforward in its scope.  I also think that the longer one has played golf the greater one appreciates this work.  Not written strictly for the beginner, as the other two books are, Harvey comments not only on instruction and mechanics, but also course design, tournaments, hustlers, metaphorical imagery, and caddying in the early part of the century.  Throughout the book, his love of teaching and his immense pride in his pupils continues to carry the theme, allowing one to understand the connection he had with his students.  Having become extremely weary of the cloying media and corporate anointment of T. Woods, reading about golf as seen through Harvey Penick's eyes was a much-needed tonic.  Highly recommended.
5 Harvey Penick wrote his masterpiece with this book, a simple, common terms, way to understand all you ever needed to know about golf.  In an age of technical, computer, look-alike golf swings, Harvey Penick wrote a book that the common man can understand.I have used the thoughts and tips from Harvey's book for over five years now, and it has done nothing but help me become a better golfer, and student of the game.  Harvey's tips are great not only for amateurs, but are used by professionals as well.  This book is the bible of golf books, a starting point for anyone interested in the game, or interested in getting better.I know people who read this book every year getting ready for the golf season, and it does nothing but help them with their game.  Some of the best parts of this book are when Harvey shares anecdotes from his life, which are always filled with humor and applicable to the golf world, and life.Harvey Penick was a mad who had integrity, and that is why his legacy lives on.  This book is highly recommended to golfers, and non-golfers who might just catch the golf bug after reading this book.
5 Mr. Pennick understood why we hapless idiots play "the gemme." His insights are straightforward, simple, and timeless. You can open this book to any page and find an epiphany. Good stuff.
5 The men in my life love golf and love the wisdom Harvey has so eloquently produced in this book! Enjoy!
4 What a great read this little book is for us golf lovers. But in terms of "instruction" you may find it a bit thin. Speaking in parables at times, the message at the end of each little chapter is not as good as the story. Buy the book for the great read that it is !!! Just don't expect game altering advice.
3 I actually heard about this book during a sermon at church used as an example of simple honest people. I read through the collection of short stories in a matter of two days and passed it on. If you are waiting to get the single most important revelation of your life re:golf, I can recommend Tom Watson's Rules of Golf and another Jack Niclaus paperback that I have bought at least 5 times that is probably no longer in print. Tom tells you the history and options on every rule which is invaluable enteratining and more important, understandable in English. Jack tells you about strategies on the course which was the single most important book I have ever read for match play situations. Harvey is a nice guy who probably never said a bad word about anyone in his life, but was far from the simple guy he is portrayed to be. It was light and amusing and some of the portraits of golfers he taught are pretty neat. But for pure instruction to improve your game, there are some great books out there. And, it doesn't take a lot of room on the shelf!
3 Good stories great tips but I wish there are more illustrations.I like the bucket tip from all of the tips
3 Didn't have the type of info I thought would be in it but for the $$$ not a bad read.
5 In evaluating this book, it's important to note what it is, and what it isn't.It isn't a straightforward instructional book. It's very non-linear; for example, the grip is not discussed until page 30, and the stance until page 110. Instead, this is more a book of collected observations about the game, its pleasures and pains, its pitfalls and secrets for success, and its personalities.Another thing it is not: a classically well-written book. After all, Harvey was a golf teacher, not an author (it appears that -- to his credit -- co-author Shrake allows Harvey's voice to come through, instead of completely rewriting his thoughts). What ultimately results is a slim volume full of both anecdotes and helpful tips (I have worked my way out of swing problems many times by going back to the Little Red Book).A complete instructional guide to the game? No. This is a modest work -- very appropriate to the quiet and gentle man who taught a U.S. Open champion, a Masters champion, and hundreds or thousands of lesser-known golfers whose ability and appreciation for the game were enhanced by their having known Harvey Penick.
5 Chapters are 1 - 3 pages. NOT a book about all the details of the golf swing or psychological like Bob Rotella. Just a collection of simple tips that make you a more complete golfer or an outline for how to become better. I like it because its not an elaborate plan or schedule of how to break 80. Just read the book once in a while and use the tips when you need them.
5 Hi - the little red book, is a true blessing. I've personally listened to it several times probably 8-10 in just a few months. It has such incredible golfing tips for us golfers. Harvey was ahead of his time and if I remember correctly this might be the most sold golfing book of all time. I understand why, I would buy it again, and I highly recommend to anyone. Really awesome gift idea.
5 Havey Penick is a legend in the golfing world, and sharing his experiences and feelings are a benefit to any and every golfer.
5 I've owned this book for a few years now, and like my caption says, it never gets old.In this golfer's book you will find instruction, philosophy, and history - all woven masterfully together in the form of stories. Whether it's the lengthly section where Harvey gives his thoughts in the grip, or the extremely terse paragraph explaining why he never joined the tour, Penick uses the right words at the right times.I've read it several times and often take it with me on long trips. It's broken into several very short segments, sometimes two or three on a page, sometimes two or three pages.  This means you can always pick it up, read a quick snipit, and walk away from it.Lastly, I've found that whenever my golf game is struggling, I read this book and it always somehow gets back on track. I don't know if it's from the lucid instruction or the comforting philosophy, but either way this book has become an integral part of my golf regimen.
5 One thing mid to high handicappers such as myself notice about better golfers is how much knowledge of, and feel for, the game they have.  This book will increase your knowledege and feel immensely.  The result is a better additude toward the game and more confidence, which can only result in better scores.There is plenty of technical help as well with chapters on grip, &quot;the magic move,&quot; chipping, club selection, etc. If there's anything thats bothering your game, such as too strong of a grip, you may well discover what it is while reading this book.  But more than anything, you will be a more savvy golfer with a renewed additude.Hit 'em straight
5 Harvey Penick's Little Red Book is the bible of golf and especially golf attitude and self discipline.  We have a family golf tourney every year and I give away these little jewels to the closest to the pin and longest drive winners.  Great to just play in the car especially as the new golf season begins to reawaken your attitude, your stroke and your feeling for the game.  Hit them straight.
5 This is one of the top-3 golf books in my mind. If you haven't read it, pick up a copy and enjoy timeless golf advice and musings from one of the greatest teachers ever to pick up a club.
5 a very handy and insightful guide on all facets of golf playing.  i really enjoyed this fine book which has helped my game drasticaly.  hacking no more...
5 Book was in good shape.  Received it very quickly.  Gave it as a Christmas present, recipient very pleased with it.
5 I love the way this book is written & how the instructions are subtle.  Harvey had a great way of looking at life!
5 Harvey Penick gave so much to golfers and the game, a fact that is well borne out by the touring pros who wrote intros to his Little Red Book: Tom Kite, Ben Crenshaw, Kathy Whitworth, Byron Nelson, et al. But he can also help those of us who have yet to break 90 ... his little book of wisdom contains many gems that, unlike your typical golfing magazine article, won't necessarily have you swinging in front of a mirror. Instead they will crawl inside your head and stay with you. And the sweetest and best among them are quite simple: "Take dead aim." "Don't move your head forward," and so on. The game of golf, we all know, is not simple, but it teaches one to be humble -- like Harvey Penick, the legendary golf pro. A new book about another great golf pro, Warren Smith, includes the story of Ben Crenshaw at Augusta a few days after Harvey died. After winning the Masters, Crenshaw broke down, his head in his hands and his elbows on his knees, an image that is burned in the golf history books. Warren and Harvey were great friends when both were club pros in Texas.
5 I'm always trying to learn more about golf and have read many magazines and articles on the subject . Mr Penick's approach to teaching is tried and true keeping it simple and uncomplicated. I enjoyed every page.
5 Thoroughly enjoyed reading this book.  Highly recommed it to anyone with an interest in golf.  No step by step instructions just gentle thoughts/suggestions presented in a non-teachy manner.  Also recommend the &#34;Green&#34; Book as well.
5 A must have.  Great tips on how to improve your golf game.  Unlike the ad naseum wave of golf instruction that one can get bogged down in in Golf Magazines and instructional videos, this is simple straight forward approaches to improve your game.
4 The book arrived on time and in good shape. It was clean and looked new. I did not like the read and did not finish. Good will will get this.
5 As most fans of Eleanor Hibbert know, she wrote with several psuedonyms.  One of them was Jean Plaidy, under which, she wrote dozens of well researched historical novels, mostly about the English monarchy.  This book, about the infamous French Queen, is written in the style of the Jean Plaidy novels.  I can't understand why it was published under the Victoria Holt psuedonym rather than Jean Plaidy, but if you're a Jean Plaidy fan, this is a must read!
5 I read this book many years ago, when I was 13. At the time I was into much younger books for younger readers, but my college aged sister introduced me to this one - and I was totally hooked. A love of historical fiction and gothic romance followed, and I read all of Victoria Holt's novels. There was no end in sight after that, and today, 27 years later, I often wonder where I would be without Victoria Holt. I recommend this book to all young adults. It will introduce you to a whole new world, one of reading.
5 This book actually should be under one of Victoria Holt's other pen names, Jean Plaidy.  Plaidy writes about actual historical figures.The Queen's Confession is told by Marie Antoinette herself.  Well, not actually, but how she would have written it.  She grows up in the Austrian court under the guidance of her mother, the Empress Maria Therese.  She marries the Dauphin of France and deals with the &quot;uncrowned queen&quot;, Madame du Barry.  Finally, she becomes queen and started the beginning of the end of the French monarchy.  Scandal, intrigue, and flamboyancy were never as great, and the consequences are even greater.This book was wonderful!  I actually learned a lot about her (I thought I knew everything!).  Also, it is a good book to read if you are in for a good cry.
5 I prefer Jean Plaidy's books to those written under the name of Victoria Holt, mainly because I have an insane passion for historical fiction.  In all of her "I" novels written from the point of view of a Queen,  the reader actually becomes that woman's confidante and you feel that you  really know her.  It's an extraordinary gift for a writer to make someone  feel so at home with an aloof historical character.ETA (10/30/09): Having read more Plaidy recently and finding her style dry and hard to get through, I wonder what my opinion of this book would be, now 10 years since my original review? :-)
5 Victoria Holt was one of my favorite authors when I was younger. A master storyteller, she would consistently weave a story that would have the reader turning the pages. This work of historical fiction is one of her best. Riveting from beginning to end, this fictional autobiographical account of the life of Marie Antoinette is superb. Written in the first person, with little dialogue, it is the rumination of a life that was to end tragically. Pampered, spoiled, and fun loving, the beautiful Maria Antonia of Austria metamorphosed into Marie Antoinette of France upon her marriage to the Dauphin, who would eventually become King of France, the ineffectual, but benign, Louis XVI.This is her story, grounded in historical fact and set within the framework of history. This work of fiction about the life of Marie Antoinette, as seen through her own eyes, is fascinating, as it captures the flavor of those uncertain times and the events that led to the French Revolution and the end of the monarchy in France. It is a reflection on how Marie Antoinette's own behavior influenced the fate of France. Indulging in the excesses of the day, she initially gave little thought as to how her actions might affect the people of France or the monarchy. By the time she realized that her actions and excesses had wide spread political ramifications, it was too late, and her fate, as well as that of her husband, was sealed. No amount of personal regret could change it.This book will be enjoyed by those who enjoy good, well written historical fiction. It is little wonder that this book spent two months on the New York Times Best Seller List. It is simply historical fiction at its best.
5 Ahhh Marie Antoinette. By now most people know she really did not utter the phrase "let them eat cake" in response to the raising bread shortage. During her and her husband's reign, the country was very unstable. There was a famine, a huge deficit, and finally, the Bastille and Reign of Terror.The book begins with her at 14, and just about to be married to the Dauphin of France. With get a look at what it must have been like to be her, a child bride, and completely unaware of what is in store for her. the famous line when they became the reigning king and queen" we are too young to govern" was probably true.We see her slowly mature and see through her eyes the country falling apart. What noone realized at the time was it really wasn't all her doing.Written as though she herself wrote it while awaiting exeuction, we feel sorry for her and that is truly the mark of a great book and a great writer.
4 This was my first book by Victoria Holt, and also my first book on Marie Antoinette. I knew a little about her from my college history class, but that was all. This story provided more information than class, and moved along quickly. It was very exciting at times, and written in a way that was very believable. The book contained real quotations from various sources, which was also interesting. It would be helpful for the reader to have *some* background information on the time period and/or Marie Antoinette in order to make reading the story a little smoother. There are a TON of names and places mentioned, which can make it confusing... but not enough dates. Dates are mentioned only here and then. My one complaint is that several times all French sentences were used with no translation... so since I don't speak French, they detracted from the story. I would have liked to have known the translations to those.
4 This novel is written in the first person by the queen, who bluntly acknowledges her failings and records her regrets about what she might have done differently.One of the most well written episodes in the novel is that in which Marie Antoinette attempts to escape France incognito in a lavishly equipped, outsized vehicle known as a berlin. We share the queen's frustration and regret that she chose such a conspicuous, high-status vehicle, especially when she tells us that her brother-in-law picked a shabby carriage for his own (ultimately successful) escape. Our frustration mounts as the party of escapees makes blunder after blunder, such as missing connections and stopping to let the royal children stretch their legs. At the same time, though, even as we readers know the attempt is doomed, we find ourselves hoping, against all logic, that it succeeds after all.My only real dissatisfaction with this novel came from the limitations the first-person narration imposed. I would have liked to have read more about what was going on outside Marie Antoinette's chambers, to learn more of what was taking place in the minds of the people around her. All in all, though, this is a historical novel well worth reading.
5 And to me, there's a big difference between the two.This is one of my favorite books ever. I once owned a hard copy, and it broke my heart when I lost it. This is not your run-of-the-mill bodice rippers; this is actually a historically correct, realistic, and totally fascinating story. Ingram takes you right into the details and politics of what life was like for the real people, not the perfumed toadies in court. The times were perilous and things could (and did!) change in the blink of an eye.Julitta is one of the strongest fictional heroines I've read, and I love how the relationship between her and Red Adam develops. They're not perfect people, but they are honorable and they are perfect for each other. Even if Julitta doesn't believe it for quite a while -- maybe because she doesn't. This is not a hot, lustful romp; it's a love story set in a dangerous historical time, and it's really the best "historical romance" I've ever read.
5 From the dust jacket: ...Red Adam's Lady is a boisterous, bawdy tale of wild adventure, set against the constant dangers of medieval England. It is a story of civil war and border raids, scheming aristocrats and brawling villagers, daring escapes...Its vivid details give the reader a fascinating and realistic view of life in a medieval castle and village...The reviews here are excellent. There are times when I cringe at the brutality of an era but the writing here is so fast-paced I found I didn't have time. It's a wild ride and highly enjoyable.
5 There are only a few romance books that I would even consider giving five stars, but this is certainly one.  Like many of the other reviewers, I read this as a teen and still have my old ragged copy.  I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys a good historical romance where there is more emphasis on the emotional relationship between the main characters and less on the sexual relationship.
5 I bought this book when it first came out and LOVED it enough to read it three times in a short period.  I don't know what happened to it, and I would LOVE to get another copy of it.  However, the prices here are WAY out of my price range and I would love to see it come out in ebook format.
5 I was looking out over the ocean and I thought of this book that I had read 30 years ago. I went over all the details in my mind that I could remember and wished I still had this book to read. I grabbed my mac and went to amazon.com in the hopes of finding a copy. I read all the reviews and I was amazed at how many women are out there who remember this book as I do. The other reviews are all accurate. In one scene Jullitta and Adam are on the run. They are in getting ready to go to sleep and she tells him that if she ever calls him husband he will know that she is his. Which really matters at a later time. There are deer flapping at the oat cakes they were going to have to breakfast, and wild painted scots bent on murder. It's really a beautiful story. I hope they offer it on kindle soon.
4 Lady Julitta de Montrigod was mistaken for a vixen while on her way home to her uncle's house when her horse was shod.  The ravisher is none other than Red Adam, drunk as a skunk with his loutish friends and also on his way home.  Here you have two people who start out as enemies.Red Adam is everything she abhors in men: loud with the manners of a caveman and morals that are as low as a rock on the ground.  Mistaken, he thinks she is bashful until she bites him.  The description of these two going at it is so good you will think you are a fly on the wall in the room.  And then she knocks him out with a stool.Unable to leave the room because his friends want their turn with her, she waits until Adam wakes up.  And then they verbally go at it again, tit for tat. Until he tells her to bar the door after he leaves and he will marry her the next day.And so begins the unusual courting-after-marriage to earn Julitta's love.  Ever so slowly, he earns her respect.  Gritty and raw at times, RED ADAM'S LADY is one of those books where the less you know about the story the better.More adventure than romance, Ms. Ingram did a good job of setting up the scenes and giving the reader a good sense of both place and time.  Read this period piece for the rich history and the author excelling at bringing the medieval period to life.
5 I read this many years ago, and have re-read it many times since then. The story is gripping, the characters vivid and engaging, and it is just a satisfying read in every way. Look for it in used bookstores and library sales--the prices online are unreal. Whay hasn't some clever publisher reissued this gem?
5 It seems cruel to review this book because you can't get it anymore.  My old copy is held together with rubber bands.  I liked everything about it.  All the characters were wonderful; the history was accurate; the mystery and intrigue were mysterious and intriguing.  The secondary characters were almost better than the main characters.  Good wasn't always pretty and Evil was evil with reasons and, sometimes, even strengths.  You could hiss the villians and cheer the good guys but you knew that these people lived and you mourned and rejoiced with them.  When the hero finally wins his lady's love, it's a timeless moment. Her love is an achievement...not a casual tumble in the normal historical bodice ripper.  My only complaint about this book was it was too short and there's never been a sequel.  If you can find a copy, read it - you'll love it.
5 I am thrilled to see others know how good this book is!  I read this years ago and kept the copy for a long time.  Then because I was crazy I got rid of my copy.  I kept thinking about it though and a few years ago paid about 40 dollars for a used copy.  Money well spent!  I read this book at least once a year and enjoy it every time. I keep hoping it will be reprinted so more people can enjoy reading about Adam and Julitta. There is something romantic about a man literally having some sense knocked into him.  Unlike so many romances of the time that had the love interest fight each other to the end then suddenly they are in love, Ms. Ingram gradually brings Julitta from  dislike, to grudging respect, friendship and then love.  All this while the Scots are over the border, there is disloyalty in the household and treason is afoot.  This it a great read!
4 Lady Julitta is mistaken for a peasant and is accosted by a drunken "Red" Adam de Lorismond, the new lord of Brentborough. Adam takes Julitta back to his keep bent on rape, but the ever resourceful Julitta knocks him out with a stool and when he's sober Adam marries her to assuage her damaged honor. Julitta is none too thrilled with the match, but sparks soon fly between the two as Julitta's uncle Lord William and his cronies conspire to support young Henry in his plan to oust his father Henry II and rule England instead. Julitta also soon finds her hands full with a castle and mutinous servants allowed to run to ruin by the previous lord of Brentborough (Adam's uncle), a thieving seneschal, invading armies of Scots, a perilous climb down ocean cliffs, a mysterious death or two and more as "Red" Adam and his lady banter their way through it all to find true love in the end.While I very much enjoyed this book, at times it was a bit too busy and fast paced for my tastes. At times I lost track of who was who when characters from the first part of the book returned back to the story and the author didn't provide enough background to refresh my memory, and I got lost more than once until I fell back into the groove. A cast of characters and their various names and titles would have helped quite a bit and enhanced my appreciation of the story. That said, it was a highly enjoyable romp through the 12th century and a very entertaining read. I see from the current selling price the book is quite rare, but if you are lucky as I was to find it at your library it's worth taking the time to check this one out.
5 Mistaken for a peasant girl and kidnapped by the drunken lord of Brentborough while returning home to an abusive uncle, Julitta valiantly defends her virtue. Forced into marriage the next morning to salvage her reputation, she gradually begins to trust the tenderness and respect with which her noble husband eventually wins her.The period detail and writing literally draw you into the story, weaving a lush tapestry against which the splendid romance between the strong heroine and the persistent hero unfolds beautifully. Red Adam is not only patient and kind as he endeavors to win Julitta's affections, but he is strong and intelligent, recognizing in Julitta an equal, worthy partner and giving her full control of the household whenever he must ride out. Facing impudent serving wenches, a resentful chatelaine, an insolent comrade of Red Adam's, and even a thieving cook, Julitta has her hands full with the running of the estate and all its inherent problems, not to mention the whisper of mystery surrounding the former lord. Throw into that brew political unrest and rebellion, raiding Scotts, betrayal and breathtaking escape, and you have a truly dynamic, potent tale.There is just so much more to the story than the above.  A true bond between the characters, genuine affection, and several subplots, all threads being masterfully combined. Any summary is inadequate.  But if you like adventure, a mystery interwoven throughout, compelling history that draws you into its pages, true love in the truest sense, and blazing triumph over adversity, then this is your book! I don't know why no one will republish it!
5 I, too, am desperately seeking a copy of this book. I read it when I was in high school, and it really turned me on to reading.  I read that book 5 or six times - it was totally dog eared and worn.  Now, 20 years later, I  still think about it... and I can't find this book anywhere.  To me,  reading this story was like stepping back in time - into a romantic and  charming and exciting time... I really wish the publisher would re print  this book!  I would love to have my daughters read it now.
5 When I first started reading this book, I was bored, but by the time I finished it, I loved it!  Nora's mother abandoned her, and her father died mysteriously in search of gold in the Outback of Australia.  Her guardian, the Lynx, sends his son, Stirling to fetch her and bring her back to Australia.  On their way out of England, they &quot;accidentally&quot; stop by Whiteladies, and old castle inhabited by a young lady, Minta (isn't that at pretty name?), her parents, and her governess.  From there, they go to Australia.  Once there, Nora meets Lynx, seemingly half-man, half-god.  She also finds strange coincidences between the estate in Australia and Whiteladies, including the name.  Nora finds herself in the middle of a feud.  If her life isn't already mixed up, she must also choose between Stirling or Lynx.
4 Hard to describe this one.  I can't really put my finger on it, but this book is a bit too out there for me.Ms. Holt takes us through a journey with a young lady who has been orphaned.  She finds herself being taken from the country she has grown up in and taken to a foreign land.  She falls in love with the man that her father worked for but not before she makes him a fortune and not before she falls in love with the same man's son.It doesn't hurt that the family is very rich and she has come from a very poor background.
1 Or worse.  Well first of all she manages to add in at the end the usual whodunnit, with the criminal being the person most trusted.  Then there is the whole being in love with the Lynx.  I just didn't think that was  realistic at all. We didn't even have the comfort of a happy ever after  end. But I'm sure plenty of readers will disagree with me and think it was  a fantastic story.
3 Thomas Tamasin spends his life chasing rainbows and leaves his daughter Nora firmly ensconced at school as he chases the biggest one of all and heads for the gold fields of Australia. He soon dies and leaves Nora in the care partner/employer Charles Herrick - also known as The Lynx for his dominating personality. Charles's son Stirling arrives in England to escort Nora to Australia, but they make a curious stop at a country estate called The Whiteladies (named for the nunnery it had been at one time) and Stirling seems to have a strange interest in the estate and it's inhabitants. Stranger still, when Nora arrives in Australia the Herrick home is a copy of Whiteladies.Nora soon discovers that The Lynx has a mysterious past of his own, falsely accused of theft in England and deported to Australia as a criminal. As the Herrick family's fortune increases it leads them ever closer to the obsession of Charles - enacting financial havoc on those he blames for his false conviction. Nora and Stirling return to England with Stirling bent on completing his father's plans for revenge. They soon insert themselves into the lives of the residents of Whiteladies as Nora fights to stop Stirling before his lust for revenge destroys all their lives.Whew, that's more plot description than I care to give but there's not much on the product page. I found this book a bit slow paced at times and a tad too predictable, especially the murder attempts on Minta. I also found the alternating POV's between Sara and Minta in the latter part of the book quite distracting. A nice comfort read for a rainy day - it's a good book, just not a great one. 3/5 stars.
5 I am going to leave most of the 'finding out' to the curious reader.  It is a very good book by Victoria Holt. Unknown plots surface. That's all the clues I'm going to give.
5 Every Herman Wouk book I have read has been incredible, but this one takes first prize.The Winds of War is a work of historical fiction about the lead up to the outbreak of World War II in Europe (it had, of course already begun in Asia between Japan and China and other Asian neighbors) and the effect of the war on an American military family.  It ends when America enters the war.  The sequel, War and Remembrance continues the story through the end of the war.The main character, Victor Henry, a Commander in the United States Navy is sent to Germany just before the beginning of the war as a naval attache in the American embassy.  He is the gruff career military man with compassion and love just below the surface and easily recognized by anyone except his family.  His wife Rhoda is a Washington, DC socialite who was captivated by Victor but is now restless in her life as an officer's wife.Victor and Rhoda have three children, Warren, the eldest who follows his father into the Navy and puts in for flight training, a daughter who is a less developed character and the aptly named Byron, a dreamer and a sensitive man who bridles under his father's influence and flees college to Siena, Italy, where he becomes an assistant to the American Jewish writer, Aaron Jastrow and falls in love with his daughter Natalie.Victor Henry has something of Zelig in him and is a bit player in many important events of the time.  He attends a weekend retreat of high-ranking Nazis and has meetings with FDR.Byron's employer Aaron Jastrow is a complex man, both running from his roots as a Yeshiva boy in Poland, and the product of those roots.  Natalie is a perfect picture of an American ex-pat woman living in Europe (first Paris than Italy) in the heyday of Americans living abroad.  And all of us can empathize with Byron, the young man who has not yet found his way in the world.All these characters are set against the backdrop of the precursor to war and the beginning of the war.  For instance, one of the best sections of the book is an extremely harrowing but vivid section in which Byron, Natalie and Natalie's lover get stuck in Poland as the Nazis begin their occupation of that country.The fact that Wouk can seamlessly weave this web of characters into the tumultuous time in the late 1930s and early 1940s is a testament to a great author.  Indeed, I am writing this review at least 10 years after finishing the book, yet it is all vivid in my mind.One final note that deserves mention:  Wouk treats us to several sections of a fictional book within a book.  After the war, Victor Henry translates a book by a German World War II general.  Wouk intersperses excerpts of this fictional book throughout the story, providing a seemingly totally realistic view from a German nationalist who fought for the Nazis (although was not a Nazi himself).A must read for anyone who would describe himself or herself as any of the following:  (a) a history or historical fiction fan, (b) a fan of epic romance, (c) anyone interested in World War II, (d) anyone interested in the Navy.
5 This is a great great book that details the currents of history and the prime movers in the world that started WWII and the reasons that Japan entered the conflict that was already raging in Europe.Mr. Wouk does a masterful job of creating fictional, interesting and tragic characters to create the back drop for the drama of world conflict and gives interesting insights into the main political figures that played the biggest roles in WWII.If you are at all interested in this period of history but find reading history books to be dull and dry then historical fiction in general and this book in particular is a must read b/c WWII was the primary reason that the USA became a world super power albeit unwillingly at first.One cannot know why are we where we are until we know where we came from which is why this book is so interesting.WWII decimated Europe and the USA played a big/major role (England and France played lesser roles) in the rebuilding of Europe especially Germany but did so in large part to keep the Russians/Communists from claiming all of Europe to the English Channel.After reading this book if you are still interested in what happened after Germany surrendered then you should read Armaggedon by Leon Uris - which is an historical fiction about what happend in Germany when it surrendered and the Allied forces took control along with the Russians.  However, the Russians were in it to grab as much of Europe as they could.This era in history is so interesting and it is easier to learn about it with a great novel like the Winds of War
5 I recalled this being a mini series from when I was 8 years old, and all of the hoopla surrounding it. I can still remember, from my youth, Robert Mitchum, dressed in his Navy outfit as the epic music played.As someone absolutely infatuated with United States history, I knew that this was something that I needed to read.  I was actually absolutely shocked at how I fell in love with the characters in this book. I am also amazed at how much I learned regarding United States and their involvement in World War II.  This book has a little bit of everything &#8211; romance, action, historical intrigue, and insight that you can barely get from any other book.This book follows the family of Victor Henry, a naval commander, with three children. The children branch out and each have their own story to tell. From the United States, to the Soviet Union, Poland, to Italy and beyond. This story takes you all over the globe, and that you find yourself caring about each and every one of the characters.  This book will give you incredible insight into the lives of historical figures such as Adolf Hitler, Benito Mussolini, Franklin Roosevelt, Winston Churchill, Joseph Stalin, and others.Some readers complain that the Kindle version is glitchy.  That must have been fixed because I had no problems at all.I just ordered War and Remembrance and I can't wait to start!
5 Like any &#34;historical&#34; fiction novel, one must be a little skeptical about how facts are re-told.  Nonetheless, the book does a good job re-telling the major events leading up to WWII while delivering an interesting plot around its main characters.  So, I have been entertained with the story while learning some new things about the war too.
5 splendid story telling. The history is fairly close the truth. This is my second read through although it had been something like twenty years since the first time. There is more than enough detail that it made it a please to reread.
4 This is such a great tome of a novel on the global events leading up to WWII and great characters that you are rooting for. But one must have a lot of patience to get through the entire thing...and know that it is just book 1 of 2! I still recommend it though.
5 Let's start off by being clear here:  Winds of War is not a bang-em up war book.  Although there are scenes of battles, they are told either (a) from the perspective of an observer (i.e. Pug Henry seeing the battle unfolding); (b) or as a historical overview of what happened during the battle.  So, in answer to the negative review that this book contained no major military battles: it isn't that kind of book. Winds of War is essentially a story about the Henry family and Pug and Byron in particular against the backdrop of the rise of the Third Reich.  Both Pug and Byron have vastly different love interests and the book interweaves their love stories with the events that lead up to the attack on Pearl Harbor.  Of course, the book is so much more that a romance novel.  Wouk takes his main characters from the German invasion of Poland, to England during the Battle of Britain, to Moscow during Operation Barbarossa, and finally to Pearl Harbor and Manilla Bay.  (with lots of other ports of call in between).  Interspersed in the book are excerpts from a fictional book written by a german general after the war (and after Neuremburg).  These excerpts give a fascinating look into the &quot;german side&quot; of the war.  Wouk also uses these excerpts to give historical context to many of the battles and events which occur behind the scenes. Winds of War doesn't merely tely a story, it attempts to describe why certain events occurred.  For example, the characters in the book don't merely react to Hitler and call him every bad name in the book; certain of the characters actually discuss why they think Hitler rose to power.  Wouk then takes the character's opinions on certain events to help explain their conduct and make it more believable (for instance, Aaron Jastrow seems to lack concern when faced with the prospect of Nazi rule in part because of his knowledge of history and what he believes history tells him about the German people.) Each of the main characters is wonderfully unique and Wouk does an amazing job of keeping all the characters distinct, to the point where I could anticipate certain reactions (like Slote's nervous giggle in times of high stress).  This is the fastest 1000 page book you will ever read.
5 For someone interested in long novels and history, this is a heaven-sent book, rich in imagination and historical facts.  I wonder what prompted Mr Wouk to write this book.  There is no match for it in the literary world !!
5 What an unbelievable work of art.  This book not only grabs you and pulls you in, with wonderful characters and writing, but you find yourself lost in the time and place.  I am currently about a fourth of the way through War and Remembrance....it is equally splendid.  I first read Marjorie Morningstar and fell in love with Herman Wouk's style and mastery of the storyline and character development.  At times when reading these books I am incredibly sad, other times uplifted, and yet other times amazed.  Absolutely one of the best authors I've ever read...and I have read alot of books.
4 Enough already with the distracting Kindle version typos! Otherwise, a highly readable account of the eve and first years of WWII. The improbabilities are outweighed by the author`s sweeping command of history.
5 The TV serial has many dfferences from the book, both are excellent.  Both are reasonably accurate. For Naval detIails see Morison's &#34;Operational  History of the USN  In WW II&#34; , Skip vol. XVI  (a fantastic  index)
4 Herman Wouk is a fantastic writer. I read The Winds of War and War and Remembrance when I was a young woman. I am enjoying the book just as much the second time around.
5 I was going through my old book, looking to clear out the shelves and donate to the library, when I found this and decided to reread it.It's better the second time around.  I found myself wanting to strangle Uncle Aaron and to scream at Natalie. I think knowing what's in store for the various characters just built up the tension.My husband is a WWII junkie and so I have seen every episode of every documentary ever made about that war. But I learned more about the causes of the war and the thinking of the politicians from this one novel than from any of the documentaries.  If you are even vaguely interested in that war, read this.  Not just history, but a great story
5 I read Winds of War as well as War and Remembrance 30-something years ago, and ever since have felt that they were the best, most compelling books I had read in my life.  That's never changed, despite having read hundreds of books since then.  So I put Winds of War on my Kindle and am rereading slowly, savoring each chapter this time through.If you haven't read them, do so.  You won't regret it.
4 This classic novel is epic in scope and feeling from the Herman Wouk's text. The only problem this audio production has  is its solo narration of Kevin Pariseau with his limited vocal shading of his characters. I would have thought Dick Hill with his vocal bag of tricks he uses on the Brilliance 87th Precinct or Jack Reacher  mysteries would have been better suited for this huge task Nevertheless, Pariseau will keep the listener interested, with his good narrative voice. However I would have suggested a second voice (even if Dick Hill may have been used)rather than Mr. Pariseau solo effort to give the story more body.I know I listened to this audio production  in six hour spurts over a week. It is over 46 hours, not something you can listen to in a few hours. Most of you will take this on a long long car or RV trip, it would be fine. However Pariseau voice tended to lose its luster after a few hours of listening.If you are in the mood for a multi-enveloping  story of one man (nasval officer Pug Henry) and his family who are/or get  involved in the beginning of the second world war. Wouk has written a masterful novel that covers the a global perspective on events leading up to WW2. The war is moreover covered in the second second book of this saga.  The audio is unabridged on audio (I heard the cd version from Brollance Audio), which captures the text of the first volume of Winds of WarThose who have never seen the TV mini-series The Winds of War (& its sequel War and Rememberence) and love that television landmark saga, this  audio production is for you.However this audio is not made for the casual listener who likes a four to six hour audio book. The listener will have to invest time with this production. It is an epic saga that spans a few years, but it has everything in this from romance to Heroism with American patriots written into the text.  It is powerful piece. If you stay the course in the 46 hours , I congratulate you. Few may.Bennet PomerantzAUDIOWORLD
5 Wonderful story of World War II, told by one man's family who happen to be in all the right (wrong?) places to be involved in the many aspects of the war, from Europe to the Pacific to the home front...sort of a serious Forrest Gump story. I checked the validity of some of the history and everything seems to be accurate.
5 The pair (Winds of War plus War and Remembrance) are must-read books for anyone who wants to understand World War II. Following a military family through the pre-war years up until Pearl Harbor, Winds of War sets the stage and covers the early war in Europe in detail. War and Remembrance then picks up after Pearl Harbor and gets all the way to the victory over the Japanese.Artfully using characters that have a plausible reason to be in important locales for the war, Wouk combines the family's story with military analysis (by a fictitious German general) to give a complete story. It's amazing that he can work so much that's relevant to the war into a drama about fictional characters.The novel gives you a sense of the military and geographic factors that drove the war, the logistic and economic factors, and the psychology of the leaders of the great powers. But you're also treated to an understanding of the spirit of the times. Younger readers especially will begin to understand what it was like to live in an age very unlike the modern world, and one in which mortal threats were commonplace.I recently reread Winds of War after a twenty year gap, and enjoyed it even more this time. I feel that I know the characters even better the second time through, and better understand their predicaments and the choices they made.I only have only one quibble about characterization. One of the characters, a Jewish wife to one of the military family, is the on-scene witness in Europe to Germany's treatment of the Jews. While I think that material is very important, the series of circumstances that keeps her and her uncle in Europe seems a bit contrived to me. But I'll give Wouk a little license. The book would have not been complete or nearly as powerful if it had left out a complete understanding of the Holocaust, and if it took a little contrivance to get two Americans to witness those events, I consider that a worthwhile trade.If you've seen the TV series and liked it, you really ought to get the complete picture by reading this book. I've given it as a gift to friends for years. I used to pick up copies I would see in used book stores so that I could give it to folks I thought might be interested.Unfortunately I ended up with no copies except one very old falling-apart one, and bought a recent printing of the paperback. The quality was not as good it should be, probably because this book is over a thousand pages and they cut some corners on production. I have to wash my hands after each reading because the print smudges off the book. So if you can afford it, you might want to get the school/library binding version instead. It's more than twice as expensive, but I expect it's of far superior quality. I'm probably going to pick up one of those myself. This pair of books is one that ought to be displayed proudly in any thinking person's library.
5 This was purchased for my wife who is in Jail in Fla.  She said she really enjoyed it. My only concern is that it took almost a month to reach her.  I am answering this disappointment in an other  email.
5 This is so huge that it takes time to digest all information in the book.  This is massive.  This is good.  This is a new classic.
4 This novel is definitely a must-read for WWII buffs.  Wouk's seamless interweaving of historical events, daily life and the mannerisms of major personalities and the lives of his fictional Henry and Jastrow families is  a monumental achievement, and one not likely to be duplicated.  I am a  graduate student studying the art and mass culture of this period, and  Wouk's evocation of the era is gripping and convincing.  Rarely have I read  an historical novel which so brilliantly draws its readers into a vanished  world and reconstructs the preoccupations of that world with such skill.  However, Wouk's admirable grasp of the period and the authority of his  research cannot prevent the reader from ultimately realizing that this  novel is nothing more than a simple melodrama once the layers of research  are removed.  Wouk's characterizations are uniformly cliched.  The mid-life  crises of Pug and Rhoda, the &quot;Top-Gun&quot; activities of Warren, the  standard-issue coming-of-age of Byron, the dithery bookishness of Aaron  Jastrow - we have seen all these people before in countless novels, films,  and plays.  The only unexpected character is Natalie Jastrow, who begins  the book (I count this novel and its sequel as one work) as a vibrant,  energetic female intellectual and tomboy, and ends her story as a  conventional wife and mother.  In short, the characters are utter cliches  and would be boring without their setting.  This is a novel of events, not  of people.  In this one respect, Wouk's book fails as literature.  Stylistically, the book is also somewhat ponderous, but the sheer power of  the events Wouk describes renders it quite readable.
5 I'm a bit too young for World War II, but my dad--enlisting in the Navy at age 17--survived Pearl Harbor, a later kamikaze attack on his ship (the USS San Francisco) at the battle of Guadalcanal, and personal participation in the invasion of Guam (3rd wave, to set up a communications station). As a Navy brat, I played on abandoned pillboxes in the jungle outside of Subic Bay (Philippines) in the late 50s and picked up empty shell casings on a group family outing to Corregador.That said, I consider _The Winds of War_ and _War and Remembrance_ to be the greatest novels written about World War II. The historical detail is dead on, the military, political, and social commentary is brilliant, and the story itself keeps you page-turning for a few thousand pages. It is a heart-wrenching book that helps one grasp--six decades later--what it was like to have the entire world plunged into war, with a close look at the horrors of the Holocaust.Wouk actually served in the US Navy in the Pacific during WW II. He lived through the war and brings that whole era to life in a way that I doubt any current author could. And yet they are utterly relevant today. I frankly think they should be required reading in college or even high school. Read them. ..bruce..
5 There are 4 components a writer needs to write: Style, Theme, Character Development, and Storytelling Ability. All writers have these traits in varying degrees, but no writer has ever been called truly GREAT without having an abundance of Storytelling Ability. This is paramount; if you can't hook the reader it doesn't matter how jazzy you write or how noble is your theme. You must be able to tell a good story. Our greatest, and most popular writers, have always understood this: Hemingway, Miller, Wolfe (both), Bellow, Stephen King. Great storytellers. Seated in the front row of this class is Herman Wouk, an enormously popular writer who, despite his Pulitzer Prize for "The Caine Mutiny", has never been considered great, in the sense that these others have.That's a true shame. Wouk can tell a story---and I mean a WHOPPER, an EPIC in the true sense of the word---like nobody else from his generation. "The Winds of War" is part one of his absolute masterpiece, a tsunami tale of adventure, tragedy, romance, death, birth...you name it, it's in there. The story of the Henry family, headed by Victor "Pug" Henry, a Captain in the U.S. Navy, as it spreads across the globe during World War Two.This is a virtuoso performance. Wouk knits the personal stories of the Henry clan together with factual history, using letters, quotes from speeches & books, anything he can think of to put you THERE, smack dab in the middle of the action. And you are there: you follow Pug to meetings with Roosevelt, Hitler, Churchill, Stalin, and on and on. Putting fictional characters in the room with real people is a huge risk, it almost never works, but Wouk pulls it off with charm to spare. You're in Warsaw when the Nazis invade, you're at Pearl Harbor when the Japanese attack, you're in Rome when Mussolini declares war. Wouk sucks you into the narrative so completely you forget that Pug's travels are pretty damn impossible. Who cares? He's a HERO, it's his job to be in impossible situations, and Pug does his job like a champion. All of his characters are absolutely fleshed out, the dialogue is nearly ear-perfect, the historical events build momentum like no book you'll ever read...forget all the pretenders to the throne, from Mailer to Jones and all the little men in between. THIS IS THE GREAT NOVEL OF THE SECOND WORLD WAR. This is good old-fashioned storytelling genius, the kind of book nobody writes anymore because Style has taken center stage in the last 50 years, sadly. (I blame Joyce) If more people would read this book, and its sequel "War And Remembrance", maybe we could get back to what writing---in fact language itself---was created for in the first place: TO TELL A STORY.Check out Herman Wouk, one of the greats.
4 The way that Herman Wouk winds tangential stories from the family and friends of Victor Henry, the main character,  is highly compelling. His inclusion of a purported work of history, which on its own offers questions about how we interpret history, as written by a Nazi officer and translated by Victor Henry is brilliant. I will continue to ponder the picture of the Axis as a chimera, as described in the work of history.
5 One of the two best books (fiction) ever written on WWII. The other being War and Remembrance. Mr. Wouk is one of the great writers of our time.
5 THS IS A GREAT BOOK ABOUT THE CAUSE AND EFFECTS OF THE WORLD SITUATION THAT LED TO THE 2ND WORLD WWAR.i BELEIVE THAT EVERYYOUNG PERSON TODAY SHOULD READ THIS  BOOK AND FOLLOW UP WITH wAR AND REMEMBERANCE
5 The story takes us and the Henry Family from 1939 to 1941.  We see how the coming war changes members of the Henry family and their friends.  We meet some of the important people who shaped the world and led us into War.  We participate in the invasion of Poland and learn who the war changed the lives of those who were involved.  Some characters face terrible challenges and rise to the occasion and others fail.  Hitler was not a nice person.  Read the book and watch the miniseries.  It was interesting to see the attitudes of many Americans before the war and others in Europe how they thought things were going.
5 I've always loved this book and just re-read it. Wouk got down so many details, not just of history, but of everyday Navy life and, really, life in general, how persons interact with one another. I do think a real-life Pug Henry would have dropped dead of a heart attack before doing half of what he did in the novel, but that's a small quibble.
5 Wouk's writing is so approachable; you get to know the main characters very well in a thousand pages! The inclusion of an Axis commentary on WWII is brilliant. For those of us 'boomers' that were born right after the War, the book is reminiscent of the stories which with we were raised.
5 In the foreward of my copy, I am still touched by Herman Wouk's talents, &quot;Peace, if it ever exists, will not be based on the fear of war, but on the love of peace.  It will not be the abstaining from an act, but the coming of a state of mind.  In this sense the most insignificant writer can serve peace, where the most powerful tribunals can do nothing.&quot;All family members, and military figures in this great novel had to find their own form of peace.  Their faith was challenged.  As was their fundamental ways of life.I especially enjoy how the arthor combined true history with the fictional family.  It was easy to relate to each family member, and to root for their desire for peace.The message that the quote above carries in my heart is also something that I believe we must apply in our daily lives.  It's extremely valuable to face problems from a desire for peace, knowing that looking directly at the problems, and what role we play creates love that is passed onto others, naturally.
5 I read this in hard-copy when it was first published.  During several moves, I have lost the book.  I decided to get the Kindle edition and I am thrilled to read this wonderful author again.  I found the sequel 'War and Remembrance' in the last move and will read that.  This is a long novel but well worth the time.  Although fiction, it involved historical figures that give it a real-life experience quality.  The fictional characters are fully developed and it is easy to visualize their life during the run up to World War II.  It is definitely a cautionary tale in today's world where most of us have the tendency to bury our heads in sand--or in family and work--and hope things will get better without doing anything ourselves.  Great read.  I'm still on the second half (because this is really two volumes) and even knowing the end, I'm rooting for Natalie and Aaron to get back home.
5 I go from historical romance novels to historical fiction to non-fiction but easy-to-read history.  Each of them has its own slant on perspective about that era, ranging from history-as- wallpaper to up-close rendering, as if you were there.  This is one of the very few novels that manages to combine the elements of all 3 kinds of those books into a very gripping reading saga of WWII.  So you are given well researched history in a very palatable form. It follows an interrelated cast of characters all over the map with WWII, taking us deeply into the critical locales. There is even a fascinating account given by a German general, interspersed throughout, of the war as seen through the opposite side's eyes. Wouk does an incredible job and his sequel, &quot;War and Remembrance&quot; is almost as goood.
5 I recently bought this edition along with War &Remembrance as a gift to my retiring assistant who herself worked for the Dept of the Navy more than 30 years.  I read the book years ago, and would recommend it to anyone without hesitation.
5 The Winds of War & War & Remembrance I watched this  great movie  on DVD  .And look forward to reading this book.
5 If you were one of those students that was doodling during American History or, more likely, by spring when WWII was covered, was thinking of other things as the teacher sped through the entire event in two periods, this is an wonderfully enjoyable way to get the history you missed. Following two families, this historic fiction offers insights into WWII that no textbook could. It opens in early 1939 and closes with Pearl Harbor, describing events in London, Europe, Washington and the Pacific. The book includes an enormous amount of factual data on actual events and individuals who played a significant role during the period. Additionally, it very effectively employs the device of reports written by a fictitious German general, to provide the German perspective on the war effort there. All in all an excellent book that should be required reading for anyone that feels they know too little about the period. And the sequel, War and Remembrance (which I am now reading) is an excellent follow up, continuing to track the characters throughout the remainder of the war.
5 I read this when it came out and decided to reread.  It is a very interesting family story but is also  a very informative historical narrative about the several years before the US entered WW2.  The description of the political, social and military history of the time is as engrossing as the personal story.  Very well written and highly recommended.
4 This novel was an enormous best seller in the 1970s for good reason.  Wouk is a skilled story teller, and the reader quickly learns to like and to care about the fate of Wouk's characters.  Also, Wouk portrays a vision of America appealing to Americans:  they enter war reluctantly, but once in, they fight the good war and fight it well.  Although Wouk knows too much about the military to abandon all cynicism, he portrays military men as generally competent, committed, and patriotic.The appeal of the novel is also its limitation.  This is not a meditation on the human condition like Tolstoy's "War and Peace."  Also, Wouk uses his characters to tell the whole story of the lead up to World War II.  He is sufficiently skilled to pull it off, but he spreads his characters a bit thin in the process.I recommend the book as highly entertaining.  Despite its length, it reads fast.
5 This was on my list of summer reads and is truly enlightening,I now have a deeper understanding of World War II. Herman Wouk is a master storyteller and keeps you coming back for more! Hisinsights on human nature and the human condition are right ontarget. It is truly frightening to think how close we were to losing both the Pacific and European battles, due to complacency and isolationism. War and Remembrance is also a must read.
4 Long, but worth the time. The author provides an historial account of WWII  that headlines or history books of that period could not provide. He personalizes that period by following a family as they deal with the everchanging landscape of war.
5 This is an epic fact-fiction WWII novel, something like War & Peace.  Wouk makes his characters come to life.  Robert Mitchem played the main role of Pug Henry in the TV series based on this book, and he was a good choice.  Wouk, at 97, lives today in Palm Springs.
4 A great novel about World War II.  I can't help comparing it to Winter of the WORLD by Ken Follett which was a fantastic novel about the same time period.
5 This "story" is really amazing. The way it's told, the language the author uses, the character development, the accuracy of millions of facts and lastly, but most importantly, the way this book filled with facts reads like a really good novel! I'm never bored and always left wondering. I'm learning more now than ever before (and my undergraduate minor was in history)!!
4 My interest in this book started when I was a kid and I wasn't allowed to see the miniseries. It gets worse, when they showed it again in the mid 90's I was DYING SICK so I didn't get to see it. Finally, I got to see the miniseries due to the magic of DVD.  All I can say is that thing is LENGTHY!After seeing the series, I continued on to the novel.  The novel is also LENGTHY. Now it should be noted that I like SF and Fantasy mostly and if I'm reading history I'm usually reading big giant books like Shirer's Rise and Fall of the Third Reich or Plutarch's Lives.  Historical Fiction seems rather redundant to me.  I mean really, what can you be asking yourself? Is Hitler going to attack? Will America enter the war??  Needless to say this isn't one of my favorite genres although I may be changing my tune on this opinion.I think this is the time for a warning for anyone who is in my particular position. That being of a person coming from the miniseries and are only reading (or considering reading) the book now.  Part of the appeal of SEEING this story told is the beauty of the sets and the beauty of the landscapes and whatnot but Herman Wouk would have needed the descriptive ability of Tolkien to even attempt description on that level. This is why they made this book into a miniseries.  Wouk decided to spend his energy on little things like character development and plot which is done very well.Another caveat regards the epigraph at the beginning of War and Remembrance the sequel to this book. Herman Wouk says that you can just go right ahead and read War and Remembrance without reading this book. DON'T YOU BELIEVE IT!  The story being told here begins on page 1 of this novel and ends at the end of War and Remembrance.The story is that of World War II (at least World War II up to Pearl Harbor) as told from the point of view of the Henry family. Being a military family they have this tendency to be everywhere the story needs them to be.  Of all the family relationships in this book you should keep an eye on Byron Henry who falls for a Jewish intellectual named Natalie Jastrow in 1939 Italy and then spends the next 2000 pages realizing that might have been some bad timing.  Also the relationship between Natalie Jastrow and her uncle Aaron gets better as time goes on and things start to get dangerous.There is another thing I noticed about the characters. The characters in this book seem much more ADULT  than people who are around now. For instance, I can't see anyone I have ever met becoming a research assistant in Italy. I can't even think of anyone who would find that desirable! They would be afraid of the AIR TRAVEL to get to Italy.  I don't know if Wouk is doing this unconsciously (or consciously) or if that's just the way people were.Another thing too, the various characters' actions are rather mundane in the sense that there aren't a whole lot of twists and turns in the lives of the Henry family.  This actually turns out to be a good thing because there is NOTHING any of the Henrys could do that could be more surprising than what the world leaders of the time were ACTUALLY doing.There is one last thing I have to say about this book. Because of the time that is covered in these pages, there is a lot more um... Europe in this book than in its sequel.  This is the best feature of The Winds of War in my opinion.  By starting the story in Germany and Italy we see British and German people (among others) voicing their viewpoints, we establish that the great men of this era like Churchill, Roosevelt, Stalin and even Hitler did not just appear, they came out of a culture that still thought of itself as the rulers of the world, an idea that would disappear on the day of Hiroshima.  It should be noted that the preceding paragraph is not intended as Pro (or anti for that matter) American crap, it's just history.Speaking of History, I must comment on an aspect of this novel I think was very cool.  There are excerpts from a history being written by a fictional general serving his 20 year prison term after Nuremberg. He was a character in the story and his perspective adds another voice to the story.Summing up then, I stepped out of my favorite genre and it was good. At no point was I bored because I knew what was going to happen, I Read this book before War and Remembrance but after seeing the miniseries which may have hurt it just a wee bit. But I still highly recommend this to anyone who is a fan of war stories, if you are interested in World War II or just history in general.Don't forget to read War and Remembrance, where the real story is.
5 I've read it several times over the years.  I recently ordered it for my Kindle because I've broken the spine on my paperback edition of it.  I love that it covers pretty much every corner of the world during the period.  The characters are very easy to relate to and three dimensional.  I would recommend this and the second part to anyone who enjoys not only a good read, but something that is worth putting time into.
5 Herman Wouk's tale is a huge masterpiece: sweeping in terms of plot, character, and history. His knowledge of WWII is staggering; years of research are evident in the story. He also has the rare gift of literary poetry, with imaginative similes rolling off the storyteller's pen. The one very slight fault is that the occasional letters or diaries lose a bit of their authentic voice; most people, even creative geniuses, don't pen such cleverly Shakespearian notes to their loved ones. Otherwise, this is a moving and satisfying drama about one of the globe's great tragic conflicts. NOTE: I read a hard copy, not the much-aligned Kindle version.
5 As a novice reader, beginning Herman Wouk's massive epic "Winds of War" was a big challenge for me.  It sat on my bookshelf for a while before I cracked the first page and was pleasantly surprised by its ability to keep me utterly engrossed in the story.As a historical fiction piece, Wouk tells the story of a Navy family and their individual lives leading up to the United States' entry into World War II.  As the family of five spreads out around the world, their paths continue to cross, keeping their relationships alive and continually gravitating towards one another.Truly an epic tale, Wouk does a magnificent job depicting (in an interesting manner) the historical events, political persuasion, national influence, and social pressures surrounding WWII.  You will learn about Hitler, Stalin, Mussolini, Churchill and Roosevelt... Wouk's work is better than any history class I've ever taken.This is an impactful "must read" for everyone and at the risk of sounding trite, I would call this book a masterpiece.Have fun,David TobiasRedondo Beach, CA
5 Mr. Wouk's fictional characters become your neighbors and friends and his knowledge of WWII is amazing.  I loved this book and will look for another H. Wouk book.
5 Totaling nearly 2,000 pages of small print, Herman Wouk's The Winds of War and War and Remembrance can be compared to War and Peace in its immense scope.  Together they tell the story of American naval officer Pug Henry and his family, religion historian Aaron Jastrow and his niece Natalie, and those they encounter during the period leading up to World War II (The Winds of War) and the War itself (War and Remembrance).  Historical characters mingle with fictional ones in richly drawn settings from pre-war European cafes and embassies to the Oval Office in wartime Washington.  We accompany them on air raids over German and in submarines in the Sea of Japan.  Readers look into the poshest clubs in Singapore and Honolulu and the most depraved setting imaginable - the German death camp of Auschwitz.  Even some of Wouk's numerous minor characters are capable of riveting his readers' imagination.  Under the war's pressure, the leading characters undergo great change, and the reader will be kept in suspense until the very last page to see what becomes of them.In addition to a taut, thrilling narrative, the books present fascinating examinations of political, military and philosophical history as the characters struggle to make sense of their quickly changing worlds.  As the story progresses, religion plays an increasingly important role.  Wouk is an orthodox Jew, and his Jewish characters in particular wrestle deeply with their identities.  Discussions between characters involve the nature of European history, the Jewish people, how Americans see the world, and how the world sees America.  The historical research that informs these discussions is truly impressive (at the very end Wouk makes clear the degree to which the story is fabricated, and it is surprisingly slight).Besides relating numerous military (particularly technical ones) aspects of the war, Wouk takes a hard look at many aspects of American and allied policy, raising questions still unresolved regarding many controversial policy choices.  He also strives to explore and explain the German mindset and viewpoint, using devices such as a fictitious German general's war memoirs to great effect.  Wouk uses his characters and dialogue to explore in great detail how something as terrible as the Nazi regime and the Holocaust could have happened - how a supposedly civilized advanced European state could have perpetuated it and how supposedly civilized, advanced nations could have allowed it.  Technology also plays a vital role in these stories - both good (e.g., sonar) and bad (e.g., those involved in the extermination of Europe's Jews) and one of a much more ambivalent nature: atomic power.There are minor flaws in these works to be sure.  Pug Henry can be a little too omniscient when it comes to military affairs.  This is best understood as necessary to his role as narrator and voice of the author rather than an accurate portrayal of a naval officer.  Digressions and technical discussions become more common and longer in the second volume and the battle analysis in the fictitious German "memoirs" can drag, slowing the riveting narrative.  Of course, what might bore one reader may captivate another.In sum, there is no more enjoyable and engaging way to explore the events that shook the world from the mid-1930s until the end of World War II than reading these two masterpieces.  While not every book can ever appeal to every reader, these come as close as possible.
5 I learned more WWII history from this book than I had in school. That history was delivered via a very entertaining story of a naval officer and his family members. Some people may shy away from this book because of its length, however, I hated to see it end. Fortunately there is a sequel, War and Remembrance, which I immediately moved onto and finished. Now I am reading The Caine Mutiny by Herman Wouk. You probably correctly get the idea that I like these books.
3 Let me start by saying I am a Herman Wouk Fan.  I love the Caine Mutiny and even like this book very much as well as War and Rememberance.  I like the historical research done to support as the framework for these books.  I like how he has created a character like Pug Henry that interacts with the key leaders and players of WWII during critical times.  Excellent military detail.Now the bad.  Take the Jastrows, Rhoda and Briny and punch them all in the face until they are no longer stupid one dimensional characters.  I realize that they exist to make poor decisions so that we can see the resulting evil of the Nazi's, but come on.  It is almost as if Wouk does not respect his female characters, they are so shallow and predictable.  I have no use for Rhoda Henry, who is really just an elitist, Hoe.  Her husband toils and works his ass off, but she just can't rationalize enough for her own happiness.  I can't believe that Natalie is an intellectual and brilliant, making some of the dumbest remarks and decisions in the book, just to be petulant and have her own way.Byron, Briny, just needs his ass kicked and told to man up.  What a baby.Anyway, for historical research, excellent, for shallow, selfish, petulant characters, thunbs down.
5 There are lots of twists and turns as the pages progress.  The characters bringing a somewhat familiar story to life keep interest high.  Some parts are somewhat technical but add to the realistic mood at the time.  Great book.
5 This is the best book I have read in a long time. It gives a great historical account of the early years of WWII that is completely factual, save for the fictional characters Wouk inserts. This book is a page-turner, yet still allows the reader to gain excellent information about real events and circumstances in the war. Wouk shapes his characters so fully that it makes it easy for the reader to empathize with them, yet without any unnecessary detail. I feel this book is a great compromise for people who are interested in world events yet still enjoy a riveting fictional story.
5 Many years ago I saw a few episodes of the mini-series based on The Winds of War, and enjoyed them at the time. I was out of the country, though, and didn't get to see the end. Later, I spotted the print version in a used bookstore but decided against buying it because it was too bulky (898 pages) and too dated. I wanted a quicker read, and something more modern. Then a couple of weeks ago it appeared on Amazon Kindle for $3.99 so I decided to give it a try. Wow! From the start I was mesmerized. Herman Wouk is a master storyteller and this narrative of the years building up to World War II (based on seven years of painstaking research) never wavers or slows down.Narrated in two voices, that of a U.S. Navy captain who survived the war and a German general who was sentenced to life for war crimes, the novel provides startlingly accurate glimpses of Hitler, Stalin, Roosevelt and Churchill. It follows the life and times of a career navy man involved in the planning of strategy, as well as the retrospective analysis of a defeated German general. The book accurately captures not only the history of the time but also the day-to-day life in Poland, in Germany, in Russia. We actually feel the panic and desperation of the Jews as they are surrounded in Warsaw, and understand the futility of the allies as they see Hitler's troops move across Europe in an unstoppable juggernaut of conquest, and understand the frustration of the German general staff as Hitler makes catastrophic moves in Russia. Meanwhile in Washington, we sit in on the war plans' meetings with the naval captain and get the inside scoop of why Roosevelt acted as he did and why it took the U.S. so long to get involved.Others have already covered the compelling plot and great characters in this book, so I will not repeat what has been done so well. I will add, however, that this is probably as good a deal as one likely to find on Kindle: a week to ten days of truly enjoyable reading for $3.99. I only regret that I waited this long.
4 This is the epic (850-page) story of the first years of World War II, from just before the beginning of the war until just after the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor and the United States reluctantly joined the war. The story is  told through the experiences of the Henry family, which includes a naval  capitain and his traditional navy wife; their two sons, a young naval  fighter pilot and a submarine soldier who gets involved with a woman Jewish  scholar; and their daughter, who works for a popular talk television show.  The cast of characters extends beyond just the family to include a wide  range of interesting characters on both sides of the war. Wouk does a neat  job of placing the characters in situations that provide a multi-faceted  view of what was going on during the days when Hitler marched through  Poland, occupied France, took on the English and then marched east to fight  the Soviets. He even manages to situate Captain Victor &quot;Pug&quot;  Henry so that he can give a first-hand view of what Roosevelt, Hitler,  Stalin, and Mussolini were up to.Wouk does an excellent job of  portraying rich, multi-faceted, interesting characters whom you come to  know and care about. Some of them you like, some you don't, but they're all  fully drawn and very believable. I especially like that he has several (but  not all) strong women characters. Through these characters, he tells the  fascinating story of the early days of the war. Since I slept through  history class in high school (why don't they teach it through historical  fiction, I wonder?), most of the details were new to me, but I suspect even  those with a better background would find this book full of interesting  information. After reading this book, I discovered from an English friend  that English school kids are taught that the English won the war, and I  suspect the Soviets teach their kids the same thing. This book clearly has  a US point of view and indicates that the Allies looked to the US to win  the war. However, Wouk left me with a lot of respect for the English and  the Soviets for digging in and resisting for so long with insufficient  supplies. (Though I suspect that supplies are always insufficient in  wartime.) He also uses several devices to convey how the Germans  interpreted the war, which was useful. Overall, I was left with a clearer  sense of how difficult it is to interpret events as they are happening and  to know how to act, even if history makes it all seem so obvious in  hindsight.There were times when I found it difficult to keep track of  when things were happening, and I sometimes had trouble following some of  the fairly technical military situations, despite wanting to understand.  But I did learn a lot about military culture and the war, and very much  enjoyed learning it. I've started reading the sequel, the even longer  &quot;War and Remembrance,&quot; so I obviously think it's worth another  1300+ pages. I want to find out what happens to the characters and how the  details of the rest of the war played out.
5 First published in 1971, The Winds of War is aptly described on the cover as `another splendid epic' as well as being compared to Margaret Mitchell's `Gone With The Wind.' Although such fulsome praise has often been used to describe various tomes, this book deserves such high praise. It is actually the prologue to Wouk's War and Remembrance, and (my tattered old edition) is a 960-pager at that! If you are looking for something that seems to have died out recently, namely, a good old-fashioned read or a solid story, then this is it. Despite being written over forty years ago, there is no sense of being dated, albeit some of the expressions might come across as quaint. The story concerns two families, one Jewish and European, the Jastrows, and the other American and WASP, namely the Henrys. Looming behind the tapestry of lives and loves interlinking is the horrific menace of World War 2. The author is truly a gifted writer in that tackling a subject as monumental as a world war and trying to humanise both friends and foes is daunting. However, this book is superbly written and keeps the reader glued to the pages. Each character brings a unique angle to this novel, even those historical personalities usually relegated to the pages of history books. The stubbornness of elderly academic Aaron Jastrow, who remains in Italy despite the imminent threat of Fascism and Mussolini's pact with Hitler, drags his niece, the strong-willed and beautiful Natalie Jastrow, right into the fray. Pug Henry, a middle-aged US Naval officer, is dismayed to find his youngest son Byron not only gets involved with Natalie, but marries her. When war breaks out she is stranded in war-torn Europe with her cantankerous uncle and a new-born babe. Pug has his own problems with a beautiful but bored and dissatisfied wife (Rhoda) who feels her husband has not achieved the career she had in mind for him. On an observer mission to Europe, Pug himself finds himself attracted to a girl old enough to be his daughter.These human conflicts are somehow always uppermost in a story that never succumbs to the weightier issues of war and destruction. I enjoyed the way in which the author deftly creates an intimate viewpoint of the three pivotal characters of the war: Franklin D. Roosevelt, Winston Churchill, and Hitler himself by having Pug Henry at different stages of the novel actually meet and interact with these men. Another interesting angle is Pug's analysis of General Armin van Roon's (fictional) account of the war and the motives and machinations behind Hitler's various invasions and instances of both brilliance and bungling ineptitude. The author also provides a perceptive analysis of the psyche of the nations dragged into the war, and this is a great help in understanding how and why so many people entered into and supported their leaders in what could only be the greatest folly of the century. The book cannot, of course, adequately describe the unspeakable horror of the bombings, the dreadful atrocities perpetrated in the death camps, and many more occasions of wholesale slaughter, but the author does an excellent job of describing these events without sinking into a mire of sentimentality or a ghoulish litany. The book ends as Pearl Harbour is bombed, thus bringing the USA into a war that FD had successfully avoided in an effort to appease the war-shy American public. The bombing of Pearl Harbour, a momentous blunder on the part of Japan propelled the American giant into the war with a unanimous vote (bar one).  This is a truly satisfying experience for the readers who want to sink their literary teeth into something solid!
5 I have read and reread this book in paper form several times. I purchased it for my Kindle to have an alternative to carrying around the heavy book (my kindle weighs fall less than the book and I can change the font size as the day progresses). If you have never read this book before take an up-tight navy Captain (who while being strictly military is also a human being), a son following in his footsteps and another son who is basically floating through life making as few waves as possible, and a wife who loves her husband (most of the time) who is more ambitious for his advancement to keep up with the Jones. Add into this middleclass protestant world a Jewish devil may care girl who is worldly wise and living in Europe in the late 1930's who doesn't believe evil exists and who has an uncle who thinks that the war if it comes will not effect him since he is a famous author. Now add WWII to the mix and you have a hell of a story told by Mr. Wouk in full color. The story takes us into Germany before the US enters the War, takes us to England where the war is raging, to Russia during the war, to the Pacific after Pearl Harbor. The sequel to Winds of War is War and Remembrance and should not be read out of sequence!
5 War and Remembrance and Winds of War are the best examples of historical fiction I know of; both of these books should be required reading in high school when students learn about WWII. The only thing missing is a companion reader that would include maps of the campaigns, battles and engagements along with some other short narratives of the events.
5 The &#34;Winds of War' along with its sequel &#34;War and Remembrance&#34; have been around for a long time. Still probably no other piece of historical fiction better tells the inside thinking and decision making of WWII's major players.  Told through the eyes of an extraordinary Naval Attache, &#34;Pug&#34; Henry finds himself with the wars key decision makers during their most important decisions of  WWII.The novel is also about the plight of the Jews in Europe leading up to and throughout WWII told through the eyes of Natalie Jastrow and her stubborn Uncle Aarron, the novel shows just how easily the Jews of Europe were systematically gathered up and brought to the &#34;work camps&#34; where most were eventually gassed.The novel(s) are both beautifully and horrifically written.  Some of the finest historical fiction ever written,
5 One of the top 10 books I've ever read.  Period. Should be on everyone's reading list.  Don't forget the sequel: War and Remembrance.  Just as good.
5 This book is magnificant. I have seen the mini- series many times and it was first -rate but this book is better. I am not much of a fan of historical fiction but this is certainly an example of the best in the genre. I read this on my kindle and found it hard to put down.It is the story of the Henry family and the people who come into their orbit from just before the invasion of Poland to slightly after the attack on Pearl Harbor.There is Pug the professional military man who becomes naval attache to Germany, his wife Rhoda, daughter Madeline and sons Byron and Warren. Bryron is in Poland during the invasion and his experiences are harrowing. His love interest and future wife is Natalie Jastrow a spunky, dynamic character who is living at her  uncle's posh estate in Italy. She is determined to go to a family wedding in Poland as tensions with Germany accelerate.Her Uncle Aaron Jastrow is a famed Jewish author living in Italy who sees Hitler's ranting as typical anti- semitism and is therefore not anxious to return to America.Pug writes a report on German war preparedness which gets the attention of FDR. This will result in him being sent to observe England during the Battle Of Britain and Russia after the German invasion. Pug will meet Hitler, Stalin and Mussolini.He will see leaders in action as well as interacting with the ordinary people who lived in extraordinary times and who did great things including journalists, military people,bankers, civil servants, radio hosts, etc. Waugh has created a marvelous tale which is true to history. He even includes a German General Staff member whose memoirs Henry edits. No short review can do justice to this marvel of a book on the greatest generation.
3 "The Winds of War" and "War and Remembrance" seemed like they'd be perfect for me--after all, Herman Wouk's "The Caine Mutiny" is one my favorite books, and World War II is one of my favorite wars. (A messed up sentiment, I know, but the sheer scope of the action and the magnitude of the horrors make it endlessly compelling.) Surely, I figured, if such a talented author, who had so clearly hit the mark with his earlier shot at a smaller piece of it, turned his considerable literary artillery towards such a fat target as the whole war, the results would be satisfying.Instead, these works ended up feeling scattershot and unfocused, with sporadic brilliant explosions, long periods of overconcentration on the easy unmoving targets, and many misses when aiming at the moving targets.First, an aside. I have issues with authors writing about authors; they usually make fictional versions of themselves that, one senses, are nobler, more popularly successful, and more highly acclaimed, with fewer human faults all around. Similarly, former service members writing military books (see Brown, Dale; Coonts, Stephen, Coyle, Harold, Griffin, W.E.B. et. al.) usually end up creating a franchise character whose astonishing military skills, responsibilities, and rocketlike career trajectory are (one senses) the inverse of the author's own. (To be fair, it isn't just the ex-service members who have done this; Tom Clancy made his franchise character PRESIDENT, for crying out loud.)A lot of great authors will tell you great fiction starts from interesting characters--if you make them compelling and jagged, then unpredictable things will happen when they bounce off one another. But surprisingly enough, given Wouk's own track record with "The Caine Mutiny," the characters here are franchise characters, as bland as billiard balls. It seems like a regression. In that earlier book, his military characters were lolling about in the backwaters, indulging in strange (but fascinating) character defects; they felt real. Whereas here, his protagonist, Pug Henry, is rubbing shoulders with Roosevelt and Churchill and Hitler and Stalin, skating through every theater of war without making any visible mistakes, drinking without consequences, and getting into compromising situations with attractive younger women without compromising himself. In the earlier Wouk war work, the author character was manipulative and cowardly and borderline bad--in other words, interesting. But here Wouk gives us Aaron Jastrow, successful and well-known and lovable, guilty of nothing more than being an absent-minded professor--an eminently forgivable crime for a character, but an atrocity for the author who relies on such a hackneyed stereotype when he's capable of so much more.And what's worse, Wouk is using these characters to tell two barely connected stories--the story of the U.S. Navy, and the story of the Holocaust. One can't blame Wouk for being engrossed by these stories; they're endlessly fascinating and rich, full of tragedy and human interest. But it causes a problem with some of the traditional virtues of story, like unity of action. In actual fact, the U.S. Navy had nothing to do with the end of the Holocaust, and the Holocaust probably had little impact on the average sailor; little of it was known during the war, so all most people had was a true but vague sense that we were fighting some pretty bad people. However, Wouk has contrived a plot line that does tie these events together, at least for the main characters. Coupled with Wouk's franchise character tendencies, it makes for something far less, even, than the aforementioned literary artillery; in fact, it's more the literary equivalent of a trick shot in pool; there are a lot of improbable collisions and unexpected results, but one knows it all depends on a very precise placement of all the balls at the outset, a mechanical and inorganic situation that feels forced and unnatural, unrealistic and unsatisfying. But the author puts so much work into this setup that he becomes overly enamored of it, and so the characters end up talking far more than necessary about the strange collisions they've experienced, which only adds to the annoyance--not only do we get a trick shot, but we get endless replays from every camera angle.Again, this is a shame, and not only because Wouk has proven himself capable of more. For there's great stuff in here, too, truly masterful sections that one nearly loses amidst all the flashy and contrived situations, the clattering collisions and ridiculous ricochets. An early scene in "The Winds of War" relating to a horse race in Italy is as good as anything Wouk's written elsewhere, and two later episodes in "War and Remembrance"--a discussion of the Book of Job by a concentration camp inmate, and few scenes relating to the use of that camp as a Potemkin village to fool visiting Red Cross authorities--are also stunning and memorable.Given the fact that he had such good material in him, it's a shame he didn't just concentrate on that. Wouk originally planned this as a single work, but reportedly realized it would have to be two volumes when he made it to 900 pages and still hadn't gotten to the attack on Pearl Harbor; he wanted to write about the whole war but found himself disproportionately drawn to the Holocaust. If he omitted every redundant mention that Aaron Jastrow had written a book called "A Jew's Jesus" that was well-regarded and widely read, he might have squeezed the story into a single volume, but he'd still have had the unity problem. A better division than pre-Pearl Harbor and post-Pearl Harbor might have been to tell one story about the Navy and another about the Holocaust--and since he'd already told the perfect story about the former, he could have just as well simply written an excellent novel about the slaughter of Europe's Jews.Anyway, if you haven't read "The Caine Mutiny," read that first--and if you have, you might want to read it again rather than plowing through these.
5 You're in for a long haul but it's well worth it.  I take on at least one epic every winter and picked "Winds of War" and it's sequel "War and Remembrance" this year.  I love historical fiction and these two books are some of the best.  You'll learn about WWII and still be able to wrap yourself around the characters whose family soon becomes a part of your life.  There's intrigue & suspense, there's action & very personal relationships as well and then there are the facts of WWII that will have you looking online for more information. These are powerful novels that really draw you in; so much so that after I read "Winds of War" I was going to take a break and read something else between it and "War and Remembrance" but as I read the "other" book I kept wondering about what happens to these characters Wouk created.  So I quit the "break" book and got right back on "War and Remembrance."  I'm very glad I did.  Both novels are such page turners that it's darn near impossible not to want more.  The two combined are close to two thousand pages but they read like a novel of several hundred.  Good stuff!
3 A good book but i didn't  know there is a sequel. I don't think I would have bought the first one.
4 "The Winds of War" and "War and Remembrance" must be read together. These lengthy novels follow the trials and travails of one American family through the years immediately preceeding the Second World War through to the end of that war. The author does a great job of depicting the terrors of the holocaust and of the ground war on Europe's eastern front. Likewise pacific naval combat is dealt with on a personal level. The historical context of the books seemed to be quite accurate. By the close of the second book the reader will have an appreciation for the cost of global war. Personally, I could have done with somewhat less of the romantic double-dealings and intrigue. My only other caution to the prospective reader is the daunting length of these books. I listened to the unabridged Audible Audio version of both books and found the narration to be excellent.
4 Natalie needs to be slapped back to reality. She is a dolt from the very start.Could a guy be buddies with Franklin, Winston, Stalin and Adolf? No. I doubt he could even meet them in such a short frame of time.The love story between Pug and Pam....GreatByron and Natalie..........boringWorth the read, though.
4 Herman Wouk has a way with words and characterizations. The historical events and issues that lead to the U.S. entry into World War II are woven into the Henry family, a military clan that the father (Pug) characterizes as tumbleweeds blown around by the wind. I found this very enjoyable.
5 I would have given this book four and a half stars, ifit had been an option. It has a tinge of soap in places,but that doesn't detract from its impact, in my opinion.I'm rereading it, particularly for the description ofByron in Poland during the German invasion. Mr Wouk meant towrite a large scale, sweeping novel, I'm sure. Hischaracterizations don't seem to me to suffer.
1 I did not like this book. I did not care for Wouk's depiction of women in general as I tried to read the book. Consequently, I did not finish this book.End of story.
4 Very interesting and enjoyable. A very skilled writer. I wish this writer would have written more non-war books, for as good as they are, he is at his best writing about male female relationships. This writer even as a Pulitzer prize winner is underrated. I have listened to so many highly rated mediocre books on Audible it is a joy to find an author like this.  I preferred his book Marjorie Morningstar.
5 As I sit here about to read "The Winds of War" for the umpteenth time, it and "War and Remembrance" are my number one and two of 42 years of reading and collecting books.No other fictional novel can give you a more accurate account of the actual beginning of those years preceding the entrance of the United States into WWII than "Winds of War."  I know I am an amateur history buff of WWII, the Vietnam Conflict, and the American Civil War.  Not only does Herman Wouk give us a history lesson but he also gives us a monumental story of love, fear, joy, anger, hope, despair, and tragedy.Two books not easily put down and a story surely never forgotten.
5 The first of two books that sets the stage for the Henry family during WWII. Be sure to purchase both books. The story will make more sense that way. A serious read, yet one that will not put you to sleep. Wouk is a literary master at detail, geography, politics of the day, and the drama surrounding his characters.
3 The Winds of War is a decent, straightforward historical novel. It  reminded me of similar books by authors like John Toland: the characters  witness essentially all events of historical moment so that the author can  do &quot;the whole story,&quot; and that evaporates most possible suspense  about where the book's going. It's hard to work up tension over whether  lend lease will pass in those circumstances; you take the big events for  granted. In many ways I find real history to be more surprising and  suspenseful than novelizations of it.That being said, Wouk's choice to  bring the novel only up to the American entry into the war was an adroit  one. He orbits around his extended Henry family, touching on its friends  and acquaintances as is convenient for the outline of the war/plot; the  personal stories have a flavor to them that makes sense in the context of  America's ambivalence about entering the fighting. For a historical epic  sort of a novel, that was a good decision.The other fun side of the book  is the framing faux-history of the war from the perspective of a German  army officer. Wouk makes &quot;van Roon&quot; a figure roughly comparable  to Victor &quot;Pug&quot; Henry, his America protagonist - a staff officer  at the planning level. Partly this lets the author present the German side  of things, but you wouldn't describe the effort as unbiased. Pug has  translated van Roon's post war recapitulation of events, is the idea, and  some sly little asides sneak in along the way. Again, there's nothing  really surprising about the stuff, it's just pleasantly well done by Mr.  Wouk.If you enjoyed Winds of War, or if you want to read books like it  and can't decide which ones, I would recommend two very readable history  titles:* John Toland's nonfiction titles, with the glaring exception of  Day of Infamy. The Rising Sun is probably Toland's best general history,  though it's only the Pacific theater.* The War, 1939-1945, edited by  Desmond Flower. An amazing collection of first person accounts that span  the war. No fictional contrivance can compare with the voices in this book,  not meaning any offense to the capable Mr. Wouk. This will keep you up very  late at night.
5 &#34;The Winds of War&#34; and &#34;War and Remembrance&#34; had been sitting on my shelf, unread, for some time.  At over 1000 pages each, their length is imposing.&#34;The Winds of War&#34; is completely worth the time it takes to read.  The story is engrossing, the history is fascinating, and the way Herman Wouk weaves relationships, politics, and military action is magnificent.This book is a must read for any military history buff but even for those who are not a fan of the genre, I believe there is much that would keep you interested.  The story is built around the Henry family - a Navy family with three grown children who all have unique personalities and interests.  While it takes place in the years leading up to the US military involvement in WWII, the story really focuses on the lives of these five people and those they encounter along the way.  Some of their encounters are with other fictional characters such as a famous radio personality, a scientist and engineer involved in the development of nuclear weapons, a British journalist, and an accomplished author who happens to be Jewish.  Other encounters are with historical people including big names from WWII: Hitler, Stalin, Churchill, and FDR.  No matter who the encounter is with Mr Wouk keeps the novel a novel with interesting and well-developed dialogue.Through the course of the book, the reader is presented with multiple perspectives on the war.  The American viewpoint is prominent, of course, but through the characters interactions across the globe other views are featured.  One unique way the German perspective is presented is by interspersing chapters of a fictional history of WWII written by a German officer, von Roon, which was translated by the main character, Pug Henry, along with commentary by Henry on what he agrees and disagrees with from von Roon's account.Don't be kept away by the length of this novel.  It is well worth the time to read - both for the history and for the story itself.Now, on to &#34;War and Remembrance&#34;.  From the reviews of this sequel, I'm sure I won't be disappointed!
5 If you compare the older writers with the newer writers, you can tell a distinct difference in their writing style. Older authors tend to utilize a wider range of the English vocabulary even at the expense of being a bit verbose. Newer writers are often times more succinct but also utilize a vary narrow vocabulary to explain ideas, create characters and develop stories. Herman Wouk falls into the former category. His use of the English language is beautiful in a way that is lost in so many newer novels. His work has a similar style to other greats like Somerset Maugham, Pat Conroy, and James Michener. Particularly in Winds Of War he demonstrates his ability to maintain intricate stories with a diverse set of characters from all over the world into a cohesive plot-line. And he does it with relish. With an expansive vocabulary he can entertain the reader with words and ideas that other authors could never imagine writing. Although Winds Of War may contain more factual information that expected, it certainly adds to the authenticity of the story weaved through the timeless characters. Wouk is an exhaustive researcher and the quality of the detailed information rivals any textbook on WWII.I was never interested in WWII until I found this old book sitting on a shelf in our library. Now that I understand the magnitude of the effect the world war had on so many lives from so many countries and for so long, I appreciate this period in history. There may not be another book in print better at engaging a reader into subtle interest in such a seemingly mundane topic.The many rewards Wouk received during his lifetime as an author were much deserved. I hope this novel can help more people who are disinterested in the history of WWII appreciate the time-period.
5 Herman Wouk has done a remarkable job of individualizing events in WWII by showing us through the eyes of one family what the impact of Nazism was at that time.  Beautiful and moving!
5 This book, and it's companion, "War and Remembrance" are two of my favorite novels of WWII. I read/re-read them about every ten years. I find them exceptionally well written with clearly drawn characters who enter the traumic period of Western civilization's march through the use of the industrial model for the destruction of millions of people and an end to traditional European colonial powers. I find myself caring about the characters, their losses, and how they delt with a world bent on destruction; characters trying to balance traditional values while creating new beginnings from the ashes of a world focused on self-destruction and death. I have read most of Mr. Wouk's books and have been a fan of his writings for many years. You will not be disappointed.
4 Wonderful.  You absolutely have to buy the sequel.
5 One of the most complete books I have ever read on WWII.  He gives a perspective from the American, English and even the German side.  Some parts are difficult to read, but I guarantee you will remember and understand more about that period of time then you knew.  Well worth your time.  And his character development is superb.
5 I believe this to be historically accurate, explaining through the actions of fictitious characters how events led up to WWII. It is written so well! It is exciting to read even if you do not want to know much about World War II.
5 In a recent WWII class in college I was assigned to read both Wouk novels, and let me just say that this was not busy work. I found time for this classic and the story just enraptured me. An amazing work of genius, and I am definitely going to purchase more of his novels. I recommend to anyone who wants to learn about WWII in a fun and easy to read way, in addition to reading just for fun.
5 Finally read this book after all these years.  It is probably the best fiction book on WWII that I have ever read.  It was a slow read for me as I kept going back and looking up the facts of this war through out the book.  Good characters, descriptions, flow, etc..  everything you need for an excellent novel.
5 There's a scene where Henry is taken to Tolstoy's grave and one wonders if this is a conceit by Wouk; but the comparison is not far fetched and maybe this novel is superior to War and Peace- it's certainly more readable.
5 "The Winds of War" is a bona fide 5 STAR book if there ever was one!  It is the Gold Standard of historical fiction of World War II.Some folks decided to trash the book based on an apparently highly flawed Kindle version or some badly mangled used books.  These were not literary criticisms and the people probably should have sought an alternative method to register their valid complaints.  Diluting the considered comments and thoughtful ratings of (people judging) the substance of the book is not fair to the author or to prospective readers.This book takes the reader on a sweeping historical journey from events leading up America's involvement in the war.  Our protagonist, US Naval Captain Victor "Pug" Henry, has a large adult extended family which is spread out across the globe and this allows Wouk to deal with pre-war Nazi Germany, the blitzkrieg of Poland, the Battle of Britain, Italy, Stalin in Russia and finally Pearl Harbor.The characters and storyline are so good it leaves you aching for more.  And he delivers "more" with the sequel, "War and Remembrance".For wonderful thought-provoking entertainment and a history lesson all rolled into one, these 2 books are the best you can get!John E. NevolaAuthor of The Last Jump - A Novel of World War II
5 This book was a lively, vibrant account of WWII from the perspectives of diverse, well-developed characters.  _Winds of War_ recounted the great historical events occuring from 1938-39 until the end of 1941, but presented them in a way that reflected believable sentiments real people felt at the time.  The characters of the Jastrow family were particularly interesting for me, who as a Jew, try to understand the element in which they found themselves trying to escape Europe, and how they responded to it.The protagonist, an ambitious and succesful naval officer is the patriarch of the model naval WASP family.  He maneuvers through the thickest power circles in his time with tact and ease, and is really a lot of fun to imagine.Wouk basically conjures a bunch of extremely gifted characters, some beautiful, some brilliant, and weaves them into a fascinating narrative of the most influential years of the 20th century.Historical fiction at its best, if you want a fun yet accurate portrayal of WWII, this is a good pick.
3 He's a most utterly unappealing protagonist.  Wouk wants us to think of Pug as a career-driven, very rigidly moral sort of person.  Instead, he came across to me as cold, humorless, stodgy, somewhat hypocritical, and very, VERY boring.  The few things Wouk has him do to make him less of a plaster saint (drinks a bit, smokes, lusts in his heart after a young English woman) didn't humanize Pug for me.  By the end of the novel, I found him about as likeable as Wouk's other famous character, Captain Queeg.That said, the plot of the novel was engrossing and most of the other characters (Including Hitler and Stalin!)were more interesting and entertaining than Pug.The definite highlight of the book is Wouk writing as the German General van Roon.  It's very convincingly done and it is in these sections of the book where what little (sly) humor Wouk offers is to be found.
5 I love Herman Wouk and really love this book. It should be required reading in history classes across the country.
5 This is a deservedly acclaimed novel of the events leading up to World War II.  It's famous for a reason: it's great literature.  Wouk weaves real history and real people into a page-turning novel, it's a must read.
5 On first glance, The Winds of War is an overwhelming book. At 885 pages / 365,879 words and taking place between March 1939 and December 1941, it's both dense in size and in scope. As a comparison, George R.R. Martin's A Game of Thrones is 835 pages / 292,727 words. And yet, I read it in three days.Essentially a tale of one familys involvment in the leadup to the US entering WWII, The Winds of War is also a close look at the historical events in Europe, the US and in part, the Pacific that culiminated in the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.The Henrys are a Navy family - Victor 'Pug' Henry is naval attache to Berlin and his wife Rhoda travels with him to Berlin. His grown children, sons Warren and Byron and daughter Madeline, are off making their own way in the world, and Pug finds himself drawn into the war in Europe when he sends a report predicting the Nazi-Soviet non-agression pact which comes to the attention of President Roosevelt.Although The Winds of War is a dense, intense book, I found myself quickly addicted to the story. The characters were realistic and the writing very true to the era - not in a way that dates the story, but in a way that made me feel as if I was really there.This book also helped me to understand more of the politicial, as well as historical aspects of the early part of WWII, particularly in Europe. There are sections of the book which contain reports from a German officer, which is translated and examined by Pug Henry, but I confess I didn't find them relevant to the story, and quite dry reading so I did skip them (after attempting to read the first section).Part history, part family saga, I truly enjoyed The Winds of War. Despite the fact that I now have an aching wrist from holding this monster for three days, I'm already 300 pages into the next book, War and Remembrance. So if you're feeling brave, and love good historical fiction, The Winds of War is well worth the investment.
5 For me,  THE WINDS OF WAR, combined with WAR AND REMEMBRANCE, comprise Herman Wouk's ultimate masterpiece. A sweeping telling of the World War II story from initial rumblings to Hiroshima, all through the eyes of a US Navy commander. The two books combined make for a massive read, but it's well worth it.  We must never ever forget the horror of the war, the horrific fate of the Jews caught in it's net and the brave men who willingly and, yes, gladly went off to fight enemies on both sides of the planet.  They are dying daily and the world owes them a huge debt.  Herman Wouk's accurate and fair telling of the story will stand as a monument to all of them. These books can be read and read again then listened to in the excellent audio version - they are that good.
5 I read The Winds of War many years ago and just re-read it. I also got War and Remembrance and will re-read that one. These two books are among my favorite books I have ever read. The books were well written and the characters are developed well along with an incredibly well-researched history of WWII. I'm sure I will read the books again and again and would recommend them to all readers. I don't hand out 5 stars lightly.
4 Wouk wrote this book just as if he had personal knowledge of the U.S. Navy in WWII.  He did, and this is a very intelligent account of the way things were, from a very qualified, on several levels, observer.
5 Winds of War is the fictional account of the family Henry and their adventures from 1938 through Pearl Harbor. Captain Pug Henry, a career Naval Officer is sent to Germany to serve as Naval Attache in Berlin. There he meets all the big players, Hitler, Goering et al. He predicts the Stalin-Hitler non-agression pact and gets called to the White House. There Roosevelt gives him an informal assignment that keeps him involved in myriad interesting developments leading up to the invasion of Poland, then France, the Battle of Britain, and the invasion of Russia. Meanwhile, his son Brian, in Italy working for a Jewish author falls in love with the beautiful Jewish-American niece who was engaged to an American diplomat, who happens to be serving in Warsaw ... naturally Brian and Natalie are visiting her old friend Slote in Warsaw when the Germans attack. Meanwhile ... well you get the point.A popular miniseries was made of this book and its sequel, War and Remembrance.This book is VERY historically accurate. All the events are true, and one of the Henrys or their acquaintances are involved in one or more of them. This is a great read. Brilliantly told, we work through the great events through the experiences of the characters.
5 I never tire of reading Herman Soul's work. I loved the mini-series but the Noel is light years better. It is an outstanding work that takes the reader back to the dark days of the late thirties up to Pearl Harbor.
5 the absolute best WWII story I've ever read. It is imposible to read this book without picturing Pug as Robert Mitchum. He is the perfect epitome of this character. If you've never seen the TV mini-series or if you've had then read the book. Unforgettable characters in a moment of history that changes the world.
4 Well written, acted and filmed.  Great story lines and you'll learn history along the way!  Each of the Henry's are intriguing and Wouk makes you care about them and those they love!
5 My degree is in history and when I just want to relax, historical novels fit the bill.  this is a great book to accompany the cd's
5 I feel like I stepped into the 1940's and I was right ther with Pug and Rhoda. This is the most detailed and accurate novel on WWII that I have read.The charachers are so alive. This Navy family are scattered all over Europe and the US in WWII. You go from desk jobs to the trenches in Russia. Briney the youngest son marries a Jewish woman who is living in Siena, Italy so you can guess where that leads.You read the horrors of Hitlers Final Solution. All the military planning and battles and the tender moments between husbands and wives.The Kindle edition did have many typo's in it. I did report it and was assured that it is being corrected.This is a great read and it is so much easier to read on the Kindle as it is a BIG heavy book.I highly recommend it to anyone who loves WWII drama.
5 This, along with &#34;War and Remembrance,&#34; are the finest historical novels I have ever read about WWII.  You will be totally engrossed in the pride, passion, tragedy and pain of real people caught up in the maelstrom of nations at war.
5 This is a 5-star book that should read by anybody with an interest in WW II. The comments and complaints regarding sexism and poor female characters... well the book was published in 1971. Compare it to some of the other fiction being published at the time... Ian Fleming, John MacDonald, Robert Heinlein. Wouk comes of pretty well in comparison to those authors, I think, especially as his subject is war. Despite this, Wouk still constructs some fascinating female characters... and not all of them are brilliant, easy to sympathize with, or even very smart. But then again, neither are the men.It's a long story, a bit melodramatic at times, will infuriate you, and bring tears to your eyes. Which was what Wouk set out to accomplish.
5 The &#8220;Winds of War&#8221; is the first in a two-book historical fiction series chronicling World War 2 as seen through the eyes of five members of the Henry family. As a word of warning, this is an long book, but a rewarding one if you can immerse yourself into the setting and characters of this volatile period when world war was not some abstract history lesson, but a frightening reality impacting millions of families around the world!Victor &#8220;Pug&#8221;, the father, is in his late 40&#8217;s, with dreams of commanding a battleship and eventually making admiral. Rhoda, the mother, is a few years younger, and caught up being the wife of career naval officer. Warren is in his 20&#8217;s with aspirations to fly planes in the Navy. Bryon is in his 20&#8217;s also with his head in the clouds, but it is more of journey as he drifts about trying to find his way in the world. Finally, there is Madeline, who is 19 at the beginning of the story, and she finds herself stuck in a college she doesn&#8217;t enjoy.Towards the end of the novel, we read the Henry&#8217;s are a &#8220;family of tumbleweeds&#8221; and the &#8220;winds of war have been blowing [them] all around the world.&#8221; This is a vivid description and helps set the stage for how one or more members of the Henry family always seemed to be in the thick of things to include the invasion of Poland, the bombing of London, the German offensive into Russia, and the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor.What I really enjoyed about the novel is the way in which Henry Wouk wraps historic events into a compelling, romantic family drama. He did a masterful job of drawing you into the story and more importantly into the feelings and conflicts that arose during this time. The novel exposes you to events of WW2 and provides a glimpse of life as seen from German, Polish, British, Russian, Japanese, and American perspectives.Wouk&#8217;s attention to detail and historic accuracy really impressed me throughout the novel. I often found myself wondering, &#8220;did that really happen the way he wrote it?&#8221; Every time I looked up things such as the staged Polish attack on Germany, the importance of earning your &#8220;dolphins&#8221; in the Navy, the casualty counts for the United States, the Einsatzgruppen special action units that had no military purpose, etc., I found these things to be true. In the Kindle version of the book, there is a &#8220;Preface to the First Edition&#8221; where Wouk does mention &#8220;World Empire Lost&#8221; is a fiction, but it is based on historical German literature and perspectives.
3 Interesting premise and generally historically accurate, particularly for a novel.  Some archaic wording, but of course this was written in the literary style of a half century ago.  Wouk could have left out the romance parts, which is clearly not his strong suit, but I'd recommend this book as an easy yet informative read.
1 Extremely insulting that no one ever proof reads books after conversion to kindle format.  While the kindle edition appears to have undergone some clean up after so many negative reviews for a chapter to have "Bearl Barbor" as the title is beyond belief.  There are many other conversion errors with improper character recognition but I did not track those.  A few problems with hyphenation also remain where the printed edition used hyphenation as a means to word/line wrap but the after conversion to kindle the hyphen is no longer appropriate since the line wrap occurs at a different point in the line.  There are a few graphics from the printed version also scanned into the kindle edition and therefore of poor quality.  Can only imagine how bad War and Remembrance kindle edition must be since that title has been unavailable for many months while awaiting correction.
5 Had to have it for my Kindle.  Saw the miniseries back in the 80s, loved the book, too, so had to have another copy.  Thanks!
5 This is the story about the years and events leading up to the Second World War looking through the eyes of one family and their friends. Wonderful book.
5 I have read this and War and Remembrance every year for the last 25 years. Each time I learn something new. I really like how the books works the story around real history.
5 Winds of War is a truly great work. I enjoyed it immensely and can see why Herman Wouk won a Pulitzer for it.
5 I had a hard time ,putting the book down to do some work. Wonderfully written,great characters and the. Best plot.
5 Despite the fictional characters, I believe this book to be among the best sources available to get a sense of the world of the 1940's.  As a baby boomer, I grew up among many adults who were directly or indirectly involved in World War II.  Herman Wouk has captured the values and views of that generation in a way that no future novelist (one who was not an eyewitness to those times) will ever be able to do.  The Henry family whose lives are traced through this book typify the straightforward Americans of that day.  This book ought to have won a Pulitzer.  Oh and finally, in case none of the other 37 reviewers mentioned it, for inquiring minds:  &quot;Wouk&quot; rhymes with &quot;oak&quot;.
5 "The Winds of War" by Herman Wouk was one of the best books I have read in a very long time.  I have just ordered "War and Remembrance" because I finished the latter today and need to continue with the story.  The first half of the story (the first book) was a bit slow at first and I was reluctant to continue on, however it soon picked up pace and I couldn't put it down.  The story was heart-rending and I became sympathetic to all of the main characters and felt disdain towards the antagonists, just as the protagonists felt. I recommend this book to anyone who loves America and the struggle to gain freedom in a time when hope seemed far in the distance.  This book will enliven the American spirit.  I am sure that "War and Remembrance" will be just as well-written as "The Winds of War" and I look forward to reading how the character's lives end up.  Read This!
4 Captain Victor Henry of the US navy is seconded to the US embassy in Berlin where he and his high strung wife Rhoda are immediately invited to a diplomatic reception. They are introduced to Hitler and members of the nazi  hierarchy and so this historical epic begins. Revolving mainly around their  two sons Byron and Warren the story takes us from the bombing of Warsaw to  that fateful december morning at Pearl Harbour. When Victor Henry submits a  report to his superiors predicting a secret pact between Russia and Nazi  Germany and is proved correct his presence is immediately requested at the  White House. From then on Roosevelt is impressed with what he sees and asks  him to be his informal watchdog in Berlin and to keep his eyes and ears  open. &quot;drop him a line every now and then&quot;. It is an assignment  Victor Henry accepts with misgivings. The author weaves a convoluted tale  of &quot;Pug&quot; Henrys meetings and confrontations with such historical  figures as Roosevelt, Churchill, Mussolini and even Stalin. I learnt more  here about major european battles and the background political drama than I  ever learnt at college. It also captured the complicated politics of the  time and explained the unlikly pact Hitler made with the soviets, their  supposed arch enemies.It also dwelt in quite  some detail with the  intricacies of lend-lease which many americans were against at the time.  Also with the fictional device of a memoir written by a retired wehrmacht  general we are given a german perspective on the war and their reasons for  its outcome. The germans Henry tells us laconically have a habit of blaming  other countries for getting invaded by them. I had to nod in agreement at  captain Henrys comment when asked by Roosevelt what he thought of Hitler  &amp; Stalin. Henry's reply was that from his perspective most presidents  and primeministers were more alike than they were different. Aint that the  truth. The story also includes the romance, anguish, pain and suffering of  war and all that entails. I also liked how the author descibed the ambience  of the time. The streets of London and Berlin and Washington. What woman  were wearing. What people were eating. It all just helped to create a more  effective story. Give it a go even if you havent read a historical novel  before you just might be surprised.
5 This book along with it's companion, War and Remembrance, are so full of vivid history.  I learned from these books more about WWII including what led up to it than any history class, documentary, or history book could ever provide.On top of all this history is a touching tale about a military family that suffers the highs and lows of personal events (romance, divorce, death, etc.) while rubbing elbows with all the great names of that time.The authors descriptions of some of the battle scenes (The German defeat of the French) are so real that I felt I had experienced them first hand.  This should be required reading for any WWII history class.
4 "The Winds of War" is a novel of the events leading to World War II told through the eyes of an American Naval family and their acquaintances.  It is written by Herman Wouk based on his wartime experiences and his research.Commander Victor "Pug" Henry is considered an officer with a bright future.  He is a methodical, careful engineer with "plenty of blue water" in his service record.  His family consists of his wife, Rhoda, their daughter, Madeleine and two sons, Warren and Byron (Briny).Commander Henry wants nothing more in life but to reach the rank of Captain and command a battleship.  He has worked systematically towards this goal for his entire career.  Beneath that taciturn exterior is a deep intellect coupled with presence of mind. He has made no missteps in his career.  However the next assignment offered to him doesn't thrill him.The U.S. Navy had historically sent it's less promising officers to diplomatic posts.  In these days before WWII, this policy is reversed.  Pug is offered the post of Naval Attach&eacute; to Germany.  This is Germany under Adolf Hitler and the post is considered crucial.  However in Pug's eyes, it is possibly a career dead-end.  Nonetheless after consulting his socialite wife Rhoda and an Annapolis classmate, he takes the job.Pug's elder son Warren is cut from father's mold career-wise.  Like his father, he has excelled at the U.S. Naval Academy.  He has chosen aviation as his specialty.  The younger son, Byron is another story.Byron is an undisciplined romantic dreamer slacker-type who has somehow made it out of Columbia with a B.A.  He also got a reserve naval commission in order to placate his father. When the book begins he is working for a best-selling author, Prof. Aaron Jastrow in Siena, Italy as researcher.  It's obvious he has `something' but he lacks that certain spark.  This amiable drifter finds direction in his life when he falls in love with Professor Jastrow's niece, Natalie.The romance is complicated by a number of things.  She is older.  Natalie is in love with someone else, an old money East coast establishment-type diplomat, Leslie Slote.  She barely acknowledges Byron's existence.  Finally, Natalie is Jewish.The last is a relationship killer in pre-WWII America.  At this time, a WASP-Jewish marriage was socially looked down upon.  Jews and Gentiles had their own separate worlds.This woman gives Byron from his `spark'.  Like his father, Byron Henry gets what he wants......While in Germany, Commander Henry files a report going against conventional wisdom.  This report makes its way up through the chain of command to the President of the United States.  He returns it with a note to forward Victor Henry's service record.Victor Henry has come to the personal attention of the President of the United States of America.I've only scratched the surface of what happens in this book.  This book (and its sequel, "War and Remembrance") is about WWII and its effects on this most American family.  Mr. Wouk cleverly arranges things in order to involve his characters in the different events and theaters of world as they lead up to Pearl Harbor.Close attention is paid to the Jewish experience in Europe as well as the thoughts, events and personalities of those in the corridors of power.The book is a page-turner.  While it is not great literature, it is engrossing and the most painless way I know of to study the events leading up to WWII.
5 This great novel is the best description of World War II that the average person will ever find. You could read Churchill's Memoirs, as I have, or Max Hastings non-fiction "Overlord." You would have to read at least a dozen non-fiction books to get the story. I have probably read 50 books on World War II. I have also read Winds of War a dozen times. Pug Henry is the observer and minor participant that has been used by many other historical novelists. WEB Griffin is an enormously popular writer of novels on World War II. I have read them all. He is excellent at characterization. Wouk is better. There are many excellent novels about World War II that have been forgotten. Leon Uris wrote several of them and they are excellent. Wouk is better. If you want the story of World War II in one story, read this novel and the sequel War and Remembrance. I have read each of them many times. There is no better way to get the whole story. I have amused myself with looking up the stories of the real characters he includes. They are all real and he does them justice.There is no better way to start the study of World War II.
5 This review is written for Winds of War, and War and Remembrance together. Although two separate books, they are really two halves of the same story, and really need to be considered together. These books may not be Mr. Wouk's finest books, but they are his finest story, and most encompassing work.These books really can be read for three different reasons: First, as a story of a family, and to effects of World War II. Second, as a war story of Sailors in World War II. Third, as a comprehensive history of World War II.This book is a story of a family. It tells of a husband and wife, their three sons, and their daughter, as well as all the love interests involved with these characters. Throughout the two books, we follow the all of these characters, as they interact with each other, and those around us. We get to see the effects of the war on their personal and professional lives, as well as the effects of the war on their relationships.This book is a war story. Many of the characters are directly involved in the war was U.S. Navy Sailors in the war. Most of those characters that are not serving in the military, are still directly involved in the war as diplomats, war correspondents, and other direct or indirect participation. We see many of the major battles, as well as some of the inner workings of politicians and diplomats.Finally, this book is a comprehensive history of World War II. Mr. Wouk puts a comprehensive treatise on World War II from the perspective of a German military officer between narrative chapters. Additionally, because many of the character are involved with the politics and diplomacy of the war, we get a view of the way it affected society as a whole, and the purpose of individual battles.Finally, one last note of caution. This book is a powerful book. It takes place in World War II, some of these characters are Jewish, some of these characters are serving in the military. Some of these chapters will be sad. This book is still amazing and worth reading, but should be approached with this in mind.
5 Well written and best book on how WWII came to be and all of the key leaders and their personalities.
5 I loved the mini-series so decided to give the book a go.  The TV series covered all the most important things from the book, but as usual there is much detail in the book that there was not time for in the series. This book is a good bet for  anyone who loves an engrossing story about a very important time in the history of mankind.  I learned a great deal that I never knew before, and I fancy myself somewhat of a history buff.  Highly recommended.
5 I have seen the movie, and I wanted to read the book.All I can really say, very informative, and an excellent read!Enjoy and remember!!!!  Joannie :)
5 I think all deep thinking adults should read this book, to help insure that this can never happen again.  Wouk is a super writer.
5 I've read many WWII-related novels and works of non-fiction over the years.  Therefore, I'm somewhat surprised it took me this long to arrive at Herman Wouk.  Winds of War is a sweeping, magnificent epic that captured me in a way few novels do.Herman Wouk tells the story of a fictional USN family as the events leading up to America's entry into war cast them hither and yon.  London, Berlin, Moscow, Pearl Harbor, New York City, Rome, Manila, and Washington DC all figure prominently as do the leaders of each Axis and Allied country.Having read much about WWII, I especially enjoyed Wouk's flawless chronology and the detail with which it was adorned.  Indeed, one could absorb a better understanding of the WWII event timeline from Winds of War than from many non-fictional accounts.I do most of my reading at night before sleep.  Winds of War had me looking forward to bedtime on my commute home from work.  I loved this book.  I loved it's character formation, it's pace, it's geographical range, and it's towering level of suspense.  Every ingredient required for a memorable epic is present in an impeccable weave.Winds of War rates 5 stars and more.
5 A must read for any history buff.  The book elicits revelations and looks into the feel and culture of the American people.  This book made reading about the coming of WWII a breeze.
4 Wouk does a magnificent job of providing the background of the US prior to our comittment in World War Two.
5 This is the first of two books recounting the story of an American family during the period just prior to and then throughout the Second World War. If we could take the real history away from it altogether, a compelling  fictional drama would still remain. To mix this invented family saga in  with that of the war, means that we have a novel of another order  altogether.In this first novel, we are taken inside Hitler's Berlin and  allowed to see the inner workings of the regime, as experienced by Victor  `Pug' Henry, a senior American naval attach&eacute; and the story's main hero.  Slowly we are introduced to his family and we follow them as they become  dispersed in different corners of the planet in preparation for the coming  conflict. At the same time, we are given the necessary background to the  American political arena of the period, as Pug becomes drawn into the  unique role as the President's unnamed (and therefore secret) military  aide. He is subsequently sent to all the major scenes of political  influence in the Allied Command, a device which not only works well for the  plot, but gives the reader a very wide reach, beyond what one feels is the  normal grip of propaganda. It's another reason I like the book: it is about  a war in which the truth was continuously bent during and afterwards by all  and sundry (albeit for different reasons). It is good do be able to feel  such confidence in the integrity of Wouk the author, as he reports to us  through the eyes of Pug Henry.In addition to the ordinary (some would  say, far from ordinary) events occurring in the lives of his characters,  Wouk sets the stage for the second book's main story, which is that of the  Jewish ghetto known as Theresienstadt.This is a major work of fiction  and, I would argue, a major work of history as well. Our understanding of a  period in which so much false information was produced, can only be  enhanced by a work in which, right from the beginning, we are not asked to  believe that everything stated is true. We are then left to see for  ourselves what sort of world this was half a century ago, and the clarity  and openness of the text leaves us in no doubt.
5 I read this many years ago and thought I would like to read again, but remembered too much of the story so I didn't finish the second reading.  I  highly recommend this excellent story to anyone interested in the World War II era.  Not only does the story explain much of the politics of the time, but also tells the story of several very interesting families caught up in the struggle.  Highly recommended.
5 I first read the novel 35 years ago. I was entranced by Wouk's human characterizations and his grasp of history. He allows you to BELIEVE in the story. I probably have it all memorized by now but I still grab a read now and then. Definitely 5 stars.
5 This book was so good that it caused me to slack off on my studies. I don't normally read too much fiction, but a friend who is a fellow WWII buff recommended it, and I'm glad I took him up on it. The story follows US Naval Captain Victor "Pug" Henry and his family in the years leading up to WWII. The characters are all intriguing and lifelike, and Wouk's storytelling ability is second to none. Not only is there plenty of romance, intrigue and suspense, but I found the book to be very nuanced as well. This is no one-dimensional patriotic hack job. The historical background of the book is incredibly sharp, and you can actually learn quite a bit of real history even while being highly entertained. Whether it's through Pug or his son Byron, or any one of the other characters, the book takes the reader through pre-war Nazi Germany, Poland under Blitzkrieg, London in the Battle of Britain, Italy, Portugal, Russia and ending at Pearl Harbor. Pug manages to find himself in some high places, rubbing elbows with quite significant individuals. I particularly liked the way that Wouk just kind of snuck in historical details into the conversations of the characters so seamlessly. 'The Winds of War' is truly an American epic, and a highly addictive one at that.
5 A reader does not need to have a special interest in war stories to enjoy this novel (along with its continuation in War and Remembrance).  This is a very well-written story that puts a personal face on World War Two.  Even though The Winds of War adn War and Remembrance is one coherent stroy covering over 2000 pages, the story never bogs down.  Spans events from the lead-up to the end of the war and follows the main characters all over the world.  Wouk does a great job of writing from various perspectives.The history seems to be fairly accurate, with some necessary literary license taken to covey the sheer volume of information required as the backdrop for the main characters.  You wouldn't read this to replace history works, but it really humanizes the events of the war.
5 This was a great way to understand more about the war, and enjoy rereading the book after seeing the movie on netflix.
5 I consider this book one of the greatest books ever written. Sometimes I had to put it down as it was too hard to take the awful events of World War II. I loved it.
5 I try to read anything written by this author and this book did not disappoint. His character development is clear and the timelines are consistant with the historical events he refers to in the story. Overall entertaining and, as with his other books, hold your attention. My one complaint would be that it takes almost the entire book for the obvious to be stated by the main characters.
5 I have read this book several times before and I also have it on dvd.  Great book can't say enough about it----glad i have it on my kindle now-going to read a different book now to get a break and then i will get the war and rememberance another great book
5 I may be one of the last people to read this book and I never saw the movie, but I am glad I read it. The book was a great mix of factual information from the time period interspersed with interesting characters. I am looking forward to reading &#34;War and Remembrance&#34; next.
1 This Book on CD's is terribly disappointing. The CD's don't play well in my car CD player - the player either skips ahead to future tracks or skips back to previous tracks or even occassionally to another CD. In addition, the CD's are packaged so poorly that the plastic binders that hold the folders for the discs come apart readily when you try to turn to unplayed CD's or when you try to put back CD's and have now ripped out of the base on the container. The product seems like a counterfeit product produced in a back alley in Bejing or Hanoi with poor, cheap materials. Extremely disappointing!
5 Not much that I can add that has not been said many times.A classic that has stood the test of time and finding new fans every year. Family,drama,sex,murder lust and love done at it's best.
5 PLEASE read this book and you will never never forget it.  You will be so grateful it was written and that you found it! It truly is a life-changing read!!!  Ah the romance-- the grandeur--the history that we "kinda" thought we knew--it all comes together--and the characters are simply my all-time favorites--and I am a READER!!
5 Great story line, following a military family through the war years.  Following the war as it happened using the imaginary family brought more of the feeling of the times.  H. Wouk gets gold stars.
4 I enjoyed the way this book gave me a glimpse of how the war affected a family. Pug Henry is a character you find your self rooting for. I could have done without some of the other characters. Good solid read.
5 I first read this book in 1972. It is the story of a military family from 1939- through 1941 and the attack on Pearl Harbor that brought us into the war. Very readable and meticulously researched, the characters in the book have become like treasured ancestors. I just finished my 4th reading of the book.
4 The book clarified some of my misconceptions about the events leading to the second world war. Creation of a story makes the reading of history much more interesting. I really enjoyed reading it.
5 Herman Wouk's book The Winds Of War is near perfect. The twelve years of research Mr. Wouk put into this book is a historical fiction lover's dream. He somehow manages to take a lot of dry information and turn it into fascinating, can't put down, reading. I came away from this book with a better and clearer understanding of WW2 than I have ever had before.The Henry family are the main characters of the story, with Captain Victor "Pug" Henry, a Naval Officer, as the head of it. None of the characters are really all that well fleshed out, there is just way to much going on in this story for there to be time to go too deep, but it all seems to work to make a very enjoyable and fascinating story that is hard to put down.This is definitely a "can't put down" book but I actually found myself taking my time to read it and savor it because I didn't want it to come to an end. This is a huge book (1056 pages) but I didn't find any part of it that dragged at all. I am so happy there is a sequel. Even after reading this 1000 plus page book I am ready to dive right into the second equally large book about the Henry family and the continuation of WW2.This is one of those special rare books that only comes along once in a long while...books you wish you could read again for the first time.
5 &quot;The Winds of War&quot; has almost everything in it: action, love , adventure, espionage, intrigue, and it manages to tell a story within a  historical context that will, hopefully, lead readers to the appreciation  of history itself. The greatest strength of the book is in Wouk's style and  in his magnificent main character, Victor &quot;Pug&quot; Henry, who gets  to be in the right place and at the right time to provide us with the best  parts of this novel. Anothe strong, important character is Nathalie  Jastrow, the Jewish girl who finds herself trapped in Europe when the war  erupts. I did not care much for the extremely benign portrayal of President  Roosevelt: the White House's policy toward the Jews remained unchanged  throughout his mandate, so I cannot see him as some sort of closet-champion  of the Jews. Another character who got in my nerves was Aaron Jastrow. This  one was stupid, obstinate, blind to the danger looming over him and his  family, and too convinced of his own scholarly achievements to see past his  arrogance. True, many Jews were like that, didn't leave Europe in time, and  paid dearly when the nazis got to them, but Jastrow's character felt like  nails on a blackboard: not at all pleasant. As a counterpoint, authors do  not have to write only about pleasant characters. Still, this book moves  fast, entertains, and informs. Wouk seems to have a far-too-rosy idea of  the US Navy and of the US at war, but that is understandable and, who  knows: he may be right and I am probably wrong. His book, though, will  leave you wanting more and, for that, stay tuned because &quot;War and  Remembrance&quot; is on the horizon.
5 I'm still recovering from my exhaustive trek through Herman Wouk's 2-part WWII magnum opus, including The Winds of War and War and Remembrance. I bought them a few years back for my boyfriend, and finally, around early December, I got around to diving in myself...just in time for Pearl Harbor Day 2012.Now, we are talking 2000+/- densely packed pages read in 2 months read back to back. I couldn't put either book down and read during breaks at work and straight thru the weekends. But what an amazing journey! Wouk's genius is his gift for providing expansive period and place details and dialogues between a dynamic cast of characters in a syntax that lets all the plays and players ebbs and flows so evenly and engagingly. He brilliantly weaves fact and fiction together seamlessly and believably.WOR covers the time from Hitler's rise and rule in 1938 to the attack on Pearl Harbor. The centrifugal force of the books is the (ficticious) naval Henry family, and how they all navigated through this cataclysmic epoch, both individually and collectively. The paterfamilias, Victor "Pug" Henry, is a career navy officer whose duties throughout the 2 novels take him from Washington to Berlin, Moscow, London, Stalingrad, Tehran, Hawaii, and the South Pacific. His 2 sons also members of the service endure their own challenges presented by the demands of war. His only daughter elected a stateside career in TV and broadcast in New York, adding cosmopolitan dash to the sibling roster.Interwoven throughout both novels are excerpts from writings by a German Weirmacht officer, offering the German viewpoint of the events leading up to the war and perspectives on the German/Teutonic personae that created Hitler and galvanized the Reich. In addition to all the side stories of the Henry family, as expected, there is the Jewish story, personified in Natalie Jastrow and her uncle, Aaron Jastrow, a famous American author and former Yale professor who lives in Italy, and whom Natalie works for as a researcher. She is also the love interest of Byron Henry (Pug's youngest son), who eventually becomes his wife. They of course become ensnared in the horrors of Nazi anti-semitism.WAR covers the time period from Pearl Harbor, to Hiroshima (which he only touches on briefly) and the end of the war. Pug Henry meets and interacts with them all...Hitler, Stalin, Roosevelt, Churchill, Eisenhower...in this amazing historical panorama of events that shaped our present world.Epic masterful storytelling doesn't get much better than this, and I am grateful that I made the leap and took the time to make this journey.
5 Wouk's The Winds of War is a wonderful piece of historical fiction.  Following the Henry family in their international travels in the lead up to World War II, the author's extensive research enables him to use this familial narrative as a context for providing the reader with a history of the events that lead up to the break out of WW II.  The characters are unpredictable and realistically three-dimensional.  The book was so good, I eagerly took up its sequel War and Remembrance the moment I finished it.  Highly recommended.
5 I was enthralled by The Winds of War when it was released in the early 1970's, and enjoyed the mini-series with Robert Mitchum and Ali MacGraw in the early 1980's. A couple of years ago I found a tattered paperback in a second hand bookstore and enjoyed reading it again.  About the same time cable TV screened the mini-series over a week and I was enthralled again.This book, and the sequel War and Remembrance, are Wouk's largest fictional works and give a comprehensive coverage of many of the major events before and during WWII. The Winds of War tells the story of the lead up to WWII through the eyes of Navy Commander Victor "Pug" Henry who is appointed Naval Attache in Berlin 6 month's before Hitler's invasion of Poland in September 1939. He travels widely throughout Europe as President Roosevelt's unofficial eyes and ears in Europe, meeting most of the key players during those tumultuous times. During this time Pug begins a platonic but very close and borderline romantic relationship with Pamela Tudsbury, daughter of a famous British radio personality.This book and War and Remembrance are classic novels about WWII. Wouk devoted "thirteen years of extraordinary research and long, arduous composition" to these two memorable novels.Since moving to Kindle format I am slowly gathering copies of my favourite books for my Modern Classics Kindle Library. This book certainly gets a place in that library and I am waiting for better pricing before adding War and Remembrance. Last week I added all 6 volumes of Churchill's memoirs of the war to this library when they were a Kindle Daily Deal for $1.99. The world of the Kindle really is a marvellous place.I also enjoyed Wouk's 1990's books, "The Power" and "The Glory", about the establishment of Israel and the 1967 Six Day War and the 1973 Yom Kippur War. After that I assumed that Wouk had retired but was astounded to find that, at the age of 97, he will publish a new novel in November,The Lawgiver, about the life of Moses. I pre-ordered it immediately.
5 Insightful read, although fiction, based on historical facts. Great perspective from career naval family. Refreshing to see honor, truth and family hailed as the ultimate purpose for this family. Although not hailed as a love story you can't help but feel the deep love this family has for each other and our great country.
5 This sprawling epic follows a group of fictional characters - a family - through a painstakingly researched recreation of the events leading up to the Second World War, in Winds of War, the first volume, and up through the end of the war in the second volume, War and Remembrance. The historical sequence, the actions of world leaders, and the events of the war are detailed and factual, but the main characters and their places in those events are fictional. It's a brilliant device to bring the history we think we know to life, and grounds momentous events in the humanity of individuals trying to cope with the total upheaval of a worldwide conflict and the unimaginable horror of events like the rise of Hitler, the Pearl Harbor attack, the Atomic Bomb, and the Holocaust.The Audible production is truly a masterful interpretation of a masterwork, primarily due to the monumental work of Kevin Pariseau. He handles a huge cast of characters, with a m&eacute;lange of accents - Russian, British, German, Yiddish, Italian, French, several American dialects, and more - with convincing ease, but it was the singing as multiple characters that put the icing on it for me. When Udom sang to the crowd at Theresienstadt before being sent off on the train to Auschwitz, it tore my heart out.I read these books to gain a deeper grasp of my father's generation, of the sacrifices they made, and of the events that shaped their world view. I came away with so much more than that. My faith in humanity was restored.The Winds of War
5 I just recently read Winds of War and its sequel, War and Remembrance.  They were both excellent novels.  Wouk strikes me as a talented writer, who employs all the technical tools of his trade-such as using letters, excerpts from a military analysis (fictional) to help lend depth to his characters and a framework for the events of the novel.Winds of War, in particular, grabbed me and by the end I was frantic to get to the sequel to find out what happens to the Henry clan.  I agree with another reviewer who writes about the steady developement and changes to Byron and how believeable it is.  A great read (both of them)  I would also recommend for similar novels (albeit different periods) &quot;A Soldier of the Great War&quot; and &quot;Killer Angels&quot;One final note, you may want to pause b/w reading the two novels as I found towards the latter third of War and Remembrance that I was getting tired of the book, but I read the two back to back over the course of three weeks.
5 The Pulitzer winning author (The Caine Mutiny) Herman Wouk wrote the great 885 page The Winds of War( other... War and Remembrance).Wouk used rich character development and the reader easily develops deep empathy with the main characters in this novel. Also famous/infamous people like Hitler, Stalin, President Roosevelt, Admirals King, Halsey and Yamato and more plus great history add to this novel. Wouk mixes fictional characters, real people and events very well.We see the central character Commander Victor Henry  being assigned Naval attache duties in Berlin, Moscow and England to gather intelligence info for President Roosevelt. His wife supports him but eventually has an affair. His oldest son becomes a naval aviator stationed on the Enterprise. His youngest son becomes a Submariner officer and his daughter  becomes a radio talk show helper.Eventually  captain "Pug" Henry gets his dream assignment as Captain of the battleship California only to see it sunk in Pearl Harbor by the Japanese before he can take command.Briny his submariner/Ensign son gets a commendation and his gold Dolphins and saves torpedoes and supplies from the wreckage at Pearl. Plus Briny marries a Jew who has their baby son. The baby, wife and her famous author Uncle are trapped in Europe by Hitler's Gestapo, threatened and can't get out. His son Warren the naval aviator serves on the Enterprise and is shot down and injured at Pearl Harbor.I won't continue and ruin this great action packed and interesting true history novel for you. Also some insight into the mind of one of Hitler's top Generals. Lots of prewar intelligence gathering by captain "Pug" Henry and a colorful painting of WW2 military/country leaders.Anyone interested in a great story with great characters plus true interesting preWW2 history will love this book. 5 stars plus and proudly added to our family library.I just started reading Wouk's second part book War and Remembrance with many of The Winds of War characters. I'll review.
5 I'd heard so much about this book, and all of it rang true.This is a truly epic, classic American story lined with history, intrigue and wisdom. You'll love it - male, female, young or old.
5 The events leading to the Second World War are as fascinating as the events of the War itself, and infinitely more complex and consequential than any work of fiction.  Wouk (and his researchers) have provided us with a marvelous gift in this book, which presents a cleverly developed fictitious tale set among ALL of the major events and players of this real life drama.I am writing this review in March of 2008.  The US is experiencing multiple financial crises in the housing, credit, and energy markets.  We are at war with seemingly unobtainable goals.  We are witnessing a baffling and discouraging presidential contest.  Terrorism seems to rule nearly every aspect of our lives (and even so, we are one of the safest nations on Earth - in other words, it is much worse in other places . . . .).  All of that stated, March of 2008 looks like a cakewalk compared to nearly any place in the world in the late 1930's and early 1940's, when fascist (and socialist, and imperialist) politics, rapidly developing war technologies, the last vestiges of old world European colonialism, and the overwhelming power of racism (anti-Semitism, among others), combined to change the maps of nearly every major power and realign the world for the time not yet ended.  This masterful work of fiction sheds a fascinating light on the rise of this war, while also providing a great story.About the fiction of this work, Wouk invented an interesting family whose characters, all taken together, are present for active roles in just about every major event of the coming war.  As such, this is like a modern Shakespearian classic - we are treated to the very human actions and emotions of legends (good and bad) through the eyes of Pug Henry and his family.  What a hell of a book.  At some regrettable points, the book borders on sappy, and some (and I stress, only a few) scenes are just not believable (like Warren Henry being shot down over Pearl Harbor, and dropping in at his house to see the wife before snagging another plane and getting back in the fight).  These missteps are few and forgivable.  The characters are universally flawed, which is a refreshing departure from the typical pop fiction approach - sometimes I would find myself angry with some of these characters and their actions - what a great reaction to pull out of your reader!This is a recommended book for war and history buffs, but I think it can be enjoyed by anyone who appreciates readable fiction - particularly fiction set in the mid-20th century.  The ultimate compliment: when I finished this I did not hesitate to pick up Wouk's sequel, War and Remembrance.  Awesome!
5 I read Winds of War (and then its sequel, War and Remembrance) a few years  ago and enjoyed it thoroughly.Herman Wouk weaves in the story of the  Henry family through the ordeal of Second World War.  The reader gets a  very personal look at World War II (on all fronts, including the Holocaust)  through the eyes of this tight knit American family.Although it's a  pretty big book, the pages fly by...!
5 Really...I'm old enough to remember when this was first published! Maybe I should be grateful that I read it at a mature age, I probably appreciated it more. The Winds of War and War and Rememberance (which I also read and give 5 stars to) are the story of a fictional American family, a Navy family, and their lives during the run up to WWII and during the war itself. I have read a great deal about WWII, both fiction and non fiction, and this is a great work. The narrative is beautiful, the characters are written with great depth and insight (male and female, civilian and military alike) and the story spans the entire globe. There isn't a dull moment.What is amazing about the story is how well the personal trials and tribulations of the Henry clan are woven into the world history that is unfolding. Joy, love, death, betrayal, and all of it beautifully told.Wouk is a brilliant writer and a wonderful story teller.
5 I've noticed that there continues to be an interest in these books, but that there have also been some interesting comments about them on Amazon. So I'll add some thoughts of mine.These novels, which are really one, extended, story cover World War II from antecedents to conclusion from the American viewpoint. Wouk uses the device of having one set of characters--in this case Naval Officer "Pug" Henry and his family--continually turn up in key situations so as to allow the novel to cover the entire epoch while having a continuous, human-level plot. ("War and Peace", obviously an inspiration to Wouk, is probably the most famous example of this approach.) Without this device the writer is forced to chose between taking a microscopic view of the period, or ending up with a set of connected stories without a unifying, human-level plot, or interrupting the novel with historical asides. The downside of this device is that it relies on a series of improbable events and coincidences to get a key character into each historical situation important to the story. Readers then need to suspend disbelief on this point to enjoy the novel; those that can't are going to be disappointed.Comments on Amazon suggest that these books are anything from soap operas to the greatest historical novels ever written. Those who consider them soap operas can't suspend disbelief concerning the plot improbabilities. That is a fair reason to not enjoy novels like these, but doesn't really consign them to the level of soap opera. But neither are they among the greatest historical novels ever written. In fact, they aren't even the best novels about World War II that use this plot device; that honor goes to Vasily Grossman's "Life and Fate", which covers the war from the Soviet viewpoint, and is a great novel by a great writer and well worth reading.At the end of the day, Herman Wouk may be remembered as one of the finest American novelists of the twentieth century, in that his best books were outstanding, if conventional, novels. But he was not a great writer, although he was a very good one. That said, these are two books that deserve to endure and gain new generations of readers. They are well written, keep moving and encourage the reader to keep turning pages, and give a grand overview of the World War II era. If you love history you might prefer learning about the era from nonfiction books by historians and participants. If you are looking for deep characterizations and profound insight into the human experience you should probably read smaller-scale novels that look inward rather than cover the broad sweep of a world-wide conflict. But for a reader looking for a well constructed and well written story that also provides an overview of the conflict that consumed the world in the 1930s and 40s, and set the stage for the geopolitics of the half century to follow, these are wonderful books.
5 This is really a good book and I would recommend it to anyone.  Especially history and war buffs.  You won't be disappointed.
5 Have read this book several times and never seem to tire of it.  The characters are so very well drawn and the time/era has ever been fascinating to me. Wouk captures the sights, sounds and smells of those days perfectly.  His interaction between 'his' characters and actual persons of the time is flawless.  A terrific historical introduction to the times, how people felt, things that were done.  It's a masterpiece in my estimation.
5 "Winds" is a magnificent saga of the Henry family and their friends and associates told against a backdrop of the world events leading up to the USA's entry to WWII.  Navy Captain Victor "Pug" Henry travels the world doing odd jobs for FDR while Germany invades Poland, overruns France, and fights England and Russia.  In the meantime, FDR keeps the USA out of the war. After rubbing elbows with Churchill, Stalin, and Hitler, Pug finally finishes up his tasks for FDR and heads to Hawaii to command a battleship.  All Pug really ever wanted was a sea command, a decent shot at flag rank, and good lives for his family.  Wait a minute---Hawaii?  Isn't that where Pearl Harbor is?  When I read "The Caine Mutiny", I thought I had read Wouk's best.  Despite the rather narrower scope of "Caine", I still feel that way. Don't miss this one though, it's great.
5 Winds of war is a masterpiece, the definitive novel of world war two. It has everything, characters, plot and, most of all, great history. If you like this book, watch for NIGHT OF FLAMES by Douglas W. Jacobson, coming soon.Night of Flames: A Novel of World War II
5 I have read this book more than two times.  It is still a very good story.  I will start the conclusion in a few minutes.
5 I consider myself very picky when it comes to books. They have to be pretty exciting and well writting to hold my attention. Maybe I have A.D.D. or something. As the other reviewer said, there is a little "they know we know that they know" business in this book, but that didn't stop me from zipping through this book in about 2 days. I  give this book 5 stars because the style of writing just allows you to literally sprint through the pages without realizing you're even reading. it's seamless, and a breeze to read. i never once stopped to question something he wrote, and never once felt like i was "outside of the story". i'll be purchasing more of his books pronto.
5 I'm not a fan of the circus and I hate clowns.  Being a MacLean fan, but with my current mentality, I figured he had finally run out of ideas (at this point in his life).  But the cover of the 1975 Fawcett Crest edition (see "customer images" for the paperback edition) was intriguing: a man falling off a high-wire, the bicycle tumbling after him.  Is someone killing off circus people?  I had to read.It turns out that the circus plays as a backdrop for a secret CIA mission.  Believe it or not, but the agenda in this tale is about an incredible circus performer recruited by the CIA to break into a prison (that the circus "moves" next to) to steal -- as the back of the book explains -- "a formula capable of annihilating the earth itself."  Sure enough, MacLean was like the Crichton of the 70s and managed to weave an entertaining yarn around the idea of anti-matter (certainly not new in 1975).MacLean refrains from delving too deeply into describing anti-matter or how this formula will end up being used.  His somewhat amusing approach to it takes place as a discussion between semi-ignorant CIA agents and Bruno, the acquired circus performer, all of whom are frightened by the power of anti-particles.As the title may suggest, the book is a slight deviant from other MacLean adventure tales, but I rank it up there among his best works.  The book is full of extremely original death scenes that, despite being accustomed to MacLean's formulas, took me completely by surprise.  There are more twists in the last chapter than there are in some of his better books, and MacLean pulls it off realistically, and without creating a convoluted mess.Keep an eye out for Carter.  While no first name is ever given, he is the doppelganger cameo of Chief Officer John Carter of MacLean's "The Golden Rendezvous."  (MacLean has done this with other characters throughout his novels.)
3 1975's "Circus" is a suspenseful Cold War thriller by master story teller Alistair MacLean, featuring a popular circus on tour in an unnamed Eastern European country.  As in many of Maclean's novels, practically none of the characters are exactly who they seem to be, while the espionage mission, to steal the secret plans for an exotic anti-matter weapon, is only one item on a seemingly crowded agenda.The hero of the story is one Bruno Wilderman, Eastern European expatriate and master circus aerialist.  He is asked by the CIA to break into the Lubyian Prison in the city of Crau in order to steal the above-mentioned plans.  The only access to the prison may be a near suicidal aerial traverse of a three hundred yard long electrical cable nine stories in the air.  To complicate the plot, the sudden deaths of two CIA agents before the circus even leaves the United States indicate the enemy is onto the plot.  The trails of mysterious deaths will follow the circus across the Atlantic and into Eastern Europe.  Wilderman, nominally under the direction of the CIA's Dr. Harper and his beautiful young assistant Maria, soon learns that he will have to make his own plans if he hopes to survive the mission.The premise for the story is solid, but the plot too often devolves into "they know that we know that they know that we know" shannigans.  The mission is immediately compromised, and the reader is asked to believe that Wilderman can put together his own effort to break into the Lubyian, one worthy of a "Mission Impossible" episode, under the noses of both the CIA and the Secret Police in Crau.  MacLean fans will sense that he was to some degree going through the motions on another spy thriller, but to his credit, MacLean keeps the surprises coming to the very last page."Circus" is recommended to fans of Alistair Maclean as an entertaining read.
5 Another great MacLean classic. In this book the hero is an  American athlete, an immigrant from eastern Europe. He is recruited by the CIA and is to undertake and unimaginable mission. He, of course, succeeds, but not without the extreme difficulties that macLean's heroes always face. The story twists are awesome and the ending is both expected and surprising. A great read.
3 The United States secret service is attempting to steal the plans of a new weapons of mass destruction developed by the USSR. To do that, the services of an international trapeze artist are required. Very early in the plot it becomes clear that the Americans have an infiltrator in their midst, whose identity remains unknown, in the best tradition of MacLean, until a very late stage of the book.Why I thought it is good enough ?Old readers of MacLean will identify most of the artist's motives and techniques, but they are used with literary skill and the reading is fluent, the reader feels thrilled and intrigued most of the time.Why I thought it is not 4 or 5 stars ? Alistair Maclean's best books are much more compact, the level of tension is much higher, the images more detailed and reliable, and the whole experience is unlike anything other authors are capable of copying. This book could have been written by someone else. It is not a MacLean Gem.But overall, one still has a good time reading it.
2 ..so says one of the protagonists near the end of the book. I know exactly how he feels.'Circus' is a good example of Maclean's late-career decline. His early tales were tightly-plotted and exciting, with plenty of action, and interesting (if not exactly original) characters. In contrast, apart from a mildly interesting plot, this book is loose and lazily written, almost as if Maclean couldn't really be bothered.The characters are little more than two-dimensional cut-outs: Bruno is the typical introverted loner hero with a tragic past, who nevertheless seems an expert at nearly everything. Maria Hopkins is an utterly clueless 'heroine' whom we cannot for a second believe is a CIA operative. And these are two of the most well-drawn characters! What about Manuelo, Roebuck and Kan Dahn? We know what motivates Bruno to act as he does, but what's their motivation? Or Harper's? Or, for that matter, Van Diemen's? We're never given any insight into what drives these characters; there's lots of shrugging of shoulders and "we may never know why he did what he did...". It reads like a cop-out.The writing, dialogue and descriptive passages are leaden and often lazy. For example, there is the thriller cliche of the bad guys allowing the heroes to progress so far because they plan to trap them at the very end. This does nothing except rob the book of any action or suspense, and of course our heroes easily predict the trap and dispose of the villians without breaking a sweat. The romance between Bruno and Maria is corny even by thriller standards. And while a couple of characters are unexpectedly dispatched, we never feel any real threat directed at Bruno. He's portrayed as so skilled at everything that we never believe there's a situation he can't get out of.The book's only real good point is that the anti-matter plot is interesting, and the way in which the CIA plan to use Bruno is quite novel. It's clear Maclean had a few good ideas here. What a shame he couldn't make something better out of them.
5 I had read several of Alistair Maclean's novels, and had an 8 year break when I got a hold of this.  This novel is a prime exhibit of why I enjoy him so much.  A mystery, revealing tid-bits here and there, leaving you guessing who the good guys are and who are the bad guys.If you want to be on the edge of your seat for a while, this book will do it.
5 They just don't write mysteries like Alistair MacLean did anymore. This is one of my all time favorite books. I first read my dad's copy as a teen, and was excited to find this edition, the same as the original I read, on Amazon.The story is gripping and engaging, and the twist at the end (a signature MacLean move which he save literally to the last page... no cheating!) will have you going back and re-reading it just to experience the story with that knowledge!The book was in excellent condition when it arrived - thank you seller.
5 Three brothers headline the circus of Tesco Wrinfield as aerialists who perform in masks and hoods.The oldest bother has powers of total recall and attacks the attention of the CIA who need someone to enter an Iron Curtain prison to retrieve information about anti-matter.CIRCUS by Alistair MacLean in a spell binder that keeps you glued to your seat til the end of the show.Nash Black, author of QUALIFYING LAPS.
5 There are lots of surprising twists in this story including a final  surprise in the last sentence. MacLean did a very good job when he wrote  this book.
3 A criminal mastermind has commandeered a bus containing the President of the United States and two Arab envoys and has parked it in the middle of the Golden Gate Bridge. If his ransom demands aren't met, he threatens to kill his hostages and destroy the bridge. Little does he know one of the reporters covering the event is not who he seems...Reading this 1976 novel by Alistair MacLean leaves me wondering if the late thriller author is putting us his readers on intentionally. It's a singularly strange tale, where the bad guys are as sympathetic as the good guys and a strange casualness pervades the scene of the crime, as caterers and reporters mingle freely with hostage-takers who smile for photographs. Most books of this type come with a high body count, but here people are more likely to drop dead from food poisoning than a bullet wound."I've never been responsible for anybody's death in my life," says the chief villain, a fellow named Branson who, like the famous later real-life billionaire of the same name, brings a lot of impressive dash to his work. It's the kind of boast you don't expect, and appropriate to a novel more than a little off-beam from beginning to end.The usual MacLean minuses are in evidence here: Leaden characterization, convenient plot twists, an unconvincing romantic subplot. But at least he was trying something different, and maybe anticipating the hyper-media age where hijackings are television events and schemers double as spin doctors.If only MacLean's humor was in better evidence. Then again, maybe it is. It's possible MacLean is parodying himself here. Critics of the time noted his books had everyone speaking in British idioms, even the Americans, so here's an American doctor who apologizes for his British expressions by saying he was educated in England. The slipcover of my first edition has some text on the back about an American battleship being used as a "45,000-ton battering ram," with some accompanying breathless text MacLean obviously furnished himself. It only appears on the slipcover, however, there's no such scene or ship in the pages of the book. You get the feeling MacLean was smirking about that subterfuge, all the way to the bank.Despite not being sure where its author is coming from, "Golden Gate" satisfies, in its purehearted Boys' Own way. Other books of this kind derive suspense from who gets killed. Here, you worry more that anyone will get killed, which is a good deal healthier for society and harder for a thriller writer to pull off. MacLean does seem to be having fun, and you will, too, as long as you don't take this any more seriously than he did.
3 I agree with most of the foregoing reviews for this book. I found it in a beach house we rented and got through it quickly. It's entertaining and works in spite of the unlikely happenings. I almost jettisoned it unfinished, however, because of one bizarre quirk. Someone else in this forum remarked that one of the characters speaks in British idiom-with a convenient excuse about going to school in England-but it's worse than that. ALL of the characters talk as if MacLean had never set foot in the USA! Did he? I mean, we are talking about the Golden Gate Bridge, at the entrance to San Francisco Bay, right? But the characters all talk as if they came straight out of borstal, Wormwood Scrubs, and Scotland Yard! At one point near the end, there's a real howler: one of the local lawmen on the bridge mutters something about calling in the armed police.The Armed Police?That was the last straw. Obviously, MacLean was unaware that there are no "Armed Police" in America, and really couldn't be bothered to get it right. Sloppy work, MacLean. The weird dialogue made suspension of disbelief difficult. If he couldn't manage American idiom, why set it in the US?
4 "I've always maintained that all Presidential candidates should undergo an IQ test."  Would that this were the first sentence of The Golden Gate!  Alas, it appears on page 135, spoken like a true criminal mastermind with the fortitude of a German tank.  This is Peter Branson, the man behind an admittedly complex presidential kidnapping, who spits (smoothly!) this remark to the President's face, he who asked a question meant to confirm his worst fear: his life, and those of several important Arabian representatives, a shiek, and an oil king, hangs by a thread.Half a billion dollars is required payment for their lives.  MacLean chose a sum that may have seemed exorbitant in 1976, but still holds as incredibly high for a tale told nearly 30 years later.MacLean is in near-top form as he takes the reader through the antagonists' point of view, their set-up, and how they nab the president in the very middle of the Golden Gate Bridge.  Only then does Agent Paul Revson arrive (and in an unexpected way).  His affiliation with MacLean's greatest heroes (Michael Reynolds, Peter Mason, John Carter) could be that of a direct bloodline; his flaws make him human, but his extravagant conception of Branson's downfall makes him a military genius.  The true Army of One.The first paragraph is a little deviant---straying from MacLean's signature first sentence idioms---written in a peculiar checklist method.  I mention this only because I am aware of MacLean's slight decline in effective storytelling which many have claimed began with The Way to Dusty Death, a title I have yet to read, but I will dispute this notion: Breakheart Pass, Circus, and The Golden Gate are as fabulous, if less character driven, than his earlier books.  The Golden Gate is no exception, surpassing Circus in scope and suspense!Keep an eye out for General Carter.  The last name is carried over from the hero of The Golden Rendezvous.  My dictionary dash consisted of rubicund (116).  I read the 1976 Fawcett Crest edition.
2 With a surgically military precision Peter Branson and his men plan the kidnapping of the President of the US and his two guests from the Middle East, a prince and a king. The kidnapping is to take place in the middle of the Golden Gate bridge in San Francisco and Branson is expecting a large ransom if everything goes according to his plan.A rather unrealistic adventure story.
5 I think James Bond should take a leaf from Alistair Maclean's books. His hero in this &quot;yarn&quot; defies description, someone who is smart, a little cynical, unwilling to give in to the momentary distractions of injury or beautiful spoiled women (who are actually great heroines in disguise!) in order to force the hand of the blackguard holding the world in thrall.  My most memorable scene in this book is when the protagonist is suffering from a bullet-ridden leg, yet hanging from the side of a porthole in high wind, trying valiantly to get past the villains that have hijacked this ship which has precious lives and gold cargo.  It's a real treat and an engrossing read, especially because it is so fantastic!  I would rather take a hero of Maclean's stamp than Ian Fleming's any day of the week!
3 MacLean was a master of the suspense thriller for many years, with The Guns of Navarone, Where Eagles Dare, The Satan Bug, and many other fine works. I read most of his works a long time ago, but found that for some reason I'd missed this one, written fairly late in his career.Unhappily, this is not the best of his works. The scenario is semi-plausible, with a rich and very intelligent villain, Branson, out to make even more money and lots of fame by holding the President and some Arab oil leaders hostage in the middle of the Golden Gate Bridge - and the bridge itself is part of the hostage party, as Branson threatens to blow it up. It's Branson's apparent need for fame that allows the plot to develop, as Revson, an FBI agent posing as a reporter, is allowed to remain with the party on the bridge. The battle of wits and happenstance is joined, with Branson sure that he has all contingencies covered while Revson keeps coming up with innovative ways to undermine Branson's position.As a plot, not bad. But there are problems:First is the level of characterization, which is pretty minimal. I wanted to see a lot more about what makes Branson tick and how Revson not only got to be so competent but what his emotional well-springs were, but I didn't get it. Other characters are almost stick figures, there to move the plot and little else.Second is the level of research that MacLean did for this book. Part of the scheme required Branson to be able to monitor aircraft traffic around the bridge. For this purpose MacLean had Branson's force overtake the "Mt. Tamalpias radar stations". Now it so happens that at the time this book was written, I was actually stationed there - except there was only one radar site (that plural is not a typo as it's repeated in a couple of places), and the actual name of the site was Mill Valley Air Force Station. Worse, the type of radars in use at that site were long-range radars, and not very good for monitoring small low-flying aircraft only a few miles away. Nor could someone just `walk in' and take over the site - it was guarded. Now this is minor item in terms of the overall plot, but the errors here left me wondering about the quality level of the rest of the research in this book.Third is the plausibility of someone having enough connections to be able to gather all the required information about routes, security procedures, times, agency staffing, vehicles, and everything else needed to be able to intercept and overpower a Presidential convoy. MacLean does a pretty good job of trying to support this scenario, but I was still left with that niggling feeling of doubt about it. Right along with this first implausibility is the thunderstorm that occurs that allow certain actions by the good guys to be plausibly explained away to Branson. Hello, thunderstorms in the Bay Area? Yes, they do happen, but they are pretty darn rare, and almost never at the level of activity that this one supposedly had. Plus it smacked of way too much coincidence, happening just when the good guys needed it.As a suspense novel with modern terrorist overtones, this is not bad. It does keep you reading to find out what happens next. But it could have been a lot better with deeper characters and better research.---Reviewed by Patrick Shepherd (hyperpat)
2 In the first 100 pages I learned a lot about Presidents and Arab Kings. Who knew they were into the RV-ing lifestyle? Next thing you know they'll be spotted at a KOA.A big disappointment, sorry to say.
4 Almost every major thriller plot has been written in some form by Alistair MacLean, from the commando team sent on an impossible mission (&quot;The Guns of Navarone,&quot; &quot;Where Eagles Dare,&quot; &quot;Force Ten from  Navarone&quot;), hijacking on the open seas (&quot;The Golden  Rendezvous&quot;), the killer virus in the hands of an insane terrorist  (&quot;The Satan Bug&quot;), terrorists planning to cause a super-quake in  California (&quot;Goodbye California&quot;), and various undercover secret  agent missions.In &quot;The Golden Gate,&quot; a crack team of criminals  led by mastermind Peter Branson executes a daring plan to kidnap the  President of the United States on San Francisco's Golden Gate bridge.  Branson and his men block off both ends of the bridge, wire it with  explosives, and demand millions of dollars . . . plus a pardon.  Any rescue  attempts will result in the detonation of the explosives, killing the  President and destroying the Golden Gate Bridge.But Branson is an  ego-maniac, and he can't resist attention from the media.  So he not only  lets, but actually invites, the press to stay on the bridge and cover the  story.  Too bad for Branson that one of the journalists is actually FBI  Special Agent Paul Revson.The game is underway: Can Revson disable the  explosives and stop the plot?  Will Branson discover that Revson is really  an agent?There's no characterization to speak of, and as a writer,  MacLean is passable but nothing special.  Still, read solely for its plot,  &quot;The Golden Gate&quot; is fun and diverting.
3 This is the fourth book sequentially and the second I've read of the extremely popular Aubrey/Maturin series of historical novels.After a brief and interesting look at Jack's less than blissful connubial life with the wife he married at the end of "HMS Surprise", O'Brian whisks us off to the Indian Ocean, where French frigates based in Mauritius have been making havoc with the ships of the East India Company, so central to England's economy, not to mention the private wealth of many of it's most powerful people.  (One merit of the books is how they show us that, even if another conflict is known as the First World War, the Napoleonic Wars were in fact fought on fields and seas throughout the world.)  Aubrey is lifted to the rank of Commodore and given the assignment of defeating the enemy vessels and, if possible, capturing Reunion and Mauritius.The ups and downs of the campaign , which O'Brian states are based closely on history, make for a good story.  But the Aubrey/Maturin characters are not as developed as in "HMS Surprise", and the potentially interesting characters who are introduced aren't given enough space to live up to their promise, with the exception perhaps of the foppish but courageous Lord Clonfert, a captain in Aubrey's squadron.  His rival captain Corbett, a sadistic disciplinarian, isn't on stage enough to emerge as an individual, nor is another rival captain, Pym.O'Brian obviously has a vast knowledge of the ship designs, tactics, methods, slang, even cuisine of the Royal Navy he describes.  But he shows little mercy for the reader who is unlikely to share his expertise.  Thus one of the points of a story like this, to show Jack Aubrey using tactical resourcefulness to salvage a difficult situation, falls flat.  Aubrey's maneuvers are described fully enough, but O'Brian fails to explain why a given decision was made.  In the absence of authorial assistance, the numerous description of how various sails are manipulated tells us little indeed.The story ends rather suddenly; just when it seems to be really taking off, it's all over in a few pages.
5 Weird mixture of hilarious, historically based, way too real.  Picked one up on tape to stay awake during a couple of hours' trip, have both read and listened to them ever since.Fortunately there really are twenty-some in the series.  And the tone of them varies, one with world's silliest ending, one that just made me sad. This one is pretty big on military history (the names have been changed to suit the series!).
3 I just finished this, and they are hitting me up to review it. I'm no Evelyn Wood, damnit.Anyway, I do enjoy O'Brian's novels, but it just occurred to me that I was laboring through this one a bit. A bit long winded, it seemed.I don't know if it's that I've taken a break and been reading pretty widely of other authors in this genre lately, and it's affected my perceptions, or if it's just not his best work.Don't get me wrong: it's still a good read. O'Brian is arguably the best - or most artistic - in this genre.I prefer that he writes in much the same manner you would see from a book written in the period; it's much more vivid and believable.But it does tend to dwell on what seem like small details at the expense of the overall narrative.He could have either written 500 more pages, or shortened it by 200. But since he did neither, it's lacking.What seems happen here is He bogs down the story with incessant observations of one of the protagonists...then, when you come to a sequence of action, he has to rush through it to get to the other side, and more of the same.It just didn't feel very...fluid, I guess. Like he wanted to get all this stuff in, but wanted to confine the book length, too. And then picked the wrong stuff to skim over.Face it, we buy these for tales of action and adventure, not in depth interpersonal observations.Filling out your characters is all well and good, but it can get in the way, too.Maybe I was just suffering a bout of AASD (American Attention Span Disorder)while chewing through this. I'll move on to the next book and see.Still, you have to read it. You'll mess up the sequence and be totally lost if you skip this one.They gotcha by the short ones once you open "Master and Commander".
5 The Patrick O'Brian naval series of books are an acquired taste.  If you love the first book, chances are that over the next few years you will find a way to work through the entire series.  I do not recommend reading the book on its own.  The true joy is seeing the transformation and progression of the two main characters.The books are not for everyone, the writing style differs from what is found in 21st century adventure novels.  The language is deep and the sentences are carefully crafted.  While the books appear on the outside to be simple naval adventure tales, they are really deep studies in character development of a British naval officer and his best friend/ship surgeon/intelligence operative.The Mauritius Command is one of the best books in the series.  Almost the entire book takes place at sea. A few of the earlier book got bogged down whenever the lead character, naval officer Jack Aubrey, steps onto land, but at soon as he takes to sea the books take on a whole new life.While the characters speak of honor and duty, the author makes no attempts to hide the rough, cruel, and violent life aboard British naval ships during the early 19th century.  While not a quick read, if you are willing to invest the time and energy, the Mauritius Command and all of the books in the series are well worth you time.
5 The whole Patrick O'Brian are works of art and will grab you for Captain Aubrey's entire career.  Interesting to note how many obstacles he overcomes as he climbs the ladder of command in the Royal Navy.  Its a good primer for young folks starting a career; it is not always a rocket path to the top.  You will encounter traditions, rules, and technology that impede your goals; and one has to be a risk taker.  Again and again Aubrey takes risks, rallies his seamen, and prevails.  One wonders if a personality like Aubrey would be tolerated in our risk aversion US Navy today.
5 The series is one of the best literary experiences of the English language.Stupid requirements for minimum number of words...stupid  Stupid if I don't have more to say... Why require it?
5 I somehow misplaced this book of the series..and so had to buy again.  This is my third time thru all 20 (Ok 21) of O'brian's masterpieces.  Every 5 years or so I find I can get lost in this totally absorbing world again.
5 O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series seems to get better with every book.  I found the first, Master and Commander, hard slugging and gave the series a second try based on recommendations and the publicity following the author's passing.  It has been well worth the second try.Unfortunately, The Mauritius Command reveals the second strategic error that the author made in writing the series.  The first error was starting it in 1800 leading to some historical crowding later on.  Similarly, the author has let several years slide since HMS Surprise contributing further to the crowding.  I have read that the author regretted his timing of the series although in fairness too him it wasn't obvious that Aubrey/Maturin would catch on and that he would ultimately complete 20 novels covering an 18-year period.  The novel itself has few flaws and is well paced.Jack Aubrey has spent the intervening years in wedded bliss although his circumstances and life away from the sea have not been kind to him.  Not only is Jack Aubrey married but he also has twins.  The opening pages make me wonder what married life would have been like for Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth had Jane Austen written a sequel to Pride and Prejudice.  The allusions are there and the writing is good enough for O'Brian to pull it off.The Mauritius Command really picks up when the duo return to the sea bound for Capetown and a campaign against the French held islands of La Reunion and Mauritius.  Aubrey is to fly a Commodore's pennant and administer a hiding to the French.  However, he has to deal with an untrustworthy admiral, captains with varying abilities and fighting spirit and personality conflicts.  The tension builds steadily and there is more action than in earlier novels.  The conclusion is anti-climactic although it is very neatly tied together.The Mauritius Command was published at roughly the same time as Kent's Passage to Mutiny.  Both are examples of the authors at their peaks.  O'Brian is clearly the better writer of the two but he doesn't deliver the action the way Kent does.  Still if events didn't happen as O'Brian relates, he did a superb job of catching the flavour of the times.  He was a great author and The Mauritius Command demonstrates this thoroughly.
5 The Aubrey-Maturin series is outstanding! When you finish one book, you can't wait to start on the next. The historic detail is incredible and the characters are entirely believable.
5 This book moves quickly and has a lot of action.  The characters are well drawn and believable.  A great read!
5 At the beginning of this book, we find our heroes, Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin, living the domestic life in England as they are without a ship.  Fortunately, this does not last long.  This book is a thrilling retelling of the taking of the Islands of Mauritius and Reunion in 1810 by the British from the French.  The story itself is largely true, although the characters are fictional replacements for real-life counterparts.What I think sets O'Brian aside from most writers is his ability to make the less active scenes just as descriptive and interesting as the fiercest battle sequences.  You feel just as much a part of the book during sequences that describe the irritation of being stuck for days without wind as you do during the storming of an encampment on Reunion Island.  While I think all of O'Brian's books do a great job at giving the reader a sense of what life was like in the British Navy during the Napoleonic Wars, the vivid descriptions in this book caught me more than in the previous books (all of which I enjoyed).Aditionally, while I agree with others that have said that the Aubrey/Maturin books are not "action" books, I must say that the battle descriptions in this installment go above and beyond those in previous books.  I get the sense that this is about the point in the series where O'Brian really hit his stride, and I can't wait to make my way through the rest of the series.As I've said in past reviews, these books really should be read in order.  I cannot say that a reader could not pick up The Mauritius Command and enjoy it wihout having read prior books, but I do not think he or she would really fully enjoy the book without the benefit of its predecessors.
4 For this installment of the Aubrey/Maturin series, author Patrick O'Brian went to a little-known historical skirmish that took place between Great Britain and France (as usual!) over the ownership of a couple islands in the Indian Ocean, including Mauritius.  As O'Brian points out in the introduction to the book, there was little need to embellish (i.e. fictionalize) the events, since this was such a little-known event and because there was plenty of drama to be had in what really happened (basically, the real-life commodore is changed to Jack Aubrey).The book contains all the details we come to expect from an Aubrey/Maturin novel - as appreciaton of the tactical and strategic situations, the politics of the Royal Navy, the way seniority and authority are handled, descriptions of ships, etc.  But like with any well-crafted prose, such expository details never feel like exposition, but serve to immerse the reader in the world of the Napoleonic-era Royal Navy.  And its never at the expense of the action or the advance of plot points.  As for the novel itself, it's just as interesting and engrossing as the previous three novels in the series thus far.  The resolution may not be as satisfying in the traditional sense, but historically is a happy ending indeed - carrying the dispatches after a victory may not sound like a big deal, but the captains of such ships were often feted as much or more than the actual captain that won the battle (in this case they are the same person at least).  At any rate, the adherence to the overall historical timeline gives the novel a greater authenticity, even if it isn't quite the most satisfying way to script an adventure novel.There's really little else to say - if you've read any of the novels in this series you'll know what to expect.  That's not to say that they are getting boring or repetative!  They are each fresh and exciting in their own right, and I'll continue through the series looking forward to each new adventure.  If you haven't read one of these novels yet.... what are you waiting for?
4 O'Brian is a superb writer.  Start at book 1 and work your way through.  Don't let the archaic language get you down; the language you don't understand just adds some texture.
4 This series is really more like one long novel than a serialization. Again we find Lucky Jack Aubrey land bound and hoping for a command. Like in all the others he soon receives his hearts desire and the rest as they say is history. The semi accurate revisionist history is pleasing. The use of the archaic Royal naval jargon is like learning another language. If this installment we see more of Dr. Maturins true vocation as a spy. I highly recommend this installment to anyone who has read any of the past books.
4 Best in the series in regards to O'Brian subtlety. The character flaws for both major and minor players are brought to life with his dry wit Andrew humor.
5 The 4th novel in O'Brian's series of Cpt. Aubrey and Dr. Mautrin has Aubrey made acting Commodore in command of a small flotilla seeking to disrupt the French presence off the coast of south Africa and make an amphibious landings on two small islands off Madagascar.  Both charges challenge Aubrey's considerable nautical skill.As Aubrey's responsibility grows, he soon finds so do the complications of command as he quickly learns a complaining crew is much easier to handle than managing the egos and navigating the political waters of senior command.  The interaction between Aubrey and his peers, the infighting, manipulation and machinations between officers (those directly under his command as well as those above him) make for particularly riveting reading, every bit as interesting as the battles at sea.I am continually impressed with O'Brian's ability to keep the stories fresh: as readers become better acquainted with Aubrey and Maturin, the plots become more complex and larger, and one's understanding of the characters becomes deeper.  In _The Mauritius Command_, the ante is upped further by basing the story on true events in the Napoleonic wars.  The series is every bit as good as fans would have you believe.  Highly recommended.
5 Once again,Patrick O'Brian bats a home run. The author manages to make day-to-day - in fact a minute to minute - life aboard a Napoleon-era man-of-war seem like it is happening contemporaneously. And a very exciting life it is too. Aubrey's skill as a mariner is amply displayed, as are the machinations of .Maturin. I used to think the C.S.Forester's Hornblower was the ultimate in sea stories of that era, but his skill has been supplanted, in my view, by O'Brien. If you like sea stories you will love this one.
5 The opening of The Mauritius Command brings us some changes, especially for Captain Jack Aubrey, who finds himself in the improbable role (for him) of husband and father of twins. Unsuccessful and hapless in his domestic life, he immediately jumps at the chance to leave England and take over a new command. Off the coast of Africa, Jack is promoted to commodore, putting him in command not just of his own ship but of a small fleet. In the course of the book, Jack stretches his abilities to the fullest as the British vie with the French for possession of several small islands crucial to controlling the India trade.Of course, Dr. Stephen Maturin is on hand too. His facets as doctor, naturalist, and spy all come into play in the course of the novel. The previous novel, H.M.S. Surprise, involved incredible physical suffering, loss, and rejection for Stephen so it was nice to see him get a break in this installment. However, Stephen is still haunted by what has happened to him. A dark current runs through him that no doubt will resurface in future books.The overriding issue explored in this novel is leadership and what it means to be a good leader. Jack has to deal with two very different captains serving under him, one of whom is a silly and vain man who is kind and familiar with his men and thus beloved by them. The other is a brave commander who exercises brutal tyranny with those under his rule. The weaknesses of both men lead to very different disasters.In spite of the battles and some serious turns of event, The Mauritius Command involves more action and comedy and less angst than H.M.S. Surprise, making it a lighter read.
5 This, the fourth in the series has left m anxious to begin the next novel and to see what is in store for Jack and Stephen.
5 Captain Aubrey raises his Commodore's broad pennant for the first time. He finds commanding a single ship under his sole control less frustrating than dealing with the personalities of subordinant captains and commanders. The exotic locale and historical accuracy of this little known British adventure are well told in a fictionalized account inserting Aubrey and Maturin. A personal favorite.
4 I had given up on this series after the last book (HMS Surprise) because I was getting lost in the seafaring terminology and there was a bit much of the love-lorn simpering in the tale.  The Mauritius Command restores my faith in this series.  It's a great tale of derring-do in the Indian Ocean, its based on some actual events and actual ships and overall the tone is very convincing.  The women folk are left back on land, and only intrude to an acceptable level of letter writing etc.  My (paperback) edition contains a valuable afterword by Brian Lavery who describes the actual ships on which the tale is based, and gives a worthwile overview of the seafaring terminology.  I still won't be able to distinguish a fore topsail yard from a quarterdeck, but at least Lavery is reassuring that they are meaningful terms.Jack Aubery continues on his lucky career in the British Navy, almost - but not quite - achieving lasting fame and fortune; this being more necessary now that he has a wife, three children and a mother-in-law to support.  For me, this book develops Stephen Maturin more - he is still secretive, reflective, reassuringly Irish and intellectual, however he develops a melancholia which is only temporarily suppressed by his furtive diplomatic activities.  O'Brien moves Maturin one step closer to Sherlock Holmes by hinting at his opiate use during the story
4 I'd happily give every Aubrey-Maturin novel five stars, but I've got to differentiate somehow. This one is interesting, because the first three novels, while having relatively independent story arcs, share a strong consistency of style, characterization, and timing. The Mauritius Command seems a bit of an experiment for O'Brian.No longer do we have the so very youthful, deeply flawed but energetically driven Aubrey and Maturin. There seems to me some inconsistency in timeline, age, etc. in the cursory-to-the-point-of-irrelevance intro in which we see the Aubrey the semi-retired and ineffective family man whose wife is ready to get him out of the house.The rest of the story is in fairly classic style, but a little too focused on reenacting the historical details of an extensive and well-documented naval campaign to the detriment of the highly charged, personal stories like the relationship triangle that led to the dramatic duel in &#34;HMS Surprise.&#34;So, the book is a bit of an oddball when compared to the strong flow of narrative and style in the novels before and after, as if O'Brian just didn't quite know where he was going, but picked it up again in Vol. 5. Don't get me wrong though, it is good, and not to be missed.
5 I just got started with the series a few weeks ago, and I just can't stop.Book 4 plays a nice contrast to the previous ones, with more of a likeness to the first book in that it is full of naval action and battles. It's hard to say which books so far are better, since they all feel as necessary pieces of one greater story. Suffice to say, this book will not disappoint any reader of the prequels.
5 I'm reading these books in series and I've just recently finished The Mauritius Command. I've given all the books in this series 5 stars. The title of my review suggests that this book is a departure from the first three. This is true, but I do not want to overemphasize that point. We get here all the things we expect from an O'Brian Aubrey novel. What is different is simply the amount of time spent on the various actions. In this book, I missed more of the intimate moments between Maturin and Aubrey, playing their instruments, fretting over money, and so forth. However, this does well perhaps to put us in the mind of Aubrey for this adventure.Readers of the other novels will not be disappointed here. And of course, the quality of O'Brian's writing cannot be overstated.
5 Unlike Forrester O'Brian has really done his homework. His books are really informative.Forrerster follows the straight Tory ticket and O'Brian, does not.Of course the Hornblower series started in the thirties when England still had an empire. The Aubrey/Mathurin series on the other hand started in 1969 when England had lost its empire and democracy had become respectable.
4 I have read the prior three novels in O'Brian's masterful Aubrey/Maturin series, and thought the first three were uniformly excellent.  After a layoff, I returned to the series and while I enjoyed The Mauritius Command, I thought there was somewhat of a slip from the first few books of this 20 novel series.The novel opens promisingly, with Aubrey suffering in a less-than-ideal domestic situation.  His mother-in-law lives with Jack, his wife Sophie and their cranky daughters, and his efforts to manage a farm are comical in his ineptitude.  When Maturin visits, and Aubrey tries to show him around and put a brave face on his domestic struggles, the comedy inherent in O'Brian's writing comes shining through.  While Jack (and the reader) itch to get to sea, it is there that O'Brian seems to lose control of the story.Aubrey gets an order to go to the Cape of Good Hope, where he is sent on a mission to dislodge the French from the Mauritius Islands and help set up a British Colonial Governor by the name of Farquar.  As is usually the case, despite great achievements in the past, Jack is shackled and insufficiently rewarded by his superiors in the admiralty, and his supposed connections, through his father in the Parliament, are of little help.O'Brian seems to assume a good bit of nautical knowledge by the reader, and this landlubber sometimes got a little lost in the naval warfare scenes.  The most engaging aspects of the novel seemed to me the differences in character, and the seething one-upsmanship among the various ship captains under Jack's overall command including Captains Pym, Clonfert and Corbett.  The problem was, just when the author whets your appetite for some great internal conflict or drama between the brutal Corbett and the popular Clonfert, Corbett is sent from the area.Moreover, the final battle scenes are almost thrown together in summary form, as if the culmination of the mission did not really concern O'Brian as much as the hassles of getting there, and so there was a bit of a letdown at the end.  I look forward to the next novel (Desolation Island I think), but have to be luke-warm in my praise of this one.  I give it a fairly generous 4 stars, 3 and 1/2 if I could.
5 another great O'Brian work....up to his always high standard...
5 these classics seldom disappoint, and while the language (and naval jargon) sometimes to slow things down, the characters are incredibly well developed, and if you spend some time with them, you feel like you know them well. great work by a great author
5 "The Mauritius Command", the fourth in the Aubrey/Maturin series of novels written by Patrick O'Brian, shows Captain "Lucky Jack" Aubrey several years after the events chronicled in "H.M.S. Surprise" in wedded bliss, but alas, without much of a fortune to support his growing family. Indeed, he is no longer on active command, but a Royal Navy captain on half pay. Stephen Maturin arrives bearing salvation in the form of a special mission to the Indian Ocean, along with Aubrey's temporary promotion to Commodore in command of a small squadron. What follows is one of the most exciting installments in the entire Aubrey/Maturin saga, and the start of an extended story arc which will take their fight against Napoleonic France and its allies throughout much of the Indian Ocean and the adjoining portions of Southeast Asia. Once more Patrick O'Brian delivers the goods, with his excellent, lyrical prose that seems more at home with the likes of Jane Austen than with contemporary authors of fiction.
5 Have to admit that I am reading the series for the second time after several years of reading other, similar books.  Stockwin is super, but O'Brian has a richness of language and complexity of plot that is unsurpassed.  Wonderfully entertaining.
4 The excellence continues unabated. This series must be seen as the quintessential British Naval action and life in the era of British colonialism and the expanding Empire. Aubrey and Stephan continue their steadfast friendship and  duties as Master mariner and doctor/spy.
5 &quot;The Mauritius Command&quot; opens a few years after the end of  &quot;HMS Surprise&quot;. Jack has discovered married life to be very  different than he imagined, &amp; longs to be back at sea. The arrival of  Stephen Maturin (&amp; mushrooms) stirs the household to a frenzy.This  humorous beginning shows Patrick O'Brian's masterful abilities. In a few  deft strokes, the past years are filled in with no heavy exposition or  flashbacks, &amp; the events to come are put into motion. Aubrey faces many  new challenges in the course of &quot;The Mauritius Command&quot;, having  to learn to sooth battling egos, command while refraining from fighting,  &amp; create a fighting machine from almost nothing. His faithful follower  Tom Pullings plays an expanded role in this tale as the captain of a  transport &amp; deus ex machina, while Stephen Maturin's political  abilities overshadow his medical duties.This is one of the most exciting  Aubrey/Maturin novels, a real &quot;Boys Own Life&quot; type tale, full of  gunplay, cat &amp; mouse feints &amp; hearty comradeship. The most exciting  aspect of it is that it all really happened (of course with different  protagonists!). Learn about a forgotten campaign of the Napoleonic wars  &amp; enjoy yourself in the process! Read &quot;The Mauritius  Command&quot;!
5 Each of the titles in this series gains in the re-reading (this is my third time), and none more than this. In addition to the usual stirring naval action, here there is particularly rich interaction between Jack Aubrey and Lord Clonfert, as well as between Aubrey and Admiral Bertie. You could take this book and easily turn it into a leadership / management seminar.
5 Patrick O'Brian is one of the greatest writers ever! The entire Jack Aubrey & Stephen Maturin series (all 20 books) are a delight from start to finish, and a literary masterpiece. We read them over and over again.
5 Here is another brilliant book in the series.  Definitely worth reading he is a true storyteller.  Would recommend to everyone.
4 Jack commands the Boadicea, assigned to eliminate the French fleet capturing rich Indiamen around Mauritius.For the first time, O'Brian manages a "proper" novel format: this book starts with a goal, meets obstacles to achieving that goal, and ends with a resolution of that goal. More importantly, he continues his tradition of compelling characters in involving situations. I wasn't thrilled with the way poor Jack kept getting slammed with defeat after defeat, though. In addition, although thoroughly enjoyable and even re-readable, this book lacked the "oomph" that would have let me give it a 5 rating. Like all the books in this series, the conversion to e-text was done via OCR and not as carefully as I would have preferred. but the result is readable.
5 Jack Aubrey's dreams of success in the British Navy get a boost when he is assigned as the Commodore of a fleet near Mauritius. But, along with the glory of the management post, comes the hellish torture of responsibility  for the actions of several captains less capable than Jack.Aubrey and  Maturin finally fully join their mental forces in the attempt to understand  just what makes each captain in the fleet tick. Each at their own level  (Maturin's rather deeper), they form a concept of the other personalities  they must work with. And Aubrey ultimately finds that even the best  planning can be brought to nought by one committee or another...This  book also gives us a gently amusing glimpse of Aubrey's life on land as a  married man. As with all the Aubrey/Maturin books, this is by turns amusing  and thoughtful, as well as realistic and picturesque.
5 This is my third time to read the series. Each time I find more depth, more humor and more enjoyment than the times before. Best stuff going.
5 This fourth novel in the Aubrey-Maturin series shows more narrative unity than the first three, which is partly a function of Jack Aubrey's now-exalted rank. As a newly promoted commander in a small sloop, and even as a post captain, he was at the beck of more senior officers. Now, as commodore in command of a squadron of several ships-of-the-line and lesser warships, plus a small herd of transports and Indiamen crowded with troops, he has reached a position of high command, with orders to capture the French outpost islands of Mauritius and La Reunion in the Indian Ocean. As Dr. Maturin privately notes in his diary, Jack was probably happier as a junior officer, with only his own ship and men in his direct responsibility; now he must manage other ships's captains at one remove, deal diplomatically with the Army, and oversee the installation of a new British governor. O'Brian hews closely to historical fact in narrating this little-known but complex campaign, and he also delves more deeply into the psychology of the supporting characters -- especially Lord Clonfort, a not unintelligent but very unhappy young commander apparently afflicted with bipolar disorder, who constantly seeks the approval of his own subordinates as well as his seniors. As true historical fiction, this volume is, for me, the most enjoyable in the series yet.
5 Count me as one of those completely taken by Patrick O'Brian's marvelous tales about Lucky Jack Aubrey and his friend Dr. Stephen Maturin.  Each installment seems to outdo its predecessor, thus giving rise to the suggestion made by others here that in this book O'Brian really hits his stride.In THE MAURITIUS COMMAND, Aubrey is awarded a commodore's pennant; his career continues to rise.  Maturin's career as an intelligence officer and master of political influence is given prominent place as well.There are the requisite actions at sea, some of which do not feature Aubrey centrally.  There is less of the romance novel aspect that slowed the story down in POST CAPTAIN.Aside from the usual attention to historical details in describing life in the turn-of-the-nineteenth century Royal Navy (at least from the standpoint of the officers), O'Brian continues his mastery of verbal and nonverbal interaction between characters.  One gets a real feel for what these men are like in the way they respond to one another.  What's more, O'Brian has a light hand in it; his humor emerges at the most opportune times.THE MAURITIUS COMMAND stands alone as a book better than the previous two novels; this novel has both a clear beginning and a clear ending.  I nonetheless recommend reading the series from the beginning with MASTER AND COMMANDER.  If you, too, fall in love with the books, welcome to the club, my friend!
4 I would have given this a 5 star rating, but one downside to the author's early Aubrey / Maturin books, is the seemingly dire need to tell the reader about every inch of every ship, every nuance of all minutae of all things maritime, and rather than add it detracts - but this does not happen with the later books. But - overcoming all that is the fantastic ability to tell a story of life at sea and on land for Jack and Stephen; the author also handles supporting characters and sub-plots with aplomb. You will notice with this, that things are a little less maritime-detail heavy, and allows the tale to roar along. All in all, be patient, accept the author's obsessions and foibles (without them, I don't think we would have got anything, being honest) and you will enjoy this saga from the series in which Mauritius and certain strategic points have to be re-taken for the British, while at the same time Jack has to be wary of officer-rivalries, maybe even deal with a 'shy' officer, IF suspicions are confirmed, as well as co-command a Sharpe / Hornblower style combined service operation. So, a 4 starrer, chomping at the bit to be a 5 star it is, and, all things considered, very well deserved.
5 Number 4 in the series is another good read.  The interesting relationships among the characters continues to keep me buying the next volume in the series.  However, I really feel like the real stars of the show are the ships themselves.
3 Over the years I have read almost all of the Aubrey-Maturin novels and I have enjoyed them, but this one was new to me, and was a disappointment. The engagements were all conducted against a kind of generic background, where in reality Mauritius in particular has a quite dramatic, volcanic skyline, and the fauna (the dodo had only recently gone extinct) still show the sort of evolutionary drift that should have transfixed Maturin. Instead we maneuvered in and out of bays and inlets that might as well have been off New Jersey. Shipboard life in the Georgian navy was as usual vividly rendered, but Admiralty politics, while referred to (Jack was made an acting Commodore for the assignment), were downplayed, and Napoleon was thousands of miles away. One got the impression that the French and British fleets were sort of killing time, fighting from force of habit. A potboiler, in narrative and purpose. Don't bother.
5 This book is best savored in the audio format. Narrator Simon Vance superbly delivers an almost impossibly complex job of rendering different characters in different voices. As a result the compete nuances of Regency period language are there to be savored. And of course the writing itself is simply unequalled.
5 At the end of the previous novel in the series, Jack Aubrey is returning home to England and marriage to his beloved Sophie, dreaming of the rosy future.Here in the opening chapters of The Mauritius Command is that future, and they are some of the most sustained humorous scenes of the entire Canon. Poor Jack - marriage isn't quite what he imagined it to be!But all too soon we are away on another cruise with Stephen Maturin, this time with a temporary promotion to Commodore, and the flying of a broad pendant to mark the fact. There's glory for you!The bulk of the novel concerns the more or less historical campaign to win back Mauritus from the French, and it is here that I venture a word of criticism, for Patrick O'Brian bound himself a little too tightly with the actual history and has to resort to some literary strategems to keep up with the sometimes confusing action.But that's by the by and along the way we meet some fascinating new characters, revisit some happy old ones, and spend a reasonable amount of time doing the things that make a Patrick O'Brian novel so well worth reading.I enjoyed this book very much, hence the five star rating, for even a Patrick O'Brian book a trifle off his usual pace is a very good book indeed.It is a good self-contained adventure, very rare in this series where a journey quite often takes four books or so to come to a conclusion, and it comes with the necessary maps at the beginning and an excellent essay on Jack Aubrey's ships at the end, including extracts from the plans of the dear old Surprise.An excellent read and the pleasure is enhanced by the marvellous Geoff Hunt painting on the cover.
1 Mr. Brown has no abilities with accents. Hence, the Irish Maturin sounds the same as his English friend Jack. Even Worse, Mr. Brown has almost no acting abiltiy. He reads in a sing song voice that is painful to hear. The Only reason I continued to listen to this abomination was that I wanted to follow the series and this was the cassette the library had. Avoid this version at all costs, unless you want to increase your appreciation for Patrick Tull.
5 Aficionados of O'Brian's seafaring novels from the Napoleonic Wars all have their favorites.  Of the 20 Aubrey/Maturin novels, this one may be the best in many ways.  Captain Aubrey's career seems on the fast track (maybe fast tack, given the theme)in this episode in which he takes the rank of Commodore and sails a small fleet to wrest Mauritius from the "foul and most foreign French."His companion, Dr. Stephen Maturin comes into his own in this episode, showing his full talents as an intelligence agent and giving an idea of the resources at his command.  There are setbacks, of course but the combimnations of land and sea warfare are engaging.  Many of the other staple charcaters of the series also really begin to bloom in this installment.If you have come this far in the series, do not hesitate:  buy this adventure and sail forth.  May the weather gauge be with you!
5 As the Wars of Napoleon continue unabated at land and on the high seas, Captain Jack Aubrey languishes in England with no ship to command; no missions to accomplish.  Fortunately for "Lucky" J. Aubrey, and the reader, Stephen Maturin, his erstwhile companion, ship's surgeon and naval intelligence agent arrives on the scene with a new command for Aubrey and a mission of the greatest importance to the Royal Navy.  Two strategically critical islands in the southern Indian Ocean have been seized and fortified by the French navy, and turned into bases of operation for a handful of Bonaparte's frigates preying upon the British trade to and from India.  Captain Aubrey, given the temporary rank of Commodore, is dispatched to take command of a squadron, coordinate with an expeditionary army regiment gathering nearby, and capture Mauritius and la'Reunion; as usual answering to the contrary "at his own peril".  Stephen Maturin traveling with his old friend again is instructed by naval intelligence to utilize his own unique skills as an operative to bring the initiative back to the British forces.  It is these islands, Mauritius and la'Reunion that provide the martial backdrop of this latest adventure in the Aubrey Maturin Series.The novel is one of O'Brian's better, which is saying a good deal- starting with this story's predecessor, "HMS Surprise", O'Brian begins to reach his real stride as the author of this much beloved series.  Both Aubrey and Maturin are showcased, and their adventures are thrilling to read.  Putting Aubrey to the test, he is given a squabbling set of Captains to manage, Army colleagues to coordinate and senior Admirals to dodge; not to mention the French frigates and ground forces as his adversaries.  Stephen Maturin for his part deals with the intricacies of subversion, as well as his usual recollections on human nature, life at sea, and a growing addiction to laudanum- an opiate.Exciting, interesting, thought-provoking, at times funny; any Patrick O'Brian book is a good read, and this is one of his best.
5 Some critics have referred to the Aubrey/Maturin books as one long novel united not only by their historical setting but also by the central plot element of the Aubrey/Maturin friendship.  Having read these fine books over a period of several years, I decided to evaluate their cumulative integrity by reading them consecutively in order of publication over a period of a few weeks.  This turned out to be a rewarding enterprise.  For readers unfamiliar with these books, they describe the experiences of a Royal Navy officer and his close friend and traveling companion, a naval surgeon.  The experiences cover a broad swath of the Napoleonic Wars and virtually the whole globe.Rereading all the books confirmed that O'Brian is a superb writer and that his ability to evoke the past is outstanding.  O'Brian has numerous gifts as a writer.  He is the master of the long, careful description, and the short, telling episode.  His ability to construct ingenious but creditable plots is first-rate, probably because he based much of the action of his books on actual events.  For example, some of the episodes of Jack Aubrey's career are based on the life of the famous frigate captain, Lord Cochrane.  O'Brian excels also in his depiction of characters.  His ability to develop psychologically creditable characters through a combination of dialogue, comments by other characters, and description is tremendous.  O'Brien's interest in psychology went well beyond normal character development, some books contain excellent case studies of anxiety, depression, and mania.Reading O'Brien gives vivid view of the early 19th century.  The historian Bernard Bailyn, writing of colonial America, stated once that the 18th century world was not only pre-industrial but also pre-humanitarian (paraphrase).  This is true as well for the early 19th century depicted by O'Brien.  The casual and invariable presence of violence, brutality, and death is a theme running through all the books.  The constant threats to life are the product not only of natural forces beyond human control, particularly the weather and disease, but also of relative human indifference to suffering.  There is nothing particularly romantic about the world O'Brien describes but it also a certain grim grandeur.  O'Brien also shows the somewhat transitional nature of the early 19th century.  The British Navy and its vessals were the apogee of what could be achieved by pre-industrial technology.  This is true both of the technology itself and the social organization needed to produce and use the massive sailing vessals.  Aubrey's navy is an organization reflecting its society; an order based on deference, rigid hierarchy, primitive notions of honor, favoritism, and very, very corrupt.  At the same time, it was one of the largest and most effective bureaucracies in human history to that time.  The nature of service exacted great penalities for failure in a particularly environment, and great success was rewarded greatly.  In some ways, it was a ruthless meritocracy whose structure and success anticipates the great expansion of government power and capacity seen in the rest of the 19th century.O'Brian is also the great writer about male friendship.  There are important female characters in these books but since most of the action takes place at sea, male characters predominate.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin is the central armature of the books and is a brilliant creation.  The position of women in these books is ambiguous.  There are sympathetic characters, notably Aubrey's long suffering wife.  Other women figures, notably Maturin's wife, leave a less positive impression.  On board ship, women tend to have a disruptive, even malign influence.How did O'Brian manage to sustain his achievement over 20 books?  Beyond his technical abilities as a writer and the instrinsic interest of the subject, O'Brien made a series of very intelligent choices.  He has not one but two major protagonists.  The contrasting but equally interesting figures of Aubrey and Maturin allowed O'Brien to a particularly rich opportunity to expose different facets of character development and to vary plots carefully.  This is quite difficult and I'm not aware of any other writer who has been able to accomplish such sustained development of two major protagonists for such a prolonged period.  O'Brian's use of his historical setting is very creative.  The scenes and events in the books literally span the whole globe as Aubrey and Maturin encounter numerous cultures and societies.  The naval setting allowed him also to introduce numerous new and interesting characters.  O'Brian was able to make his stories attractive to many audiences.  Several of these stories can be enjoyed as psychological novels, as adventure stories, as suspense novels, and even one as a legal thriller.  O'Brian was also a very funny writer, successful at both broad, low humor, and sophisticated wit.  Finally, O'Brian made efforts to link some of the books together.  While a number are complete in themselves, others form components of extended, multi-book narratives.  Desolation Island, Fortune of War, and The Surgeon's Mate are one such grouping.  Treason's Harbor, The Far Side of the World, and The Reverse of the Medal are another.  The Letter of Marque and the ensuing 4 books, centered around a circumnavigation, are another.Though the average quality of the books is remarkably high, some are better than others.  I suspect that different readers will have different favorites.  I personally prefer some of the books with greater psychological elements.  The first book, Master and Commander, is one of my favorites.  The last 2 or 3, while good, are not as strong as earlier books.  I suspect O'Brian's stream of invention was beginning to diminish.  All can be read profitably as stand alone works though there is definitely something to be gained by reading in consecutive order.
5 The fourth in Patrick O'Brian's wonderful seagoing series.  O'Brian does not disappoint as Captain Aubrey and Stephen Maturin do battle against the French in the Indian Ocean.  Here the plot turns on psychological profiles.  Aubrey commands a squadron of ships, and each captain is a different study:  Pym steady but unimaginative;  Clonfert vainglorious, insecure, and unpredictable; Corbett daring but brutal; and Colonel Keating steady and brave.  And there are Aubrey and Maturin, separately and together, musing upon the different elements in each of the captain's characters.  As the action progresses, each captain is led into crisis, and each benefits and suffers by his particular choices.In some respects "The Mauritius Command", at 348 pages in the Norton edition, may be too short.  Clonfert is the captain we come to know best, the others are not as fully drawn because we spend no time aboard their ships.  Also, the final assault on Mauritius is reduced to a few throw-away lines on the last page, as though O'Brian turned away from the book, unfinished, and simply chose not to write the last two chapters.  The book is a good one, O'Brian's intentions are clear.  The captains' stark choices are grounded more in their personalities than the circumstances of the struggle.  Their fates are sealed long before they join Aubrey in the Indian Ocean.  "The Mauritius Command" is a thrilling psychological study.
5 The opening of THE MAURITIUS COMMAND finds &quot;Lucky&quot; Jack Aubrey married, poor, and bored.  He is without a command, on half pay, and doing no more than tinkering with his telescopes.  Happily, his particular friend Stephen Maturin comes bearing glad tidings:  an assignment leading an expedition to capture the French-held islands of Mauritius and La Reunion just east of Madagascar.Unlike the previous novels, where Jack commands a vessel usually unattached from joint maneuvers, he here commands several ships.  Unfortunately, the Commodore (as Jack is temporarily called) has a problem:  the captains of the three primary ships are troublesome.  Lord Clonfert nurses a long held jealously of Jack's fame and success, and has a tendency for self-promotion and showmanship.  Pym is solid, but in the end lacks judgment in battle.  Corbett is the polar opposite of Jack in regard to discipline.  While Jack believes in discipline, he staunchly believes that brutality and frequent punishment is both cruel and counterproductive, leading to an unhappy ship.  Corbett, on the other hand, is a savage disciplinarian, and keeps his crew on the edge of mutiny.All of the novels in the series have their unique appeal, and this one delights in its chronicling the course of a single campaign, a campaign that O'Brian notes is based quite closely on real events.  The novel is also superb in its setting in a locale of which most readers will be utterly unfamiliar.  It is also fun because more than in the previous novels, Stephen Maturin plays a more prominent role as an intelligence officer, and his work on the islands in fermenting rebellion against the French is as crucial as Jack's role in leading the military expedition.I would caution anyone tempted to read O'Brian to start with the very first novel and work from the first to the last.  I deeply love these books, but they do not stand alone.
4 AS A CHILD I READ ALL OF THE HORATIO HORNBLOWER SERIES AND I NEVER THOUGHT ANYONE WOULD EVER MATCH HIM. O'BRIAN IS AN ADULT'S HORNBLOWER WRITER. I DON'T THINK THAT I WOULD HAVE LIKED HIM WHEN I WAS A CHILD. AS AN ADULT I  DON'T THINK HORATIO MEASURES UP TO JACK AUBREY.
4 not quite as good as the first three in this series, in my opinion.  The quality of O'Brian's writing is as good as ever, with wonderful dialogue  and descriptions.  O'Brian does move the development of his main characters  Aubrey and Maturin forward; Aubrey has mellowed and aged a little and now  has the joys and burdens of having a wife and kids.  It seems to me from  this book that O'Brian did not intend for this series to continue on for  nearly as many volumes as it did.  For example, the Mauritius Campaign took  place in 1810, only a few years before the end of the Napoleonic Wars.  The  previous book, HMS Suprise, seems to have taken place approximately five  years before; a lot of prime war years were wasted.  This book develops  some interesting characters, particularly Captain Clonfert.  The problem  with this book is that a lot of time is taken up with our heros sailing  here and there without much exciting happening.  The ending is somewhat  suspenseful, but not as much so as the previous three books.  All in all,  it is still a very good book but the series loses just a little of its  freshness and originality.
5 I can only say; be careful, because you won't be able to read very many other authors after reading Mr. O'Brian's work. I purchased and, in disgust, discarded several books immediately after reading this series; and did that each time I re-read the series. I will unashamedly admit I have read the Aubrey and Maturin series at least 10 times, and am looking forward to reading it yet again. So much of the drivel out there on the Bestseller shelf is written so that a person with the reading comprehension skills of a 9th grader can understand it (and let's face it, that's probably 80% of the folks in America), but that is not the case with these books.I, as you can probably tell, absolutely love this series.
5 It's now part of literary legend that J.K. Rowling wrote the final chapter of the final book of her beloved Harry Potter series well before she wrote even half the novels.  She knew how the story was going to end, and she said that allowed her to keep a tight rein on the characters, and resist the temptation to let the series spin out of control.One wonders how Patrick O'Brian was able to keep his beloved characters, "Lucky Jack" Aubrey and Dr. Stephen Maturin, under such control over a series almost three times as long as Rowling's.  "The Mauritius Command" is the fourth book in this amazing series, and O'Brian shows a deft command over both his subject matter and his characters.  Often, by the fourth book in a series, the characters start to grow dull.  Not only does the reader get the sense of retrodding the same ground, the author has to somehow overcome the sense that his characters are invincible.O'Brian avoids both of these pratfalls with apparent ease.  "Lucky Jack" may be lucky at sea, but he finds new and innovative ways of getting in trouble on land.  Now, not only is he ashore with no ship and on half-pay, he must contend with his recently destitute mother-in-law and a brace of twins - girls, no less.  Dr. Maturin arrives with the promise of a command and a daring mission - to take two French-controlled islands off Madagascar.  Soon Aubrey is at the helm of a ship, but in addition to his usual cares and concerns, he must now cope with being a Commodore, commander over several ships, including several whose captains carry several tragic flaws.  These various scenarios allow Aubrey to experience fresh troubles with which he has no actual experience, and wonder whether his old tactics will see him through.Dr. Maturin continues to grow as a character, as well as in practical significance to the storyline.  In "Master and Commander," he was basically a bystander, an observer of the naval action around him.  Now, his role as an intelligence man (read, spy) becomes more important as he plays a vital role in helping the British governor assume his station . . . including playing a game of propaganda warfare against the French.  Maturin also gets a few chances to practice his amazing surgical skills, breaks a few bones, and is confronted with his "dedication" to opium.Not quite as funny as previous books (no drunken sloths to be seen), but with a little more action, "The Mauritius Command" is a defining book in this series.  Even though this book, according to some, can be read out of sequence, I disagree since Aubrey's (temporary) promotion to Commodore falls in line with the other books.
5 Tight, elegant story telling combined with strong historical research make this series intensely enjoyable. The complex narrative is interlaced with careful reconstructions of historical Royal Navy ship actions. These are page turners, and the Mauritius Command is particularly tight.
5 is with me stillworking my way through Patrick Obrians sea stories and I shall be so sorry to get to the last one. This isi truly great writing and the smell of the sea and tar and oakum
3 THE MAURITIUS COMMAND, the fourth novel in the series by Richard Patrick Russ (1914-2000) writing under the nom de plume of "Patrick O'Brian," is a distinct improvement over one of its predecessors, POST CAPTAIN.  Russ/O'Brian seems to have abandoned his annoying  experiments in writing techniques and has settled down to, more or less, a simple, straight-forward narrative style, which is imminently more readable.As in earlier volumes, this book does not continue precisely where its predecessor left off. However, in this case the missing events are easily understood and reconstructed in the reader's consciousness.  We do find that Jack Aubrey's marriage to Sophie is not precisely fulfilling for him; not surprisingly, we find that Aubrey's first love remains the sea and that he is not exactly the model of a perfect spouse.  Of course, if one reads the author's real-life biography, Russ/O'Brian was far from a perfect husband, and one wonders whether he has somewhat patterned Aubrey after himself, but let us not read too much into that.Soon, Aubrey is called to sea again, and the maritime action resumes and continues throughout the remainder of the book.  Unlike POST CAPTAIN, this volume does not ramble for pages and pages about Aubrey's floundering on-shore life, thank goodness.If one has a creative imagination, he could actually begin with THE MAURITIUS COMMAND, but the reader will certainly have a more complete appreciation of the characters if he has begun with the first volume, MASTER AND COMMANDER, and has approached each successive volume in order (POST CAPTAIN, then HMS SURPRISE, and only then THE MAURITIUS COMMAND).  Perhaps we should consider each novel as an additional chapter in one extraordinarily lengthy book.  This is not necessarily a criticism, just a caution to a reader who might be tempted to sample Russ/O'Brian's work by starting in the middle of the series.The author does engage in some character development, and, by this fourth book, the person of Dr. Stephen Maturin has become more complex that we suspected at first.  Not only is he an unusually gifted physician, but it seems as though he has shadowy political connections and is as instrumental as a "secret agent" as he is as a doctor.  While this certainly provides a most interesting twist to the character of the good doctor, I sense that Russ/O'Brian is learning about his creation at the same time we are.  I do not feel that he prepared us for this sort of complication in Maturin's nature.  While I enjoy the increased complexity in the doctor, I am not at all sure that the author intended this from the beginning but suspect that he may be developing his characters by whim rather than by intent.THE MAURITIUS COMMAND keeps the reader entertained throughout its length, but, after having now read four books in the series, I feel that Russ/O'Brian is a somewhat superficial writer who realizes that he should paint some complexity into his characters to keep them from becoming mere stereotypes but does not quite understand how to do this.  As a writer, he is certainly superior to the authors of what we used to call "dime novel bodice-rippers," but he is far from displaying the skill of a C. S. Forrester or a Herman Melville.I would suggest that the Aubrey-Maturin series of maritime adventure books is decent entertainment but that the novels are not especially memorable.  I also find myself wondering whether the surface action, that is, the plot or superficial story line, may not become repetitious and boring before one reaches the end of the multi-book series.  I'm actually hoping that Russ/O'Brian will mature more fully as an author as he accrues more experience in writing the future volumes.  We shall see how he handles the fifth book, DESOLATION ISLAND, next.
4 The Mauritius Command is a first rate piece of historical fiction.  Patrick O'Brian deftly weaves this swashbuckling nautical tale into the historical account of the British retaking the Mauritius Islands. Lucky Jack Aubrey, with a little help from Stephen Maturin, becomes a Commodore and leads his squadron of ships into battle with the French.A new father, Jack Aubrey leaves behind his wife to venture out to the Indian Ocean.  His wife, Sophie, lost her dowry and story begins with Jack hurting for money.  So the opportunity to have command and be back on full pay is most welcome.  Commodore Aubrey's command is complicated by the personalities of his subordinate commanders.  Maturin comes out of the closet and works his espionage in the open.With victory just within his grasp, Admiral Bertie arrives to take command and the credit away from Jack.  Despite that setback, Lucky Jack stills finishes on top.I highly recommend this book.
4 Meet Harry Flashman, one of the most lovable,despicable rogues you'll ever encounter, a man whohas absolutely no virtues or conscience. This is aman who would betray his friends at the drop of ahat, provided that the betrayal it was useful, aman who invented the "love them and leave them"philosophy, a man who will say or do anything toescape with his own hide.But he is also a man who is destined to be wherethe action is - so in his various adventures, hemeets Abraham Lincoln, is involved in the famouscharge of the light brigade, becomes friends (of asort) with Bismarck. But through his eyes, we seehistory just a bit different.There are seven volumes so far in George Frasier'sseries, but the one I think you'll enjoy best isFlashman and the Redskins. Set in the old West,the novel tells of Flashman's encounters with menlike Will Bill Hickock, Geronomo, Kit Carson,Crazy Horse, and George Custer. The culmination ofhis adventures is the most famous of the Westernbattles - Custer's defeat at the Little Big Horn.But Flashman doesn't spend all his time fightingIndians. He would much rather be in the arms of abeautiful woman. And he succeeds in this endeavor,not once, but several times during the course ofthe novel. First, we meet Susie, the madam of abrothel he happens to encounter on his way west.Of course, he can't remain faithful to her forlong, not with all those other women (the "sluts"as he calls them) that are so available. Finallyhe must abandon his new "family" to continue hisjourney, but that doesn't end his womanizing. Whenhe is captured by the Apaches, he saves his lifeby seducing the chief's daughter! And we don'twant to miss the mysterious Mrs. Candy who takeshim on his last journey west.But the joy of this book is not just the marvelousadventures Flashman has, nor is it the great character Fraserhas created (a man you love to hate). This is a book where thelanguage is equal to the story. As Flashman describes his nearbrushes with death, we can feel his fear, fear that he is ableto cover up when others are around.This is a book that will keep you on the edge of your seat, butyou'd best hold on tight, or you'll fall off laughing.(NOTE: Since one of Flashman's characteristics is his amorousnature, there are several rather ribald passages. They are notpornographic or vulgar, but they are suggestive. I found themquite funny, but if they bother you, just skip a few paragraphsand you'll be in safe territory again.)
5 Great read about two different time frames on the old west. Flashman of course is in the drink in more ways than one. .
5 I usually enjoy the Flashman books more or less depending on my engagement with their historical content, and generally I'm not big on westerns.  But this was like one of the great Hollywood films in the way it captured the majesty and adventure of the West, with humor and satire sprinkled throughout. In 1849, Flashy participates in the Gold Rush; 27 years later, he returns in time to become the sole white survivor of Custer's Last Stand.  The greatest chase of the entire Flashman series occurs about halfway through, with a murderous Apache war party pursuing Sir Harry across the New Mexican desert.  Reading it, I literally couldn't breathe; when it was over, I choked up over Fraser's sheer storytelling brilliance.  What a writer!
5 flash jumps around a bib in this adventure, but in the west his manner improved form deplorable to tolerably despicable.I don't think it would be amused with the O&H; show tune , I want to be an Indian too , wouldn't you?  Like a Sioux! .But he honest shows a slice of what the encroaching society effect were on the fictional charterers and there action and reaction to the new world . As far as the locals, heck it was their street corner so I won't make any judgment.
5 What a character is Colonel Harry Paget Flashman! Winner of the Victoria Cross; the Congressional Medal of Honor and a veteran of wars fought in Africa, India, China, the Malay Peninsula, Madagascar and other locales.  Handsome Flashman is over six feet tall and is a swashbuckling ladies man! All women: old, young, short,tall, slim and fat easily fall prey to his seductive charms!Flashman was a character in Thomas Hughes' "Tom Brown's Schooldays"who was expelled by Dr. Thomas Arnold of Rugby. Charles Macdonald Frazer takes Flashman and uses him in his long series of novels on this complex rogue."Flashman and the Redskins" is a novel divided into two parts:Part One: Flashman is back in the United States fleeing a murder charge. In New Orleans he is reacquainted with the old seadog nemesis the infamous Captain John Charity Spring. Flashy is forced to flee New Orleans before the law and his enemies catch up with him. He escapes with a bordello of black prostitutes under the leadership of the busty madam who hides Flashy. On their way West the girls and Flashy have to deal with maurading Indians. Flashy has sex with one of the prostitutes. In part two he will learn that as a result of this union he has a son who has grown up as a Sioux Indian. Flashy is captured by the Indians; is forced into a marriage with the Chief's daughter and after six months escapes across the blazing sands. He is rescued by Kit Carson.Part II: It is 1875-76. Flashman returns to America with his lovely but dumb wife Elspeth. The Flashmans attend the wedding of General Phil Sheridan in Chicago. Flashman pleads with President US Grant to allow General George Armstrong Custer to return to leadership of the 7th Cavalry. Grant concedes to Flashy's request. Adventures abound as Flashy takes part in the Battle of Little Big Horn being rescued by his Indian son.All of the Flashman novels are narrated in the first person by the elderly Flashman who is supposedly writing his memoirs.The books are well written with incredible detail on the lives of the American Indians and what life was like in Victorian America. The sex scenes are short and handled with taste. Fraser's books are always a delight! Everytime I peruse one I thhik that this novel is the best in the series! Once you read one Flashman novel you will wish to read them all! Excellent!
5 This is one of the two best of the &#34;Flashman&#34; series (the other being the first one: &#34;Flashman&#34;).  To understand the beginning situation, one needs to have read &#34;Flash For Freedom,&#34; as the two stories fit seamlessly together.  In his desperate striving to stay ahead of the law and various revenge-seekers, and somehow get back to safety in England, our hero winds up in an unusual wagon train heading for California, as part of the 1849 gold rush.  His description of the great plains back in what he calls &#34;the earlies&#34; makes you wish you could have ridden beside him, at least through the calmer part of the journey.  But you'll be glad not to accompany him racing for his life across the Jornada del Muerto before a squad of outraged Apaches, or escaping with (most of) his hair from the battlefield of the Little Big Horn.
5 I love this entire series but in my opinion this one is the best.Fraser is a wonderful writer and Flashman is by far his best character.  It's easy, probably too easy, to &#34;dismiss&#34; Flashy as a coward and a poltroon who has more than his own share of luck.  One of the things I most enjoy about Flashman and the Redskins is that this book presents the most complete view of Harry Flashman. He is indeed lucky. He is dishonest. He is cowardly. He tries very hard to avoid his duty. BUT, when the chips are down, he's there and he behaves in a pretty competent manner. He's frequently scared to death, but he functions and functions pretty well.  As one of the characters in the novel observes, &#34;he got the train through.&#34;As an aside, the introductory pages in this book, where an aged Flashman is confronted by a book-learned expert on native Americans, may be the funniest and most engaging bit of prose I've ever read.I highly recommend this book, but if you've not read Fraser before you really should begin with the first book in the series, &#34;Flashaman&#34; and work your way to this one.
4 While I enthusiastically recommend this Flashman volume, I can't agree with Gryphon that it one of the two best.  The original Flash, Flash at the Charge, Mountain of Light, and Flash and the Dragon are all better, IMO.  The major problem with Redskins is that it's divided into two distinct halves, each covering two different and widely separated historical periods.  As a result, it has the marked feel of two books tossed together as one because they both happened to deal with the American West.  Like Gryphon, I preferred the first half over the second.  The second, which deals with the Little Big Horn, smacks of too much borrowing from Little Big Man.  (The same derivative flaw which tainted Royal Flash, which is, in my view, the worst of the series).  Still, it's the largest of the 10 and broad and entertaining in its scope.  Don't miss it.
4 _Flashman and the Redskins_ is essentially two stories, tied together with the common thread of the American West.  As Harry Flashman - cad, womanizer, cheat, theif and coward (and also a Knight of the Bath, recipient of the Congressional Medal of Honor and Victoria Cross) - winds his way through the West, readers are treated to a veritable "Who's Who" of the time.The first half of the book is about the "opening of the West," as Harry travels the Oregon and Santa Fe trails to California as a '49er.  Along the way he makes the acquaintance of such larger-than-life personalities as Kit Carson, Gallatin, Mangas Colorado and Geronimo.  The second half of the book Harry returns West, to meet the likes of Geo. Custer, Spotted Tail, Crazy Horse, Anson Mills, Wild Bill Hickock (and a surprise for both Flashman and the reader.)The history, of course, is impeccable.  Fraser takes readers across the West from Independence, MO to Santa Fe, north to Ft. Laramie, from Ft. Robinson, the Little Big Horn, and finally, Deadwood. Quite an adventure, indeed.  In the middle of it all is Harry Flashman, ever the scoundrel; and this book will not disappoint, as Harry is more devilish than usual.  It was a pretty involved and lengthy read, but with so much material (and so many personalities) to cover, it was very much worthwhile.
5 Gearge MacDonald Fraser's Flashman is one of the most fantastical characters ever created and "Flashman and the Redskins" was my favorite.History was never so humorous.
5 The seventh entry in the Flashman series is two books in one. The book picks up whereFlash for Freedom! (Flashman)ended. It's 1849 and Flash is in New Orleans, on the run from the law. He reacquaints himself with Susie Wilnick, a local madam who is moving her brothel west to join the flood of Forty Niners heading to California. Flash marries - again - but even at great personal risk he cannot help his roving eyes...and hands and so forth.He leaves Susie along the west (and in order to take his leave, he commits a deed that is shameful even by Harry Flashman's standards.) He then begins a wild trip across the Old West, even living with Apaches for awhile (where he weds yet again). Along the way, the reader meets many historical characters including Spotted Tail, John Joel Glanton, Mangas Coloradas, Geronimo, and Kit Carson. One of the more interesting historical bits involves Bent's Fort and its mysterious destruction. Harry was there and resolves the mystery.As always Fraser deflates the mythology surrounding historical figures. This characteristic debunking is a bit odd because Fraser believed the mythology about his own army and his own war, the Indian 17th Division of the British Army fighting in Burma during the last months of World War Two (See his war memoirQuartered Safe Out Here: A Harrowing Tale of World War II).Flashman manages to escape the Apaches and returns to England. In Part Two, Elspeth, his `real' English wife convinces Harry to return to the States, which introduces us to even more historical figures and eventually lands Harry right in the midst of the Battle of the Little Big Horn. I found the first part more entertaining and the ending was more than a bit of stretch.Fraser is a marvelous story teller and as he spins out his entertaining tales one also picks up a good deal of history. The reader should exercise caution in accepting Fraser's history. His version tends to be based on older sources and he eschewed more modern works (and certainly rejected modern viewpoints). Enjoy it for what it is: well-told speculations on historical mysteries.  While some will be offended by Flashman's views on women, Indians, Africans, and other people of color, in fairness, he also did not generally hold other white men in high regard, perhaps because Harry knew what a scoundrel he was himself.
4 Harry Flashman, Victorian England's unlikely hero, the unknown &quot;ace of cads,&quot; is up to his old tricks.  He travels to the American west with a traveling bordello, goes on a scalp-hunting party, marries an Apache chief's daughter and rides out with Kit Carson in '49.  Then it's back to the West in '79 so he can attend the massacre at Little Bighorn and almost be scalped by Frank Standing Bear, who turns out to have a very reasonable grudge against our anti-hero.  Whew!  As always, Fraser is a raconteur of humor and wit and a historian of astonishing erudition.  His depth of research is commendable, and would be even if he didn't use it to make every nuance of historical events more human and understandable.  This book, while light reading, is hilarious and instructive: it's a  towering achievement.
5 A great delight of the Flashman series is to watch George MacDonald Fraser place Harry Flashman, his ubiquitous anti-hero, in great historical events and then to see this loathsome yet endearing character emerge as a hero. In FLASHMAN AND THE REDSKINS, Fraser achieves this daunting feat twice, once in each novella that makes up this fine book.In the first novella, "The Forty-Niner", Fraser shows Flashman escaping from New Orleans, where there is a warrant for his arrest (See, FLASH FOR FREEDOM!) and traveling on the Santa Fe Trail during the 1849 gold rush. Then, in "The Seventy-Sixer", Fraser shows Flashman's adventure in the Dacotah Territory and his amazing escape from the Battle--a skirmish, really, the soldier Flash repeatedly says--of the Little Bighorn.Flashman fans who look to these novels for striking descriptions of events as they might have occurred will not be disappointed in this book. In "The Forty-Niner", Fraser captures the danger and innocence of wagon train travel, as well as the brutal fringes of early western American life, where massacre was a risk faced by all. And in "The Seventy-Sixer," Fraser paints a plausible (and historically accurate) picture of Custer, while showing the aggressive blunders that led to the destruction of his Seventh Cavalry. (How many of you know that Custer was actually attacking a small city of Sioux?)In my opinion, Fraser also does a great job with his Indians in both novellas, communicating lots of information about the Indian way of life, especially among the Apache and Sioux. Here, thanks for these eye-opening portrayals goes to the disillusioned Flashman, who sees Fraser's Indian characters and tribes without sentimentality or hatred. There's good and bad (as well as a drive to survive) in us all, Flashman might say.I must declare, however, that the connection between these novellas--a dastardly act by Flashy in "The Forty-Niners" that produces its equivalent reciprocating act in "The Seventy-Sixers"--was a wee bit farfetched. But, who cares? The novellas in FLASHMAN AND THE REDSKINS were a delight throughout. Highly recommended!
3 Through all the slurry of racism and sludge of curmudgeonly conservatism in the Flashman books, of which I've previously reviewed five, there have been two shining qualities that have kept me reading. First is the galloping humor, the sharp satire of almost everything sacred. Second is the historicism, the assurance that within the fiction there is a core of pertinent historical scholarship. Unfortunately, in "Flashman and the Redskins" the humor is less than fresh, and the scholarship is dismal. In fact, the only part of the book worth reading is the first section, in New Orleans, where Flash's scoundrely luck holds true. The wagon train journey that delivers Flash to Santa Fe wallows deeper than buffalo droppings in inaccurate geography and ludicrous descriptions of trail events. The fleeting appearances of "Redskins" along the trail do not have the accuracy, or the ring of accuracy, of Fraser's writing about Pathans and other peoples of the Raj. I can think of two possible reasons, both irritating: 1) Fraser is just as inaccurate about the Pathans and such, but I don't know enough to catch him at it, or 2) Fraser doesn't suppose that conditions in America require the same level of research that conditions in the British Empire require.In any case, I'm gonna stall on reading any more of the series for a couple of years, or decades. It's getting repetitive. Besides, various commentators on my earlier reviews have assured me that Fraser really did mean much of the nonsense Flashman spouts, that Fraser was as much an insular chauvinist as Paul Goodman, that he sincerely believed the British Empire was largely a boon to the dusky races sunk in their age-old lethargy, that if only the White Man had Borne his Burden long enough the world would now be nigh unto paradise. The implication, my friends, is that enthusiastic readers of the Flashman books are getting their jollies from deriding colored people, demeaning women, and in general escaping the self-censorship of their vilest thoughts which they reluctantly learned in school and from the ineluctable reality of modern life. Sharing a sneer with my neighborhood racist isn't much fun after all.
4 Flashman and the Redskins is quite amusing and does offer some interesting insights, and the book put me onto other more objective accounts, notably Cremony's "Life among the Apaches". But while I enjoy MacDonald, I find his tendency to overstate similarities between the vices of westerners and those who meet them, he is not willing to recognise the virtues of westerners and benefits they have brought to the rest of the world-of course his iconoclasm is part of a vogue that has persisted for close to 50 years. It must be close to its use by date.I also found MacDonald's labouring on Custer's neuroticism and childish temperamentalism excessive. I doubt he would have been made a brigadier in his 20's, or, after the Civil War, even been put in command of a battalion of cavalry, if he did not demonstrate maturity, leadership and strategic sensibility. MacDonald doesn't really give enough attention of the inferior quality of the weapons of the 7th cavalry compared to that of the Sioux and Cheyenne, and that Custer's detachment was outnumbered by up to 10 to 1. He tries too hard, like many apologists, to aggrandise the Indian victory. But at least he admits to the savage brutality of Sitting Bull.
3 The seventh installment in the Flashman Papers is by far the longest, at 479 pages. The reason is that Flashman and the Redskins is really two books in one: one recounting Flashman's exploits as a '49er, scalphunter and adopted Apache, and another with his involvement in the Battle of the Little Bighorn. The two stories are self-contained and only tertiarily connected, and there's little need for them to be compiled into one volume.After opening with an aged Flashman putting down a soppy idealist bemoaning the fate of the Native Americans - Fraser at his most pointed, irreverent and funny - the first half is a direct sequel to Flash for Freedom, with Flashman and Latin-spewing slaver John Charity Spring fleeing the law, going to California with a New Orleans madam and a wagonload of whores. The first half is Fraser at his best, with intricate plotting, colorful characters (particularly the ghoulish scalphunters), exciting action, pleasant bawdiness, a vivid description of places and events and Fraser's usual acidic humor. Flashy's exploits in New Mexico would stand alone as one of the best in the series, if Fraser had left well-enough alone.The second half of the book, on the other hand, is pretty much useless. The Battle of Little Bighorn has been covered in numerous films, books and other works, and Fraser adds little to the littany of Custer-related literature. Indeed, with Flashman flitting back and forth between the Indians and Cavalry, it smacks more than a bit of Little Big Man. The ties to the first part - mostly through Flashman's spurned lover Cleonie - are poorly done, and Flashman's illegitimate son is tacked on as a mere plot contrivance.My biggest problem, though, is that there's no need for the second half. Flash For Freedom! covered a great deal of time and space, but all the events were connected - improbably, but believably, through intricate, detailed plotting and related events and characters. Flashman at the Charge was less successful, covering too much time and space, but at least there was flow and connection between scenes. The leap of twenty-seven years here is a cheat, and since each Flashman book is essentially self-contained, its inclusion is inexplicable. It should have been published separately, if at all.
5 "I never did learn to speak Apache properly. Mind you, it ain't easy, mainly because the red brutes seldom stand still long enough - and if you've any sense, you don't either, or you're liable to find yourself studying their system of vowel pronunciation while hanging head-down over a slow fire or riding for dear life across the Jornada del Muerto with them howling at your heels and trying to stick lances in your liver."- Sir Harry Flashman, VC, KCBThus begins FLASHMAN AND THE REDSKINS, the seventh packet of the Flashman Papers, which were discovered in a Leicestershire, England saleroom in 1966 and edited by George MacDonald Fraser (also, the longest and funniest book in the series). This packet follows chronologically on the heels of FLASH FOR FREEDOM! It is divided into two parts: the first takes place in 1849, the second in 1876.In the first part, we find Harry fleeing American justice, and possibly being hanged for murder, by trying to secure a berth aboard a fast ship bound for England from New Orleans by blackmailing his Latin quoting nemesis, Captain John Charity Spring, M.A., "Oriel man, slaver, homicidal lunatic." Barely escaping capture, he and Spring hide out in a New Orleans brothel. From here is where our lovable rogue begins his trip west enroute to the goldfields of California. Along the way he discovers the charms of a mulatto prostitute, encounters blood thirsty scalp hunters, and barely escapes with his hair from savage Apache warriors.The second half of FLASHMAN AND THE REDSKINS finds Sir Harry back in America in 1876 with his beautiful wife Elspeth chattering empty-headedly by his side. Taking advantage of an opportunity to make some easy money, and hoping to charm his way into the arms of yet another beautiful woman, he leaves Elspeth to enjoy the society of Philadelphia while he embarks on a trip by river boat up the Missouri to scout the territory around Bismark, North Dakota. Little does Flashy know what is in store for him on this supposedly safe trip. I won't spoil the fun, but suffice it to say, "Custer's Last Stand" has never been written in more frighteningly entertaining prose as the deadly action swirls dangerously around our trembling anti-hero and his rumbling bowels.This is one of George MacDonald Fraser's best. Unfortunately for us Flashman-iacs, Mr. Fraser passed away on January 3, 2008. I, for one, will miss this great novelist's knowledge of history, writing skill and terrific sense of humor. As Capt. Spring would have said about GMF's style, "castigat ridendo mores" (laughter succeeds where lecturing won't).
5 I agree with the other reviewer that this book had me completely spellbound.I'm about half way through the flashman series and so far I've enjoyed them all however this one as far as I'm concerned is easily the best that I've read.As everyone knows there is probably no event in American History that has been more warped by historians and wannabe historians then the events that transpired in relation to the various Native American tribes.Unlike just about everyone else Frazier through the mind of Flashman weeds through all the crap and tells it how it really was with all the typical Flashman flair that I've come to expect.His creation is pure brilliance, after reading this book I literally walked down to the local bookstore and bought a couple westerns, including the biography of Wooten that Frazier himself recommends.This book may of just hooked me on the western genre.
5 He's good history submerged in laughter.  By now you are hooked.  Buy it.  You can't fight it.
4 I finished rereading &#34;Little Big Man&#34; and decided to re-read &#34;Flashman and the Redskins,&#34; which covers some of the same ground in the second half of the book.[It would have been very interesting to have Flashman and Jack Crabb meet.] I've enjoyed all the Flashman books and was sorry when the author died several years ago. This novel covers events roughly twenty-five years apart - the California Gold Rush and Custer's Last Stand. Of course Flashman meets the greats and near-greats in his travels - everyone from Geronimo and Crazy Horse to Kit Carson and Custer. Flashman has no illusions about himself and honestly reports on all his misdeeds, which usually occur because he's covering his own rear end. I recommend all the Flashman novels. They're very entertaining and you'll learn a little history. My only regret in this book is that Flashman mentions his Civil War adventures when he fought for both the North AND the South and that book never got written.
5 Number 7 in publication order of the Flashman Papers. This chapter brings together some previous players form earlier books in a way I didn't see coming.  Flashy gets what he deserves in this one, with more than one escape by the skin of his teeth. Great fun!
5 There aren't many public school novels being written and read these days. Rowling's Potter series is an exception (and in my opinion they are not all that good). However if you are old enough to have read Tom Brown's Schooldays then the Flaashman series may be of interest. If you have enjoyed Kipling's Indian stories then Flashman is also worth a try.
5 George MacDonald Fraser's love of his work just shines through in this episode. There is no need to suspend disbelief as Harry Flashman's adventures lead from one frying pan into yet another fire. And he packs so much into a historical backdrop which is extremely well researched and informative. Very enjoyable.
5 The Flashman books are unabashedly politically incorrect, often hilarious, remarkably accurate historical novels - set in the 19th Century. Our hero - Harry Flashman, an officer in the British military - is a self-admitted scoundrel/rascal/cad/rogue - "his personal character was deplorable, his conduct abandoned, and his talent for mischief apparently inexhaustible." - and because of his "self-awareness" is very likeable. Harry is usually on the run from someone - the law, a jealous husband or some figure of authority - and during his travels meets up with historical figures and stumbles into historical events - usually of the military nature - inadvertently fighting the "good fight". And as can be surmised, Harry is never short of female companionship.The stories are told from the fictional "Flashman Papers", written by Harry in his twilight years, "edited" by the author - including "footnotes" which I encourage you to read - and which were "discovered" in 1966 - The "faux" authenticity only adding to the enjoyment in reading these books.In this volume, a two-parter which chronicles Harry's adventures in 1849-50 and 1875-76, we find our hero in the U.S., mostly in the Wild West, with a few sojourns in New York and Washington, DC. As the title suggests, "Flashy" encounters and becomes embroiled in the Native American "problem". In the first half of the book he leads a wagon train - actually a bordello on the move - from New Orleans to the west coast. In the second half Harry is enlisted - by President Grant - to aid in the "negotiations" with the Sioux Nation - the story climaxing with Custer's Last Stand.In the telling of the story the reader meets a cornucopia of historical figures - U.S. Grant, Sherman, Sheridan, Crazy Horse, Spotted Tail, Mangas Coloradas, Kit Carson, Wild Bill Hickok and of course Custer - just to name a few. And Flashman - true to form - is not only in the midst of the all the action - he's the root cause in some instances - and of course he has more than a few romantic liaisons along the way.If historical novels, with more than a little humor, are your cup of tea, this volume and the Flashman series will suit you perfectly.
4 This is one of the better books by Fraser on Flashman's participation in American History.  Flashman is involved with the Plains Indians and the Apaches, both before and after the American Civil War.
5 The arguably offensive title aside, this is one of my favorite Flashman books, out the twelve that George MacDonald Fraser was able to write. One reason may be the fact that it's set in America, but I suspect that more pertinent to my liking the novel is the resonance between its two halves. In the first, Flashman joins a party journeying westward in 1849. In the second, he is present at the 1876 Battle of the Little Bighorn, where he meets his past once more. As always this this series, the story-telling is gripping, the prose transparent and flowing, and the historical research impeccable -- the pieces once more fit together with inevitable, easy coincidence. Fraser certainly knew how to relate a tale, and this is one of the best he ever constructed.
5 Flashman and the Redskins is, as the name implies, MacDonald Fraser's treatment of the American Indian Question between the California Gold Rush years of 1849 onward, and the final nail in the Indian coffin that was the Battle of Little Bighorn in 1876.  As it is impossible for Flashman to have spent 27 years continuously anywhere, this is the first of the Flashman packets to be written in two halves, the first when Flashman was approximately 28 years old, and the second approximately 53.The first half continues immediately from the third packet (Flash for Freedom!) without missing a beat.  One can scarcely even tell there is a break in the authors thoughts if one reads the third and seventh packets consecutively.  As the reader may recall [spoiler], Flashman is left begging for a berth home to England from his old overserial nemesis, Cpt. J.C.S.  Of course, nothing can go as planned, and he soon finds himself commanding a most peculiar wagon train of the Forty-Niners on his way to California.  He meets almost every famous name associated with the Wild West, and scarcely fails to name-drop every one.The second half finds Flashman and his (proper) wife holidaying along the East Coast of the U.S. where Flashman revisits his Civil War days (a story never written down by Macdonald Fraser, alas) by hobnobbing with numerous old pals from President Grant down to Colonel Custer, not to mention reunions with old, and famous, Indian friends.  Through a couple of misadventures (of course) he finds himself at the Battle of Little Bighorn, as a quite unwilling observer and participant, and we are treated to an example where 'audaces fortuna iuvat' (*fortune favours the brave - of course the bravery isn't that of our favourite anti-hero).MacDonald Fraser has Flashman at his worst, and at his best, in this book.  From low points of unspeakable betrayal, to high points of his reaction to filial piety, Fraser has Flashman cover a range of behaviour as wide as all the other books combined.  As always, Flashman's unscrupulous, yet observant, character never fails to educate and entertain.As to the Indian Question, Fraser displays the same internal conflict mirrored in us all.  He is sympathetic to all human beings, and the plight of the invaded and subjugated native, but at once also decries an over-sympathetic view of this often unruly savage who was unable to come to grips with the overwhelming power of European technology, and did not submit or assimilate until it was rather too late to save many of the diverse Indian cultures present in North America.Fraser's message in this book, as in many of his Flashman novels, is that all people suffer from the same limitations, and few deserve more or less sympathy than others.  Interestingly, he complements Professor Jared Diamond's conclusions in his book "Guns, Germs and Steel" - that the only difference between one group of humans and another is their luck of birth.  Europeans had the luck to inherit farming from the Arabs (to allow an anachronism for a moment) without destroying their environment in the process, which gave them a step up over all other peoples on Earth (ignoring the confounding element of modern politics).  Apart from that, everyone is the same, especially with regard to each peoples' ethical and moral right to space and freedom, and, more often than not, a penchant for ignorance and cruelty.As such, he shows just the same sympathy for the white European as he does the native.  Interesting stuff.  (Funny too.)The second half ends with an ominious note from the author, indicating it should lead directly to another account which must at least begin with more American adventures.  However, this immediate next packet has never come to light.
4 The Flashman series is certainly a hit-and-miss affair.  Harry Flashman, this mythical &quot;Forrest Gump on the 19th century&quot;, by George MacDonald Fraser is the kind of character you love to hate.  He gets all the women, gets in and out of all sorts of trouble, etc - he's certainly larger than life.  The author cleverly uses Flashman as a vehicle to re-tell (not re-write) history for the masses.  In 'Flashman and the Redskins' he succeeds admirably.'Flashman and the Redskins' is a actually two distinct books sewn together.  The first half has Flashman on a wagon train from New Orleans to San Francisco.  Of course impossible mishaps occur en route.  But this gives the author the excellent opportunity to capture the essence of American expansion and  Indian/Mexican/Amercian hostilities - I actually learned a lot.  The second half takes place 25 years later at Custer's last stand.  Again, a very educational exercise.  And the link between these two stories is understood at the very end.  It's unexpected and amusing.'Flashman and the Redskins' fortunately has little of the toilet humour found in other Flashman books.  So instead of being grossed out by adolescent humour I was given a history lesson wrapped in an enjoyable story.  Great deal!!As with the rest of the Flashman books, it is strongly advised to read the first of the Flashman series before proceeding to any of the others.
4 This volume is the second half of  "Flashman's American Adventure," beginning as it does a few minutes after the end of _Flash for Freedom!_ Harry Flashman is stuck in New Orleans and wants badly to get home to England and he thinks at first he can prevail on the bawdy house madam who cottoned to him in the previous book to let him hide out at her establishment and then book him passage. But this is the beginning of 1849, gold has been discovered in California, and Susie is convinced she can make an even greater fortune by transporting her girls and her furniture to the Far West. Flashman ends up marrying her (bigamously, of course) and becomes the titular boss of her wagon train out of Independence, Missouri, bound for Sacramento. Actually, having met mountain men and famous frontier scouts and crossed paths with several sorts of Indians, they only make it as far as Santa Fe, which Susie decides is far enough. And Flashman is on his own again -- and to get the cash to continue his long-term escape, he commits an act that is remarkably callous and brutal even for Flashy. But he doesn't get far, being captured this time by Apaches and getting himself married for the third time. It's a good thing he has such a talent for languages! But he eventually accompanies Kit Carson to Wyoming and thence home.Then we jump to the second half of this story, a quarter-century later. One of the more delightful continuing themes throughout this series is Flashman's peculiar relationship with his wife, Elspeth -- gorgeous, brainless, devoted to her Gallant Sir Harry, and yet as completely unprincipled and lecherous as her husband when it comes to sex. In the early days, he couldn't say anything about it because she controlled the purse-strings. Now, in middle age, they've long since reached an accommodation. Besides, Harry has never actually caught her in flagrante. Anyway, Elspeth's craving for travel is the reason Flashman is back in America in 1876 to begin with, and at first he's outraged to discover that she's probably been off rolling in the hay with the great Lacotah chief (and his old acquaintance) Spotted Tail. But then he thinks, as always, "if I'm wrong and she's as chaste as the mountain dew, so much the better. If she's not, what's an Indian more or less?" Because Flashman has been recruited to take part in the U.S. Government's unenthusiastic negotiations with the Plains tribes in the wake of another gold strike, this time in the Black Hills, and Elspeth is along for the ride. And then his lecherous nature leads him to lend his name to a land development scheme in North Dakota -- and that will be his undoing, as Fate and Justice come back to bite him good and hard. The upshot is that Sir Harry is bound hand and foot in a Sioux tipi on the Little Big Horn when Custer and the 7th Cavalry show up.I've never been a Custer fan. As Flashman notes, he was quite a good cavalry brigade commander during the Civil War (when he also didn't have the leeway for independent action) -- but he was a terrible army officer, which is a somewhat different thing. And by the mid-1870s, his political ambitions were driving his self-aggrandizement to a point of such reckless disregard for reality that he had become a positive danger to those in his command. In fact, Flashman makes a number of comparisons between the Sioux campaign and the Crimea, regarding the lack of intelligence (in the military sense), the personal arrogance of those in command, and the sheer stupidity of not knowing when to quit. Plus, Gen. Terry was a nice man with not nearly the bloody-mindedness of Lord Lucan or Colin Campbell. Plus, face it, Custer was an idiot, so there. In any case, Flashman survives the massacre, as you knew he would, but he does so with the timely assistance of the very last person he could have predicted. And that leads to a rather sad ending.This is, I think, one of the best of the entire series (though I wasn't crazy about _Flash for Freedom!_). But that may just be me. I generally have to take the author's word for what the British Raj was like, but the Old Southwest before the Civil War is a time and a place in which I have taken a very close interest for a number of decades, both academically and personally. I've been to most of the places Flashman visits, I've read every one of the books he cites as sources in his footnotes, and I know a good deal about most of the major historical characters he meets, and I have to say Fraser has done a splendid job of it. He genuinely makes the New Mexico desert, especially, come alive. I agree that it's a beautiful and frightening place, depending on the circumstances. A terrific yarn. But I have to say it's a shame that the author died before he got around to writing of Flashman's adventures on both sides of the American Civil War.
5 Flash Harry follows his usual routine ignoring the call of duty and the course of honor while advancing his own agenda and running into several worthy adversaries (Wild Bill Hickok ( a killing gentleman ), Geronimo, Crazy Horse, Georgie Custer, Kit Carson but repeatedly avoiding his just desserts and surviving (after a fashion)to garner fresh kudos through judicious silence, blustering, frank lies and misdirection, and considerable cowardice.  American history will never be the same.
5 Among fictional cads, few can top George MacDonald Fraser's Harry Flashman.  Originally a villain in a 19th Century book called Tom Brown's Schooldays, Flashman was taken by Fraser and given a life far beyond that modest beginning.  What makes Flashman such an outstanding character is that he is unredeemable:  though he rarely aspires to acts of pure malice, he also never does anything worthwhile unless he can see a profit in it.  He never repents from his minor evils and never really becomes a better person due to his misadventures.That said, the Harry in Flashman and the Redskins is almost a kinder and gentler version of previous incarnations.  At least his general cowardice, greed and racism seem slightly less pronounced in this book (though it's still there).  This book is the longest in the series thus far, but really it is a pair of connected shorter novels.The first part of the book follows right on the heels of Flash for Freedom!, which was a couple books ago (Fraser relates Flashman's tales in a non-chronological order).  It is 1849, and Harry is accidentally an accessory to murder in New Orleans.  Escape involves marrying a wealthy madame who is moving her brothel to California to take advantage of the Gold Rush (the fact that this is bigamy doesn't faze our hero one bit).  From there, he will get entangled with nasty Indian hunters (How bad?  Read Cormac McCarthy's Blood Meridian which features some of the same people and is one of the most relentlessly violent books I've ever read) and later some Apaches, including the future Geronimo.The second half of the book takes place in 1876.  Now wealthy and regarded as a hero, Flashman is coerced by his wife into taking a tour of the United States.  This will get Flashy mixed up with, among others, George Custer.  Since Flashman seems to get in the middle of all sorts of historic battles, you can be sure he'll be at Little Big Horn.  How he gets there involves some of his past sins coming to visit him in an unexpected way.As with the other books in the Flashman series, this is another historical novel with a sense of humor (however dark), something rarely found in that particular genre.  It is also very well-written, offering a cynically alternative take on both historical events and historical figures (besides Geronimo and Custer, this novel also includes Ulysses Grant, Crazy Horse and Wild Bill Hickock among others).  If you're new to this series, this book might not be the best place to start, but for existing fans, this is another fun read.
5 The book brings the times alive.  The height of the action is the Little Big Horn, seen through the terrified but wily eyes of Flashman, MacDonald Fraser's strapping British cavalry officer, who was thoroughly engulfed but yet again survived.  The epilogue is MacDonald Fraser's poignant visit to the scene today, which is all silence and stolen markers.
4 Our intrepid hero, Harry Flashman, is back for volume seven of the Flashman Papers, a narrative of the life and times of one of the most ne'er-do-well wastrels to ever grace the pages of a published autobiography.The first five Flashman novels were presented in chronological order.  This "packet", like its immediate predecessor, acts to fill in a previous "gap" in the Flashman timeline.  From a chronological standpoint, the adventures of this novel immediately follow those contained in Flash For Freedom, wherein we left Flashman in the port of New Orleans awaiting transport to England.  Alas, poor Harry is instead destined for adventures in the American West of 1849-50.  The story then skips over 25 years and picks up again with Flashman attending the wedding of his good friend Philip Sheridan in Chicago.  From there, our friend Flash hooks up with General George Custer for a leisurely ride through the Black Hills of Dakota and into Montana.As in the previous Flashman novels, our Harry is revealed as the premier coward and opportunist of his era; faults which he quite willingly admits and even boasts of.  Much as a prior day Forrest Gump, he has a way of finding himself among the most powerful and famous personages of his era, as he takes part in the great events of the period, in this case meeting a young Geronimo on the Santa Fe Trail, traveling with Kit Carson and riding among the American cavalry at Little Big Horn.Aside from uproarious fun and games, the Flashman series is set against historical events and actually serves as an educational experience. On to volume eight of the Flashman Papers.
5 I have read all the Flashman books and this is an excellent story. If you have read any of the others you will know what to expect and if you have not, this is a good place to start. I would recommend you begin at the beginning simply so you will get all the back story, but that is not necessary.Just pick it up and enjoy it for its simple lighthearted fun. That is something we do not get enough of these days. There is no grand lesson here, although you will learn things you did not know before, but the intent of the book is simply to entertain and you will be entertained.Don't worry if it could have happened or didn't or if the time periods are correct to the year and month. Just enjoy Harry Paget Flashman at his best or would that be worst.
5 I normally don't go for fiction much anymore, but I'll make an exception for this excellent tale.  Flashman is like the Forrest Gump of the plains.  He is kidnapped by or meets the most famous outlaws, soldiers, native americans and politicians of the mid 1800's West, even participates in Custer's massacre.  All carefully footnoted and fitted to the real history itself.  Why this book has not been made into a movie I can't imagine, although Little Big Man seems to have been an attempt at it.  The books that the author references form the better part of my library at the moment, and I still have a number of them left to read.  Fascinating.
2 "Partisans" is one of those disappointing adventure novels that build up a nice head of steam before crashing into a wall.During World War II, a Yugoslavian agent under apparent German command takes a team of compatriots deep into his native country, where Italian, German, and their Cetnik "allies" watch each other as suspiciously as they do their Partisans foes. The agent, Petersen, has a message to deliver, though what that message is and who he has to deliver it to is a mystery.What makes "Partisans" enjoyable is the leisurely way it begins, with much circuitous banter and some dark doings on darkened city streets and aboard an Italian torpedo boat. You know Petersen can't be working for the Nazis, but what about those with him? Who can he trust? Who can we trust? One settles in expecting a variant of the commando tales MacLean famously presented in such books as "The Guns Of Navarone" and "Where Eagles Dare," though laced with a welcome sardonic edge courtesy of Petersen.Agreeing an attempted assassination against them was committed by amateurs, Petersen adds: "But the effect of an amateur bullet can be just as permanent as a professional one."Or take his impression of an Italian officer he meets: "He's reasonable, personable, smiling, open-faced, has a firm handshake and looks you straight in the eye - anyone can tell at once that he's a member of the criminal classes."As the novel goes on, you begin to realize it isn't going anywhere, that the banter is all you will get. The plot advances only because Petersen and his group keep getting captured by various forces who then leave them unharmed, which Petersen explains is part of his mysterious plan. A rotund pal drinks alcohol by the quart, while another keeps a strange, surly silence. A couple of women along for the trip call Petersen a "monster," then break into tears over such things as having to ride a pony over a mountain.More annoyingly, one never is able to work out what Petersen is up to until the end of the novel, at which point he explains it all to you and his comrades in such a roundabout way none of it makes much sense.Maybe he was having a poke at the au currant thrillers of the time. When "Partisans" was published in 1983, MacLean was struggling with a form of novel he helped popularize but which had been picked up by more sophisticated writers like Frederick Forsyth and Ken Follett, who jammed labyrinthine storylines into books twice as large as MacLean's. Of course, MacLean's simpler stories could be quite wonderful, too, but here we are handed a plot so convoluted no one could understand it. Even the flap jacket for the original hardcover describes a story with little resemblance to what's in the book.That's a shame, because "Partisans" has the makings of a good tale, with interesting characters and a charged background of multiple, conflicting loyalties running riot in an exotic locale. MacLean throws a lot of plates in the air, and you wonder how he is going to get them all down. Then he surprises you by letting them crash to the floor.
1 For a novel about a very dirty, ugly conflict in WWII - this book is strangely woven with a humorous thread. It could have been so much more - oh well.  Not recommended. Read Circus or Guns.
2 You wouldn't think an action novel about Yugoslavia's brutal World War II occupation could sound like a drawing room comedy, but that's exactly what this is.Nazis and Italians occupy while the Communist Partisans, the Serb royalist Chetniks and the Croatian fascist Ustashe fight among each other, jockeying for postwar position as they try to wipe each other out. The Allies wonder which resistance horse to back. Everyone's loyalties are uncertain.Despite all this potential for action, three enigmatic Serbs escorting a mysterious crew into Yugoslavia on a nebulous mission do little but talk and talk and talk. They fence around their trust of one another as they make their interminable way into the frozen mountains.The Yugoslavs come off way too tweedy for folks who should be smashing glasses into a fireplace or reciting fatalistic Slav poetry. Maclean pays endless attention to their meals and sleeping arrangements and it's all so civilized. Doesn't he know there's a war on?He tries to build tension over the two ladies' regarding mission chief Peter Petersen as Not A Nice Man, with the readers presumably wondering same. It's all rather ludicrous. Petersen's subtle inferences about the others come off sounding too much like Agatha Christie for a  World War II commando leader.Maclean pays lip service to the war's actual brutality. In his genteel war, people are tied up and gagged. Clever threats break hardened operatives in minutes without torture. Action consists mostly of, uh, fisticuffs, and hardly anyone gets hurt. Would that World War II had actually been like this, but verisimilitude, it ain't.Maclean doesn't plot it badly, ultimately addressing the complexity of this multi-sided war. He doesn't, however, introduce it soon enough, not until the last few chapters and even as it's being resolved. Before that, the book seems like a literary journey to nowhere.
3 The book is written like a second war James Bond. The Yugoslaw names are taken from ex Yugoslav Partisan leaders like Mose Pijade and the story disapoint me the most. But Iam Slovene and I like Partisan fight for freedom and Igave the book three star.
2 While not quite plumbing the depths of the awful 'Goodbye California' or the boring 'Santorini', it's fair to say that 'Partisans' is one of Maclean's weakest books, and yet another example of his late-career decline. Despite returning to WW2, where some of his classic works were set, Maclean just cannot capture the magic this time around. Unlike his taut, fast-paced early thrillers, this a very loose, lightweight book that goes nowhere. It's the sort of book that's instantly forgettable; it's easy enough to read, but leaves no impression whatsoever once you've finished it. Years on, I still vividly remember the heart-pounding climaxes to 'The Satan Bug', or 'Fear Is The Key', or 'Puppet On A Chain'. But almost nothing sticks in my mind from 'Partisans', apart from an interesting torture scene involving a lethal injection, and the fact that everybody changes sides at least twice.All the usual late-career Maclean flaws are here. The impossibly brave and capable hero Peter Petersen, the "heroines" who are actually utterly clueless damsels in distress, the clumsily handled "no-one is really who they seem" plot twists. Despite being set in wartime Yugoslavia, the book is very talky and slow moving, with almost no action at all. In fact, very little of interest happens at all throughout the book, it's mostly the characters trading one-liners and complaining about being left in the dark by Petersen. There's certainly no sense of the bigger picture of the fate of Yugoslavia and the progress of the war itself.'Partisans' is not a "bad" book in the way 'Goodbye California' was, and it's readable enough. But it's nowhere near what Maclean was capable of, and will be a huge disappointment to fans of his early work. Newcomers should stick to his 50's and 60's stuff, and leave this one alone.
4 Alistair MacLean is my favorite novelist.  Yes, I am a Christian, but he surpasses my favorite Christian novelists Frank Peretti and Randy Singer.  I will say Singer has the potential of surpassing MacLean; at present, I've only read one of his.  But for an enjoyable reading that I feel will be of minimal offense to me, nobody can beat MacLean, even with his weaker material.When I read the blurb on the back of this novel, I was very interested; the novel did not resemble that blurb, but seemed more like a run of the mill MacLean novel (particularly one of his later stories).This story is one of those where he introduces you to a group of interesting characters, and then you find out who they really are at the end.  "Where Eagles Dare" and "Breakheart Pass" do an excellent job at this, and even the novel immediately proceeding this one, "River Of Death", does a better job.  The wrap up of this one is disappointing, though I like the closing better than some of MacLean's.This novel is, like many of MacLean's other (and better) novels, is based during World War II.  This one is unique in its focus on Yugoslavia.  I found it interesting that MacLean had written Cold War novels, where Communism is the bad guy, but this one actually looks at Communist Tito as a hero.In reading the reviews of MacLean's "River Of Death", there is a mention of MacLean's battle with alcoholism, which I never knew before.  However, in noticing how some of his protagonists drink a lot without any negative consequences, such as the Professor in this novel, I'm not surprised.If you want to read MacLean at his best, I would recommend "Where Eagles Dare", "The Guns Of Navarone", "Breakheart Pass", and "Circus".  However, if you enjoy MacLean, even in his "frozen dinner" years (which is how Stephen King describes his latter novels in "Danse Macrabe"), then you will enjoy this as well.
4 Alistair Maclean, known most for "Where Eagles Dare" and "The Guns of Navarone," is one of the best writers in the WWII spy thriller genre.  "Partisans" is lesser known but still very good. This book is set in Italy and the former Yugoslavia during WWII  The story will likely be confusing to most people since the history and politics of the former Yugoslavia is unknown to most.  Yugoslavia officially sided with the Axis powers but had a large rebel force known as partisans who fought against the Axis.  There is also the dynamic of the Italian-German alliance which was strained, especially towards the end of the war.  All this background makes for much intrigue and suspense.  This is an entertaining and fast moving novel, if a little confusing.
1 This is the weakest book of his I have read, and that is about thirty MacLean novels.  I understand that he passed away prior to this book being  published and that is was compiled posthumously.  While admittedly not all  of his books are great, I don't feel this is up to snuff with any of the  others.  Don't make this your first MacLean book and unless you feel the  desire to read every one of his books like I choose to, take a pass on it.  I am unwilling to touch any of the Alistair MacNeill books written using  MacLeans notecards because I feel those are apt to be pretty weak too, and  no one ever seems to duplicate the originals.  If you are going to give a  couple of MacLean novels a try, go for &quot;Where Eagles Dare&quot;,  &quot;Puppet on a Chain&quot;, &quot;Bear Island&quot;, &amp; &quot;Ice  Station Zebra&quot;.
4 Major Peter Petersen is sent to deliver a message in Alistair MacLean's PARTISANS, but suspicion is the vital element that insures survival in the deadly game of espionage during any war. The questions is who is being set-up and for what reason, but then who is connect to whom by what ties.MacLean delivers an excellent adventure where Petersen is never sure until the last chapter who he can trust and who has more than life at stake.A good read at any time.Nash Black, author of QUALIFYING LAPS.
3 I wrote in recent reviews of Mankell and Leon mysteries that, after reading Sherlock Holmes and Helen McInnes, I had avoided mysteries altogether for many years, too boring. I had forgotten about Alistair McLean. I did read a few of his stories, and liked them, but I didn't read the famous ones and have forgotten exactly which stories I had liked (it was in the seventies, at latest). "Puppet on a Chain" sounds familiar.I picked up the Norwegian translation ("Partisaner") of "Partisans" cheaply in Trondheim in 1985 because I thought it might be easy, but my vocabulary at that time was inadequate for a novel, so I strained over the first 15 pages and then gave up.  I read the first few pages again last night, and was amazed that I had marked a few sentences: in response to why the Scandinavian name "Petersen" (the name of the hero) is found in Jugoslavia, Petersen responds to the German officer in Rome that that can't be regarded as unusual, that there is, e.g., a village in the Italian Alps where the rest of a Scottish regiment landed in the Middle Ages, and where every second name starts with "Mac". What's funny is that I forgot that I had read this, but in 1/1988, with my then German girlfriend, we visited that village! It's named Gurro, lies in Val Canobino above Cannobio on Lago Maggiorre. They have a Scottish museum, and many of the men have red hair and faces. I didn't ask about surnames, though, although we returned to the village (an extremely stately mountain village half in ruin in 1988) and hiked in the region in 1995. Much more interesting is that this is a region where the old women still wear local costumes and use the kraxe (a wooden back-rack) for transport in daily life. There is only one hotel in the entire valley, which is not a valley at all but is more of a canyon. PS It's not a good translation, I still have trouble with it.
5 typical maclean novel filled with unique characters, detailed plot and surprising twists and turns. deals with the conflict in yugoslavia during world war II. kept waiting to learn if actor sterling hayden (a real life oss agent assigned to operations in this area) would make an appearance. same gripping type of novel in vein of 'the guns of navarone.' you become a participant in the story.
4 MacLean delivers another fun adventure in this 1983 yarn about a World War II espionage mission.  Pete Peterson and his motley crew of maybe-Chetniks maybe-Partisans cross Italy and Yugoslavia to deliver a message and unmask  a double agent.  The characters are MacLean classics:  beautiful patrician  women, evil assassins, stalwart companions, and a glib and brilliant hero.  The plot meanders through the confusion of Yugoslavia's three-way civil war  while under Italian and German occupation.  A fun adventure, a light read,  a real Alistair MacLean classic.
4 This book is all about guessing who the hero is. Is it:Candidate Apro: he's a nice guy and he actually marries the heroinecon: he actually marries the heroine early on, he's dead meat (or a fruit fly, see earlier VH reviews for the life expectancy thereof)Candidate Bpro: he's a nice guy and he rescues the heroine from her villainous cousin when she's youngcon: he marries villainous cousin's sister, he's a politicianCandidate Cpro: he's mysterious and Frenchcon: I got nothingI enjoyed this story quite a bit. All the silk details were a bit much, though not as bad as opals. Don't skim though, there's a surprising occurrence early on that gets brushed off at the time but proves to be the crux of the mystery later. There are strange deaths, strange accidents, and mysterious men. Nicely intriguing!The plot is well woven but meanders a bit too much in the middle, especially with the politics. The story covers a long time period - I think the heroine's child is 11 or so by the end. The heroine is likable and strong. I really disliked the villainous cousin -  what trouble he caused for everyone!I felt sad when A dies, poor guy. I felt bad for B too, I hope he finds love again. The heroine did seem to really love him, and her rejection of him when he's free again seems cold. Of course by then she'd fallen in love with C. C was sexy but had less depth than B in my opinion. Of course he doesn't even show up until what, page 200 or something? Still C investigates and finally solves the mystery. So I guess he earns the heroine.
4 I found this novel to be interesting as it takes the reader into the world of silk making and the dressmaker and her granddaughter Lenore who marries into the prestigious and wealthy family of the Sallonger, who owns the silk. There one will find the secrets of violent and mysterious acts and the shadow that plagues of deceit that touches everyone involved in this world. The drawback of the novel is that there are many repeated paragraphs that tries to make inference to the importance of the scenes, but if you can bypass this little annoyance than you will be caught up into the world of the Silk Vendetta.  augie
4 Lenore lives in &quot;The Silk House&quot; with her grandmother at the top floor.  They aren't servants, but they aren't family.  The owners of the Silk House are silk makers vying against a rival family in France.  Lenore falls in love and marries one of the sons of the house, but he commits suicide right after the marriage.  Or did he?  His brother wants her, too, but she will have none of it.  She opens a dressmaking shop in London, hoping to escape the past, but she soon learns that she can never escape the silk vendetta.This Victoria Holt book isn't as interesting as the others.  There is also a part with a dog dying that bothers me (I am very sensitive in regard to cruelty to animals).  Also, the &quot;bad-guy&quot; is really obvious.  Still, it is a good read and I would recommend it.
5 I love this book. I found this book on a boring summer night when i was 16. I could not put it down. I finished it in less than a week and lost it soon after that. I often thought about buying another copy  but couldnt even remember the title or the author. Im 25 now and just came across it by accident while searching on amazon. So happy. Great read. I highly recommend. Victoria holt is awesome.
5 this was the 9th victoia holt i read and i loved it! It combines romance  and suspence.
5 This is one of Victoria Holt's best. It has a surprise ending, as usual; best of all, it is not full of gruesome images. I am rereading the last half.
5 This one of the most beautifully written stories I have read , I was hooked on this book , really it is amazing. This is the book that started my obession . Lenore is such a beautiful character and Philip is the ideal husband. But it is a tradegy that he dies. It isn't until she unravels his murder, she is  able to settle down.
5 &#8230;by this author, When I finish, I will have read all she published under Victoria Holt. Loved reading her books for 45 years now&#8230;wish there were more.
2 I am an avid Victoria Holt fan, but The Silk Vendetta was not my cup of tea at all. The dialogue was stilted -- there was too much of it -- to much redundancy -- and in many places unbelievable. There was no consistency about who was going to be the hero in this story for so much was going on  and (without giving a spoiler) from the middle to the end Ms Holt took us all over the place. The daughter who started out young and sounded very much like a youngster her age, and that was fine, but when she got older, Ms Holt forgot to make the dialogue and reactions of the daughter grow up with her age. From age 5-6 to age 12 she sounded the same. Once again difficult to believe. There were too many subjects, too many characters who didn't play enough of a part to be a part of the story. The gothic elements of suspense were nothing like Ms Holt's other books. For me a great disappointment.I kept watching and waiting for the ARC but didn't see that transpire either.No, this was not my cup of tea...or if it was, it was lukewarm, at most.
5 The Silk Vendetta is one of Victoria Holt's best books. Mixing intrigue, mystery, romance and suspense, she weaves a compelling tale round the heroine Lenore, who grows up at The Silk House. The background of the silk trade is engrossing, and Lenore's character is compelling as she deals with the two men in her life, Philip - likeable and kindhearted- and Charles, as cruel as he is handsome. But as always with Victoria Holt, all is not as it seems, and Lenore has to go through a succession of adventures before finding true love. If you like your romances sevred up with plenty of adventure, then read this book. If you've read other Victoria Holt books then you'll know what I mean, and if you haven't, you're in for a treat.
4 While the Poirot and Parker Pyne stories are good, the highlights of this collection are a couple of stories that don't fit the mold of the typical murder mystery generally associated with Christie's name:"The Harlequin Tea Set"--I can't say much about the plot without giving away the ending (which has an almost surreal quality to it), but this is a brilliant and beautifully crafted tale with a strong emphasis on visual description and color which both enables (almost forces!) the reader to envision the scene in vivid detail and plays an important role in the story;and"Next to a Dog"--it's obvious from this heartbreaking but ultimately hopeful story of love, loss and redemption that Christie was a pet lover who deeply felt the loss of her own beloved furry friends, and she communicates that exquisitely, as well as (and perhaps better than) any other writer ever has, and though it's a story focused on a dog, it is perhaps her most human story.Worth the price for these two gems alone, but the other stories nicely round out the set with the kind of fun, intriguing mysteries one expects from Christie.
5 The tape played very well and I enjoy audio books when I am busy doing housework.  It makes it less boring.  Agatha Christie is my favorite author.
4 This is a collection of short stories including some featuring Hercule Poirot, a Parker Pyne story and some Mr Satterthwaite and Harley Quinn stories as well as a couple which don't feature any of the author's regular detectives.  I particularly enjoyed the Harley Quinn stories as they always have that extra dimension as well as being mysteries.I particularly enjoyed the last story in the collection `Magnolia Blossom' which caused me to reach for the tissues.  It certainly shows human nature in the worst possible light.  Apart from that one I also enjoyed `The Harlequin Tea Set' and `The Love Detectives'.  This is an interesting collection and could be a good introduction to Agatha Christie's writing for someone who hasn't read anything by her before.
3 This is for competists who have listened to all the other Christie audiobooks and audio plays. You get a Parker Pyne, a couple of Harley Quins, one Poirot, and other assorted non-series stories. Please note that this collection is not read by Hugh(Capt. Hastings) Frazier, like most other collections are. And the actor used is not as good as Frazier, at least to my ear. I came here specifically that my library copy seems to cut out at the end of one story (Next to a Dog). The end of the story is pretty obvious, but I'm quite sure that something is  missing. I'm surprised that no one else has mentioned it.If possible, I would stick to the BBC Audiobook series - they may have these same stories within their collections.
5 Agatha Christie is in my opinion , one of the "GREATEST" mystery writers bar-non. Her tales keep you at the edge and they are especially pleasing with the British readers that narrate the stories. Agatha is the BEST !!! Pat Simmons
2 Buy nearly any of the other Christie audiobooks created within the past few years rather than spend your money on this one.It's not nice to be harsh, but I nearly couldn't finish listening to this set, because so few of the stories were compelling enough to even take my mind off the traffic during my commute. Although I like nearly all of Christie's novels, this collection of short stories seems to indicate that Christie really didn't understand short story-writing, or was churning out stories without much heart for it or perhaps much good editing-- at least at the time.At the end of each story, I sat there feeling cheated--as if the ending had been rushed to fit into a set number of pages. It's more like reading one of those 2-Minute Mysteries than the bit of nice, warm, chewy Agatha Christie brownie of a mystery I was hoping for.Christie normally excells at creating delightful (either good or bad) characters, whose quirks and social interactions we anticipate and enjoy. Her normally keen sense of social wit is rather lackluster here. These short stories suffer greatly from her inability or lack of time to develop the characters and the social setting within so few pages.Also, there probably is a following for this character, but I find Harley Quinn stories simply silly, and will never read them again. In a short story format there is simply no scope for a novelist, who isn't trained to have the discipline, to get us to suspend disbelief at the ooh-aah supernatural Mr. Quinn. I enjoy a good fantasy or what have you, but these stories simply fail to build into anything and seem terribly impressed with themselves.If you'd like to explore Christie's little known "non-star" characters to try something of hers you haven't read, I enjoyed Ordeal by Innocence and Elephants Can Remember (which features "Ms. Oliver", who represents Christie herself).
1 The wisdom offered to politicians and sociologists, and to us all, in this long-winded account of colonization is stultifyingly flat and commonplace. Every subject in this book is dealt with much more entertainingly and better written in a myriad of other books, including sci-fi.Maybe it is our recently painfully increased acquaintance with Arab culture that makes this aspect of Red Mars so contrite and simplistic in retrospect, but all the other themes are also over-explored in a dull and patronizing fashion that cannot appeal to but the hardiest of Mars lovers. For all its many characters, described in the blurb as 'varied and engaging' there is but one type of human in the whole book, a sort of idealized American character taken from its own history, combined with socialist, communist, anarchist stereotypes with have nothing in common at all with real people.Finally, the science in the book (it is science fiction after all) is often wrong, basic, badly described and boring. There is nothing to this aspect that has even remotely anything to do with actual colonization technologies. At best, it is unimaginative and dull.The book is a political soap opera of the most basic kind, in the bad disguise of a hard-core SF book.
4 I came to this book after years of putting it off.  I was torn between reviews saying it's an essential classic of science fiction and reviews saying it's a dry over-technical treatise.Well now I have read it and I can say that it is both of those things, and more.  The book is split up into sections told from the perspective of different characters, charting the first 40 years or so of Mars' colonisation.  I was surprised at the variety between sections.  Some are tightly focused on the psychology of the colonists - on particularly engrossing section is from the perspective of someone who is barely holding onto sanity.  Other sections, however, are a bit heavy on technical descriptions of construction or Martian geography.  Political philosophy also gets woven through the chapters, but unfortunately much of it is 'told' to the reader through unrealistically long speeches.  The characters who chose to actually live their radical philosophy ... spend most of the book in hiding.I found the more human / psychological aspects of the book to be fascinating.  The technical and philosophical part of the book were indeed pretty dry, but easy to skim through if you get bored.But don't let that put you off: this book really is a classic of science fiction, and well worth the effort.  It's probably a good thing that I waited until I was a bit older to read this - I probably wouldn't have had the patience in my teens or uni years.  But I'm so glad that I finally picked it up, and I've just started to read the sequel.
2 Excellent books inspire readers to write excellent reviews.  Red Mars however is so tedious that even writing a review about what is wrong with it feels a lot worse than Monday shaving.Where to start?From the huge portion of the book, around 10 to 15% of it, which reads like a tractor operation manual?From the obnoxious and unpleasant characters, with nothing to like about almost all of them?From the magic elixir of youth discovered conveniently by a handful of Martian scientists?From the overall feeling, that colonizing Mars is something like a weekend trip to the beach?I could go on for ages, but it is pointless and I already feel the chore of writing this review heavy on me. If this is the best way Mars is colonized in literature, I would be glad never to leave the Earth - Luna system and read again and again the Heinleinian colonization with the Moon Is a Harsh Mistress.Still 2 stars for a two-page debate about the preservation of Mars, where the writer rises to a level well above his potential.
4 Red Mars is like nothing I have read.  It's a story of the first hundred people to colonize Mars.  The plot is a bit predictable, but interesting nonetheless, and a sort of mystery develops early on in the book.  Set in a world described in excruciating detail, I was awed by how scientifically accurate this book was, making it very believable. I'm normally not a fan of political struggles, but Kim Stanley Robinson has made the political struggles of the Red Planet worth reading about, and very intriguing. I would not call this a traditional sf work.  This is beyond FICTION....it could easily be our future; a some-day history book.
5 This book is incredible, something any science fiction fan should read. I actually choose this to read for a book report. I chose it because it looked like something I may enjoy reading, or at least be able to do for school.  I did not expect the level of joy I had reading this book. I will be doing my report, and then buying the next two in the series.
5 'Red Mars' is one of the best science fiction books I have ever read.As you probably guessed by the cover and name, this book is about a group of astronauts and scientists who colonize mars. Kim Stanley Robinson talks about the selection process of the astronauts, he delves into the hardware that took these astronauts to Mars. He talks about nearly every aspect of life on mars (from the physiological and sociological ramifications, to political and physical problems that could arise in such as situation). Robinson not only makes it all plausible, he does it in a way that the story is not just facts and statistics: this is a story of love, politics, engineering, religion, and psychology.Many here have said that this book isn't for people on the conservative right; I disagree. BOTH liberals and conservatives could learn a thing or two from this book. I have read The Communist Manifesto, the constitution, many libertarian works....and 'Red Mars' was THE first book I've read that really challenged my political beliefs. Since reading this series I have thought things over more carefully. I am more understanding of nature (and human nature). I am more open minded towards politics.If you are even remotely interested in this book I implore you to get it. You won't be disappointed.
1 I'll make this as short as possible...........like I wish the book would have been.  This read was easily twice as long as it needed to be.  I got halfway through, and quit.  It was so boring.  I wanted, (as always), a good story, not a tedious dialog that goes on and on about every little detail involved in colonizing a planet.  I can't believe this author is receiving accolades for this work.  He can, in no way, be compared to any of the greats in the sci-fi field.
1 I guess that this book was not for me. I download books if they seem interesting and get good reviews.  Well at least it was free because I thought it was incredibly boring.  Hopefully future readers will enjoy it more.
5 A must-read if you're a sci-fi fan. Ranks right up there with Heinlein and Clarke. Robinson's level of detail and the research he must have done are incredible.
5 Undoubtedly one of Kim Stanley Robinson's best works, Red Mars is a masterpiece in every respect. Sweeping changes are occurring on Mars throughout the story, but underneath it all, Robinson is careful not to lose sight of the human condition.One thing that Robinson does so well in his novels is to tell gripping, fully-realized character-based stories. Though many of his works fail to climax in a tense, page-turning fashion, readers still find themselves flipping page after page, and falling deeper and deeper into the characters.Red Mars uses these characters in excellent fashion, as we get into the minds of Maya Toitovna, and John Boone, the first man on Mars. We also see the seedier lives, in the personas of Frank Chalmers and even a bit of Ann Clayborne, Mars' first Red. All of these characters have interesting, intriguing stories that live through their personalities. Kim Stanley Robinson fleshes out the characters so well in fact, it's hard to believe they're not real people. Red Mars feels like more of an historical recounting than a tale about the future colonization of Mars.So the question is, would I recommend this book? Not to just anyone. Robinson is one of those authors the reader has to appreciate. If not a dedicated bibliophile, the reader may not enjoy Robinson's work, as often, they are not terribly exciting books, but rather, intricate studies of the human mind and spirit, and about our connection to the world we live in. They're nearly philosophical in context, and a thoughtful reader will find themselves reexamining their views and opinions about a great many things when reading Robinson's work. It makes for great reading, but not average excitement.So if you enjoy a fantastic book, and like to be challenged into thinking new thoughts, and most especially, have never read Red Mars you must do so immediately.
5 Kim Stanly Robinson is an intellectual.  I have a substantial vocabulary but never the less I need to resort to a dictionary from time to time.  Red Mars was written in the 1990s but as the Rover photos demonstrate, Robinson had real foresight.
2 This entire trilogy suffers from the same issue. The subject of terraforming Mars and the political issues surrounding that effort is interesting; the characters, however, are uninteresting and often unlikeable. It feels like they are just vehicles for the scientific and political commentary, but as compelling as that commentary might be, it's hard to read because I simply don't care about the characters delivering it.
5 and I mean it. It is the second time I read the book since it was released it. The first time I couldn't turn it down, so gripping it was, but then I did miss a lot. This time I used time, and really, it was worthwhile. I think that whoever like good science fiction and have some concern for life and what sustain it, should read it. I am waiting to read the second book, as I remember I liked even more, but I don't remember why. It will be fun to find out.
3 The characters are developed well; their motivations well developed as the plot unfolds. The proposed colonization and terraforming technology are quite plausible.However, I advise Robinson to read (or reread) the Horatio Hornblower novels. For much of this book, I felt trapped in various characters' internal dialog and sorely tempted to skip paragraphs, and, indeed, whole pages.Alas, I felt much the same about 2312.
5 In light of the recent elections, I thought I'd write a review of Red Mars.  Great science fiction not only offers insights into future technologies (and KSR does this very well), but it also offers insights into the human condition and our future possibilities as a species.  The Mars series by Kim Stanley Robinson not only was a fabulous introduction to learning more about Mars in general (a planet I knew little about aside from Ray Bradbury-type speculative fiction), but it also gave me a clearer understanding of the present-day political/economic forces shaping the global economy and a vision of a utopian future in which mankind shapes its destiny not on the basis of weath and multi-national corporations, but in creating a society which truly values its members.  Red Mars, and the other books in the series, challenge our notions about the &quot;way things are&quot; and what could be in the future.  It also gives one insight into the controlling factor in the last election....I doubt there is any American who read this series who would not see parallels between the multinationals wrestling for control of the vast resources of Mars and American politics, which increasingly are dominated by wealthy special interests.  I will always be grateful to KSR for helping me visualize our future in a different manner.
3 Red Mars does have a plot - several actually - but the action meanders along in an almost dreamlike way.  Robinson spends pages getting his characters from point a to point b with little forward movement of any storyline.On the other hand, there is a major gap of years in the book's plot, and Robinson conveniently invents a reason for his suddenly much older characters to continue being vital.  Granted, such inventions are de rigeur in Sci-Fi.Nevertheless, the book is well-researched and well-written, making it a pleasure to read, even if I'm reading about driving through a canyon for the hundredth time.
4 The Mars trilogy by Kim Stanley Robinson is without a doubt a must for anyone who loves to read or write about this planet. Certainly it is a huge work from many points of view.This first book focuses on the first colonization of the planet imagined in the very near future in respect of our present, while the book was written back in 1993. Then it continues in a time span of several decades describing the beginning of a terraforming project.On the one hand we see the usual optimism of this kind of science fiction to imagine an event of titanic proportions in a relatively short time, which will certainly be denied by the facts. Beyond that, you can hardly call this book a novel. Sure, there are characters and their stories, linked with each other, but from a narrative point of view it seems more like a series of episodes, shown from different points of views, giving us a choral narration, in which there isn't a true protagonist if not Mars itself.The individual stories, however, appear to be just an excuse for the author's attempt to immerse himself in other fields, mostly scientific ones, although he often tends to lead to sociology, politics, and even psychology. The result is a book that tends to look more like a speculative treaty than a true novel. The characters suffer about that, thus ending up in the margins. Most of them are not making much to be loved. I admit that I had trouble to get fond to them. The only one I really liked is Frank, maybe because I have found him the most human one, with his virtues and especially with his flaws. Too bad he was then hit by the karma of some too politically correct American stories, according to which, if you do something reprehensible, and at the end you have to pay somehow.The book is still for the most part interesting, especially if you're looking for an in-depth pseudoscientific study. At the base of speculation there is a very accurate science, the result of considerable research. Perhaps the worst problem of this book is to have wanted to exceed in this sense, focusing too much on technical aspects at the expense of fiction.In some parts I got bored and I skipped many pages. I do not regret it. At one point, in the part of the expedition narrated by the psychologist, the author leaves for a tangent with a very boring and unnecessary psychological disquisition. When the scope was more purely scientific, I read it with interest.One thing that jars is the desire to be obsessively accurate from a scientific perspective and then expand without limits into the speculative part, arriving in my opinion to exceed.The finale ends in catastrophism, an argument that I cannot generally stand, not only in the narrative, leaving you with a bad taste in the mouth, because the mood of the story starts with an optimistic base to arrive in a crescendo of drama to an excessive epilogue.Having to give an overall opinion, it is undoubtedly a remarkable book, but not an easy read, due to its complexity and length. Certainly, however, it leaves you with something.Rita Carla Francesca Monticelli, author ofRed Desert - Point of No Return
2 This is a fun book, and the Martian landscape and culture really strike  the reader.  I must say I enjoyed the beginning more than the end --  certainly it moved faster.  The characters are interesting and not at all  stereotypical, and the plot is well constructed and compelling.That  said, the science in the book is awful -- hence the 2-star rating.  An SF  novel can't be a quality novel if the science isn't up to the fiction.  I  am not talking about the space travel or terraforming aspects.  I'm talking  about the economics.  It irks me when 'science fiction' has rigorously good  science in the physical sense, but terrible social science.  Would we  endorse well-written science fiction novels which assert that the sun  revolves around the earth?  Of course not.  Then why should we endorse a  novel which claims that 'half the world is starving, and always will' -- a  completely false claim, given the available evidence?  Of course one might  reply that it was not 'the novel' which made such a claim, but instead one  of the characters -- yet it's clear what the reader is intended to think  (hint: when wondering what the author thinks, see which character always  gets the last word).Mr. Robinson plainly knows very little about  population or natural resource economics, but this does not stop his  characters from expounding at length upon the alleged deficiencies of  conventional economic theories.  To be sure, this is not an uncommon malady  -- that is, people 'criticizing' economic theory when the 'critiques' they  have dreamed up were anticipated and answered by economists 100 years ago  -- but that makes it no less irritating.I will probably read Green Mars  nonetheless.  There's one born every minute...
5 This is a spectacular book...humans settle mars, among them are revolutionaries, visionaries, scientists, plain old capitalists...and as resources run out on earth, the transnationals are doing everything they can to get minerals, governments are doing everything the can to siphon their excess population. And the face of mars is utterly transformed. Raising fascinating questions about technology, the environment, the meaning of space exploration for this world, and the politics of settling another...it really is spectacular.
1 I will admit, I usually would not write a review for a book if I do not finish it, however my feelings for this book are exactly why I never finished it.I first bought the book around three or four years ago and tried to read it then. I got about halfway through before it became too boring. More recently, I tried reading it again from the beginning and got less than halfway through.The main problem with Red Mars is that the author finds it necessary to put in an excruciatingly large amount of detail in everything. From describing procedures the astronauts use to descriptions of the Martian environment. A certain amount of detail is nice and helps create a vivid image, but I am not an astronaut-in-training so all the excessive technical detail should have been avoided.In my own opinion, pretty much every character in the book is annoying. I found some of them rather flat. They seem intent on talking politics (read: the author's political beliefs) or getting themselves into love triangles and wondering what went wrong. This does not help when the story shifts from one character to another when it is hard to like any of them.The book teeters on the edge of complete implausibility. I can believe the technology used to get the First Hundred to Mars, but the fun ends there. First, we are led to believe that space agencies would be so mind-blowingly incompetent as to send a bunch of under-qualified astronauts on a long-term mission to Mars. Later in the book (and I do not think I am spoiling much here), the colonists come up with a plan to use a bunch of wind-powered heaters to increase the overall temperature of Mars. Nonsense.I had hoped to read the entire trilogy as an epic story about colonizing and terraforming Mars. Instead I never made it more than halfway through the first book. If you want some real science fiction, go read some Clarke. This book did nothing for me.
1 This was the first and last Robinson book I read. Too many geographical details- the characters were unsympathetic and the story line lacked creativity. I guess I should have read one of the other colored Mars first. However, I thank Robinson from sparing me from the desire to read any more of them- my time on Earth is limited. If I were you, your time on Mars should be limited, too. This was also the last science fiction genre that I read- it made me realize that it's not for me, and for that, I also thank the author.
4 This book strikes me as very fact centered and very realistic creation.  The description of the panorama is very breathtaking.  In spite of all this, there were some inaccuracies that I observed in the facts and  sometimes he forgets that people had to wear their pressure suits (not too  many times though).  But well, I will pass that.  What had not been  developed much, until the very end almost where it became better was the  individual characters.  They certainly lack some human characters and thus  they seem distant and hard to identify with.  The historical, political  aspects were very good, almost as good as the scientific facts.  The  characters, the human touch of this needs to be worked better to get 5  stars.
3 Let me start by saying that I respect Mr. Robinson for tackling the huge task of describing the colonization of Mars in such exquisite detail, and from so many different angles. We haven't discussed the book in my reading group yet, but I think that the book raises a lot of good points for discussion (i.e. &quot;would we have done X this way? Would there be alternatives?&quot;).My biggest complaint with the book was his rambling ad infinitum about the Martian land features. I honestly believe that the book could have been 150 pages shorter, and equally enjoyable to me if he'd have left out most of this. In fact, it appeared to me that characters made often seemingly pointless treks around Mars just so the author would have a reason to describe each area. I think I may have been so put off simply because I have absolutely no interest in geology, but the other people in my reading group felt pretty much the same way. This was my only real complaint with the book, but it was such a complaint that I docked it two stars.Overall, I'm pretty sure I wouldn't have given the book a Nebula award, but barring the complaint above, I found it to be very thought provoking, and I look forward to discussing it with my reading group. However, I did not like the book well enough to read Green or Blue.
2 Well, my entire class was assigned to read this book, and I wouldn't say we hated it... but it was pretty bad. It was essentially a soap opera on Mars. Ronbinson worded it well, but it just didn't have enough content to be enjoyable... to us, anyway. I would suggest reading it if you are older than a junior in high school...
4 Red Mars is a very detailed, sprawling look at realistic Mars colonization. I did not find it to be a quick read. There were areas of this novel that really picked up the pace, while other areas dragged some due to the expert detail. Although it's uneven, it's still a fine book and recommended. In the end, the big story is Tolkien-esque, but with a SF skin.Still, reading this today, I didn't feel that this came out in 1993. Robinson has quite the talent for creating a realistic future.
5 Kim Stanley Robinson's epic Mars Trilogy chronicles humanity's colonisation of Mars, beginning in the early 21st Century and extending over a period of some two centuries. The first book, which covers a period of some forty years, sees the initial settling of Mars by the First Hundred, the welcome arrival of additional waves of colonists intent on scientific research and then the more challenging problems of the arrival of hundreds of thousands of economic migrants, refugees and outcasts on a world that is not ready for them, and the resulting tensions between the newcomers and old-timers, and between the authorities on Mars and Earth.The success of the trilogy as a whole is debatable, but this first volume, at least, is a masterpiece. Robinson's story rotates through a number of POV characters amongst the initial settlers, the First Hundred, and it rapidly becomes clear that most of them are somewhat unreliable narrators. Maya's complaints in her own POV of her 'important problems' being ignored by the base psychiatrist are given another perspective in her friend Nadia's POV, which reveals Maya is more interested in a trivial love triangle between herself and two Americans rather than in the colonisation of Mars, whilst the psychiatrist Michel's POV reveals that he is giving Maya colossal amounts of time and attention (to the detriment of his own mental health) which is unappreciated. Character is thus built up in layers, from both internal viewpoints and external sources, making these central characters very well-realised (although characters outside the central coterie can be a little on the thin side).However, it is Mars itself which is the central figure of the book. Robinson brings a dead planet to vivid life, emphasising the differences in terrain and character between the frozen northern polar icecap and the water-cut channels in the depths of the Valles Marineris, with the massive mountains of Tharsis towering high into the atmosphere and colonists eagerly staking claims to future beachfront properties in Hellas, the lowest point on Mars and the first place to see the benefits of terraforming. The ideas of Mars as it is now as a pristine, beautiful but harsh landscape and the habitable world it could be are sharply contrasted, and the rights and wrongs of terraforming form a core argument of the novel. I get the impression that Robinson sides with the view that the planet should be left untouched, but he is realistic enough to know this will not happen if Mars can be settled and exploited. Mars in this work becomes a success of SF worldbuilding to compete with Helliconia and Arrakis, losing only a few points for actually existing.On the downside, Robinson hits a few bad notes. Some of these are unavoidable consequences of the book being nearly twenty years old. Even in 1992 the notion that the Chinese would not play a major role in the financing and undertaking of a Mars colonisation mission only forty years hence was somewhat fanciful, but today it is almost unthinkable. More notably, the global recession has made the possibility of a manned mission to Mars, let alone a full-scale colonisation effort, by the 2020s somewhat dubious. Of course, these are issues Robinson could not hope to predict in the early 1990s.Other problems are more notable. Robinson goes to some lengths to make the pro-terraforming and anti-terraforming sides of the debate both understandable and intelligent, but his political sympathies are much more one-sided. The pro-Martian independence brigade have charismatic leaders and a grass-roots movement of plucky, honest-men-against-the-machine supporters to their name, whilst the pro-Earth-control movement is led by a fundamentalist conservative Christian and resorts to weapons and mass-slaughter extremely easily. Robinson, to his credit, recognises this problem in later books and tries to repair the damage somewhat (Phyllis, presented extremely negatively in Red Mars, is shown in a more sympathetic light in later volumes), but there remains a feeling of political bias in this first volume. In addition, it sometimes feels that Robinson really wants the reader to know about the years of research he put into the book, with tangents and divergences which make the book feel like half a novel and half a factual science volume on how the possible colonisation of Mars might happen. For those fascinated by the real-life plans to terraform Mars (like me) this isn't an issue, but for some it may be. It is also, by far, the biggest problem the sequels face.Nevertheless, the sheer, massive scope and complexity of Red Mars makes up for this. There is an overwhelming feeling running through this novel unlike almost any other hard SF novel ever published, that this might actually happen. Maybe not as soon as 2027, maybe not with such a determined push towards colonisation and terraforming right from the off, but one day, barring the collapse of our civilisation, we will go to Mars, and many of the challenges and problems faced by the First Hundred in this book are issues that will need to be overcome to make that possibility a reality.Plus, and this cannot be undervalued, the dry and more sedentary tone of the earlier parts of the book are made up for by the final 100 pages or so, which contains one sequence which ranks amongst the most memorable and stunning moments of SF imagery achieved in the history of the genre to date. Robinson may have the image of being a bit of a laidback Californian optimist, but he sets to blowing stuff up at the end of the book with a relish that makes even Greg Bear look unambitious.Red Mars (****) is an awe-inspiring feat of SF worldbuilding and a vital novel on the colonisation of our neighbouring world, let down by a few moments of naivete and simplistic straw-manning of political points of view not to Robinson's liking. Overcoming this, the central characters are fascinating, the sheer scope of the book is stunning and the climatic revolution sequence is dramatic and spectacular.
4 Finally got around to reading. Great novel. Can't wait to read the rest of the series. Yes it is detailed but worth it. Read it on Kindle for all the the definitions.
5 I am now on my third or fourth reading of Red Mars.  It is enjoyable on so many levels, I'm afraid it takes that many readings to pick them all up.  First of all, it is a story of an alien world--standard fare for science  fiction readers.  The research and extrapolation KSR put into his work  boggles the mind.  You really feel you've &quot;seen&quot; the Martian  North Pole, Noctis Labyrinthus, or Olympus Mons.Next, Robinson creates a  story of terraforming--the potential methods, motives, and pitfalls.  It is  easy to see this story becoming a potential blueprint for the next  century's explorers.Into this milieu, Robinson creates some terrific  characters--John Boone, Frank Chalmers, Maya Toitovna, Nadia Cherneshevsky,  and the rest--all of them described in a third-person-limited voice that  gives the reader excellent insight into these people and how they perceive  and are perceived by others.And lastly, there is a political story.  KSR's characters split into two camps.  There is the &quot;Red Mars&quot;  group, which seeks to keep Mars in its natural state, with human beings  living in domed habitats and leaving the surface &quot;as is.&quot;  Appropriately enough, this movement is led by a geologist, Ann Clayborne.  The &quot;Green Mars&quot; group, centered around the biologist Hiroko Ai,  believes in terraforming and bringing life to Mars, but life that does not  rely on heavy industry.  These seem like two reasonable oppositions, and it  takes a careful reading to realize KSR has fooled you.  There is no  &quot;conservative&quot; voice in this tale, save Phyllis Boyle, whom KSR  portrays (through the eyes of his characters) as alternately stupid, evil,  craven, or relentlessly, shamelessly greedy.  He also sneers at her  Christianity, which he sees as part of her stupidity or incorrect world  view.  In any case, given the rapacious greed and industrial evil of the  &quot;conservative&quot; Earth, the reader is left to choose between one  form of matriarchal environmentalism or the other.  It is his view, and I  just disagree with it.  That said, the political interaction between Earth  and Mars is believeable as KSR describes it.Anyone interested in reading  science fiction must read this book.  It is too good not to read and enjoy.
4 I have just read the first two books of this trilogy. Magnificent and tiring, the books have great vision, but Robinson's reach sometimes exceeds his grasp. The Mars series is a brilliant imagining of a future world that manages to weave future science with contemporary problems in an interesting, ever thought provoking fashion. This compelling world is just about enough to offset Robinson's problems with dialogue, characters, pacing, and description. Despite the hamhandedness in all of the aforementioned, the world is vivid enough and the personalities compelling enough--at least the original, fully fleshed out ones, not their often hastily introduced replacements--that you'll likely be enraptured for quite a while. And while Green Mars sometimes put the sag into saga, there's not a doubt that I will slog through the last book.
3 Overall, this book is a fairly interesting look at what it might be like if humans colonized Mars, complete with political squabbles and human failings. The best aspect of Robinson's book is the incredible amount of realism he has introduced.  It is as if he was actually part of the expedition working as the historian and personal chronicler.  Some of the seemingly real events he describes include the multi-year sandstorms, technology use to increase atmospheric temperature and bio-domes. On the downside, the pacing is a bit slow at points and the descriptions of some of the land forms and climate gets tiresome for someone who does not get extremely excited by such details.
2 Like many other reviewers, I think this could have been an excellent novel, if only the editor had done a better job.  Excess verbiage needs trimming, and gaps need filling.  As it stands, the book gets bogged down too much and too often.Entire parts could be distilled down to a chapter.  "Homesick", in particular, reads like the author forgot he was writing a novel, and was just delivering his pet theories on psychology.  "Falling Into History" consists largely of a planet-wide tour by John Boone, most of which seems to serve no other purpose than to illustrate that Mars is a planet, and planets are big.  Yah, I knew that.  "Guns Under The Table" could have been a lot shorter, given that it ends up being that none of the details had any bearing on the plot, the story, or the history.Descriptions of the magnificent desolation of the martian surface were really moving at the beginning.  Unfortunately, the author apparently thinks the reader has a short attention span, for he can't go two pages without reiterating this, at times word for word.  It gets to the point where one can recognize these from their lead-in and know to skip a paragraph.  Or three.I found many of the characters shallow and one-dimensional, "caricatures, not people", as another reviewer put it.  This was disappointing, as a few seemed to have some depth.  Boone charisma's really came through (once the author finished shipping him all over the planet for no real purpose).  I could really sympathize with Nadia at times (when the author wasn't hammering us with her tendency to engineer everything).  But too many of could be summed in a few words and then omitted from the prose.  "I don't care what happens to these people."Another irritation is that after slogging through all 572 pages, the "end" is very unfulfilling.  In truth, the book doesn't end -- it just stops.  I realize that "real life" often lacks neat endings, but this is fiction, and even history books manage to draw lines between events.All in all, if I knew it was going to be like this, I wouldn't have bothered.
2 The only reason that I did not enjoy this long read was: it's focus on the hardcore Sci-Fi reader. I'm not saying it's a bad book, just not for me. The author crams so much geology,theology, psychiatry,topography and much more in the book that it all becomes overwhelming.  He seems to remind us throughout the entire read(which I couldn't wait to end)about the same terrain over and over, the color of the sky and the types of volcanoes,mountains,craters,cracks and more craters with the same explanation. To hardcore for me. A true fan of any book about the colonization of Mars, you will love it. I couldn't wait to leave the planet.For better books based on Mars, I would suggest Robert Heinlein's "Red Planet"(see my review) or Ray Bradbury's "The Martian Chronicles".
5 An outstanding novel.  One hundred people are selected to go and establish a colony on Mars, and it looks at the physical, intellectual and psychological testing that is undergone to get into that group.The main part of the book though is the travel and establishment of a base on Mars, and the relationships and conflicts that develop, particularly among the leaders of the group.Research discovers a longevity treatment, and this has serious side effects on an Earth in crisis.  Political factions develop on Mars on the best way to develop or not develop the planet, and whether to take any crap from the growing influence of Earth corporate power.
5 The three books in Kim Stanley Robinson's &quot;Mars Trilogy&quot; are my absolute all-time-favorites. He is truly gifted at writing about advanced science and technology and equally adept at creating &quot;real&quot; characters, because he understands psychology. This is a rare talent: to be scientifically knowledgable and a master at creating believable characters. The books are part action, part scientific explanation (like Michael Crichton of Jurassic Park fame), and part character development.In &quot;Red Mars&quot; (the first in the series) Robinson paints a totally believable picture of what our future might be like as we get ready to explore and colonize Mars. Mega-corporations, earthly power struggles, and the selection process for determining who might get to be the first to go to Mars, are all very possible and Robinson crafts a story around these topics with ease.In the second book, &quot;Green Mars,&quot; Robinson portrays the struggle to get vegetation growing and to create a breathable atmosphere. He also describes more political struggles between those on Earth and those on Mars. This was probably my favorite of the three, but mainly because I am more interested in the science that would be needed in this phase of colonization.In the third book, &quot;Blue Mars,&quot; the planet become more Earth-like. The atmosphere is more developed, water travel becomes possible, and more. (I don't want to give it all away!)The books can be kind of scholarly at times, but I was so impressed with these books that I gave them to my teenage brother. He was so impressed with them, that he gave them to one of his very best pals. And we all had a blast discussing them together. If there is a teenage male in your life -- or if you love sci-fi and have always wondered what it might be like to go to Mars -- then this trilogy is definitely for you. Very highly recommended!
4 Robinson has a very specific style with these books, Red, Green and Blue Mars. I think Red is the best of the series, but all of them have their strengths.What I liked most is that it was fairly like life. Yeah, I know most people seem to want escapist junk, but this is SF in the tradition of Heinlein's and Asimov's earlier work - though with a unique style. He pays attention to real science and doesn't postulate something outrageous that isn't ever going to happen. He makes very real characters, and takes you skipping across the years.Maybe, like Clarke, this is something that authors can do as they get older and have more perspective.My comments are mostly with two things, one of which wasn't known when Robinson wrote Red Mars. The first is when he constantly talks about the fines, micron sized particles that get into everything and on everything.The problem with fines like that is that they have a well documented respiratory effect. They cause diseases like "black lung" and "silicovolcanoconiosis" or "tin miner's disease" or "asbestosis". So this is an inconsistency in the story, because fines that small get into the alveoli, get attacked by white blood cells, kill the white blood cells and the result is scarring and death. Based on the descriptions in the Red Mars book, the fines would have killed everyone within 10 years or so.The second problem is one Robinson didn't know about, that is still uncertain. Chromium has been detected on Mars' surface in surprising quantities. So it's part of the dust. The problem with that is that if, as is quite likely, much of it is in the hexavalent form of Chromium, it will cause tumors in mammals very rapidly. Since the Mars settlers are described as living in a virtual bath of fines, they would probably get large amounts of hexavalent chromium into their water, absorb it through their mouth and saliva swallowing and things like that. The average time for them to develop tumors would be around 4 years, for many within 1 year. (This is the stuff that the movie "Erin Brokavich" was based on.)So those details kept bothering me. Until a water cycle gets going to wash the fines out, settle them into soil and dissolve the chromium so it can react, I don't think the story as it is told could possibly happen. The settlers would have to live hermetically sealed, or much better so. Maybe genetically engineered people could handle it.
5 Stan Robinson does an outstanding job of tackling one of the most talked about and inspirational next steps in the human spaceflight program. About the only thing missing is Burt Rutan and his SpaceShipOne.Character development is realistic and very detailed. You feel yourself living the lives of these characters as they embark on an amazing journey that provides discoveries not just about Mars, but about humankind itself.The technical aspects of the book are second to none. In this respect the Mars Trilogy would stand up to the most serious critics. It could be future history itself - it's that good.It is an outstanding book (and Trilogy) and comes with the highest recommendation.
5 Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars trilogy, of which &quot;Red Mars&quot; is the first, is classic epic science fiction writing that is compelling and quite plausible.  Don't expect to get through it quickly, as the whole series  consists of nearly 2000 pages.  Those who like their SF writing fast and  action packed should look elsewhere.  Robinson's writing is literally  bursting with ideas and his descriptions of the political developments  among Martian colonists who as time goes by have less and less in commom  with the Earth the left behind rings absolutely true.  Warning, read  &quot;Red Mars&quot; only if you intend to complete the series for you'll  find yourself unable to avoid it.
1 The reviewers are right--the amazon.com reviewers, that is.  After reading Gearald Jonas's praise for this book in the NY Times Book Review, I expected great things.  This writer has ZERO narrative skills.  Save your money.  Terrible book!
4 Very good could not stop once I started.  Looking forward to the next book in the series.  Many topics rolled into good story
2 What if Mars were colonized by Ralph Nader's campaign managers? Answering that uncompelling question is Kim Stanley Robinson, in a bid for left-wing bragging rights among his neighbors in infamous Davis, California, his cultural template for a utopian Mars society. The novel's only character development and dialogue involves a dozen or so main characters agonizing and bickering over hair-splitting differences in Green Party dogma. There's no dimension of the characters, of any personal motivation or romantic involvement, that doesn't serve as an addendum to ad nauseum political ramblings. Everyone bands together though to fight the real adversaries: the bloated Earthbound corporations, depicted as a caricature of pure evil in their insatiable quest to consume human dignity and the natural environment, and bent on extending their insidious reach to corrupt the unsullied red planet. A ham-fisted socio-economic polemic dressed up as a novel, which unfortunately doesn't work well as either: the repetitious, clich&eacute;d social critique is about at the intellectual level of a college freshman trying to show off to his parents on his first visit back home for Thanksgiving.Which is unfortunate, because interspersed among the leaden characters and left-wing rhetoric is also a fascinating, thoroughly researched look at the colonization and terraforming of Mars, in the finest tradition of "hard sci-fi." From landing, through base-building, prospecting, resource collection, exploration, etc., we are treated to an insider's peak at just how the first permanent crew on Mars would probably settle in and prepare the way for others to follow. Anyone interested in the science and engineering aspects of settling another planet will be spellbound by these passages.Even here, though, after borrowing extensively from what must have been an exhaustive review of the technical literature, the author egregiously leaves only the skimpiest possible reference to the actual developers of these speculative technologies for settling and terraforming. A page of notes listing references, or at least giving credit for specific bright ideas to their particular originators, would have been more fair. I've had to try to trace down individual references since reading the book to link the hastily mentioned names in the scant reference listing with their particular ideas and papers. This may not affect your ability to enjoy the book, but then again, I found it disappointing.Meanwhile, about halfway through the novel, the first ship of settlers are no longer alone on Mars as hordes of new ships start showing up, at which point the only interesting material from the novel gets phased out in favor of more and more squawking about the same issues. (and more, and more... a decent editor would have insisted he trim half the bulk away, it still would have been more than enough to cover the same material.) Anything incidental, like how or why all these people are leaving Earth for Mars in the first place, is ignored. Although characters start getting killed off at a respectable pace, they remain content to spend all their time debating the fine points of surrendering private ownership of property to the collective community, prohibiting profit-motivated economic activity, and whatever else you're likely to overhear at any Davis-area Starbucks. If you think you'd find this an unacceptable substitute to realistic characters with compelling dialogue and an intriguing plot, maybe we can petition Robinson's editor to pass his stack of references to Orson Scott Card for the next sequel.
2 Kim Stanley Robinson has done his homework. He knows all about atompsheric partial pressures and soil ecology. He knows how to convey information via the written word competently. He knows not the first thing about people or fiction writing, though, and that's unfortunate. The Mars &quot;trilogy&quot; is a single boring, shapeless mass of words. The characters are laughably two-dimensional symbols, avatars for ideas or concepts -- they're not people. If they were, you wouldn't want to know them.And they talk. They talk and talk and talk. They argue and argue. They talk about terraforming, they talk about politics, they talk about each other, in an endless cycle of debates, meetings, conventions, committees, assemblies, conclaves and arguments. Robinson has invented a kind of Model UN, he has worked to draw charts of manufactured political factions boring each other to death in interminable meetings. It is not interesting. It was not worthwhile to expend this effort towards such a boring end.What is most depressing is not the boring storyline, the endless loops of the same argument, the stupid and contemptible behaviour of many of the characters, but Robinson's contempt for the English language. English, to him, is just a tool; a means of expressing information. If he could write fiction in equations he would. He ends sentences with &quot;etc., etc.&quot; and tells us about his characters' lavatorial habits. He shows not a shred of joy, of affinity for his medium. There is no structure; &quot;Red Mars&quot;, &quot;Green Mars&quot; and &quot;Blue Mars&quot; are all the same book. That this deathless, humorless prose is used to trace out a saga of such incomprehensible tedium is unforgiveable. Only the bland competence of the whole endeavor rescues it from complete failure; and even then Robinson has missed things: the SI unit of pressure is the Pascal, not the Bar, and that Kelvins don't come in degrees.
4 An immense novel, dense with both science fiction and humanity. This is the story of future Mars.I am especially fond of the range of narrative that Robinson entertains. He shifts easily and smoothly from the most intimate moments of an individual experience (inner turmoil, heartache, despair) to incredibly vast timeframes and overarching themes (the evolution of cultural pockets, physical global changes, political shifts across two planets).  It is commendable that these themes and the central characters remain distinguishable across such a vast scale of time and place.That said, I did find myself glossing over some of the more elaborate details of the engineering efforts and ecological speculation (ahem, hello, Sax) but I found it very powerful and intriguing when it was comprehendible. I blame my own lack of  familiarity with the subjects for not being more clearly understood - but even when lost in the details I was still able to grasp the intentions - so kudos again to Robinson for his written skill.The story begins simply enough. One hundred prized scientists are selected to be the first colonists on Mars. They arrive with pure intentions to study the planet and determine its viability as a resource for the overpopulated and under-resourced Earth.Foreshadowing the unavoidable - the 100 scientists break into distinctly divided factions even before reaching the Martian surface. In time these individuals and groups become voices of greater conflict - acting as overt leaders or inadvertent representatives for the two entangled planets and their varied populations."Reds" demand environmental protection of Mars in its found-state to allow for geological study, the search for Martian life, so on. Meanwhile capitalistic ventures and terraforming efforts proceed regardless of unified decisions. Inevitable conflicts arise as the needs and desires of the majority overrule the opinion of the few.Moment by moment the climate shifts - power, politics, culture, and the fate of Mars.I'll leave the plot summary at that. One final note only to mention that this is one part of a trilogy but  you can walk away at the end of Red Mars fully satiated. Or you can jump into Green Mars and continue the story. Your choice.
4 In honor of the Mars Rover Landing I decided to read this book.  I think seeing the rover pictures really helped me understand the landscapes and visualize the descriptions from the author.In one word this book was "Epic".  Long, complex and full of details.  The first part of the book captured my attention. I loved hearing about the colonization of Mars and the first 100.  I got a bit lost in the middle of the book when it focused on political intrigue and the varying options of how Mars should be settled and what the future should look like.  It lost the wonder of the first section.  However, the conclusion was fantastic.  The planet wide war was fascinating and the final conclusion kept me on the edge of my seat.  I want to see the ice dome of the hidden colony.
3 Three years ago or so, I purchased Red Mars. This week I finally finished forcing my way through Blue Mars, the last in the trilogy.The value of this trilogy is the comprehensive presentation of the social and technological dimensions of terraforming Mars over the course of about 200 years.If you are at all interested in Mars, you have to read these books, but if, like me, you find them to be slowgoing at times, somewhat agonizingly trite at others, and you would rather just absorb the terraforming ideas, I highly recommend that you skim skim skim. I wouldn't usually recommend this approach to a book, as you need to give the author every chance.There *are* some wonderfully created moments in characterization, but mostly the characters are formulaic and play off against each other mathematically. One is a meddling experimenter, another worships unadulterated rock and opposes any terraforming, another seeks to build a religion around Mars, another is charismatic, secular, not too bright, and a born leader, etc.But the terraforming ideas are usually very detailed and presented in a convincing manner embedded in a believable future history. Well worth the effort.
2 Red Mars started off just dandy, with a variety of characters (a bit too one-dimensional, but hey) struggling with how to best colonize Mars.  No one was a 'good' guy or a 'bad' guy - just good hard sci-fi mixed with honest ideological differences.Halfway through the book, however, it all changed.  All of a sudden, Trans-national corporations are launching nukes, after buying out the United Nations.  Christian fundamentalists try to dominate the colonies.  A few hundred scientists on Mars discover wildly optimistic technologies, while the billions of people on Earth decend into chaos, primarily because of those darn evil trans-nationals.What started out as a balanced and interesting book jumped clear off the left end.  I'll only read the sequels because I want to read all the Hugo and Nebula award winners - not because I have any hope for the rest of the series.
3 A lot of description but not much action. Whenever something big and interesting happens it is described in a paragraph or alluded to. Detailed descriptions of the surrounding, thoughts and reflections on events are dragged on over pages. If you like fast paced sci fi' skip this one.
4 This is the ultimate hard-science fiction novel, surpassing even its Golden Age models.  No aliens, no paranormal, no tricks to get around the speed of light, no cheap fight scenes.  Robinson takes an idea -- colonizing Mars -- and examines it from every possible angle: geology, technology, politics, economics, religion, you name it.  He also examines it from multiple human points of view by having each "chapter" (some of them novella-size) dominated by a different character: a Machiavelian schemer (Chalmers), an egotistical politican (Maya), a hard-headed engineer (Nadia), an adventurous explorer (Boone), etc.Of course all this takes up a lot of space, and that obviously puts off some readers.  It's a matter of taste.My main beef is the treatment of the two "religion" characters Phyllis Boyle and Hiroko Ai.  Boyle seems to be a dumping ground for whatever Robinson dislikes most at the moment: first she's ecumenical, then she's a fundamentalist, then she's a hypocrite.  In the space-elevator planning meeting Boone complains that "she was acting as if she was in church", whatever that means. Fanatical?  Entranced?  Hypocritical?  Bored? People do a lot of things in church. Robinson needs to make his point of view clearer in places like this, instead of assuming that the readers share all his opinions.Meanwhile we're supposed to take Hiroko seriously as the founder of a new religion, but to me it sounds like so much hocus pocus.  Using Latin and Greek doesn't make one profound: "Viriditas" just means "Greenness" and "Areophany" means "Revelation of Mars"; so what?Likewise the distribution of moral responsibility.  The metanationals (and, of course, Boyle) get blamed for dumping too many immigrants on Mars, yet the inventors of the longevity treatment, which ALSO creates overpopulation on Mars, don't get blamed at all.  Why?  I don't know; ask Robinson.  But there's enough fascinating material in the book to compensate for this.
3 This novel deserves the praises it gets simply for its scope and ultra-realistic future world on Mars. The author really ponders the political implications of settling Mars from long-standing ethnic and religous conflicts to ecological and enviornmental activism. The technical aspects of the story make it downright feasible to go to Mars right now.  And you'll be swept by the scale and number of characters...but there are a few problems.As a fan of what I call, socialogical sci-fi (Card, Heinlein, Dick), Robinson really shines in that catagory.  But the science got a little tedious for me.  Also the relationships between characters was a little Cinemax-like, but the different perspectives throughout the story helped balance it out.  As for it being long-winded, I found that this is a good book to put down at the end of one section, then pick it up later.  This way, the story didn't get too monotonous and I would find myself asking what the characters were going to do next.  Takes some time but this is a novel that deserves its acclaim.
3 Robinson's vivid imagery of the cold inhospitable Martian landscape presents a delightful picture of our neighboring planet for us to enjoy. She skillfully uses scientific terminology correctly without being obtrusive at a level on par with Asimov, a rare find among science fiction. However, after a hundred pages of barren landscapes, deep canyons and socially dysfunctional scientists the book wearies and left me wanting adventure and character development.  A disappointing read.
4 Red Mars was an interesting book.  My feelings about the book were like a roller coaster; at first, I really liked it, then it started to drag a bit... then it was exciting, then slow, then finishing on a high note.This is, in large part, not an action-packed book.  It's more about the colonization of Mars and how, in the future, the infrastructure and politics of it all might be.The story centers around the first 100 that travel to Mars.  You'll be reading about their long journey towards Mars for the first good portion of the book... then the early colonization period up until when more and more immigrants begin to live on Mars.  Then: the revolution hits.Specifically talking about the Kindle version, it seemed like the transition to digital text was a rushed one.  I found numerous grammar mistakes and even a misspelling or two.Will I be reading the next two books in this saga?  I'm not so sure. At some points during the book, I was definitely thinking, "Yep, picking up Green Mars as soon as I'm done."  Others, I was thinking, "I don't think I'll be reading Green and Blue Mars.."This all being said, all in all Red Mars was enjoyable.  The characters are memorable and Robinson really does go into great detail into the landscape of Mars.  While there are some spots that seem to lull, Red Mars is a fantastic read.
4 Robinson imbues the tradition of humanist, people-centered science fiction with new realism and life in this three-volume Mars trilogy. A true modern Renaissance man, the author combines sophisticated ideas about political science, economics, culture, religion, and technology with lush, fluid prose and believable, fascinatingly flawed characters. The work is epic, weighty, and emotionally affecting - not a light read, but often one that is very difficult to put down. Though the setting is Martian, the issues involved are strongly Terran, and highly relevant to life in the twenty-first century.Despite all this high praise, however, I personally found the first half of _Red Mars_ difficult to get through. This first volume introduces a large cast of characters and focuses heavily on speculative technology and the landscape of the virgin planet Mars. Though the exploration of potential developments in technology is well-grounded in current research and science, as a reader whose interest lay more with the characters and the culture I felt that the pace dragged during Nadia's (a concrete-minded engineer) first long chapter. Having finally slogged through it, however, I found myself unexpectedly swept away by the great variety of voices with which Robinson gives his narrative life. In fact, the diversity of these voices may be the novels' greatest strength - each character has his or her own vocabulary and metaphorical paradigm with which they approach the world. Not only does this device emphasize Robinson's themes of the nature of memory and the subjectivity of human experience, but almost any type of reader will find a character or two that they especially like, even if they fail to identify with others.These books are sophisticated, well-written, and realistic, and have the potential to enthrall any thoughtful reader, not just the loyal science-fiction crowd. Though I consider _Green Mars_ the best and most focused volume of the series, _Red Mars_ is a powerful read and may well have special appeal for those with a love of the concrete.
4 Red Mars, at its very core, is not for the weak minded.  Each book is a huge undertaking, fraught with slowly-paced character development, minutely detailed landscapes that read like geological poetry, and political discussions and long-winded speeches that would make any man reconsider his abstinence from drink.I've read the book two times.  The first time I think I was a bit too young to follow exactly what was going on.  The second time I was able to appreciate the science much more.Red Mars is a dark book.  In it you will find a murder that haunts the whole trilogy.  There is jealousy, greed, backstabbing, and friendships gained and lost. Kim Stanley Robinson throws his characters into a variety of situations that are both unpleasant (exploding tents that shelter cities resulting in massive decompression) and awe-inspiring.  One of my favorite little moments is when everyone has gathered on Olympus to witness the first attempt at thickening the atmosphere.  The whole description of the meteor exploding takes up less than two pages.  But I'll never forget the last sentence. (See page 377 of paperback.)Robinson writes with a dry pen, which fits the arid atmospheres of the red planet.  It's a style that takes some getting used to, especially since this was my first book of his.Why read Red Mars?  Besides having attained a somewhat cult-status among space aficionados, Red Mars is the story of what could very well happen in the not-too-far future.  100 people are sent to Mars.  Earth almost disowns them, then struggles to re-control them.  And by the time you reach the third book, Blue Mars, what people are alive turn around and help Earth which has its own rather intriguing problems.While I would consider the trilogy an epic, the first book isn't as intimate as Green Mars.  There seems to be a distance to the characters, perhaps overshadowed by all the political thought-processes regarding terraforming an entire planet.
5 Kim Stanley Robinson's RED MARS rightly deserved the 1993 Nebula Award and its place among the classics of science fiction. A epic tale covering over three decades of Mankind's first years on Mars, this book is truly awe-inspiring.Robinson's prose is clear and flowing. He writes very much the way a storyteller should. His characters are haunting, and their dysfunctions go to show that although humanity can move beyond Earth, it cannot move beyond itself.In any large group of people, there will be at least a few unusual types. Characters like Hiroko, the religious innovator, Arkady, the leftist revolutionary, and Ann Clayborne, the ecological conservative, all represent realistic viewpoints that will confront each other when Mars is colonized. Critiques of the book from reviewers below about the book's focus on &quot;leftism&quot; miss the point; humanity is always made up of dissenting viewpoints. And in this case, the trying conditions on Mars and the lack of resources make socialism and communism worth examining, even though they cannot have worked on Earth.But Mars really is the main character of this book, even if it plays its role quietly. Robinson's description of the Red Planet is so precise and well done that one can perfectly visualize each scene's environs. That Robinson was able to capture Mars so well in this book is especially stunning because it predates the 1996 Sojourner mission, which is where much of the newer surface data comes from. Robinson obviously had to painstaking research the earlier missions, and the latest findings only prove the conclusions he beautifully portrays.Meticulous science, passionate characters, and an sweepingly epic tale that moves the reader across time. RED MARS is one of my favourite novels' Its wonderful sequels, GREEN MARS and BLUE MARS, also deserve a look.
4 The Earth has been fully mapped.  No matter, for Kim Stanley Robinson has invented a new universe... a universe for daydreamers and adventurers alike, a civilization of words born on that crimson neighbor floating in the night sky.  Robinson may one day be known as the father of "integrated-humanity" fiction... he is at least at the vanguard of twenty-first century science fiction.Red Mars begins on colonized Mars in the middle of the twenty-first century.  Under the pressurized tent city of Nicosia, Frank Chalmers, one of the original mission leads, sits in a state of stressful anticipation.  He is planning something diabolical... to him, it's only politics.  A festival of migrated humanity swirls about him... Arabs, Swiss, Americans, Russians, united in celebration.  Then, as minutes pass, the crowd starts to quiet... news spreads.  Fear and dread pass from person to person like a virus, and everyone scrambles.  In the next several panic-filled moments, we are introduced to the primary leaders of this new Martian civilization... one of whom now lies dead.We now step back to an earlier date, December 2026, during the voyage from Earth to Mars.  Maya Toitovna, official leader of the Russian contingent, is one of the one hundred men and women, primarily Russian and American scientists, who have embarked on this 300-day journey to the barren red world.  As Mars draws closer, preparations are made, assignments handed out, and the political discussions ensue.  Some will land on Phobos, one of two natural Martian satellites, others will begin construction of the first town.  The lines of power are being drawn.  But for now, everyone is excited about the endeavor in front of them... a new world, so much potential, the beginning of history... and so much to build!  Ideals conflict, but there's enough planet and enough adventure for everyone.We learn much about Maya, too.  A fierce temper to match her fierce beauty... a woman who could "impale you with a look", a woman not afraid to "let the knives show" when she thought a discussion was becoming irrational.  She is a definite leader, and she contributes to every aspect of the endeavor.  But she is anxious.  She lays her sexual fingerprint on both American mission commanders, John Boone and Frank Chalmers... sometimes one of them occupies her moods.  She is in control of everything, everything except her psychology.  The confinement and the personality conflicts push against her.  Demons are forming in the shadows of dreams.Robinson not only introduces us to Maya, John, Frank, and five or six other near-primary characters, he places their challenge in our mind, blending science, politics, and psychology with the extant cultures onboard.  His vision is readily digestible, and we are hooked.  The ship lands on Mars, and we turn to page 92.Nadia Cherneshevsky has plans for this red world.  So she gets to work. "Very quickly, she became the colony's chief troubleshooter, the universal solvent as John had called her."  As well as the colony's primary architect.  She loves this enterprise more than any she's ever experienced... she works by herself and with others.  "There was something so fluid about tired muscles at the end of a day's construction work."  Her reputation grows as her ability shines.  "Mutual professional respect, a great maker of friendships.  And so nice to talk about nothing but business."  Nadia lives through the arms of her machines, fueled by the world that will be.  "A compulsion, a life with a goal, how could you tell the difference?"  We are actually present as the first city evolves, fostered by this engineering Mother Ares.  And we are still only 1/3 through this story!Red Mars is divided into 8 parts, each lived through a different primary character.  We vicariously experience the colonization and expansion of Mars through Frank, Maya, Nadia, and mission commander John Boone, as well as Michel Duval, the psychiatrist and one member who didn't request this post, and Ann Clayborne, an irascible scientist who turns red-environmentalist.  This forms within the reader an intense intimacy and understanding of each person's psychological makeup.  When we discover the character of the pioneer killed in Part 1, we comprehend the profound loss to the group entire.But Red Mars isn't tragedy... it's sheer reality.  Robinson writes the best "science science-fiction" of any major author out there.  Arthur C. Clarke himself wrote of Red Mars: "A staggering book... the best novel on the colonization of Mars that has ever been written...  It should be required reading for the colonists of the next century."  Robinson's scientific research is impeccable, as is his awesome understanding of world cultures.  The reader becomes a citizen of the world by first becoming a citizen of Mars.The men and women of Red Mars overcome much in this volume: the planet's forces, internal factions, the politics of city-building and immigration from Earth; and the joy is in the details.  "It was a world of acts, and words had no more influence on acts than the sound of a waterfall has on the flow of the stream."  This book spans decades of acts and actions, individual and collective.  By the end of the book, Mars has undergone large-scale terraformation, introduction of biological agents, and mass emigration from Earth.  The planet's potential has been noticed and exploited (in both positive and negative manner) by religious groups, transnational corporations, and Earth nation-states.  The undercurrent of revolution is strong in this still colonial wilderness, and threatens to explode at any moment.  (The subconscious parallels made to America in this book are utterly fascinating.)This is challenging fiction, written by the man who would probably be elected mission commander if the shuttle left for the red planet tomorrow.  Robinson has so much to teach, and his work spans humanity like few authors before him, fully integrating technology, friendship, war, politics, government, sexuality, medicine, terraforming, psychology, environment, and science.  This book would be a wise choice for a college humanities curriculum.
5 Hands down the best, most-believable science fiction book I've read. The author undertook a project of grandiose scope, and executed it beautifully. Throughout the book, he displayed detailed knowledge of Mars and managed to be pretty solid on all the sciences, as far as I could gauge. This is nothing short of an exploration in fiction of human colonization of Mars: What would it mean to be human on a different planet and what kind of society would develop there?The book features a cast of many, but is primarily focused on the first hundred colonists. Honestly, I found very few of them to be realistic characters. There was something about their descriptions and actions that rang hollow to me, yet I was still emotionally affected by what happened to them. In terms of pacing, there are long periods of negotiation, separation, ruminations on the human condition, and description of Mars landscape. There are also periods of drama and high excitement, with events occurring globally in a matter of days.This is not a perfect book by any means. But it is an exciting book, and so believable that in the many reading breaks I took, I found myself thinking the colonization of Mars was a reality and had already happened.
2 Am a big SiFi fan. I just couldn't get into this one. The pacing is slow and uneven. The beginning is confusing and I couldn't get beyond it.
3 This book is obviously the first of a series, and if it is read as such, with the intent of reading the rest, it is worth the effort.  The science aspect of the science fiction was fascinating to me, but as mentioned by  some previous reviewers, the plot moved along slowly, and there were too  many characters I didn't care about.  It was worth the effort to get to  Green Mars, however, so I'll recommend it for that purpose.
2 I am a die-hard science fiction fan and this trilogy is what I usually like -- plausible science, fully developed characters. However, the pace is not just slow, it barely moves at all, and the plot gets lost along the way. This is the third time I have tried to read it, and I still couldn't finish -- too boring. There are long, long monologs on the science, and tensions in relationships that keep you hoping for some fireworks that in many cases never materialize.These are the most boring personalities that I have seen in fiction in a long time. The story never really engages you. Spend your time reading something else.
5 Not lord of the rings good or 1st time you read Foundation good but very very good. Lots of detail in the science background to convince
4 A dense, slow moving plot about the initial human colonization of the planet Mars. This book is precise, highly detailed, plausible and exciting for the possibilities it seems to bring to reality. A lot of well-sketched characters are to be found here, and everything about this novel is rich in detail. This is the first volume in a trilogy and I suspect it is destined to be a classic in its genre.
3 Kim Stanley Robinson sure likes to show off.  He goes on and on and on about the finer points of geology or physics or the wording of the Antarctic treaty.  Good for him.  It doesn't make for easy reading and is not necessary for the plot.  I was constantly frustrated by how he would name drop concepts like 'IGY' (International Geophysical Year) as if he is *so* clever.  Big deal.I think he must have studied undergrad geology as he loves to show off about that, but he sure has some strange concepts on drilling (they 'cap' a well by blowing it up...?  Hmm).I also thought it ludicrous that they get all the way to Mars and then go 'now what are we going to do?'.  No prior decision to terraform or not, not even any plans as to who does what when they get there (as evidenced by the squabble amongst the colonists when deciding who would go prospecting and who would stay behind).  As if.  Oh yeah, and they got hold of all this dynamite just so they can fill Phobos (or was it Deimos) full of it in case the baddies take it over.  Oh, and only two people knew about it.I really tried to like this book, but I was constantly irritated by how clever Kim wanted to look.  Probably wouldn't be such a bad story otherwise.
1 When I read a book, there should be characters that I can relate to and care about.  The immaturity of the characters gave the book an 8th grade/soap-opera feel.  There should be a plot that excites.  Not with this book.  It started out good with a murder and landing but it quickly descended into scientific minutae.  I'm not that interested in Mars dust or lunar cycles.  I gave up and didn't finish this book.
5 The red planet comes to life in this brilliantly conceived and stunninglyexecuted novel from Kim Stanley Robinson.  The story opens with a brutalmurder that takes place amidst the buzz of the annual festival.  From there,we go on an extended flashback that describes how the original 100 settlers(a sampling of the world's brightest, if not necessarily most stable minds)first colonized Mars.  Summarizing their training, we get to know many ofthe personalities intimately on the long voyage out, and as the initialsettlement is established.  Like Faulkner, Robinson changes the point ofview with each section to give a variety of viewpoints on what was done andwhy, allowing the reader to decide who is right and who is wrong.  Returningto the present, we see the fruits of their labors: several domed cities,thousands of residents, a working space elevator (based on the Arthur C.Clarke design), and a radical genetic treatment that will vastly alter whatit means to be human.  But there are dangers present as well, and theresulting catastrophe makes for an unforgettable climax to a masterfullytold story.There's a lot to love about this book: the painstakingly detaileddescriptions of the Martian landscape, the attendant environmental concerns,the even more pressing psychosocial problems, the mysteries of the stowawayand the lost colony and the assassination all work together to form a Marsthat is more alive than any other.  The powerful personalities at play inthis story, and their failure to come to terms with the greater issues atstake, set this book apart from everything else in the field.  A simplyoverwhelming experience that doesn't let up through 500 pages; this reviewerread it in less than a week, it was so gripping.  Some day, man may reallytry to conquer the planets, but for today, Red Mars is the next best thingto being there.
5 Robinson's Mars series is one of those rare SF novels (and yes, despite being 3 books long, it forms a single novel) that breaks the bounds of the genre and can hold its own in the general arena. In other words, one does not have to be a science-fiction fan to enjoy it. It explores the human condition and the universe as well, and the relationship of the two, through the eyes of some of the most beautifully developed characters to be found in all of literature. It is both cosmic and very, very human in its scope.While I greatly enjoy SF, Robinson sets the bar higher for a genre that is often too comfortable in its niche. He looks at where we are going, and points to a bright future--one that is possible to achieve if we have the heart to try.
3 What can I say; you get what you pay for.  Free edition that allowed me to kill some time while waiting or relaxing.
3 Robinson's "Red Mars" follows the stories of 100 men and women as they train for, travel to, and inhabit Mars. Each chapter in the novel is told from the distinct point of view of one of several major characters.  Oddly, Robinson's technique fails to reveal anything really interesting about any of these people.  When American space hero, John Boone, is murdered in the first chapter, I expected to eventually find out why.  Is that alot to hope for?  Other events ensue, Mars changes, more major characters die... to me, at least, these characters never seemed all that alive in the first place...While "Red Mars" is certainly vast in scope and largely interesting from a scientific standpoint, the overall story suffers from underdeveloped characters, an overemphasis on Martian landscape, and no cohesive plot.  And maybe that's Robinson's plan - the major character in the novel is Mars itself, not the folks who live there...
3 A very good technical book on the colonisation of Mars. However the author, though very good at telling the tale lacks something. The characters are interesting but there is nothing compleling about them. The  best characters have serious problems regarding their longevity! Though  seriously flawed on the 'ripping yarn' front, a book that must be read by  anyone interested in the story of man and Mars.
5 I now have a new obsession - reading the complete Mars trilogy.  His story is REAL.  I find myself dreaming about scenarios he has created in my mind's eye.
4 Kim Stanley Robinson does a masterful job of realizing a diverse array of characters, not the least of which is the planet itself. I found Ann and Frank exasperating, John and Nadia at times exhilirating and something of a disappointment, Sax and Hiroko equally inscrutable, and Maya making me wish someone would just slap her. I am astonished that anyone can keep track of so many personnae and keep their voices distinct.Equally, I am astonished by Robinson's command of geology, meteorology, thermodynamics, and even economics. The details read well and ring true. For years, I wondered why no one had covered this sort of project in detail: terraformation, colonization, expansion. Most writers seem satisfied to take these things as read. Robinson shows what a great literary work a little delving (okay, a whole lot of delving) can produce.On the down side, the details occasionally get in his way. In particular, I found three details more than a little discomfiting.First, in the personna of Michel, Robinson outlines his personal psychometry of personalities. In doing so, he provides both an oversimplification of human character and an unwelcome glimpse at Robinson's methodology for building characters. Like sausage-making and legislation, perhaps this process would have been better left unexamined.Second, I think the abundance of water in the substrate of Robinson's Mars is more than a tad optimistic. I realize that having to bring in water ice from the asteroid belt and Saturn's rings would have slowed the development quite a bit, but considering what a wealth of story Robinson typically finds in the details, I think this obstacle would have made for even more excellent writing opportunities.Third, in a move that appears nothing more than a technique to allow character continuity, Robinson introduces the deus ex machina of a revolutionary new genetic longevity treatment. With no foreshadowing or side-plot leading to it, the main characters suddenly have a chance to live for a thousand years. My, how convenient. This device left he second guessing the author's motives through the rest of the series. I love the books, but I don't think this was a necessary addition. As the principal plotline of this first book readily demonstrates, key characters can die without compromising the story.
5 One of the best!  The author is clearly a sophisticated and created person with a great grasp of the science that space exploration requires.  I learned from every page of this book. The characters are full and vibrant, eventually becoming part of your family also. I enjoyed this book.
5 As the cover blurb on the 1993 edition, by Arthur C. Clarke, has it: "It should be required reading for the colonists of the next century." Well here we are in that century and polls show and pols say there's not enough interest in going to Mars to bother.The novel is still worth the trip. It's light on the tech and sci and heavy on the human relationships among the First Hundred colonists of Americans and Russians. Their one-way vehicle to Mars in 2026 (still time for that) was nicely practical: a cluster of rotating toruses made of interconnected fuel tanks from shuttle stacks taken into orbit (rather than discarded over the ocean) by both the American shuttle (retiring next year) and the old Soviet one (which only flew a few times).So that's impossible, but the story still makes day-to-day life on Mars imaginable. It makes me want to put on my "walker" and helmet and go for a lope in the low g, guided by a personal AI on my wrist, even if the Internet is still confined to pre-Web bulletin boards. When Robinson does describe the tech he does it well. A favorite is the building and use of a space elevator between Pavonis Mons and a captured asteroid. Thirty-story elevator cars make the journey up and down in five days. Once out of the Mars gravity well, it's much simpler (and cheaper) to board a rocket for earth, or arrive on one and take an elevator down to the planet.All in all, a believable and, at times, fun read. No wonder it still sells well.
3 I like reading the sci-fi of it, but the personal dramas don't have much traction. Ultimately, the main problem is why would we do this? No matter how horrible the earth becomes it will always be superior to Mars. It just makes no sense to colonize a totally dead planet. If we had such technology, I suppose we would be better off colonizing our deserts.
3 This book is based on an excellent idea that is mostly followed through on. However, it's difficult to like any of the characters. Their mental stability, social standings and interactions and sex lives are studied tediously over and over. Without some of the nonsense this could have been a thoroughly enjoyable book of half the length and I would not have had to skip pages and pages to finish it. By the way - the skipping of long detailed explanations of individual views of the society did not cause a rift in the story.
3 The first 200 pages swept me away: How the first 100 get to Mars and the beginning of their new life.  Later on it's all about politics, terraforming and endless, repetitive description of Mars geography.  Some  of the ideas (eg Space Elevator) are cool, some out of place (long livety  drugs).  I won't be reading GREEN MARS after this!
3 The central character of this book is Mars. Humans come into the picture the more they interact with Mars but a lot of the book is descriptions of Martian traits: the atmosphere, the rocks, geography etc. As one can imagine not much happens. The action takes time to build up. Gradually this book opens up into a plot line taken up in the superior Green Mars. Mars and it's alien untouched nature is a counterpoint to mankind's messing about. The point of view taken by Robinson of a planet wide perspective is ambitious but he contains it within his writing, though there is alot of this and as I've said it can be tedious. Still he's factual, genuinely interested in his subject, scientific and plausible. Oddly there is a visionary streak in the book, with some of the developments the author  foresees for mankind's future but I'll let each reader be the judge of this reality. All in all a reasonably good read with a slow overlong easily read opening section (about half the boo! k). Did he have a trilogy in mind when writing ? I'd be interested to know the truth of this. Good reading !
2 "The Great Escarpment was strange country, cut by north-south canyon systems, marred by old craters, overrun by lava flows, broken into hummocks and karsts and mesas and ridges; and all of them on a steep slope, so that on top of any rock or prominence one could see far down to the north" (408).The above quote is to give you a real taste of Red Mars. A very large percentage of the novel is devoted to landscape descriptions like this, or the science background to the geological/terraforming events. Perhaps you're looking into Red Mars for the same reason I chose to give it a read--it won some prestigious awards. Having just finished the book, I can say that it won those awards on the strength of the large amounts of research that obviously went into its creation.While I applaud those efforts as well, it is also possible that you're like me in that you're seeking a good story with an exciting plot and well-drawn, sympathetic characters. In those respects, Red Mars is quite a disappointment. The characters are fairly flat and, save for the ones that die, they essentially are the same from beginning to end. Further, none are particularly endearing; by the end, I did not care much what happened to them, or who succeeded, or who failed. The plot begins promisingly enough, but once past the first couple hundred pages it begins to meander off, neither building tension nor resolving anything.Part of the problems lie in the fact that the author wants his story to be "epic." Thus, he tells the story over several decades. The problem with this approach is that it distances us from the characters and the plot. There is no sense of immediacy. Also, it underlines the unchanging nature of the characters--surely someone could develop a new insight over thirty years? Further, the pacing is horrendous, punctuated as it is by all of the landscape details as noted above. The truth is that Mars does not have a particularly interesting landscape, being mostly rock and sand. The author tries his darndest to make it interesting, describing it at length, and he occasionally succeeds, but it just becomes frustrating after about page 300. As a parting slap, he makes the last 40 pages or so just about nothing *but* landscape description... sort of a final exam, I suppose. It is alienating and loses whatever interest the events in the story generate.Lastly to discuss is the philosophy of the piece. I got the impression, throughout, that the author is presenting two extreme sides of an issue (terraforming)--radical environmentalism (Ann) and radical, "meddling" science/humanism (Sax)--and saying that there must be some sort of compromise we can manage. The only real villain is capitalism (Phyllis/transnational corporations); otherwise, the author wants to be the voice of moderation. Sadly, the author displays very little real sympathy for any of the viewpoints presented and no understanding for those who would genuinely disagree with what he believes to be moderation (a strange form of socialism). His arguments will only seem right to you if you agree with him beforehand. The tone of the writing is clinical. Its prognosis for humanity, bleak.In all, I'm certain this book has an audience. After all, it has several glowing reviews here and did win those awards for some good reason, no doubt. It represents a mountain of research and, I am sure, painstaking work. Perhaps you are a part of its audience. I am not. The things I look for in a novel include exciting plots, engaging pacing and well-drawn, sympathetic characters who grow and change over the course of the story. This novel fails in those respects. There are two sequels but my journey ends here.
1 Clearly I was unhappy with this book since I'm only giving it 1 star, so let me start with the one thing good I can say about this.  The author does very good prose and character development.  The problem with this book is essentially one of focus.  For example, the first remotely exciting thing to happen is an assassination.  However, rather than actually writing about the assassination one chapter ends with "John Doe" giving a rousing political speech and the next chapter begins with "In the two weeks since "John Doe's" assassination . . .  Similarly at one point a war breaks out but the actual war is barely written about- instead we are told of the exploits of someone running around fixing what she can while the war takes place elsewhere.This book begins with the first 100 permanent Mars settlers on a ship on their way to Mars about 30 years in the future- which is why it is science fiction.  However, we are then told in excruciating detail about the political debates between crew and how junior high dating practices are common place on board.  I toughed it out through this whole book in the hope it would get better but it didn't and it commits one of the major sins of the genre:  Rather then setting out to write a good book the author sets out to write a trilogy and so this book ends a cliff hanger- although cliff hanger is relative term.  This book avoids anything resembling action or intrigue so here "cliff hanger" means just when I could believe the story was getting to an interesting part it ends.So, in short, this book avoids action, intrigue and adventure in favor of fictional politics, including legal debates.  (If you want to learn more about the legal status of antartica and the author thinks it will relate to Mars then you should read this book.)  I wish I would have been warned away so I wouldn't have wasted my time.  As it is I certainly will not be reading the next two books in this series.
5 If Leo Tolstoy was alive and writing science fiction, this is the kind of book he would write. More than just an adventure in space, this novel presents complex, imperfect characters wrestling with questions of  philosphy, politics, morality and conflicting personal ambitions against  the backdrop of setteling a new world. The scope of the story, the level of  detail, the number of characters and the ever shifting focus adds up to a  War And Peace in the 21st century.This is not an easy book or a quick  read. It requires attention and a willingness to let the author unfold the  story in his own way. But it is a richly rewarding experience. While I  liked it more than the following two books in the series, I think the  entire trilogy represents a monumental achievement. As a shear feat of  imagination based on the known possibilities, it is like no other science  fiction that I have read. Those readers that fault Robinson for not writing  something like Young Christian Republicans Go to Mars are overlooking the  obvious - that a fresh start will necessarily mean a lot of conflict  (social, political and economic) until some compromise between conflicting  priorities can be established. Robinson does not offer any easy solutions  to these problems, and the socialistic elements that are introduced into  the Martian system have little to do with old terran forms of central  planning and control.This is a thoughtful book full of action. Much of  the action is mundane; people moving from place to place or building  things. Yet it is always fascinating, because the trips are through  unfamiliar landscapes and the building is constrained by the hostile  atmosphere and limited gravity. Reading these books is almost like a  physical experience. I even found myself dreaming the landscape.Like  War and Peace, I suspect this is a book I will have to revisit in order to  discover what I missed the first time. It's worth it.
5 The description of the building and tearing down of the space elevator truly made this book, and indeed the whole series, stand way way out from all of the other space-based trilogies.
5 A work of vast scope and moving detail (both this title and the series for which it is the first installment).  Nominally an adventure story about the colinization of Mars (bet you didn't see that coming) it is ultimetly about ideas and the people who must wrestle with them in the real world.  Touching on scientific, political, and philosophical issues and the points at which they intersect Stanley uses Mars as a backdrop to discuss the human condition and the nature of human society.  Stanley's prose brilliantly portrays the stark, claustrophobic enviroment that living on Mars would bring.  I can not find anything negative to say about this work except that at times it  may seem a little dry and rambling but it is so overflowing with new ideas and fresh perspeciteves that it well rewards that effert that it demands to complete.  A must read.
5 Red Mars is a classic story of world building in the most literal sense - it is the first volume in Robinson's tale of Martian terraforming, and the political and scientific implications of human colonization.  It is genuinely important, as it takes the possibility of human travel into space as a real thing, and not a fantastic bit of fiction. But the very realism of the story makes for a slow (albeit rewarding) read: Robinson spends significant time on the details, and his grasp of the minutae is overwhelming at times.  Nevertheless, the characters he creates - larger than life pioneers who echo the explorers of an earlier age - pull the story back when it threatens to become turgid.  Profoundly worthwhile for anyone who cares about the actual future of humanity and whether space travel will ever really happen.
5 Mars fans will love this book.  I have to admit that when I first read it I found it difficult to follow all of the characters.  It was Mars itself that kept me going because I loved being there with them.  My second read cleared most of that up for me.  I have managed to get through Blue Mars once but I have not been able to find the energy to go on to Green.The raw red planet is what appealed to me and still appeals to me.  I love visiting it through this novel.
4 The books discussions of teraphorming and the Martian world is really well done. The characters are not particularly interesting and not really believable. That said a good read. On to the next one.
1 Due to the hype, I bought--stupid stupid stupid!--all three of the books in this trilogy. I did finish the book, although I am not sure how I did it. Here's the storyline: Describe the landscape for 20 pages, describe in INTRICATE DETAIL what all the little widgets and gadgets that the colonists brought with them are, talk about the beautiful scenery some more, have sex, some more technical stuff, make a failing attempt to develop the characters, have sex again, etc. The back of the book talks about how the last hundred pages go at the speed of light. Sorry, but I didn't find the ending memorable at all. Then there's this hard-to-visualize part where they have an LONG elevator or something attached to one of Mars' moons. I felt like I was reading Pecos Bill and how he would lasso a tornado with his rope, only this time he's doing to a moon. Highly over-rated. See that bright red dot outside your window? I suggest you take your copy of Red Mars and throw it out the window in an attempt to knock the red planet out of the sky. No aliens, either. This book makes A Princess of Mars look good.
5 This book was wonderful. Some reviews complained about the detailed descriptions of Mars but I loved that. I felt like I was there. This book tells the story of the first hundred colonists to go to Mars and the story of Mars itself. It is hard Science fiction with a little bit of space opera thrown in for flavor. I intend to finish the trilogy.
4 Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars Trilogy has gotten mixed reviews. When I first read it during the early 1990s, I loved it. However, rereading it I can understand the criticisms. The book - at least the first part - does an excellent job at portraying a believable mission to colonize Mars. Even 20 years later, Robinson's science seems plausible. He explains the Martian landscape and process of terraforming with meticulous detail. If you want to get a sense of what a mission to colonize Mars might look like, read this book.Where the book falls apart is in the politics and characterization. Most of the characters are pretty two-dimensional. They work to the extent that they represent archetypes of humanity (the pioneer, the politician, etc). However, the dialogue is sometimes cringeworthy. Some of the characters seem more like characters in a teen drama than professional scientists (for a more realistic depiction of scientists that also manages to humanize them, check out Weir's &#34;The Martian&#34;). Most of the members of the expedition go rogue or behave in ways that would have gotten them kicked out of any real spaceflight program. I don't mind some quirks in the characters and there are ways in which the quirks take the story in interesting directions (especially the &#34;Green Mars&#34; movement in later books) but anybody looking for realistic characters will be disappointed.Moreover, Robinson's portrayal of Martian politics is a bit confusing and frankly not nearly as believable as his science. In political scenes, KSR tends to write characters as good guys or bad guys. Boone is the lovable, charismatic hero, the Earth planetary government is filled with bureaucratic suits. The American representative on Mars, Frank Chalmers, is clouded by some interesting ambiguity, but even he falls into stereotypes about &#34;bureaucrats&#34; (yelling &#34;shut up&#34; all the time). Overall I think the book would have been stronger if it had kept its focus on the scientific mission, not the politics.Rereading the book 20 years later I would give it 3.75 stars. Red Mars is still the best novel about a mission to Mars. It's much more engrossing and plausible than anything else out there. But it suffers from tangents into politics and unrealistic characterization.
5 This is an epic story told on a very small scale.  Looking at the cover and hearing someone describe the events that take place throughout the novel you would probably get the impression that the book concentrates on the settlement and terraforming of Mars, and in a way it does.  But the story is told, in successive sections, not so much through the eyes of various people, but through an examination of how being on Mars has changed them.  Ultimately what I remember about this book is the depressions and joys, friendships and loves that are brought to life so vividly against the backdrop of Mars, not the hard sci-fi details that are scattered so expertly throughout.Among the many forces that buffet the characters, only some are technological.  Many of them are engaged throughout the entire book in the question of what it may mean to be Martian, how life may or should be different than the one they knew back on earth.  Some fall in love with the planet and want to keep it pristine, but in the end more feel the need for a revolutionary break with the past.  In many ways Robinson has succeeded taking the Heinlein trope of a libertarian revolution on a new planet and combining it with the unflinching reality of the powers that would oppose such a movement, both national and corporate, to create something that feels as if it is out of a history book.  As events unfold they become ever more chaotic; motivated by ill-defined ideas and competing ideologies which are seized upon as justifications for a crowd doing what it has already decided to do.  Many of the characters and events would be at home in a story of Russia's communist revolution.All of this takes place against the backdrop of a Mars undergoing terraforming, and Robinson seems to have a detailed grasp of everything from Martian tectonics to extreme climate microbiology and eco-economics.  It is always dangerous to write from the point of view of a character who is an expert in something; if you don't know the subject at least as well as they should you can come off sounding trite and false.  But even though every character in this book is an expert, often in more than one field (they are astronauts, after all) there is never even a glimmer of uncertainty or b.s. in the work that Robinson describes.This book is a rare achievement, and it deserves every award it has won.  I can't wait to read the remaining two in the series.
5 If you love "hard" science fiction, you will love this book.  The detailing of the science involved with the first settlement on Mars is incredible.  If you are interested in how human society works, this is also a very good read.  I heartly recommend.
3 Kim Stanley Robinson undoubtedly has mastered the idea of Martian colonization, its effects on Earth, and the events following the first landing.  In a somewhat lengthy, and sometimes dry, novel, the author clearly and accurately portrays what might hold in our future.Readers are drawn in with a murder in the beginning of Red Mars and quickly zips back to the launch of the Ares, the space vessel holding the &quot;First Hundred&quot;.  Robinson's detailed narrative focuses on these characters to examine the issues of colonizing a new planet.  Subjects such as how Terraforming should be conducted, what social rules are in order, and other scientific facts, are mentioned in Red Mars.  Robinson addresses the social, economic, and scientific problems humanity will face when interplanetary colonization occurs.Although somewhat slow and boring, if one can pull through Red Mars, he or she will be satisfied.  The scientific babble Robinson mentions requires no great outside knowledge, but some would be helpful for better comprehension.  Yet, the imaginative events that occur in Red Mars are superb!  Space elevators, fully-functional colonies, etc. Red Mars is a wondefully written science-fiction per se that anyone who is interested in what might come of the future in space should read.
5 This whole series: RED, GREEN and BLUE, fully explores Mars like we wish we could, but can't afford.Character development as is usual with Kim Stanley Robinson is great as are the various scientific aspects of the books [you actually learn some actual science ].Lots of adventure and excitement throughout make it an enjoyable read from start to finish. I've read this series twice now, IT'S THAT GOOD.
5 Buckle in for a great read on space exploration and how to begin the process of terra-forming a neighboring planet. Brilliant story and compelling action will keep you turning pages
1 I bought Red Mars because it won the Nebula Award.  I suspect it got the award for its detailed description of Mars and its terraforming, not for its quality as a novel per se.1. Unity: Poor.  Many scenes and dialogues in the book serve no purpose.  For example, an entire chapter contains the musings of a psychologist about a personality theory that simply does not fit into the narrative.  The character is barely heard from before the chapter, and barely heard from after.2. Narration: Poor.  The book switches narrators frequently: one is from one character's point of view, the other from another's.  This makes everything disjointed and ununified.  Worse, the thoughts and feelings of each are strangely similar.  One gets all of the detriment without any of the benefit of this musical chairs narration.3. Plot structure: Poor.  There is snappy opening chapter with most the rest of the book as a flashback, but the rest has barely any structure.  Sometimes the author is merely digressing into Martian geography.  The "climax" towards the end is an excruciatingly long description of a flood.  I thought it would never end.  When it did, the novel was over.  It was disappointingly anticlimactic.4. Plausibility: Poor.  The story starts in 2026 with no account of why Earth has suddenly decided to inundate Mars with thousands of colonists and gigantic robots.  I had to force myself to believe it was starting in 2126.  The immense expense of such an operation in 2026 is completely unbelievable.  100 permanent colonists, followed a few years later by 1000?!  Within 30-40 years, there are a million people on Mars and a space elevator.  Outrageous.  Worse, there is little to no political structure to the planet: there is only anarchy.  Earth is willing to invest the majority of its GDP in a far-off planet but is indifferent about governing the people there...?5. Scientific accuracy: suspicious.  The author speaks of "degrees Kelvin."  There are no degrees in the Kelvin scale, only in Centigrade and Fahrenheit.  I learned this in high school chemistry, which Stanley-Robinson apparently never had.6. Dependencia economics: a joke.  The highly educated scientists that were the first colonists preach pure dependencia economics.  They say that rich countries (the North) stripped the poor countries (the South) of everything worthwhile they had and continue to enslave them by trade.  Big companies are too powerful and can manipulate governments.  They highjack the economy to exploit everyone but themselves.  Rank neo-Marxism and laughable.  Stanley-Robinson has never had a course in economics, I'd bet.7. Length: Poor (700 pp.).  I lost interest half-way through and finished just to be done with it.  Some passages I had to skim.
4 Ah, nice to fine a SF book with plot now and then.  Robinson deals with the colonization of Mars and the expectations of this colonization, both of the people that are there and people of earth.  I'll leave it there as to what happens, don't want to give away too much.  He is very good at his charactizations, you really get to know about 8 - 10 characters very well, almost where you can predict what they're going to do or say.  He also does descriptions very well, of the planet, the work that they do, the people there, etc.  The story is excellent, but it's not a heavy SF book in terms of science, the only thing that he talks about at any detail is the lighter gravity, which is not a bad thing.  A lot of SF books get bogged in the S and forget about the F, this one doesn't have that problem.  There's only a few issues about this book, one, and I got to say this is probably my problem, is that's it's long, like Tolkien long, a lot of trivial happenings, again good for character development, but...  The other problem I had was the ending, I hate it when books just kind of stop with no resolution.  This one just leaves you right there saying where's the end?  Still worth reading though.
5 I'm writing this review about the entire Mars Trilogy: Red Mars, Green Mars, Blue Mars. I can't possibly praise it enough. This epic concerns nothing less than the exploration and settlement of another world. The characters are believable, so much so that the reader starts to think of them as real people; the setting has been meticulously researched, with a comprehensiveness somewhat reminiscent of Michener; and the science is realistic, even though, as the author himself admits, the terraformation of Mars is somewhat faster than would probably be the case in real life. But, all authors are allowed some literary license.The reader is caught up as the story moves through early exploration of the Red Planet, early settlement, and later political turmoil, culminating in full-scale revolution. And the story doesn't just concern Mars. Earth is undergoing its own upheavals. But throughout, Robinson maintains a feeling of invincible optimism, though nowhere does he fail to acknowledge the severe problems facing the human race. Without giving away the ending, I will say that bold new possiblities for human settlement of space are realized.This trilogy will appeal not only to sci-fi fans, but to a much larger readership. Anyone who wants to enjoy a realistic portrayal of the next stage of human colonization should read this great epic. You won't forget it.
2 While the science discussed in "Red Mars" is interesting in and of itself, the author goes on and on about it instead of sprinkling it throughout the text.  The result reads something more like a non-fiction description of how to get to Mars, settle there, design machinery for it, etc., but doesn't present a compelling story.  A compelling story is set up in Part I (Festival Night), which is all of 23 pages, but then Part II (The Voyage Out) rears its ugly, boring head.Part II introduces various characters on their way to Mars and not one of them seems especially intelligent nor highly regarded by his or her peers.  One guy, a Russian, goes around spouting philosophy and calling people names like "idiot."  In fact, he would have fit right in with those immature misfits relighting the sun in the movie "Sunshine."  After about 80 pages of "going nowhere," I opted to pass on this version of Mars.  I'll also be giving the Green and Blue versions a miss.
1 Probably the most boring scifi book. A lot of politics, very dull and boring descriptions about Mars ecology. Many text books are more interesting reading than this book.The plot is boring. Characters are dull, annoying, and uninteresting. There is no great character development here folks. Did I mention that the book is extremely boring. Don't waste your time with it unless you are stuck in an airport with nothing else to read, actually just go to sleep, and have some rest instead of reading this book.
5 This is a very good novel, in the same league as "Queen of Angels" of Greg Bear. I think that this one is one of the best hard SF novels of the first half of the 90`s. Certainly is much better than "Moving Mars" by Greg Bear (December 15, 1994). I say this even though I really like "Moving Mars".The pace of the novel is very good, the characters are well drawn, the level of research is astounding. YOu can actually follow the action on a Mars map (and will need to in order to understand most of the novel). In that aspect it feels like reading Tolkiens "Lord of the Rings", you have to had a good knowledge of the land because it gets to be another character in the story. Look for a good map of mars on the internet, there are plenty of good ones from NASA
3 I know I should only do one star or five star reviews because those are the one that get read, but this book is really right between. So much so that I don't even know if I will read the next in the series or not. Science of Mars ecology and stuff like space elevator is interesting and pretty solid, which science on stuff like immortality treatments is just plain silly and puts everything else in doubt. Economics and psychology are really, really stupid. Characters are pretty dull individually but as a group, keep you reading. No real protagonists here.
5 The first of installment of Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars trilogy.  A grand and epic story of the first hundred human colonists on Mars.  This book is packed with hard sci-fi, grand exploration, adventure and fascinating characters.  One of the most detailed and well written books on Mars I have ever read.
4 This book scratched an itch I've had for a long time: for a technical, well-imagined, and logically fleshed out (in short, &#34;hard&#34;) science fiction story. I learned a lot of cool things about the real world by reading this book. I didn't even know piezoelectricity existed before. Some of the hypothesized bits about the nature of Mars are very cool as well. I loved it all.The story is not nearly as strong as the science. Occasionally it's weird, occasionally it drags. However, there are also times when it shines very much on its own. Uneven would be the word for it, I suppose. Taken together (and provided you are reading this for some real science fiction!) I'd give the package four stars, and will definitely be reading the next book as well.
5 I am currently halfway through my second excursion into this book. I currently feel that it is very much worth it to read it twice, although it was excellent the first time. Many of the reviews have made the points that I want to make, but I just want to emphasize them. First, this is not a &quot;sci-fi thrill ride.&quot; It is almost a drama-documentary. I don't want to make it sound boring though. I was always involved with the reading, and almost constantly in awe of the excellent characters and vivid descriptions (of everything). There is never really a central plot. The book is divided up into chapters, each one from a different person's viewpoint. This is very effective. You will get to know many of the realistic and likable characters in depth. It is really unlike any book I've ever read in this aspect. Also, the book doesn't just utilize the physical sciences. It really shows how important the social sciences will be in the future. Although initially surprised by the politics and psychology in the book, I felt like I grew and learned a lot from the challenging questions it presents. It takes a lot of patience to enjoy Red Mars, but it is worth it. I felt the reward of reading a non-fiction science book while still enjoying it as fiction. So, if you are a patient and attentive reader, you will probably be more successful in realizing the excellence of this book. I recommend it to all who are willing to step up to the challenge.
4 This is an iconic science fiction novel (three novels actually), harkening back to the era of hard-nosed sci-fi writing based on a sound knowledge of science, engineering, and ecology. It reminds us of the high quality of science fiction literature before the current wave of fantasy and "popcorn space operas" took over. The novel starts with a realistic vision of early Mars settlements extrapolating on existing settlements in Antarctica (I coincidentally saw Herzog's film on the Antarctica "Encounters at the End of the World" and immediately saw the resemblance between McMurdo station and Mars settlements in the book). The novel proceeds with the likely evolution of these early Martian settlements, with different groups holding different philosophies on development. The purists preferred to maintain the pristine Martian landscape as much as possible; at the opposite end were those who wanted to terraform Mars to make it close to Earth-like. Stirring the pot were the transnational mining companies who did not care about the Martian environment at all. Ultimately, these groups were unable to coexist and years of Martian developments were destroyed in a final apocalyptic surge of mindless violence. The ideological and intellectual arguments of these different groups are brought out in great detail, and provide the dramatic thrust of the novels. The book is at its best when it describes the engineering and ecological problems and how they were solved. In contrast, discussions of alternate economic systems were crude and lacked a good understanding of how a Martian economy might need to develop. Likewise, the characters were interesting as mouthpieces of their ideological positions, and lacked psychological grounding. A side story about a romantic menage-a-trois was simply irritating. But these flaws are endemic to all of science fiction literature, and that Robinson shares with greats such as Asimov and Clarke. In the end, the strengths of this novel easily outweigh its flaws. A must read for science fiction fans, and for general readers interested in environmental issues and about the future development of planet earth.
2 I had great hopes, but was very disappointed with this book. None of the main are likable. Most behave like idiots that would never be chosen to lead an expedition to Mars. Further, the story is, sort of, told in the perspective of the character. But as the story moved through time, all of a sudden you are getting one character's story line to the exclusion of the others. Not attempt is made to integrate the whole story resulting in a very disjointed and impossibly convoluted book. Then there is a half baked attempt to turn this into a political theory discussion, with an incredibly violent revolution about 60% through the book that, effectively destroys everything that had been built in the first part of the book. WTF? The our surviving lead characters become a wandering lost tribe. It just makes no sense.To the author's credit, his description of the Martian landscapes are wonderful. But I can't recommend this book.
4 When I was 15 I checked this book out of the library and tried to read it. It looked fascinating, especially with the bulk of it next to its two sequels, intriguingly titled "Green Mars" and "Blue Mars".However, I was bored to tears by the book. Disappointed, I gave up halfway through.This year, I tried Red Mars again. My impressions this time are quite different. The reviewers who complain that this book is boring and has no plot do have a point. KSR is renowned for being one of the few science fiction writers to be able to write characters convincingly. His book "The Wild Shore" is one of my favourites in this regard. Yet all that talent seems to have been placed on hold here; the characters are weirdly shallow, with the shallowness seeming to increase towards the later chapters.We are never totally sure, for example, why one of the characters murders the other in chapter one. Was it jealousy? A desire to become a dictator? Who knows. Also, the events near the end where the character of Nadia pushes a certain button, and where Ann overcomes her depression, seem really, really stilted and weird.Similar problems exist with the plot. There are entire chapters where nothing seems to happen. I am thinking in particular about the loooong chapter where John Boone effectively wanders around Mars with nothing to do. And who exactly was behind all the sabotage and the political revolution?That aside, I still highly recommend this book if you look for what it offers. The descriptions of Martian terrain are often superb, and the descriptions of possible future technologies (as well as habitation and terraforming techniques) are quite fascinating. Did you know that greenhouses on Mars would need very, very thick glass? That if you broached a Martian aquifer near a crater with a very deep mine in it, the water would go into the crater and stay liquid because of the heat inside the mine?? Or that Martian dust is so fine that no seal can keep it out and it explodes on contact with liquids?This is, indeed, "hard" science fiction. I am not exactly technically minded myself (I majored in Ancient History) but I can still appreciate the appeal of sheer hardware and ecology. It's not so much that KSR is coasting, it's just that his emphasis is elsewhere in this book. Even if you find yourself yearning for more emphasis on character, you can just choose to wallow in the beauty of seeing a Martian sunset on black-and-purple sand dune, or watching a dirigible pushing its way through a Martian storm. There is also some of the culture of California in this book, as in all KSRs, with the buildings glittering with glass and the sun and sand everywhere!Some have said that the politics in this book are offensively heavy handed. Compared with "The Gold Coast" it positively is not. Yes, it's kinda left leaning, but I cannot see how one can see this book as advocating a communist dictatorship, quite the reverse if anything.
1 I have on my shelf Red Mars, Green Mars, and Blue Mars by Robinson and I've had them for years.  When it comes to reading lengthy trilogies I really have to be in the mood and have plenty of reading time.  When I finally felt the time was right, I picked up Red Mars and started reading.  And reading.  Although the book begins with a murder and is a day in the future of the Martian colony, the story begins with the first hundred, a hundred people who will be the first to live on Mars, the ones who will figure out how to survive there with the tools and knowledge they bring with them.  The ship is described as rather like a bunch of cans tied together which seems silly, but it's one thing that makes good sense once they land on Mars and can use the modules for living quarters, etc.The ship sounds spacious for such a venture, yet people can't help getting on each other's nerves.  They group together promoting their own agendas, arguing and just generally not getting alone.  Then something happens, and voila!  All friends again.  For a while.  Then something else happens, and voila!!  They're at each other's throats again.  The same holds true once they get to Mars, with one group deciding to settle on the moon for a while instead of going all the way to the planet.  Although the first hundred are mostly scientists and experts in their fields, they act like children, not only in arguing to get their way, but also splitting into factions, each working on projects willy nilly as if there was very little planning.The next groups of people to settle on the red planet just seem to come as they please and include political groups, transnational companies -- all people with an agenda, hoping to can make money from or dominate the red planet with.  There seems to be little cohesion either in the actions of the Martian settlers or in the story itself.  For pages and pages, Boone, the first man to have landed on Mars, goes walkabout -- in land and air vehicles -- just thinking about what's going on.  Wondering who is sabotaging equipment and projects.  He meets other groups, stays and talks with them, learns nothing, and goes on his way.Books with little action and much introspection are not a new thing in literature and there have been some marvelous works of fiction in that vein.  The writing might be lyrical, the plot interesting, a seeming purpose to the overall story.  I couldn't get far enough into Red Mars to find if there is some of that there.  I had to stop reading because I was not enjoying anything about the book.  Had some of the characters had interesting qualities, I might have persevered.  But they didn't.  Nor did the story.  This book isn't for me.  But there are lots of people who enjoyed it and there are probably many more out there.
3 First of all I want to point out to the scientists that this is a science FICTION book.  It wasn't intended to be a textbook on the colonization of Mars.  Hence the raving review by Clarke.  Yes, a solar-powered windmill on Mars is a bit far-fetched, but I was willing to overlook it because it is fiction.Now.  I found the book in a discount book store and picked it up because it looked like a good read. I have to admit, I was overwhelmed by the sheer magnitude of filler in the book.  I agree with one poster that the author appeared to be trying a bit to hard to display his general knowledge.  I found myself skimming pages.The characters were certainly rigid.  The author went to great pains to develop the characters but ultimately failed to give them any real depth (He's certainly no Orson Scott Card).The book begins in the middle of the story, flashes back to the beginning and then moves on.  I thought this was strange.  However, the general read, with the exception of scores of pages that could have been omitted, was good.  I enjoyed following the characters through the story and ultimately to the safe haven at the end.I gave this book three stars because it held my attention long enough to finish it.  However, I feel I will expect more from the second book (which I will begin this evening).
5 It's difficult to exert influence in this area of the genre where so many other writers have capably written before: Bradbury's Martian Chronicles for example. Yet, astonishingly, Robinson's book is so good-inspired really-that it is impossible to imagine any future novel of colonization written without feeling the force of Red Mars. It will change the publishing world.WHO SHOULD READ:Any person who reads should read this book. Even those readers who tend to eschew not just speculative fiction but fiction itself will find merit in reading this book. It has much to say not just about Mars but also about intelligent people who are placed in stressful positions. Red Mars is one of the very best examples of speculative fiction. It is entirely accessible and could be read by students in high school and enjoyed equally by readers all the way through retirement.WHO SHOULD PASS:There are examples, though not graphic, of pre-marital sex. Heterosexuals are occasionally naked with reason. In the final summation, it's really only a PG-13 rated book. This might still give pause to anxious parents who are trying to shelter their kids in some weird church that does not intend the congregation to live in the real world. This is an otherwise absolute do-not-miss book.READ THE ENTIRE REVIEW AT INCHOATUS.COM
4 Robinson's Mars Trilogy begins as admirably written hard science fiction, based for the most part on physics and geology.  As the story progresses, the plot is based more and more upon Robinson's previous suppositions than on fact - in short, he begins to extrapolate.  By the last page of the last book, we're asked to believe that human beings can postpone death almost indefinitely, have solved the problem of war, and are ready to colonize space, all in about three hundred years.  My willing suspension of disbelief wore out about two-thirds of the way through the last book.
5 Yeah, the plotting is plodding, the characters, save one, are cutouts and the politics ponderous but I know I'll remember the trilogy throughout my life and it's probably going to be one of the few things I'll take the time to re-read. The one character, of course, is Mars.  That's the deal. You either buy into it or not.
2 So I started reading this book on Kindle because it was free. At first I liked it. I was even considering buying the 2 other books in the trylogy (Green Mars and Blue Mars). I enjoyed the way the author narrated the story - moving from character to character. I enjoyed the description of the travel from Earth to Mars. I enjoyed the political discussions the first few days/years on Mars.I was even fine with some of the inconsistencies - for example, if you were going to populate Mars, why would you spend time and resources to do the same with one of its moons at the same time? It didn't make sense to me - and the book did not give any justification for this. They simply sent some of the scientists to the Mars moon and the rest to the planet itself. No big deal. But in my mind an inconsistency nevertheless.And then the book went on to describe Mars geography. At first it was fine, but after a while it became really boring. I typically like to read details, but when they matter to the story or they make sense. To describe Mars landscape in such level of detail did not add anything to the story. I started to gloss over those long descriptions.So as I was reading the book I played with the idea of stop reading it. Why waste my time. But I wanted to like it and I continued. Until I got to 70% of the book. I decided to stop and go read something else.I finally decided to stop reading after realizing how weak the author was in character development. There are two important characters that are quite different - one is an adventurer, who likes to move from place to place and engage in small projects. The other one is an administrator - who seems to like to be in the office and deal with administrative and bureaucratic stuff. Part 5 of the book is dedicated to the first one (the adventurer). Part 6 is focused on the second one (the administrator/bureaucrat). So in Part 5, the adventurer is doing what he likes to do - travel from settlement to settlement visiting with people. Midway through part 6, we find the bureaucrat (immediately after obtaining a major success in a political conference) leaving his office life behind and joining a group of nomads travelling from place to place. The same way the first character did (the adventurer). So in short, the author seems to like to describe Mars geography more than anything. And as a result any character he is focusing on will be travelling from place to place all the time... Even if it doesn't make sense to the story...So, I decided to stop reading (my first book I didn't finish). And I will not buy the other books in the series.
5 At the rate we're going, I don't think we're going to have government-sponsored Mars colonization, but commercial-sponsored.  But if we do have government-sponsored, Robinson has a pretty good plan here.The romantic angle he throws in concerning Coyote and Hiroko stretches a bit, but is the most entertaining part of the book.It's a pretty hefty novel, but it reads right through, perfectly blending action with good science and a good storyline.-- JJ Timmins
1 I wanted to like this book. I really did. I love epic literature and, having recently fallen in love with hard sci-fi, I thought I'd love this, too. After all, it's an epic and it's hard sci-fi. It also won a Nebula award and was nominated for other prestigious awards. How could I possibly go wrong with that? Well, go wrong I did, and here's how:To begin, this book isn't really science fiction. It's like a work of regular fiction crossed with a science textbook about Mars and it doesn't do either very well. Anyone reading this review who hasn't read the book is probably scratching his head trying to figure out what I mean by that, but if you've ever read any other sci-fi, after you read this, you'll know what I'm talking about. The plot moves at a glacial pace and Robinson takes a paragraph to describe what could be adequately described in one sentence. About a third of the way through, when Robinson took a whole paragraph to describe someone screwing in a bolt, I put the book down and haven't picked it up since.I didn't get far enough into the book to get to any of the politics, but I know from reading reviews that the leader of the pro-corporate faction, Phyllis Boyle, was also an intolerant born-again Christian with an abrasive personality who was disliked by everyone else. This is predictably hackneyed, but perhaps not surprising, since out on the left coast where Robinson is from, it's a not uncommon belief that us rubes here in the hinterland spend all of our spare time handling snakes at tent revivals and voting against Democrats because we hate non-whites and gays and would rather be enslaved by Wal-Mart than see any of them get a fair chance in life.Then, there was the head of the Russian contingent, Maya Toitovna. In the real world, such a histrionic floozy as her would never get anywhere near a mission such as this, let alone be put in a major position of authority within it. In fact, most of the characters were so thoroughly annoying that by the time I finally put the book down, I was hoping that some grotesque form of alien life would show up and kill and eat them.All in all, I'm glad I checked this piece of hack trash out from the library and didn't pay any money for it. It's sad that this, along with the other books in the Mars series, have taken the place of the best-known and most extensive work on the colonization and terraforming of Mars, as it's an epic subject and it deserves so much better.If you're new to Sci-Fi and want to wet your feet, avoid this and check out something by Arthur C. Clarke. He's a master of the genre and hisCollected Storieswould be an ideal tome for you to cut your teeth on. Hell, evensomething by Lionel Fanthorpewould be better than this. His writing is at least bad enough to be entertaining and he at least steers clear of politics.
5 Considering I'm both a Mars-head and a futurist, five stars was a very  easy call.Red Mars fanned my interest in planetary exploration to a  blaze.  KS Robinson's detailed prose about the Martian landscape and  well-formed depictions of the people and technologies that would pave the  way for exploration made the dream of extraterrestrial human settlement  tantalizingly real.For the first half of the book, I looked at all of  the technology and thought, &quot;We can DO this!&quot;  From their  spacecraft to their environment suits to their settlements, everything  seemed so close that with an ounce of political will, it could all happen.  For those who prefer more futuristic (but also supposedly feasible) gadgets  from their scifi authors, Robinson makes a couple of assumptions about  materials science and biotech, and gives us a carbon-filament space  elevator (built by self-replicating &quot;von Neumann&quot; machines)  anti-aging treatments, and organisms that can survive the harsh Martian  climate.Although some may disagree, his extrapolation of the  sociological implications of these advances is also compelling.  Some have  sneered at the &quot;Red&quot; in Red Mars with the scorn of a true  McCarthyite.  Those reviewers ignore the fact that the bulk of the people  in spacefaring countries on Earth (not to mention scientists in general)  are a bit to the left of most Americans.  Seen from this perspective, the  mildly socialist viewpoints expressed in the book are not only explicable,  but an insightful prediction of future progressive cultures.To explore  all of these grand ideas, KS Robinson creates a fairly large cast of  fascinating characters.  While it is apparent that some of them exist  mostly to advocate one viewpoint or another (Sax - the scientific wonder of  terraforming, Anne - the bare grandeur of the original &quot;Red&quot;  Mars, Arkady - the sociological possibilities of another world, Phyllis -  crass commercial exploitation) they are given fleshed-out personalities and  their relationships with each other are still a good reason to read the  book.Drawbacks: Some are upset that rather than having an  adventure-story plot, Red Mars is half an Audubon Guide and half a  historical narrative about the trials of the First Hundred, then the first  hundred thousand settlers on Mars.  Others, as I have said, dislike his  politics.  Most comment on his lengthy descriptions of geological  formations on Mars.  Personally, I liked these (but make the next edition  with a glossary, please!) Still, if these had been replaced with panoramic,  full-color artist's renderings, that would probably have helped most  readers.In all, one of my favorite books of all time and truly  deserving of all the awards and praise it got.
4 Red Mars is a truly epic story. It follows the first 100 people to land on Mars through the first 30 years or so of colonization. It starts at the initial building stages of the planet, which I quite liked, and then slowly over the years (and pages!) blends the political, sociological and scientific problems that come from development and growth on the planet.  The book weaves through several characters (each getting sections of the book) and their different relations to Mars.Red Mars has many positives going for it. KSR does a superb job describing Mars and the technology needed to slowly alter the geology, geography, atmosphere and hydrology of the planet. With an earth science background I found that part of the story fascinating and you really do feel that you are on Mars. His descriptions sometimes drag (and repeat) but overall I enjoyed the barrenness of this world. He also touches on the biology of the planet and (to a lesser extent) people and I had to take most of this at his word. The plot does move slowly but I found myself drawn into the story and kept reading to find out and uncover more about what was going on. Several small surprises pop up in the book to keep you rewarded. Topics such as economics, sociology and especially politics continually grow throughout the novel with various characters taking different sides of these issues. However, some of this becomes quite weighty and bogs down with tangents that sometimes do not seem to go anywhere.  The sci-fi ideas presented in the novel (tent cities, walkers, vehicles...) ranged from realistically interesting to almost fantastical (I won't mention these). But for those near the upper limit of realism I found that I could go with it, a tribute to KSR's ability to describe them in a way that made me believe them enough.The characters in the novel are a bit more of a mixed bag. Some of the characters were interesting and well fleshed out but were described with typical traits that seem to come up in passing, (booming laugh, owl eyes etc.) that made them somewhat caricatures. This then leaked into their personalities as well making them mildly predictable. Other characters are noted only in passing but with somewhat substantial parts. I did like some of the characters while others were more irritating and predictable.Given that this is an epic there are periods in the novel that are glossed over leaving you to fill in the gaps (which generally is OK) but also left me thinking "what happened during that time?". Sometimes this works, other times it is frustrating. And even though the book is about Mars, there are snippets of an earth disaster/revolt unfolding that left me, oddly, wanting to know about Earth in a book about Mars! This is also where the book sometimes stretches credibility somewhat as resources are clearly being used to send people to Mars, but these ideas are also not used on Earth? Could Earth in this state really support a colony on Mars? Again, one of those things you have to just take on faith.This is my second book by KSR and I found it oddly similar to his later written Antarctica. There are plot points, characters and devices that are used in both. Although I did not mind this (as that is why I picked up Red Mars after Antarctica) I do hope Mars goes in a different direction. Like Antarctica there is a decent map provided at the beginning but not many places are shown. So when regions are mentioned in the text, it is somewhat confusing where characters are or where events took place. Given that location/geography/geology is sometimes important to the story, I found this to be a bit of an irritating oversight.SUMMARY: The book is a wonder of colonization of another planet. The ideas and descriptions are superb and it had a very modern feel even though it was written several years ago now. It has the feeling that it could happen this way. The story is slow and the characters sometimes are flat, but overall I enjoyed the book and if you can buy into some of the science, technology, time and character "leaps", it is almost a 4/5 (say 78%). Green Mars coming up next!
4 I really enjoyed the characters, plot, and technology in Red Mars. I'd give it a 5 except that it leaves in the middle of the story. You really can't read it without wanting to read the 2 follow-up books and they're so bad that you'll wish you hadn't started.
1 It was all I could do to muster the enthusiasm to read while engaged with this novel. Why? Very Technical. So much so it got into the way of the story. Disguised propaganda encased in a story? Yes. The idea of the story cloaked in this book kept me reading. If you must have the experience of pain reading this book, but do not want to read it, cut off a toe with a razor. You may feel the same after is all over.
4 This first book of Robinson's massive three-book epic is the interesting one.  The first book is about the journey, travelling on Mars, exploring, technology, and the like.  The political struggles and interpersonal  intrigue have started but this book doesn't rest on them.  I wouldn't say  that Red Mars is a &quot;page turner&quot; but at least it isn't a  &quot;page flipper&quot; like (to me at least) the next two.Red Mars  starts out being a hard SF tech novel but by the time it's done it has  mutated into a mostly political work that could just as easily be written  about (somewhat incestuous) neighbors wrangling for control of your own  subdivision's community association.  That trend continues in the later  books, where the technology becomes a sort of background murmur and most of  the text is devoted to longwinded and somewhat distant arguments.Enjoy  Red Mars for the not terribly intimate and moderately bloated saga of  planetary exploration and development that it is.  But don't expect as much  from the later books.  They're suitable for  stuck-on-an-airplane-with-six-hours-to-kill reading but not all that  exciting otherwise.
5 When I bought the Kindle version of this book on July 25, 2010, it came with the cover art. Now it's been replaced by a generic one. If you buy the printed version, you get the original cover art. The same should be true of the Kindle version. Apparently that is no longer the case. It may not be a big deal to most readers, but it is to me. I feel short-changed and Amazon hasn't helped at all when I approached them with this matter.
5 I'm no scholar, haven't an encyclopedic knowledge or memory, and am unable to discuss erudite thematic stuff.  I met sci-fi in the late-Fifties, went back to Verne, Stapledon, et al, and haven't stopped reading it.  If it's an interesting idea, I'll read it.  A good story starts with that &#34;what if?&#34; and runs with it - how things might look, what are some consequences, how do the people live it.  A great story will draw one in, captivate and enthrall, and not let go.  One lives it, one cares what happens.  The story ends.  One acknowledges, and wants more.This is a great story.
5 Not necessarily an easy read, but very in depth story telling of a very interesting topic. If the idea of terraforming Mars holds any interest for you, this is a must read.
5 I don't normally write reviews, but Red Mars (and the rest of the trilogy) is my favorite book of all time. It's true that hardcore spaceflight enthusiasts may like this book more than a casual reader, but even my non-spaceflight enthusiast friends rave about this book. Robinson does an excellent job building up an ensemble cast of unique personalities who you as the reader truly come to know as real people. I feel like I have known the characters in this book as if they were real people.In addition to the wonderful cast of characters, there is the planet itself: Mars. Robinson makes Mars feel like a real place like no other. When I look at real maps of Mars, I see Burroughs, Underhill, Acheron, and Sabishii, the cities of Red Mars. The ancient landscape comes alive through his colorful and intricate descriptions. After reading Red Mars, the red planet will no longer be an abstract concept, it will be a location.I highly recommend this book to everybody I know, but if you are even remotely a science fiction, spaceflight, or engineering fan, you owe it to yourself to read this book (and its two sequels) as soon as possible.
5 Got this for a huge Sci-fi and space opera fan. He loved the book and said it is a great trilogy.
5 The kind of Science Fiction that is an extrapolation from currently technology is difficult to do in a believable way, and this book does it well. It also features multiple characters with personalities and arcs that one ends up feeling to have met and known them as people in their lives. Want to get right on to the next one.
1 This review is not about the book, story or author - I regret buying this book on the Kindle without Text to Speech. I am a busy reader that needs to keep a story going during my commute when I can't read - and then pick up reading when I have a break - publishers should be more concerned about selling books than limiting the medium of my unabridged consumption.
2 I loved the concept, an epic series of colonizing Mars - but the book rambles endlessly. I don't need to be taught pseudo-science on terraforming. Just tell me the basics and I'll willingly suspect my disbelief. I don't need pages of math & science - it doesn't add to the literary value.I had no interest in the other books in the series.
5 As in most great space stories, this story has a rich background in science and a detailed development of the characters. There are more than just a few characters and relationships to follow to keep it interesting. It is a believable story of the future, almost like an advanced history. The unfolding of the characters and character relationships are a pleasure to read. The story continues to roll along at a good pace without being bogged down with too many extraneous details. For the multiplexer, it is a story that you can break away from periodically and are always glad to pick back up. Red Mars makes you think about the exploration of pristine environments and the politics of changing such environments. I have yet to complete the RED Mars story, but already have plans to read the full trilogy.
3 It feels like going to work every time I pick up the book.  Too much detail, too much  politics.
2 Red Mars is a little more hard sci-fi than I prefer. If you prefer science over story, then you will probably enjoy this book. I think KSR is a marvelous writer & his tale is a good and compelling one, it's just not my taste.
1 ...that 155 people rated this as 5 star. I agree with every 1 and 2 star review: BORRRR-iiing. I have been reading for 50 years and only never finished 1 book. Now, 2. I hate this author's style of writing: pages of technobabble with scientific formulas that neither make sense to the lay reader, nor serve a purpose, followed by such minute details of irrelevant,stupid things like the page long description of the contents of a tool box. Then, there is the overuse and abuse of the word "and". The author must never have heard of the use of commas. All of the endless descriptions of the Martian surface being flat and dusty with the scattered rocks really helps my insomnia though. I only made it to Chapter 11, so I guess I never got far enough for all the political hoorah other reviewers referenced. I just didn't get it. I was hoping for a great story about colonizing a new world. What I got was the second worst book I have ever tried to read. I'm glad I didn't pay for this.
3 I spent the better part of the time it took me to read this book experiencing two states: confusion and and extreme desire to get through it. Getting through this dense space opera is no easy task, though. I did it, though, and although I cannot understand why, I want to finish this trilogy, if only to find out how the transformation of Mars in these books is completed, or even if it is managed at all.I found Mr. Robinson's style mind-numbing at times. He must have become an expert in both Martian geology and Martian geography, each specially less likely than the last. I applaud the author's knowledge of Mars, but frankly, I found that often I did not care where on Mars the characters were or what it looked like. His penchant of focusing so closely on description of martian geography took something away from the "gee-whiz" adventure of it all.I did enjoy the occasional human drama of the story. Who knew that, if a bunch of brilliant scientists were sent on a Mission from Mars, with little or no reason to listen to their handlers back on Earth, their behavior would resemble that of young teenagers? I enjoyed their occasional broodings, their frequent hysterics, and their abilities to wrangle the simplest matters into the realm of high drama. Perhaps all of that is a function of the author's acumen, but it was fun nevertheless.I wondered quite often at the colony's ability to expand so quickly. The technologies presented near the beginning of the story are recongnizable, and probably a few of them we will have a handle on by the time we are able to journey to Mars, but the  technology has gotten way out of reason by the end of the book.  I don't think giant domes that can cover an entire martian crater will ever by physically possible, one hundred or five hundred years from now. Physics is physics.Overall, this novel was not a waste of time. I know, that's not  a glowing endorsement, but it's all I can give.
4 I'll not mince words: Kim Robinson's books can be long slogs through dry, technical material.  It's his writing style, detailed and full of depth.  That's not going to fly with some people.  Sometimes, even if you love it, you'll have to put the book down and walk away for awhile.  But the Mars series is so powerful, so well done, and so relevant that I would classify it as one of the 'important' works that everyone needs to read.But these books have rich, complex characters who remind me of the people I've met throughout my career in science and business.  They have full histories and their interactions are complex and always-evolving.  The series follows the same characters over hundreds of years (their lives are extended through science!) and thus allows the reader to follow the colonization and terraforming efforts on Mars over a long course of time.  The first settlers, who are our viewpoint characters, have children and fight and die and exist in a greater context of cultural tides that ebb and flow and affect how they think.  You, the reader, experience these changes along with them, feeling their sorrows and their triumphs.It's a difficult journey.  It feels tedious at times.  But it is exceptionally realistic and well-researched.  If people were to go to Mars in the next two decades, to settle there, this could be a lot of what it would look like.  And interestingly, many of the cultural undercurrents are very relevant to the political discussions going on lately about just how much power and influence corporations ought to have.  It's worth reading for that, if you feel you can handle the bits where Robinson waxes poetic about katabatic winds and Martian geography.Red Mars itself focuses on the initial colonization, and how the first decisions made by the settlers can have effects that last hundreds of years.  It's a complicated book, full of engineering, politics, and change.  I hope you enjoy it.
3 Chutzpah!  That's the word that comes to mind when I think about Kim Stanley Robinson sitting down one day and saying, "hmmm, I think I'll write a detailed, scientifically rigorous, realistic book (actually trilogy) about the human colonization of another planet -specifically, Mars.  And besides the science and technology of it, I'll basically write a 'how to' guide, listing all the potential problems, in terms of politics, philosophy, economics, sociology, ecology, and human psychology.  Finally, I'll explore how developments on Earth affect the Martian colonization effort, and vice versa.  And, finally, I'll make all this both intelligent enough to be read by a scientist and understandable (and entertaining) enough for the average reader.  No problem! &quot;And somehow, for the most part, Kim Stanley Robinson pulls it off.  Sure, the characters can be one-dimensional and even grating and annoying, the plot can get confusing (and melodramatic at times - epic upheaval, rivalries, loves, friendships forming and falling to pieces - yikes, sounds like a bad romance novel!), and the whole book sometimes feels like it's about to come crashing down like the space elevator (Robinson is NOT a great narrative writer, that's for sure!), but still....what a vision, what an ambitious undertaking, what a tremendous amount of research obviously went into this, and what a fascinating subject!  This is true SCIENCE fiction, and a credible vision (even a blueprint) for what human colonization of Mars (and the future of Earth) could be like in the not-too-distant future.  Personally, after reading (I admit, sometimes it felt like slogging through) this book, I now believe that human colonization of Mars is realistic, not just a dream, and with technology now in existence, under development, or within our g rasp in the coming decades (nanotechnology, biotechnology, materials science, etc.)  Finally, after reading "Red Mars" I came to believe that is not only FEASIBLE to colonize Mars, but probably (I still have my doubts, especially if we just make the same mistakes we have made in screwing up the Earth) WORTH it as well.My major problems with "Red Mars":  the characters can be cardboard/one-dimensional, annoying, stereotypical (i.e. Sax - the brilliant, rational, but passionless, at least on the surface, scientist; Ann - the moody, emotional, also brilliant in her own way, "Red Mars" purist ; Hiroko - the mysterious Japanese "Green Mars" cult figure; John Boone - the politician, etc.; Coyote -- the mysterious revoluationary/anarchist), and even laughable at times; the plot can get very confusing, especially with its cast of thousands and its unfamiliar places and names (more and better maps, plus a top-notch appendix, would have been extremely helpful!); things can get repetitive (how many times can we hear the same basic Red/Green argument, for instance, without getting sick of it?), and the writing style can be dry (LOTS of technobabble), humorless, and verrrry slow, and also so predictable at times you can see things coming 50 pages away.Is this great fiction?  Definitely not -- in fact it's pretty bad at times!  Is this a great book?  Well, I wouldn't go THAT far!  Is this a great accomplishment?  Well, yes, most definitely!  If you're at all interested in space exploration, and specifically Mars, I strongly recommend that you read this book.  After reading "Red Mars," I'm ready to sign up for the first mission to Mars - when do we leave?
5 Robinson's prose may not always sparkle, his narrative may plod along from time to time, and his characters may lack a dimension or two.  No matter.  In the space of 600 pages, Robinson creates, in breathtaking detail, an entire world, and a believable world at that.  For anyone who still harbord dreams of being an astronaut or stepping on the moon, Red Mars is a must read.  I look forward to reading the companion volumes.
3 the book was interesting but tedious to read.  i'm not sure i will read the next book in the series.
5 Red Mars is a crowning achievment for Kim-Stanley Robinson. It appears that he has studied hard for this trilogy, the books are packed with detailed descriptions of mars's topography, scientific ideas and the  hardships of colonization. The only downside in my eyes are the lengthy  descriptions of the surface, i couldn't concentrate for so long and i  skipped a few lines here and there. Summary: excellent A+ book
1 This book has been a huge disappointment.  I keep reading it hoping a real story will develop.  Yes, the science of terraforming Mars is intriguing, but all too simplistic in Robinson's account.  The characters are paper thin and for the most part ANNOYING.  The only real character is conveniently disposed of just as an actual plot was developing.  The only reason I will finish this is is out of a hope that Frank, Maya, Hiroko and the rest of the annoying lot will somehow meet a cruel and painful death at the hands of Ray Bradbury and Edgar Rice Burroughs at the end.  If you want a classic about Mars, go read Bradbury's &quot;Martian Chronicles.&quot;
4 I love this book and I've enjoyed my paperback for years.  I was delighted by the giveaway of the free Kindle edition, but it's worth a note that the map at the front of the book is utterly illegible on the Kindle.  This is totally fixable -- it just needs to be resized and reoriented in the proper aspect ratio.  IMO the publisher should expend a small bit of effort to make sure that the ebook edition is just as readable and enjoyable as the print version.
5 This is a complex, thoughtful and thought-provoking book. The science (what I can judge of it) is relatively plausible, and, in multiple fields, well researched and presented. But beyond the science, the human drama that unfolds is absolutely riveting.Robinson develops a large number of characters without ever losing the narrative thread of his story. The plots and sub-plots all intertwine and interact beautifully. And the story he unfolds, showing the growth of different philosophical groups, the financial and political struggles, and the human level of impact, is absolutely riveting.Big and complex as the book admittedly is, I could barely put it down. I will necessarily be finishing the entire trilogy, and will definitely look at anything this author has written...
3 "Red Mars," the first of Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars Trilogy, is a derivative work of science fiction that redeems itself through its epic scale and variety of characters.  The basic plot is rather simple: earth has gone to hell in a handbag, and Mars is mankind's new hope.  The story begins with the arrival of 100 settlers in 2026 and spans roughly sixty years following the first expidition.  During this time, rivalries among the settlers lead to dramatic changes in both the planet and the characters.Robinson's pace makes the sixty years go by very briskly; he does not waste time giving too many details about how the planet was colonized and insead focuses on the characters.  With all of the Latin names given to surface features on Mars, it is hard to keep them straight, but the planet provides for a dramatic setting that matches the conflicts between the various characters.  I disliked Robinson's decision to begin the book with the death of John Boone, the first man on Mars, and then regress to the first settlement of Mars.  The plot follows a linear structure for most of the book, and while this introduction provides a hook, it's inconsistent with Robinson's writing style.Another thing I disliked was the petty nature of many characters.  Although the settlers of Mars are supposed to be intelligent and resourceful, they are also childish and manipulative.  Robinson exaggerates these features until they resemble a soap opera."Red Mars" deals with many themes, the most obvious of which is the inevitablilty of progress.  The book has a bleak tone to it.  But the settlers of Mars are victims of progress, both technological and societal, and the most interesting feature is how the Martians begin to develop a culture and a folklore that is distinct from that of earth.Fans of "Hard" science fiction should probably stay clear of "Red Mars," but readers of conventional fiction may use this novel as a means of getting into sci-fi novels.  The futuristic background is merely a canvas for painting the picture of a group of humans, all frail in their own ways, as they stumble towards their inevitable destiny.  I thought that "Red Mars" was okay but I will not be reading the rest of the Mars Trilogy.
2 I am a science fiction reader, and have some understanding of the tenets and motifs of the genre; however, I found the novel far too wordy. I found myself skipping page after page of mainly political jargon and author-speak that got in the way of what could, potentially be, a good yarn.I understand that the new Martians had a dream of creating some sort of utopia that would leave behind all the problems the Terrans were trying to overcome: wars, starvation, pestilence and a host of other earthly problems; but as more and more factions joined the first hundred, they brought with them their own inherited issues and dogmas. So the dreams of the first hundred are, at the end, just an illusion.Don't get me wrong, Kim Stanley Robinson is a superb writer, and when he occasionally lets the story unfold, it is good reading; until we get to the next block of unneccesary verbosity, then I find myself flicking through page after page of twaddle. I hope the next book in the series is more readable.
3 I gave the book three stars because the first half was interesting but the second half made little sense.  I've written much more about the second half only because I thought this needed more explanation.The book did start out very interesting as the author described his vision as to how Mars would first be settled.  As has been discussed in some reviews, there wasn't much drama in this book, other than the romantic entanglements and political disagreements.  But the concepts were interesting enough to make up for the lack of drama.  The author describes this settlement as a group of 100 very qualified engineers and scientists.  They obviously have various different points of view on how to start this Martian civilization, but they make it work.The second half of the book delves into what happens when new immigrants come to Mars. In only 5-10 years  after the first 100 create this foothold, thousands of new immigrants come to the planet.  Economically it all seems too easy.  I find it more credible in those SF stories that shows new settlers having constant difficulties even surviving on a planet no people have ever been to before. Presumably all the food people are eating is coming from greenhouses in their domes.  Where do all the nutrients come from?  Were they all in the soil that was brought from Earth?  As far as I can tell, they never use Martian soil for any farms.  Yet there is never a shortage of food in any dome that the writer speaks of, and in fact they all seem to have parks in every dome also. But how this all occurs I don't know, because the author never discusses farming in the second half.In fact, the author seems to ignore sustainability altogether in the second half.  None of the characters focused on in the second half do anything to create goods needed for survival.  They are all involved in politics or administration or terraforming for the far future. It is rather incredible that Mars so quickly creates such a surplus that so many can spend their time at secondary tasks.  And it is never explained where all these goods are coming from: personal clothing, materials for the domes, furniture, computers, supplies, energy, walkers (what everyone uses to travel outside the domes), and even personal gliders.  Since there don't seem to be any factories on Mars, or even craft industries, all this stuff must be coming from Earth.In many SF stories, such details aren't important, because the environment is just a background around which the important action is happening.  But there isn't much action going on in the story except for the creation of the new Martian civilization, so it is important to talk about how this civilization grows.  And the story kept talking about how the Earth wants to send more and more people there to escape the unsustainable population on the home planet, but how can that be if Mars is bleeding a lot more resources from Earth than it sends back?  Of course they keep talking about mining on Mars for Earth purposes, but through most of this period they don't even have an economic method of returning these minerals to Earth. And even after the elevator is built, it is very hard to believe that mining will pay for everything else the Earth sends to Mars.Oh yes, the politics. The author's socialistic beliefs do come through. Apparently they don't even have money on Mars, since Terran money is illegal and apparently no one is making money locally. I guess everyone just takes what they need? I guess that can work in a magical economy that creates plenty of food and other goods for everyone without anyone actually creating these goods. Not really a very good argument for socialism.So I don't plan to read the next two books. The author has interesting ideas about building a settlement on an alien planet, but he doesn't really have a clue about more complex societies.
3 I read this book at the recommendation of a friend. I truly enjoyed the story, but I felt there may have been a bit too much technical detail.  I guess it was probably important to the story, but every time I started to get into the storyline, the author infused it with a dose of science.  You can read this book and skip over that data and still understand everything, if you like.  I found myself skipping a few of the pages.
5 Kim Stanley Robinson has pulled off the best 'wagon train to Mars ' scenario I could imagine. This book reads like a journal of science fact encompassing the disciplines of physics, astronomy, physiology, psychology,  criminology,.. just about any &quot;ology&quot; there is. Instead of cold  case studies, this 'journal' is told from the point of view of those  involved in the development of a new branch of the human species. A  personal experience for the tellers and narrators, since they are this new  human. This is hard science fiction. As close to the real and dangerous  business of space travel as it's possible to get. Radiation storms, debris  fields, equipment malfunction, everything in Murphys green earth, ( Or  Robinsons RED MARS )that can go wrong or threaten to go amok, does. The  author has used his words to describe the magnificent desolation of the  planet in a way that a fantasy like Ray Badbury's THE MARTIAN CHRONICLES  could not attempt, yet these two works are bound together by the human  factor. Avarice, jealousy, despair and lonliness are balanced by the  determination of the few to survive and push ahead in a new land. The scale  of the project(s) are terrifing; awesome. Agendas abound. Creativity  flourishes in a way we Terrans could not imagine. Make no mistake - This  book is two-in-one. There is a book about the ancient world we call Mars,  and a book about the faulted, fragile beings from the next planet over who  come to wrest a new life from it.
4 What _Red Mars_ attempts is monumental: Robinson examines humankind in work, in love, in politics, spirituality, reasoning, madness, life, and death, and attempts to chart a course for what we can become. The backdrop of Martian colonization is well-researched and intriguing in itself, and so are the science and theory that enables much of the book's social and political change. And -- lest my weighty words decive you -- this book is *fun*. A few sections drag, but there was no question that I had to find out how it would all end.The story's great flaw is that it does take place on Red Mars. Robinson lets loose a hundred brilliant, uninhibited neophiles and gives them the resources of a small nation to toy with. Many times during this book I felt like he was gratifying a high-schooler's wish for a magic wand that would let the dorks, poets, and science-fiction fans run the world. His ideas about changing humanity are still quite valid! I just wish they were realized in a setting more like the one we have to work with today.I also found Robinson's lavish, technical descriptions of Martian geology to be painful. They're well-written and doubtless scientifically interesting, but he just couldn't make me care. As  a research psychologist, I also have to express that //my profession and I completley and totally disown Michel Duval//, for reasons that should become clear.Despite this, I give _Red Mars_ my hearty recommendation, and think it should be part of the universal science-fiction canon. This is because it's followed by _Green Mars_ and _Blue Mars_, which improve on _Red_ in every way. The writing improves; the characters feel more like our family; and the environment gets more and more like the mess we non-elite earthlings are faced with in real life. If you're with me in wanting to see the world become kinder, smarter, and less self-destructive, these are some ideas you should have in your head.
5 As readers of science-fiction, we have been treated to many novels about our famous red neighbor over the years.  Whether it be the invading conqueror of H.G. Wells' or the blood and thunder pulp of Burroughs, or even the more scienfitic approaches of Bova or Bear, Mars always seems to fascinate the human mind, holding on and never letting go.With that said, Red Mars is the best novel written on the subject of colonization.  Robinson must have spent years researching this novel, and it shows in every page, as every detail is correct and meticulous.  His story of a hundred colonists selected to start our next frontier is riveting, and Robinson creates rounded characters with their own hopes, fears, and quirks.  They orbit each other, loving, distrusting, hating, always moving back and forth as the years roll on.  The planet changes them in ways they could never suspect.  That's one aspect of this novel.As always, Earth is never far behind, and Robinson also embroils us in the politics of our world, taking our pettiness and applying it to an entire planet, more interested in the bottom line than scientific research and human exploration.  And yet, through all of this, Robinson is speaking, telling us how colonization could be done, how it should be done, in his writing that's second to none.Everything in this book shuffles together to create a mosiac of the future.  Red Mars is about Mars, it's about colonists, it's about humanity, about people, about hope, about dreams.  I defy anyone to get past the engrossing beginning and not want to read the novel, or to avoid taking sides during the terraforming arguments.  This novel is a classic work and remains among, if not the, best novel Kim Stanley Robinson has ever written
2 Don't believe the high praise many give this book. The characters are all unappealing and impossible to connect too,  the events are frequently unrealistic,  and the book drags terribly at times.  It certainly isn't all  bad.  Sometimes it seems as if it's about to get positively interesting but  it always manages to get back off track.  The idea:  the first colonist on  Mars deal with idealogical conflicts about how to treat this new frontier  could have made a compelling book.  But in this case, it didn't.
3 This is the first book in a series. I like this one a lot more then Green Mars and Blue Mars (which I could not even finish) Too much description of Mars. Page after page of it sometimes. The plot is actually pretty good when it moves along, which it does pretty well from time to time. But lets be honest here, the main character is Mars. It gets more time in this book then anyone else.  Maybe that's what they call &#34;Hard&#34; Sifi. Lots of talking about the world, or technology. If that's what you like, this has lot of it.  If you are more in to a plot and narrative driven story, this book is only about half that.  Give it a shot, but don't let the first 20 pages or so fool you. The story starts fast and strong, but then quickly takes back set to Mars.
5 Amazing, amazing book. The depth and breadth of the decades-long plot, the huge cast of vivid and distinctive characters, and the novel's hard science foundation combine make this the best book I have read in years. Many, many years.
5 There is only one other trilogy that I devoured with as much fervor and hated to see it end and that was the Dragon Tattoo trilogy. These books are crazy good, written in a style that hooks you immediately and makes you care for the characters.  I'm now reading the newest Robinson trilogy, I've just finished the first one and it's just as crazy good.
3 I have mixed feelings about this book. I bought the paperback years ago and burned through the first third of it, thinking how awesome it was. Once into the second third or so, it doesn't take long before the pace dies and you find yourself falling asleep trying to finish it. I set it down.Years later, I thought I'd give it another try only to find that I had given it away, so I picked it up on Kindle. This time I did make it to the end, but wow was it painful. The writing is excellent. The characters are realistic. The science is sound. It.just.moves.soooooo.sloooooooow.
1 This is the same review I posted for Green Mars. Also applies to Blue Mars. I'd give it 0 stars if I could.I love epics, so I plodded through this trilogy, hoping it would get better, but it never did. I could sense that Robinson was extremely proud of the detailed world he created, but the story is horrible. The story unfolds glacially, with no sense of movement. Just when you think you might be getting attached to a character, he/she dies. Interesting story lines get dropped. There are long, long stretches where Robinson just describes everyday life, in excruciating, boring detail. There is no excitement or suspense, no character that grabs you. It's like some dull person's real life, full of routine, disappointment, and boredom. Robinson's typical character has a dream, begins to pursue it, getting you inspired, then gets killed or just gives up and joins the cause he was fighting.This was the worst science fiction I have ever read. I can't believe I read all three books.
3 Now there are private enterprise plans for colonising Mars (2020) it is interesting to read the expectations of a SciFi author writing in 1990. Perhaps the plans have been influenced by this triology: sending ahead robotic-landers with equipment, housing and stores. The author is very detailed in his descriptions of equipment and the geography of Mars, probably to give veracity to the story but often I found this tedious and colorless. On occasions I thought the author was attempting only to display his own scientific knowledge (or that of his consultant). As usual in SciFi the author is hopelessly optimistic about the rate of advance of engineering (self manufacturing robotic machinery, robotic mining, smelting and forming of materials, etc) but without that the colony would have made little progress. The story gets more interesting once it gets down to the political whatifs of colonising Mars and the consequences of a deteriorating political/environmental situation on Earth. The big baddies are the multinational conglomerates who have no interest in anything but power and profit, which makes this book yet another with this theme. However none of these criticisms are shared by my husband, so you must make of that what you will!
4 I have to admit I couldn't follow the science here to any great degree, but that really didn't deter me from what I consider one of the best sci-fi novels I've read in a while.Red Mars is the first of three books dealing with the colonization of Mars. Starting in the year 2026, the story deals with the first 100 men and women selected to go to Mars -- scientists and others known collectively as "the first hundred. " Not all of them see eye to eye on how things should go on the planet -- Some envision it completely terraformed, some see it as an opportunity to launch a new and perfect society, completely Martian, without depending on life being molded in Earth format -- a vision of a new totally Martian existence. To be really honest, I thought the political wranglings to be the best part of the book -- especially warnings about the future of society as big business tries to takes control of everything. Sound familiar? Considering it was written 15 years ago, I'd say he's not too far off the mark.While not really going into plot here (trust me -- plot synopses are everywhere), let me say that I'd recommend this book to those who enjoy hard science fiction. If you're looking for little green men or other types of monsters, you won't find it here. I would guess that a lot of people will find it too long, so if you want something quick & easy requiring very little thought, you're not going to like this one either. If you're a reader who likes to pause and think, then you'll find a multitude of things to ponder between the covers.I plan to go on and finish the trilogy, so that should be a recommendation within itself. Be sure you have lots of time before embarking on this book. You'll need it.
5 its free it is a good bookand a good series
4 Writing Quality: 7/10.Robinson's oeuvre has often been described as "literary" science fiction, and that is probably an apt description. I'd be hardpressed to think of many sci-fi or fantasy writers who are more capable with varied vocabulary, beautiful phrasing, or engaging dialogue, and I think he easily bests Robert Heinlein, Orson Scott Card, and Frank Herbert to name just a few. While I wouldn't put Robinson up there with the masters, with Cormac McCarthy or Herman Melville, he's a very good writer, with an ability to make technical science bloom with poetry. Robinson's ability to squeeze poetry out of his material is not a constant, but it's always a pleasurable encounter. Ultimately, though, Robinson's great literary contribution comes less from word-smithing and more from the thoughtful intermingling of literary, philosophical, and scientific worlds.Depth of Concept: 9/10.Robinson is first a thinker, and second a writer. Don't get me wrong, he knows how to write, and he writes better than most. Robinson honed his intellectual acumen over many years on the way to completing a doctorate in English, and that academic training and rigor shows in his vocabulary, in his comprehensiveness, and in his interdisciplinary perspective. It's clear that Robinson is obsessed with Mars, but it's hardly the pulpy stuff of Edgar Rice Burroughs (think John Carter). This is a novel about politics, about ecology, about philosophy, about sociology. I'd suggest that Robinson's world-building is equally as impressive as Tolkien's, with more fascinating political and social twists and turns than George R. R. Martin could ever dream up. To be fair, Robinson's concepts are much more straightforward and perhaps less richly layered, and certainly less ambiguous than what has been praised in Joyce or Melville or Rushdie or Pynchon. But what makes him especially intriguing is that Robinson isn't just making crap up; he's basing this tale of colonization on trajectories that humanity could legitimately take. As a literary project, Red Mars is no Paradise Lost or Moby Dick; but as an intellectual project, it stands up there with the best that you could find. In its attention to detail and holistic thinking, it puts any product of Larry Niven or Arthur C. Clarke or a host of other hard science writers to shame.Rounded Characters: 7/10.Robinson's characters do not have all the ambiguity and layered meaning that you'll find in Melville or Joyce or Rushdie, but his characters are well-developed, varied, and realistic. Red Mars is the story of a new world civilization starting from the seed of a scientific colony, and the make-up of the first colonists and later immigrants is a complex mix of competing scientific and social interests. Robinson's use of conflicting character point of view and changing political and social alliances brings out a depth and even ambiguity in most characters that keeps you guessing much as you would if reading a compelling biography without knowing the outcome ahead of time.Well-Developed World: 9/10.If you enjoy the prospect of a well-developed scientific thought experiment set in a viable near future, this should be your first stop. Looked at another way, and just for the sake of another comparison point (both novels detail the life and times of two worlds in transition), I'd say that Robinson's world-building leaves Frank Herbert's Dune far behind in the dust, which I know might raise some hackles. Sure, Herbert has his sand worms (which I concede are awesome), but Robinson's worlds expand so smoothly, and so far beyond his own vision and into the realities of our physical universe that his "world" viably encompasses quite a bit of the brilliant scientific and intellectual thought of many other revered thinkers, whether scientific, social, or political.Page Turner: 7/10.Robinson breaks up some really engaging events and conflicts with quieter character musings about science, religion and society; in that sense the pacing of the novel is not always consistent, and this is probably not a novel that you'd try to finish in a day. But that's okay; there's so much in it to think about that it probably would serve you well to bite off hundred-page chunks to digest before moving on. There's also the change in POV throughout the novel, which works brilliantly as a way of presenting events and plot-lines from different angles, but also breaks up the tension of the narrative. The novel also sometimes reads a little bit dry and removed, a bit like a rambling textbook, with intense moments of change infrequently sprinkled throughout, but not always with characters you care deeply about. But at its worst, Red Mars should feel like a surprisingly entertaining university class; you'll complete it feeling educated, intrigued, with an expanded worldview (or Mars view), and perhaps even inspired by what humanity is on the cusp of achieving.Kept Me Thinking: 8/10.Although Robinson's novel did not capture my psyche in a state of existential or intellectual anxiety (a good thing, I swear!) comparable to a reading of Moby Dick or The Road, it's still an intellectual heavy-hitter. Its insights and intellectual leaps tend along hard-science lines, and if that's your thing, then you'll find no better than this. But even if hard science isn't your thing, Robinson's awareness of Marxism, feminism, modern political developments, and literary history provides a host of other concepts to muse about.___________________________________________________Overall Recommendation: 8/10.This novel would be a worthy pre-req for students entering university, the sort that is often used to introduce freshmen to social realities they may not have encountered before. I remember being required to read Rachel Carson's Silent Spring, and Orhan Pamuk's My Name is Red, among others. I mean, our own President has announced plans to put men on Mars during the same time period that Robinson projected nearly twenty years ago. It's a project that would cost billions, perhaps trillions of dollars, and the ramifications of such a project are both incredible and risky. Robinson gets at the root of a lot of the issues that might be involved, and if you're going to be either a supporter or detractor of the NASA program, which eats your tax dollars like candy, this is a fabulously engaging narrative and resource (Silent Spring, by contrast, bored me to tears).See my profile website for an expanded review
5 Kim Stanley Robinson's "Red/Green/Blue Mars" series is one of the great trilogies about Mars colonization.  What makes it great is the science is believable and the character interactions spot on.  This is not a series about bug-eyed monsters and ray guns, this is about humans colonizing Mars and the challenges they will face: technical, environmental, social, and political.  I bought a hard back set for myself and lend my well-worn paperback set to friends.  I am now reading more of Ms. Robinson's books which is the best recommendation I could give.
5 The colonization of the Solar System has been a big topic in science fiction for decades, and yet no book on the subject has met with as much success as Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars series.  The explanation is simple.  When writing these books, Robinson went to great lengths to include every aspect of how human life would change on another planet.  When describing the first manned mission to Mars and the experience of the &quot;First Hundred&quot; settlers, he looks in depth at all sorts of topics ranging from psychology (How would it feel to be constantly faced by a planet that appeared completely different from Earth?) to the politics of terraforming (Would everybody agree to plans to introduce life and create a biosphere on Mars, or would some people resist?)  Robinson displays solid scientific knowledge in an incredible array of fields, and carefully weaves descriptions of the scientific progress that gets made into the story of the settlers' efforts to colonize the planet.One of the best facets of &quot;Red Mars&quot; is the incredible description of the landscapes of Mars.  Robinson gives a lot of thought to the topic of what the planet would actually look like to explorers standing on it from ground level.  These sequences help set this book apart from other efforts where the planet is simply described as being red and rocky and left at that.  When reading these descriptions, you can't help but share the belief of some of the characters that Mar's desolate terrain has its very own form of beauty.  Of particular note are the landscapes during one character's voyage to the polar ice cap near the start of &quot;Red Mars&quot;, and when a group of characters are navigating a dangerous canyon near the book's conclusion.  Robinson also makes good use of the unique elements of geology and weather on Mars.  For instance, when there's a gigantic dust storm on the planet, he gives convincing portrayals not just of the storm itself, but also of the depressing and claustrophobic effect that it has on the settlers when they aren't able to see more than a few feet when outdoors.The story is told from the perspective of several different characters, each of them being the center of attention for about fifty pages.  Some critics have complained about the quality of characterization in Robinson's books.  It's definitely true that they don't have the same complexity as characters should have in true literature.  However, they are satisfactory for telling the story that the author wants to tell.  When two people have a discussion or argument in &quot;Red Mars&quot;, it actually sounds genuine and convincing, and there are some interesting looks at how differences in policy and worldview affect the relationship between characters.As a conclusion, let me say something in response to those reviewers who insist on judging the book by the author's politics rather than by the content of the book itself.  &quot;Red Mars&quot; contains some amount of political and social commentary, although it occupies only a fairly small portion of the six hundred page work.  For instance, there's a brief section where one character must resolve a dispute between business leaders and laborers who are upset about their living conditions on Mars.  Well, this is just another example of what I mentioned earlier, which is that Robinson carefully considered every aspect of what conditions would be like for early settlers on another planet, and his explanation of the situation struck me as being very realistic.  In Robinson's vision of the future, gigantic corporations work to undermine and supplant national governments on Earth as well as to control Mars; some have complained that this is unrealistic.  But those of us who keep up with world events know that we're already starting to see the beginning of such a trend right now, so there''s nothing unreasonable about predicting that it will continue in the future.
5 Like others, I had initial issues getting hooked on this critically acclaimed novel, especially as I had just read my way through a glut of scifi page turners. In short, it takes some gear switching but if you enjoy hard scifi & exemplary writing, Red Mars is worth your time.  Once I relaxed into the slow rhythms of the story, I was simply awed.  So much so, I ended up reading the whole trilogy and enjoyed each successive book more than the last.  Immensely satisfying read.
3 The basic concept of the book is cool, especially if you're into reading very lengthy descriptions. If you prefer action and dialogue this book is not for you, you'd be better of reading something fast paced likeThe Mars Conspiracy: Cydonia
3 Robinson has taken a Herculean task - to envision Mars' colonization. His boldness shows in every page - writing biology, chemistry, physics,  astrophysics - he has made himself a target for scientific specialists of all kinds. As a layman, I have no way of knowing if he stayed true to the facts but I do understand that his research has taken too much of his stamina in the process of writing the book."Red Mars" comes out a bit "dry" as Robinson insists on outstretched portrayls of the Martian landscape and its terraforming. The reason for this is obviously setting the stage in the reader's minds but when this is accompanied with a lack of character's "roundness", the bottom line is disappointing.Another tendency of the author is choosing to depict major events, like the revolution, from a passive angle of those who's participation is marginal, (if at all). And even when main characters are at the center of major events, the reader does not find himself swept with emotions. You don not "feel" the action and the character.The positive aspetcs of the book are: (A)the plot by itself is a creative achievement and (B)the ideological premise of the story - the tyranny of Corporate Capitalism - is highly relevant today. These two are the source of my disappointtment with "Red Mars".Hopefully Robinson has done a better job in the sequels.
5 Red Mars is an engrossing technical narrative of Mars colonization, covering the entire catalog of issues that such an endeavor would involve, from the psychological dimensions of extended space travel and confinement with a small closed community of scientists to the new challenges of establishing a society that is both entirely indebted to and yet entirely independent from the rest of humanity and human history.
4 Title: Red Mars by Kim Stanley RobinsonPages: 572.Time spent on the "to read" shelf: 3 years.Days spent reading it: 3 weeks.Why I read it: I love science fiction. I like the idea of colonizing Mars. This book won the Nebula award in 1993 (very prestigious SF awards). So I imagined I would like it.Brief review: Red Mars is a novel about colonizing and terraforming Mars. It deals with all the facets of colonizing another planet: scientific, political, personal, nature, business, and government, amongst others. It also theorizes on the consequences of that transformation.I picked up Red Mars not really knowing what to expect. I was blown away by Kim Robinson's (a man, by the way) grasp of the technical elements of space travel and colonization. I would not say that the technical side gets too heavy except occasionally. Robinson's sheer knowledge of the technical side of space colonization is dumbfounding. He certainly did his homework before writing this novel. I would not be surprised if he actually traveled to Mars! It was so realistic at points.My only complaint about this novel was that it was actually very slow reading. It took me almost twice as long to read a page than it normal does. Which meant this novel took some real time to finish. And I could only take it in smaller chunks (50 pages or so at a time).The characters in the novel are fantastic. They are all a little messed up. You spend a lot of time with a few of the first 100 (the first 100 to travel to Mars). They all have their different take on what colonizing Mars should mean for them and the nations they represent (or the planet they represent as they settle Mars). The political elements of this book were very fascinating. The business elements of this book (talking about transnational businesses, etc) was confusing to me, but I understand nothing about big companies. Somebody out there probably appreciates what I could not even fathom.Overall I thought this book was great, but probably not for anyone who is not really interested in sci-fi or colonization. The technical side of it alone will slow the reading to a crawl, but the ideas are entirely worth the time. I thought I might not be interested enough to read the other two in the trilogy, but after finishing Red Mars I am ready to start Green Mars (once I get through this list of course!).Favorite quote: "Frank Chalmers made his way through them , feeling their stares, moving without thought toward them, feeling their stares, moving without thought toward the platform at the top of town; and as he walked he said to himself, Now we'll see what I can do with this planet." (Its not a great quote out of context, but in the midst of the chapter, it was amazing).Stars: 4 out of 5.Final Word: Transforming.
5 Nominally a future-history of Martian colonization, Red Mars covers the initial 100 Martian colonists, the influx of workers as corporations attempt to exploit the planet's resources, and the consequences as conditions worsen. The book is divided into eight parts, each telling the story from the point of view of one of six characters. Each character is interesting and three dimensional. The first, Frank Chalmers, is a stunning example - a machiavellian sociopath who arranges the murder of his best friend. The book suggests early on that the characters are dysfunctional, but most are not, and Robinson describes each personality in a way that's easy to relate to. Most readers will see some of themselves in every character, and will be moved when many disappear from the story as events unfurl.Robinson's prose is easy to read and descriptive. He lovingly describes the Martian landscape, and the events that change the planet. He explains the processes and technologies being used to make the planet more habitable. Mars and its future is viewed through different cultures and ideologies. And Robinson describes political and social systems evolving, growing, and collapsing - the only challenges the colonists seem unable to solve are those that cannot be fixed technologically. The ending is dramatic and, cheesy last line notwithstanding, overwhelming.A word about the politics: Several reviewers have trouble understanding the concept of sympathetic characters not representing the author. Nobody argues that, through Chalmers, Robinson is advocating murder, so why assume that characters portrayed as idealistic hot-heads advocating an enlightened Utopia (not communism) are attempts to convert readers to Marxism? Robinson's prediction of a near future where a handful of democratically unaccountable transnational corporations wield more power than governments is neither unreasonable nor extremist propaganda nor unique; nor is it that people sick of these conditions might reject them for something Utopian, and might make up a sizable proportion of those wanting to leave Earth. Robinson is describing what might happen and why, rather than pushing a particular ideology. It is notable that the consequences of the actions of most of the first 100 are hardly positive: why would an author promote a vision of an enlightened Utopia by having for it such divided, belligerent, builders?If Red Mars has faults, they are that it is fairly humourless, and some of the science (nothing, fortunately, important to the principle of convincing the reader that colonization is possible) is somewhat stretched.There are no ray-guns or bug-eyed aliens: there is much to think about. If you're looking for an airport novel, go read L. Ron Hubbard. If you can watch CNN talking 23 hours a day about scandals effecting minor Democrats, and still grumble "Darned liberal bias", you may be too right-wing to cope with fictional characters disagreeing with you; go read some "Doc" Smith or something instead. Otherwise the reader needs patience and a willingness to get inside a whole range of radically different characters. Most of the book is interesting, but the climax is especially so.Posing more problems than answers, Red Mars leaves the reader uneasy about humanity's progress, with a mix of optimism about what we can do, and pessimism for what we are likely to do; it portrays characters the reader can feel for, and a planet to fall in love with. What a wonderful book.
4 The first 100 colonists on Mars were crazy enough to want to leave Earth forever, and smart enough to fool the psychological tests for the Mars mission. Neither they nor the patchwork consortium of world powers who sent them could agree why they were there or what they wanted from Mars. To Phyllis, Mars was a geological treasure-trove for commercial usage. To Ann, Mars was a museum of geology to be preserved as much as possible in its natural state. To Sax, it was a laboratory for bioengineering experimentation; to Arkady, a laboratory for social reform. To Nadia, it was the supreme test of her genius for cold-weather engineering. To John Boone, the group's charismatic figurehead, it was the sum of what everyone else wanted it to be: he just wanted the First 100 to stand united. No one knew what Frank Chalmers wanted -- but whatever it was, John Boone stood in his way.Most fans of Red Mars rave about its scientific realism, but I've never cared one way or another about the technicalities of speculating plausible future technologies. Instead, I recommend this book for its broad epic vision, its believably complex political situation, and its portrayal of strong but flawed characters confronting difficult situations with ingenuity, hope, and courage. I particularly like the way Robinson explores the complex relationship between John Boone, the First Man on Mars, and his fame -- between a human being &amp; the legend that arose in his wake. The book isn't perfect -- some things the author seemed to be setting up don't pay off, and I could have done without having the most obnoxious character incessantly identified as a &quot;Christian&quot; -- but it's an absorbing, memorable adventure.
3 Don't be confused by all the technical jargon and social-political commentary - this one has all the outrageously fantastic scientific aspects of Star Trek or Star Wars! Robots/machines that can build just about  everything for you?  Dropping a whole moon on a planet and everyone doesn't  die?  Regularly scheduled - frequent - runs between Earth and Mars in only  twenty years after first landing?  A million immigrants to Mars after thiry  years?  Come on!  This is pure opera!  And long winded in the best  tradition of opera at that.I do have to agree with some other reviews,  the First One Hundred as characters did not change or learn much - and some  of the ones that did manage to learn something were punished for their  growth with death.  Made it difficult to care for them.  But then, they  reminded me of some driven individuals I have encountered in life.  Childish and backward in many ways and yet so very brilliant and  charismatic in others. [However I was pleased that at least my favorite -  the eminently practical Siberian construction specialist - did indeed  survive this book.]I wouldn't recommend this book to a novice Science  Fiction reader - heavy going indeed.  But it certainly raises interesting  and relevant points about the ethics and practicalities of expoliting other  worlds.  And challenges us to examine the way we live today. It's not just  about the colonization of Mars.  Which is the best kind of science fiction  to be found.
2 A talented and praised writer he may well be but Kim is not up there with the greats of Science Fiction. He has an enviable ability to understand geology or even the current ideas about reaching Mars and forming a colony. However, it fast becomes background noise to the farcical political fantasy that populates Mars with nearly every ethnic group who are mostly viewed as quaint at best. There are many rocks and foreigners who behave like rocks: "Dune" on Mars this is not.Characters there are in plenty but must we endure their every identical step taken across Mars? A long journey into the heart of a geological dictionary does not make for great Science Fiction. Yes, its clever at times but too often it pulled my attention away from the larger narrative.Red Mars has its moments of beautiful prose. A frustrating book by a talented author who needed a strict editor.
2 This series (I read all of them) was good, and is truly, as A.C. Clarke said, &quot;The best book on the colonization of mark&quot; that has ever been.That being said -- come on! There was a lot of crap in these books.  Elusive characters that each have one big, fat character trait (Maya is  angry and flighty, Frank is petty and scheming, blahblahblah, Jackie is  scheming). Little quips about Japanese, like throwing &quot;shigata ga  nai&quot; all the time (I live in Japan and speak Japanese, and cringe  whenever a write has his characters speaking Japanese &quot;because it's  the future&quot;). (Are you listening, Gentry Lee???). Way too much detail  about the terraforming bit of it, and for all tha it was not believable  (that gene therapy that allows people to live in high CO2 environments was  just SO convenient).What this series does best, strangely, is paint a  reasonable, interesting picture of what Earth would be like in the future,  with multinat corporations and what not. Also, the best description of how  robot factories and space elevators might work -- that was interesing.All in all, this work would have been far better as one 600 page book,  instead of three 500 page books. That would have been just golden.
5 Robinson's &quot;Red Mars&quot; is a comprehensive and complete book on man's colonization of Mars. It is full of scientific, political and economic consequences of human settlement on Mars, and arguments from both sides are presented in detail through the opposing perspectives of different characters within the book. In addition, the book is full of symbolism, such as the &quot;elevator&quot; that is built, only to be pulled down by the hands of the revolution destroying much of the Martian surface and dispersing humans in a manner that made me think of the Tower of Babel.The story begins on a spaceship of the &quot;first hundred&quot; people that are off to begin life on Mars. All of them are scientists, which of course makes for a less than complete representation of human kind, although full of intellectualism and nutty personalities. The mission is meant to be representative of the world's nationalities, dominated by American and Russian teams. Each group of scientists have their own tasks, whether it is flying the space craft, cultivating food, construction once on Mars, ecologists to study Mars, terraformers, biologists, physicists, and even a psychologist.The 8 month journey to Mars is enough to drive some people crazy, and Maya, the Russian leader thinks that she is hallucinating when she unwittingly spots a man whom she does not know onboard the spacecraft. People develop relationships and hatreds, and their true personalities start to come out after hiding most of their peculiarities from the selection committee to be able to go to Mars.Robinson follows different characters for each part of the book, and this makes it a more interesting and in-depth read, as we get different viewpoints on how the people see Mars and what they want from the planet. Some, like Ann, oppose its terraforming, whilst others, such as Sax, can think of nothing but. Hiroko suddenly disappears with a small group of the first hundred and no-one can find them. John and Frank hit heads about how the planet should be run, and one day John is murdered - a shock to everyone.Politics starts to play an important role as the first hundred decide they will do whatever they want on Mars rather than be controlled by Earth. They are free. Only, they really aren't. Before they know it, waves of immigrants from Earth, sponsored by transnational corporations begin to live on the planet. But Mars is not its own nation and does not have a cohesive political or police structure. Problems quickly rise to a peak and the first hundred realise they are no longer in control.A revolution begins and is chaotic and uncontrollable. Infrastructure collapses as it is sabotaged. Finally, Nadia the engineer, after finding out that her lover Arkady who began the revolution has been killed by it, decides that enough is enough and she blows up Phobos in an attempt to stop Earth and transnational control and interference. The first hundred realise that they will be seen as ringleaders of the revolution and that they must escape - will they be rescued by Hiroko's detachment?The book is so complete and full of facts that it is a must for anyone with a passion for Mars and science. It is also a must for those that would think to colonize Mars in the future - as a guide of how not to do it.A very realistic perspective, well thought out, and a foresight of consequences that gives me goose bumps.
